--TheWorld Bank
FM OMCLAI USE ONLW
tePt Ne. P-6137-IS
-    36REORT AN
OF THE
PRESID)ENT OF THE
INTRNAIOALDMN  FOR  AEOSRCIN A)DELOMN
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED RE IITATION LOAN
IN AN ANODUT  QIVALENT To US$60 MILLION
TO
THE REPUIC OF MDLDOVA
SEPTM    30J, 1393
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P- 6137 MD
Type: PR
This docment has a rlstrited disutibuon and mas be ued by recipiets only in te pefrana  of
the oftial dutie. Its tontes may not oterwise be discosd without World Bsok sauthorinaCio



MOLDOVA - RBBABILITATION LOA,
Currency Eq iS.a1ents -
Currency unit M Moldovan ruble/coupon (MR)
US$1.00 a MR 1308
(as ot September 15, 1993)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DIC         -           Direct Import Component
BERD        -           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC          -           European Community
EDI         -           Economic Development Institute
PSU         -           Former Soviet Union
wXC         -           Foreign Exchange Component
GDP         -           Gross Domestic Product
ICB         -           International Competit±ve Biddi.ig
IFC         -           International Finance Corporation
MIFCE       -           Moscow Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange
MIGA        -           Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NBM         -           National Bank of Moldova
NO W-                   Non-Government Organization
NNP         -           Net Material Product
PCV         -           Project Coordination Unit
QRs         -           quantitative restrictions
SBA         -           Stand-by Arrangement
SOEs        -           state-owned enterprises
STF         -           Systemic Transformation Facility
TA          -           Technical Assistance
TACIS       -           Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of
Independent States
Project Entity
Project Cooz .ination Unit
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOLDOVA - REHABILITATION LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Moldova
Amount:           US$60 million equivalent
Terms:            Twenty years maturity with a five year grace period at the
Bank's stanilard variable interest rate.
Objectives
and Description:  The objectives of the proposed loan are to (i) support the
Government's reform program; (ii) finance imports of
essential production inputs and health care supplies; (iii)
support foreign exchange markets and allow the private
sector access to foreign exchange; and (iv) catalyze the
provision of technical assistance and balance of payments
support by other donors. The proposed loan would consist of
(i) a direct imports component (DIC) which is expected to
finance mainly imports in the energy, agriculture, industry,
and health sectors; (ii) a foreign exchange component (FXC)
to support the access of enterprises to the foreign exchange
market; and (iii) technical assistance for the
implementation of the reform program and of the project
itself, insofar as such funding is not available on a timely
basis from concessional sources.
Benefits:         The proposed loan would allow increased capacity utilization
and employment through the financing of essential imports of
inputs. In addit'on, this objective will be served by the
catalytic effect of the loan on the provision of import
support from other donors, in the framework of the
Consultative Group process. In a similar manner, the loan
would assist in institution building for the implementation
of reform through direct or parallel financing of technical
assistance. It would also strengthen the role of the market
in the allocation of foreign exchange. The proposed loan
would also contribute to the protection of vulnerable
sections of the population in the transition by financing
basic medical supplies and heating fuel.
Risks:            The main risks attached to the policy reform program, and
hence to the proposed loan and to the creditworthiness of
Moldova, are: (i) balance of payments support from donors
other than the Bank and the IMF may not be adequate. This
risk is being addressed by the holding of a Consultative
Group meeting, and by other donor coordination efforts; (ii)
the political consensus behind reform may weaken due to
economic hardship and ethnic strife. The ongoing
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



constitutional proco¶s, the Government's public relations
efforts, and the provision of a more effective social safety
net should significantly reduce this risk; (iii) substantial
institution building iv needed for the sound management of
the economy and the implementation of reforms. The proposed
technical assistance program, as well as intensive dialogue
between the Government, the Bank, the IMF and other members
of the donor community will mitigate this risk; and (iv)
access tc export markets for Moldovan products may be
restricted under protectionist pressures. This risk can be
partly offset by the diplomatic efforts of the Moldovan
Government, but remains nonetheless significant.
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Poverty Category: Poverty-focused operation
Appraisal Report: Not applicable
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank Fiscal Year  FY94 - US$50 million
FY95 - US$10 million
Retroactive financing will be permitted under the FXC
component for those eligible imports made before the date of
the loan agreement and after July 33, 1993 up to an amount
of US$ 5 million.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties.  Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents
Page No.
PART I.  COUNTRY iODCIES AND IBRD ASSISTANCE STRATEGY                           .    1
I.  Recent Economic and Political Developments  . . .  . . . . .  .    1
Background  .              ......... ...     ........                   1
Output and Employment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Prices and Wages .... . . . . ..                                        2
Fiscal Developments .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Money and Credit .               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
The External Sector .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
II.  The Government's Economic Reform Program .  . . . . . . . . . .    S
A.  The Stabilization Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
B.  The Structural Reform Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
The Competitive Environment .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Privatization ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    9
Corporate Governance  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10
Financial Intermediation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Agricultural Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Social Safety Net ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   12
IIl. Macroeconomic Prospects, External Environment and Financing
Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  13
IV.  IBRD Assistance Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
A.  Main Objectives and Future Program of Assistance  ... . .   14
B.  Assistance in FY93  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
C.  Future Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
(i)  High Case  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   16
Adjustment Lending to Support Structural
Reforms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Investment Lending to Support Sectoral Reforms  .   17
(ii)  Low Case  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  18
D.  Economic and Sector Work  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
E.  Portfolio Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
F.  Other Bank Group Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
G.  Coordination of External Assistance . . . . . . . . . . .   19
PART II.  THE PROPOSED LOAN ...................... .   20
A.  Background and Rationale for IBRD Involvement ...  .           .    .   20
B.  Project Objectives and Description .  . . . . . . . . . .   20
C.  Environmental Safety  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   22
D.  Project Implementation  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   23
E.  Procurement and Distribution .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
F.  Disbursement  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   24
G.  Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing .  . . . . . . . . . .   25
H.  Agreements Reached  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
I.  Program Benefits and Risks  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
PART III.   RECOENDATION  .....  .             .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   26



Annex 1 - Key Economic Indic~.tors
Annex 2 - Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 3 - Memorandum of Ecornomic Reform Policies
Annex 4 - Technical Assistance Program
Annex 5 - Terms of Reference for Procurement Advisor
Annex 6 - Summary Statement of Loans



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF TRE INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Republic of Moldova for the equivalent of US$60 million
to provide financial support tur the Government's economic reform program.
The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable intere3t rate, with a
maturity of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years. Financing for
technical assistance to support a number of measures in the Government's
economic reform program has been obtained or is being sought from various
donors. Untied cofinancing for technical assistance for procurement will be
provided (in an amount to be determined) by the Government of the Netherlands.
2.    The Republic of Moldova joined the IBRD on August 12, 1992, and MIGA on
June 9, 1993. A Country Economic Memorandum was distributed to the Board in
September 1993.
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND IBRD ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
I. Recent Economic and PolitJcal Developments
BackQround
3.    Moldova is a landlocked country situated between Romania and Ukraine.
The present-day Moldova compri3es territory annexed from Romania by the Soviet
Union in 1940 plus the Transnistria region which had formed a subdivision of
Ukraine until that time. The Republic of Moldova became independent on August
27, 1991 as the Soviet Union disintegrated. Covering an area slightly smaller
than Belgium, Moldova has a population of about 4.3 million people. Two
thirds of the population are ethnic Romanimes, while the remainder are
Ukrainians (14 percent), Russians (13 percent), Gagauzi (of Christian Turkish
origin, 4 percent), and Bulgarians (2 percent). However, the proportion of
ethnic minorities is much higher than average in the urban areas and in the
Transnistria region.
4.    In the command economy of the USSR, Moldova's economic role was one of
producer of raw and processed foodstuffs (primarily grapes, grains, wines,
vegetables and livestock), deriving its comparative advantage from the fertile
soil and temperate climate. Agriculture alone accounts for about 40 percent
of Net Material Product (NMP); agroindustry contributes approximately half of
the almost 40 percent of NMP accounted for by the industrial sector, along
with household appliances and high technology electrical goods (in part, for
the defense industry). Most inputs, par:icularly primary energy supplies, are
imported from the former Soviet Union (FSU).



2
5.    The path to Independence unleashed armed conflict in which ethnic
factors combined with differences in approach to economic reform and
restructuring. The conflict, which ended in a ceasefire in July 1992,
resulted in the de facto partition of the countiy, with the economically
significant Transnistr2a reg4on remaining under separate control. This helped
bring about the downfall of the government, and its replacement by the current
Government of National Reconciliation. Progress has been made towards
economic reintegration; political reintegration is expected to follow as
agreement is reached on the status of Transnistria under the new constitution,
which is in an advanced state of preparation.
OutDy.t and Emolovment
6.    The cumulative decline in GDP of more than 3S percent since 1990 results
from the disintegration of the former Soviet Union and factors specific to
Moldova. For a small, open economy on the periphery of the FSU, the collapse
of the command structure of the USSR, the sharp compression in FSU demand, and
the disruption in intra-union trade and payments systems were catastrophic.
In 1992, this was compounded by the worst drought in Moldova since 1946, and
by the conflict in the Transnistria region which caused extensive damage to
infrastructure and disrunted transport links and energy supplies.
7.    The output decline has not, however, been accompanied by an equivalent
fall in employment (registered unemployment remains below 1 percent of the
labor force). Soft budget constraints have generally allowed enterprises to
maintain redundant labor, with government support through bank credit.
However, some adjustment in employment levels has taken place through a
shortening of working hours and through involuntary, unpaid leave.
Prices and Waaes
8.    After years of negligible inflation, retail prices rose by S percent in
l990. In 1991, the FSU-wide adjustment in administered prices, wia.h monetary
accommodation, contributed to a rise in the general price level of 162 percent
in Moldova. In 1992, more extensive price liberalization, and loose monetary
policy in the FSU, resulted in a period average increase in prices of almost
1300 percent. In the first half of 1993, inflation has continued to be high,
averaging 25 percent a month, as monetary policy in the FSU has remained
loose, and energy prices have been adjusted upwards substantially.
9.    Nominal wages have not been allowed to rise in line with inflation.'
This incomes policy has been implemented by administrative fiat for central
government employees and through tax penalties for wage increases in the
enterprise sector. In the first quarter of 1993, average real wages were at
Although an indexation law was adopted in early 1992,
it has not been applied.



only 39 percent of their 1990 level (compared to 88 percent in Russia).2
However, this decline should be viewed in the context of (4) the very sharp
decline in Moldova's terms of trade, due particularly to its dependence on
imports for its primary energy resources3; and (ii) the policy of maintaining
employment ia the face of declining demand .or labor.  The legal minimum wage
is 7,500 rubles per month (less than US$8 at July 1993 market exchange rates).
Fiscal Developments
10.   Moldova has traditionally run a budget surplus (at an average of 3
percent of GDP in the 1980s). In 1991 and 1992, however, the effects of
output decline, the abolition of transfers from the budget of the Soviet
Union, implementation difficulties in tax reform, and the armed conflict,
combined to seriously undermine the fiscal position. In 1991, the general
government budget was balanced, but in 1992, a cash deficit of 21 percent of
GDP emerjed, financed largely by the central bank. This deficit was due
largely to massive net lending to public enterprises (15 percent of GDP) in
the last quarter of the year, but also to a substantial revenue decline. The
1993 budget adopted by Parliament envisaged a deficit equivalent to 6 percent
of GDP, but subsequent developments necessitated a revision of this budget for
the deficit target to be achievable.
Money and Credit
11.   As a small member of the Ruble Area, Moldova's monetary policy has been
largely passive and accommodating (although to a decreasing extent since early
1993); the use of credit by enterprises has been constrained primarily by the
Central Bank of Russia's limits on credit to Moldova (through the
correspondent account mechanism). In addition, restrictions on the supply of
ruble banknotes have constrained payments. In the face of the cash shortage,
the National Bank of Moldova began issuing coupons in June 1992, which
circulated alongside the ruble. These coupons were accepted by the population
(except in Transnistria), at par with the ruble. Moldovan bank deposits,
however, traded at a 40-50 percent discount against Russian bank deposits (due
to Moldova's current account deficit with Russia). On July 24, 1993 the
2      This decline in measured real wages does, however,
exaggerate the fall in living standards. The
extensive use of in-kind payments in the agricultural
sector, and the provision of social services by
enterprises, have cushioned the real wage decline to
some extent.
3      It has been estimated that the terms of trade shock
from the move to world prices in the FSU will be
greatest for Moldova of all FSU countries (see Tarr,
"How moving to World Prices Affects the Terms of Trade
in 15 Countries of the FSU", World Bank working paper,
WPS 1074, January 1993.)



4
Central Bank of Russia declared all pre-1993 ruble banknotes to be no longer
legal tender and began withdrawing them from circulation. The next day, the
National Bank of Moldova began withdrawing from circulation all ruble
banknotes of denominations in excess of 100 rubles (10 US cents at prevailing
exchange rates).
12.   The allocation of credit has been subject to a substantial degree of
intervention by the Government, with preferential credits at highly
concessional interest rates being directed particularly to the agricultural,
agroindustrial, and energy sectors. However, in June 1993, the Government
decided to discontinue granting preferential credit and to make all subsidies
on cutstanding preferential cV it explicit in the Government budget.
Natioral Bank financing rates have been maintained at the same level as
Russian rates, but remain highly negative in real terms.4  Bank deposit rates
have been liberalized, but the mobilization of financial savings has been
highlv constrained by a lack of confidence in both the currency and the
banking system, and by the availability of cheap refinancing from the NBM.
The External Sector
13.   Moldova's external accounts are undergoing a fundamental restructuring.
The traditional trade surplus with the FSU has been transformed into a
substantial deficit, primarily as energy prices have risen rapidly towards
world levels. This resulted in an estimated current account deficit of 2
percent of GDP in 1992, which is projected to increase to 12 percent in 1993
as relative energy prices continue to rise (see footnote 23 for details).6
:.4. In parallel with developments in the foreign exchange market in Russia,
Aoldova has made progress towards the market-based allocation of foreign
exchange. In late 1992, (i) the official exchange rates ("investment
assessment" and "commercial" rates) were unified, and the official rate was
henceforth set equal to the rate on the Moscow Interbank Foreign Currency
Exchange (MIFCE); (ii) a foreign exchange auction was introduced6; and (iii)
surrender requirements were reduced in phases from 50 percent to the current
level of 35 percent of hard currency export proceeds (surrender takes place at
the official exchange rate). On August 9, 1993, after the currency
conversion, the  BMM began quoting a weekly exchange rate for the Moldovan
4      In August 1993, NBM refinancing rates were set at 170
percent whilst projected inflation for the year was
close to 600 percent.
5      Balance of payments data should be interpreted with
caution, due to the rudimentary nature of the
institutions responsible for collecting information,
and to the poor compliance with reporting requirements
by enterprises.
6      The foreign exchange auctions are, however, held
infrequently and trading remains very thin.



ruble against the Russian ruble, which was based on prevailing rates in Moscow
as reported by the Central Bank of Russia.7 The initial rate for the
Moldovan ruble against the Russian ruble was 1.3 to 1; this effective 30
percent depreciation of the Moldovan ruble substantially reduced the export
tax implicit in the surrender requirements and can be expected to have a
positive impact on hard currency exportœ.
15.   In late 1991, the role of tk' state in external trade began to undergo
transformation as the system of state orders came under heavy pressure from
the declining availability of imported inputs.  Considerable enterprise-to-
enterprise trade now exists, which facilitates the emergence of competition.
However, exports are still subject to controls in the form of quotas, licenses
and taxes. These result from (i) residual price controls keeping Moldovan
prices below world prices; and (ii) the proliferation of interstate bilateral
trade agreements designed to protect markets and sources of supply, in the
face of the breakdown in the PSU trade and payments system.
II. The Gove-nment's Economic Reform Program
16. The Parliament of Moldova adopted the concept and main principles of the
transition to a market economy in successive sessions in 1990. Since thaf.
time, a number of important laws have been adopted to underpin the transition
(see para. 29). In March 1993, Parliament adopted the Government's Action
Program for the stabilization and recovery of the economy. The authorities
have subsequently initiated a major public relations campaign to raise popular
awareness of the goals of the reform program.
17.   The challenge of the next 18 months will be to accelerate the
implementation of structural reforms, while progressively stabilizing prices
and restoring economic growth. This will require careful sequencing of
measures if recovery is not to be jeopardized by excessive declines in output
in contracting sectors, by large fiscal imbalances, or by social resistance to
adjustment. In this context, the Government is being extensively assisted by
the Bank and the IMF in designing a series of critical measures. This program
of measures is to be supported by the proposed loan and by a Systemic
Transformation Facility (STP) from the IMF, paving the way for a possible
Stand-by Arrangement.8
7      Rates against non-FSU currencies were determined by
the cross-rates from the MIFCE; rates against the
karbovanets and the Romanian leu were based on market
rates in Moldova; rates against other FSU currencies
were set at par until a market rate emerged.
8      The IMF has proposed that a Stand-by Arrangement
should be prepared to coincide with the introduction
of a de jure national currency and the second drawing
under the STF. The STF first drawing was approved by



6
A. The Stabilization Program
18.   In 1993, the Government has begun to lay the foundatioazs for a
comprehensive stabilization program. Monetary guidelines were adopted by
Parliament in February 1993 to restrict central bank financing of the budget
deficit, issue of the Moldovan coupon has been moderate, and interest rates
have been aligned with those prevailing in Russia.
19. However, in light of the continued macroeconomic instability in R.wssia,
a stronger and more coordinated approach to stabilization is urgently needed.
The Government has decided that this can only be feasible if Moldova leaves
the ruble area, and establishes its own currency.' Consequently, the
enabling legislation has been adopted, the currency (the leu) has been
printed, and the fall of 1993 has been provisionally chosen as the date of
introduction.
20.   The Government is currently engaged in formulating, in collaboration
with the IMF, a program of measures designed to allow the successful
introduction of the national currency. This program will focus primarily on
ensuring that fiscal policy is sufficiently tight to restrain demand pressures
on the stability of the new currency, and that monetary policy is consistent
with the objective of substantially reducing inflation.20 A fiscal deficit
target of 6 percent of GDP has been established for 1993; the 1994 budget and
monetary program to be approved by Parliament will need to be consistent with
a continued decline in inflation.
21.   In order to bring the fiscal deficit down to a level consistent with
progressive stabilization of the price level, consumer subsidies are being
sharply reduced, and increases ;. energy costs will be fully passed through to
the consumer. Wage policy will continue to be restrained. Various other
fiscal measures will be implemented, including measures to make the social
benefits system more affordable (see below). Tax administratiorn and
expenditure control will be strengthened, and Moldova is receiving technical
assistance from the IMF and the EC in this regard.-1 Inflationary financing
the Board of the IMF on September 16, 1993.
9      The Russian currency swap of July 1993, which obliged
Moldova to follow suit, has served to highlight the
need for Moldova to insulate itself ,nm monetary
developments in the rest of the ruble rea.
10     The IMF is providing a resident advisor to the
National Bank of Moldova to assist in the
implementation of monetary policy.
11     This includes, Inter alia, the establishment of a
treasury and of a debt management unit.



.7
of the budget deficit will be minimized by resort to the introduction of
treaeury bills and by external financing.12
B. The Structural Reform Program
22.   Moldova's transition to a competitive market economy will take time.
The challenge at this stage of the transformation is to design reforms that
will allow significant progress, without running too high a risk of extreme
economic and social dislocation. This process is constrained by the limited
technical capacity of the administration to implement reform, and by the
highly uncertain external environment. However, the authorities are aware
that the current economic situation it not sustainable and are proceeding with
the implementation of reform at an a-elerated pace.
23.   The general directions of policy reform are outlined in the Government's
1993-95 Action Program. Bank staff have collaborated closely with the
Government to develop a program of priority measures to (i) facilitate the
reallocation of resources to more productive uses by allowing the emergence of
an enterprise and farm sector which will be competitive at world prices; (ii)
promote the leadership of the private sector in th- country's economic
development by shifting the dominant form of ownership of assets from public
to private; (iii) protect the vulnerable groups in society during the
transition process. The principal elements of such a program are outlined
below and in the attached Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies. As a
reflection of the Government's commitment to reform and its desire to mobilize
broad popular consensus for the program, the Government intends to publish the
Memorandum in the Moldovan press.
The Comnetitive Environment
24.   The transformation to an economy in which resources are allocated
primarily by market forces, will involve a much-enhanced role for competition.
This will require far-reaching reforms in the trade regime, price-setting,
legal restrictions on entry to and exit from markets, and labor markets.
25.   Before Independence, Moldova had no control over its foreign trade
regime, and had little direct participation in foreign trade, most such deals
being effected by state trading organizations in Moscow. Now Moldova has to
formulate foreign trade policy with regard to both extra-FSU trade and to
trade within the FSU itself, and has to do so at a time when the intra-FSU
trade and payments system is collapsing. The current trade regime in Moldova
comprises international trade taxation from the Soviet era, and quantitative
restrictions (QRs) in the form of quotas and licenses, primarily on exports.
12     As part of a longer-term increase in the efficiency of
public resource use, the Government is pla.nning to
introduce standard investment programming techniques,
in the framework of a rolling public investment
program.



8
These export restrictions have been imposed to protect the domestic market
from shortages of inputs and consumer goods, arising from the breakdown of
intra-FSU trade and from Moldovan price controls.  The state retains some
direct trading role in fulfillment of interstate trade agreements,
particularly for agricultural products and fuel.
26.   The first phase of trade reform involves the phased abolition of th  QRs
on exports. In June 1993, the export licensing system was streamlined:
licenses were henceforth granted for one year instead of for single
consignments. In August 1993, the number of items subject to export licensing
and quotas was halved, and all quotas on hard currency exports and exports
bartered for energy were eliminated. All other export quotas will be phased
out as interstate trade agreements allow. Concurrently, the state's direct
role in trading will be phased out to facilitate enterprise-to-enterprise
contact; meanwhile, orocurement for state trading will be on the basis of
transparent and competitive procedures.13  All prohibitions on state
enterprises trading in goods with private enterprises were abolished in July
1993.
27.   The reform will also include the removal of the price controls which
remain after the extensive price liberalization of 1992 (some of the export
restrictions are imposed to avoid these price controls leading to domestic
shortages). Ceilings on prices and on profit margins will be phased out and
administered prices will be set at full cost.14 A major step in this regard
was taken on September 1, 1993 with the removal of price controls and
subsidies on certain types of bread, and the increase in the prices of the
remaining types of bread and of dairy products such that the average level of
subsidy fell from 80 percent of cost to 40 percent.
28.    A new, low and fairly uniform import tariff on non-FSU imports was
adopted in September 1993 (with most rates in the 15 to 20 percent range)
replacing a tariff with highly dispersed rates (ranging from 0 to 1000
percent); sections of Moldovan agriculture and industry may need a moderate
level of protection for a transitional period, particularly once the
protection currently afforded by the exchange rate disappears. In addition,
import taxation will be an important source of budgetary revenue. At the same
time, VAT was imposed on non-FSU imports, and export taxes were abolished.
13     Grant funding is being sought for technical assistance
for the reform of public procurement practices.
14     A limited range of essential foodstuffs and goods
produced by monopolies are still subject to price
ceilings; retailers, wholesalers, and some
agroindustries are subject to ceilings on mark-ups;
urban transport, rented housing, and district heating,
are provided below cost. Electricity to domestic
consumers is cross-subsidized by the productive
sectors, although the overall average tariff is set to
cover costs.



9
29.   In the area of legal reform, much has been done to create a legislative
framework appropriate to a competitive market economy. Since 1990, Parliament
has adopted a series of laws relating to freedom of entry and exit to markets,
particularly for private capital; these include laws on bankruptcy, foreign
investment, property, pricing, and business organization. Certain gaps and
inadequacies in the legal framework still exist however. Most notable amongst
these gaps are laws on collateral, commercial contracts, monopolies, small
enterprises, securities regulation, and intellectual property. In addition,
the Foreign Investment Law will be amended to provide more secure guarantees
of investors' rights. The law on bankruptcy will allow for debtor
rehabilitation and a more appropriate prioritization of creditors. However,
capacity to implement new legislation remains weak, as does the capacity of
the court system to resolve commercial disputes, Technical assistance in
legal and judicial reform will be required.
30.   The creation of a competitive labor market will also be necessary if
labor is to be reallocated efficiently to areas in which Moldova has
comparative advantage. To achieve this, measures to stimulate the housing
market, particularly through urban housing privatization, are being taken to
facilitate geographical mobility.s5 Comprehensive wage-fixing has already
been abolished; in future, wages will not be regulated beyond the setting of
minimum wages. The very high rate of contributions to social security by
industrial enterprises (45 percent of wages) will be reduced since it acts as
a tax on employment, and will be replaced by general budgetary support.
Current restrictions on unemployment benefit eligibility that are impeding
labor market adjustment will be eased.16 Similarly, restrictions on
dismissals will be reduced and the range of retraining opportunities will be
extended.17 Employment services will need to be strengthened, for which
technical assistance will be required.
Privatization
31.   The Government's Privatization Program for 1993-94, adopted in March
1993 by Parliament, envisages the privatization of an estimated 35 percent of
the total value of state assets by the end of 1994. This target involves the
15     Rural housing is almost entirely in private hands.
16     Currently, workers who are receiving less than the
minimum wage (through involuntary short-time working)
are not eligible for unemployment benefits if they
leave their jobs.
17     Currently the Government and the unions can delay mass
dismissals for up to six months; under legislation
submitted to Parliament in September 1993, this will
be reduced to three months. The obligation on
employers to pay for worker retraining before
dismissal will be replaced by the provision of
training by the Department of Employment.



10
privatization of 1600 enterprises, sold primarily through auctions in exchange
for patrimonial bonds (vouchers).18 19 The bonds will be allocated to all
M4oldovan citizens on the basis of length of employment and will not be
tradeable (although the shares so purchased will be). Distribution of the
patrimonial bonds has already begun. Auctions for small-scale enterprises
(primarily in the service sector) are planned to commence in October 199320;
small-scale enterprises will be sold as single entities. Auctions for shares
in larger enterprises are scheduled to begin in January 1994. The Government
will facilitate the concentration of ownership necessary for the exercise of
private property rights over the management of large enterprises, by adopting
regulations governing the creation and operation of investment funds.
32.   Completion of the program by the end of 1994 is ambitious given the
constraints on technical capacity. 21 However, the accelerated implementation
of small enterprise privatization will send a very strong signal to domestic
and foreign investors of the Government's commitment to the transformation of
the Moldovan economy and the creation of a vital private sector. In this
context, the Government is undertaking a national media campaign to publicize
the privatization program.
33.   Privatization of the 350,000 (mainly urban) dwellings remaining in state
hands began in July 1993 (70 percent of the housing stock was already
prrivacely owned). A-specified surface area will be transferred free of charge
to couples whose combined employment in Moldova is at least 35 years; this
accounts for 75 percent of state-owned dwellings. Privatization of the
remaining 25 percent for cash or patrimonial bonds will commence by end 1993.
CorDorate Governance
34.   A substantial portion of the enterprise sector will remain in state
ownership for the next 2-3 years, particularly in view of the implementation
constraints on privatization. Enhancing the performance of these enterprises
will be critical to an improvement in the fiscal situation, to the recovery of
18    See the section on agricultural policy below on the
privatization of farms.
19     The first auction for the privatization of assets for
cash took place on September 11, 1993 with the sale of
three construction sites.
20     Nine retail enterprises in the central business
district of Chisinau have been chosen for the first
auction.
21     Technical assistance for implementation of the
privatization program is being provided by the
European Community (TACIS) and the Government of the
Netherlands. Complementary assistance is however
necessary in certain areas.



11
output, and to the development of a private sector. This will require clear
arrangements to give mnxagers of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) incentives to
increase efficiency, combined with enhanced reporting and auditing
requirements. Regulations governing the appointment of members of boards of
directors of SOBs are being elaborated, and reporting and auditing
requirements are being strengthened. Improving the performance of public
enterprises will also require a transformation in the system of credit
allocation to harden budget constraints (see below).
Financial Intermediation
35.    Moldova inherited from the Soviet Union a banking sector designed to
implement the credit and payments decisions of the central planning authority;
it has little capacity to appraise requests for credit generated by
enterprises. Transforming the financial sector into one which effectively
mobilizes savings and allocates credit oa the basis of profitability criteria
will take many years, but it is essential that this transformation is
vigorously pursued if new private enterprises are not to be starved of
capital, and if the budget constraints of public enterprises are to harden.
36. The National Bank of Moldova (NBM) has been pursuing an interest rate
policy that reflects that of the Central Bank of Russia, in view of Moldova's
continued membership of the ruble area; concurrently, it has eliminated its
financing of commercial bank lending below standard interest rates, and has
begun auctioning a portion of its refinancing. This is laying the foundations
for the full market determination of interest rates once Moldova leaves the
ruble area definitively, and for the conduct of responsible monetary policy.
In order to make this approach sustainable, the central banking legislation
will be amended to increase the NMN's independenr'  from the Government and
Parliament.
37.   However, the allocation of credit by the market will also require
extensive institution-building measures and regulatory reforms. Bank
supervision will be upgraded by training programs and enhanced reporting
requirements. Capital adequacy norms will be set at levels consistent with
international standards (legal restrictions on bank lending to shareholders
have already been tightened). The payments system will be further developed
to allow large-value interbank transfers within one day, and to facilitate
interstate payments. International accounting standards will be introduced in
the NBM and the commercial banks. First steps will be taken towards eventual
bank restructuring with the preparation of audits of the four largest
specialized banks and a restructuring plan for the Savings Bank (which
accounts for 8 percent of household deposits).
Agricultural Policy
38.   The importance of agriculture to the Moldovan economy makes agricultural
policy a critical component of any priority reform program. Agriculture is
where Moldova's clearest comparative advantage lies, yet output has been



12
contracting since 1990, parts of the sector appear uncompetitive, and the
sector is highly subsidized.
39.   Priority reforms affecting agriculture include the pricing, trade and
financial sector reforms discussed elsewhere. However, complementary reforms
will be necessary if the agricultural sector is to benefit from a more
appropriate incentive framework. Major steps forward were taken in July 1993
with the increase in the grain procurement price to world levels and the
discontinuation of new preferential credit. over the coming 18 months, tax
advantages for agriculture will be phased out, and trading monopolies will be
broken up.
40.   In addition, the land reform and reorganization of state and collective
farms has accelerated. In the first stage of land reform, about 10 percent of
agricultural land was privatized by enlarging household plots and passing
ownership of these plots to their users. Land in private ownership can be
leased for up to 99 years, but cannot be sold until 2001. This first stage
was largely complete by the spring of 1993. The second stage is more
important for agricultural production, and involves privatization of most of
the remainder of agricultural land and the-restructuring of publicly-owned
farms. This stage began slowly in the fall of 1992, but the pace accelerated
in 1993. Employees and pensioners of the farms are receiving two documents,
one affirming ownership of a share of the farm's assets and the other
ownership of a land share. If the recipient chooses to leave the farm, the
land share can be converted to a land title, with specified boundaries
identifying the plot of land. It is expected that all land share documents
will have been distributed by April 1994. By July 1993, 8000 private farmers
had received land.
Social Safety Net
41.   High labor force participation rates and widespread access to medical
and other social services in Moldova have resulted in social indicators that
compare well with those of countries at similar levels of income. However,
declining leve`- of income and of service quality are now pushing more of the
population in    overty.  The Social Fund (from which pensions and other
benefits are       may soon not have sufficient income to cover commitments,
particularly as e-terprise restructuring gives rise to unemployment.
Medicines are in short supply, and important vaccination programs are being
delayed. In view of the macroeconomic situation, the possibility of general
budgetary support for social benefits is limited and the subsidies on
essential foodstuffs are being reduced. Income transfers will therefore be
targeted to those most in need, and only essential medical services will be
maintained.22
22     In addition, unemployed persons whose benefit
entitlement has expired after six months of
unemployment have been made eligible for low-wage
employment creation schemes ("social jobs").



13
42.   TIe macroeconomic situation precludes substantial general increses in
the level of pensions and benefits, and necessitates the phasing out of
subsidies on basic foodstuffs. The risk that some households will have
incomes which are inadequate for subsistence will increase. The existing
targeted sooial assistance system (the Social Support Fund) does not have the
financial basis to deliver upport on a large scale, and the Government
intends to review and extend the system. Tha Government has also decided to
abate perceAt pensions paid to anyone still in employment, should the Social
Fund be in deficit. The Government will need to decide whether pension
payments above the minimum can be justified if the system as a whole is to be
reoriented to meot need. The Government is considering raising the retirement
age (currently 55 for women and 60 for men) by 5 years to Western European
levels. This will need to be done in a phased manner to minimize inequity.
III. )acroeconomic Prospects, External Environment and Finaucing Requirements
43.   The macroeconomic outlook for Moldova is uncertain.  It does not only
depend on the country's ability to proceed with its reforms, but also on
prospects for the economy of the Russian Federation and access for Moldovan
exports to external markets. in addition, the availability of external
financing in the period of adjustment is critical for its success.
44.   It io clear that restrictive fiscal and monetary policies will be
necessary to bring inflation under control, to stabilize output, and to
achieve eventual balance of payments viability. It is equally clear that
structural reform measures on the supply side will be critical to the success
of macroeconomic stabilization, and will lay the foundations for the
restoration of positive GDP growth expected by 1995.
45. However, even with effective implementation of a program of
stabilization measures and structural reform, external financing requirements
will remain substantial over the coming 3-4 years. Public savings will rise
as fiscal policy is tightened and private savings will be stimulated as
incomes rise and confidence in domestic assets increases, yet the investment
needs for the restructuring of the Moldovan economy are considerable.
Similarly, full adjustment to the extreme energy import price shock and the
achievement of vigorous export growth will both take some time.23
46.   The consequent current account deficit is expected to peak at 13.9
percent of GDP in 1994 before declining to more sustainable levels over the
oubsequent 2-3 years. The ability of Moldova to attract direct foreign
investment to finance this deficit is expected to increase only gradually.
Current balance of payments projections (see table in Annex 1) show
substantial financing gaps (about US$35 million, US$143 million and US$130
23     The average price of imported energy is assumed to
rise from 41 percent of world levels in 1992, to 64
percent in 1993, to 90 percent in 1994, and to 100
percent in 1995.



14
million in 1993, 1994 and 1995 respectively) after all identified financing is
incorporated. The planned Consultative Group meeting for Moldova in October
1993 will be critical to filling thobs gaps.
47.   since Independence, Moldova's debt accumulation has been modest.24
However, sustainability of the debt service corresponding to incremental
external financing will require some degree of concessionality, particularly
with regard to grace periods on principal repayment. This will allow time for
exports to be reoriented towards the hard currency area (and for currencies in
Moldova's FSU markets to become convertible). On this basis, projected debt
service to export ratios range between 4 and 9 percent over the next five
years. Full creditworthiness can be expected within 4-5 years.
IV. IBRD Assistance Strategy
A. )firt Objecti-ea and Future Program of Assistance
48.   The design of an assistance program for Moldova poses an erormous
challenge. The transition to a market economy will be made against the
background of one of the largest terms of trade losses of any FSU country.
In addition, Moldova's small, open economy is highly dependent on its trading
relations with two currently unstai,le economies, those of the Russian
Federation and Ukraine. Given the resource base of the country, the prospects
for reaching sustainable growth in the medium term, with an appropriate
program of stabilization and reform, are good. As short term developments,
however, are difficult to predict, it is not entirely possible to predetermine
the strategy to reach this path of growth. As the situation evolves, and
greater understanding of the country is gained, it will be important to remain
open to new ideas and to have the f:exibility to adapt to changing conditions;
the proposed IBiD assistance program should therefore be seen as tentative.
This program to Moldova has been designed to provide early and strong support
to the Government's program for che transition to a market economy,
cornerstones of which are the privatization program, the improvement of market
incentives and the protection of the most vulnerable parts of the population.
This support will be provided through policy advice, ESW and lending in the
following areas:
*     Macroeconomic stabilization
*     Enterprise privatization and governance
24     Moldova has not yet decided whether to accept the so-
called zero option from Russia, whereby Russia would
assume Moldova's share of both the external
liabilities and the external assets of the USSR. A
decision on this question is expected shortly.



15
*     Private sector development
*     Financial sector reform
*    An effective social safety net
*     Sectoral reform in agriculture and energy
*     Institution building and reinforcement of the Government's
implementation capacity
B. Assistance in FY93
49.   The first Country Economic Memorandum on Moldova has been recently
distributed to the Board. The preparatory work on this memorandum provided
the basis for the initial policy dialogue with the Government. This dialogue,
which was continued in the preparation of the proposed Reaabilitation Loan,
helped to define the Government's reform program and the Bank's initial
lending priorities. An Agricultural Sector Review has recently been
completed. This review will provide the.basis for the first operation in the
Agriculture sector.
50.   Responding to the severe drought of 1992, the Bank made an Emergency
Drought Recovery Loan on March 11, 1993 (Loan 3569 MD). This loan financed
essential inputs for the following season to help limit the negative impact of
the dramatic drop in agricultural output caused by the drought. Almost two
thirds of the loan proceeds had disbursed within three months of Board
approval.
51.   The policy dialogue between Moldova and the Bank has been very open and
productive. The authorities have been receptive to outside support and advice
and ars committed to a solid reform program toward a market economy. The
Government has also established a productive policy dialogue with the IMF,
resulting in a program supported by the Systemic Transformation Facility.
C. Future Assistance
52.   The Bank envisages two possible scenarios for the reform process in
Moldova. Under the "high case" there will be a rapid transition to a market
economy through the sustained implementation of the reform program, leading to
full creditworthiness of the country in the medium term. The "low case" would
involve little significant progress on reform. Which scenario will
materialize is, to a large extent, dependent on the policy actions of the
Government. As the creditworthiness of the country and the scope for
effective lending will vary between the scenarios, the IBRD assistance program
will adapt to the different scenarios as they may develop during the next
three years. The policy actions which will trigger the Bank's assistance
program to move between alternative scenarios are presented below.
Subsequently, the programs for the different scenarios, which differ with
respect to the instruments used, are presented.



16
53. The policy actions that underlie the high case scenario are contained in
the Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (Annex 3) supporting this proposed
Rehabilitation Loan. They are also described in Part 1, section II of this
report. This scenario can only be sustained with satisfactory progress in
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform. It includes a timetable of
measures in the areas of privatization and improved governance of SOQs
remaining in the publs.c sector; protection of the most vulnerable groups;
agricultural reform and trade liberalization. In particular, progress will
have to be made in the implementation of the Government's privatization
program, in rationalization of social expenditures and social assistance
targeting, in financial sector reform and in the improvement of market
incentives, especially in agriculture and energy, which will be the key for
achieving long term growth.
54.   There are two triggers that could move IBRD's assistance program to a
low case. First, if macroeconomic stabilization were not sustained or key
reform measures already taken were reversed. This would involve reversals of
actions in the areas of privatization, legislation and regulation, trade
liberalization, the financial sector and the social safety net. second, if
the political situation would not allow for effective implementation of the
structural reform program, as outlined in the Memorandum of Economic Reform
Policies.
(i) High Case
55.   As seen today, it is the Bank's judgement that the high case scenario is
the most likely for Moldova. The reform program has strong support from the
highest government and parliamentary officials. Moreover, extensive
legislation supporting the program, including the privatization program, has
been approved by Parliament. At the same time, a program supported by the
Systemic Transformation Facility has been agreed upon with the IMF, while
negotiations on a Standby Arrangement are well under way. In addition to the
proposed Rehabilitation Loan, the lending program under the high case scenario
would include policy-based loans over the FY94 t.. vY96 period covering sector
reforms. It would also include investment operations and technical
assistance; such a program is discussed below.
Adlustment Lending to Suirnort Structural Reforms
56.   The first proposed operation, the Rehabilitation Loan, has been designed
in response to Moldova's immediate needs: (i) to help stabilize the economy by
financing essential imports, and thereby limiting the decline in output and
trade in key sectors; (ii) to initiate structural reforms through the
implementation of policy recommendations; (iii) to identify institution-
building measures in key areas to support the initial reforms.
57.  The second operation, an Economic Reform Loan planned for FY95 would aim
to expand on the process of structural reform that will be supported by the



17
Rehabilitation Loan. This process of structural reform will also be supported
by policy components of investment operations.
Investment-Lendina to Sumnort Segtoral Reforms
58.   In addition to adjustment lending, the Bank plans to develop investment
operations in key sectors. In designing these operations, particular
attention will be given to their potential to improve the foreign exchange
position of the country. This assistance would begin in agriculture and
subsequently would extend into energy and the enterprise sector. In addition,
support is needed in financial sector reform and in the social sertors.
59. Given the dominance of agriculture in the economy of Moldova, operations
in this sector will be a critical part of the Dank's assistance program. In
order to ensure that the sector generates a positive supply response, it will
be essential to support continuing sectoral reforms in the structure of
agricultural incentives and institutions. The policy content of an investment
operation in agriculture would be based upon the conclusions of the recently
completed Agricultural Sector Review, and would expand on the work that was
done in the sector in the preparation of the proposed Rehabilitation Loan.
The proposed operation is planned to be presented to the Board in the second
half of FY94. The project would help Moldova exploit its position as a
specialist producer of high-value fruits and vegetables by improving the
efficiency of the food processing industry, in particular by supporting the
ongoing privatization of the agroprocessing industry. Assistance in
developing the financial intermediaries in the agriculture sector would also
be necessary since the project will require onlending to a number of
enterprises.
60.  ?4oldova's near total dependence on imported primary energy resources
makes an operation in the energy sector essential. The terms of trade loss
the country is undergoing is largely caused by the fact that energy import
prices are being brought to world market levels. An operation aiming at
energy conservation through increased efficiency in energy use and smaller
losses in transmission and distribution will be vital in limiting the negative
impact of the higher energy prices on the economy, thus enhancing the
prospects for macroeconomic stability. In this context, optimal tariff policy
issues will be addressed. The proposed operation is planned for the first
half of FY95.
61.   The development of private enterprise, and the associated restructuring
of the financial sector, is central to Moldova'3s reform process, and will be
critical to the alleviation of poverty. Building on the work to be done under
the proposed Rehabilitation Loan, a review of the enterprise and financial
sectors will be conducted in FY94. This review will provide the groundwork
for a combined Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance project, or separate
operations in each sector, planned for FY96. The design of these operation(s)
is as yet undefined; however, potential components could be: (i) a credit line
or direct lending to provide trade financing to enterprises which show strong
export earning potential and do not require major upfront restructuring; (ii)
a policy component to support financial sector reform and/or enterprise



18
reform; (iii) technical assistance, focussing on building institutional
capacity in the banking sector and entrepreneurial skills in the enterprise
sector. If warranted, the operation(s) might also address the difficult and
interrelated issues of bank restructuring and how to deal with large, loss
making state-owned enterprises.
62.   Under the proposed Rehabilitation Loani, putting in place an adequate and
affordable Social Safety Net is an important focus, in order to protect the
most vulnerable groups from poverty during the program of reform. Following
on this work, a Social Sector R,.iew has recently been initiated.  This review
will analyze social safety net and poverty alleviation policies, and will look
at related areas such as Health and Education. This will feed into an
operation in the sector which is planned for FY96.
(it) Low Case
63.   Under the low case the Bank would focus on maintaining institutional
reform and the policy dialogue. The lending program would comprise
institution building operations and a very small amount of investment lending
in key sectors. These investment projects would be aimed at rehabilitating
facilities and maintaining basic service levels, to avoid the collapse of key
7nfrastructure where postponement of rehabilitation would increase costs in
the future.
D. Economic and Sector Work
64.  The Bank's Economic and Sector Work on Mooldova is the basis for advising
the Government on policy design and implementation. Economic work should be
less sensitive than the lerniiig program to the scenarios described above. The
first comprehensive economic assessment of the country's macroeconomic
framework and its structural and sectoral -.haracteristics was carried out
under the first Country Economic Memorandum (CEM). The report also contains
the Bank's initial policy recommendations on the transition to a market
economy.
65.   Further economic work will focus on a series of cross-sectoral issues.
The first report in this series, envisaged for FY94, will focus on the reform
of trade policy and policies for export development. For FY95 a report is
planned on the reform of public expenditures in order to provide
recommendations to the Government on specific ways to restructure public
expendituras in a manner consistent with promoting macroeconomic stability and
protecting the most vulnerable groups. Environmental sector work will also be
undertaken in FY95.
66.   Sectoral reviews will also provide the analytical basis for designing
the various sectoral lending operations. The first of these, the agricultural
sector review has recently been finalized. The social sector review is
already underway, while work will be carried out in the enterprise and
financial sectors.



19
E. Portfol'.o Management
67.   The Bank's strategy will be based on the lessons learned from the
implementation experience of other FSU countries and Eastern Europe with the
objective of minimizing potential implementation problems. At the project
design stage, strong emphasis will be given to building up the institutional
capacities to manage and implement projects. Training needs for local staff
in procurement, disbursement and financial management will be given particular
attention. As the portfolio develops, through the Mid Term Review process and
Country Implementation Reviews (CIRs), implementation issues will be closely
examined with a view to facilitating the design of future operations. All
loans will be supervised intensively by Bank staff.
B. Other Bank Group Activities
68.   Moldova became a member of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
on June 9, 1993. The country is presently considering membership in IFC. An
IFC reconnaissance mission has recently visited Moldova to assess possible
investment projects.
G. Coordination of External Assistance
69.   A major part of the Bank's work in Moldova is devoted to mobilizing and
coordinating donor resources. 2S Through chairing Consultative Group meetings
and through ensuring a continued exchange of information, the Bank aims to
maintain close cooperation with multilateral and bilateral agencies. The
first Consultative Group meeting will be held on October 26, 1993. It is
intended to hold regular Consultative Group meetings in the future.
Throughout the process of aid coordination and mobilization, the Bank and the
IMF will continue to work closely in developing complementary programs of
assistance. Furthermore, the Bank cooperated closely with a social sector
needs assessment mission led by UNDP in September 1993; the results of this
mission will feed into the Bank's social sector review.
70.   In the context of the preparation of the proposed Rehabilitation Loan, a
package of technical assistance was identified by the Government and the Bank
(see Annex 4). The Bank is in contact with other donor agencies to help the
Government find funding for this TA. This effort should not only lead to TA
being provided on favorable terms; it will also enhance donor coordination in
this field. The Bank will also seek cofinancing for its further activities
and will encourage other donors to invest in Moldova's infrastructure and in
sectors with export-earning potential.
25     The Government has recently established a donor
coordination unit, which will be responsible for the
coordination of all external assistance. This u.it
will be supported by grant funding from the UNDP and
the Government of the Netherlands.



20
PART II. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Baclkground and Rationale for IBRD Involvement
71.   The Moldovan economy is undergoing a transition to a market economy at a
time of sharp decline in its terms of trade, and a catastrophic fall in both
its own output and that of its traditional trading partners. The proposed
loan would be part of the response of the international community to Moldova's
commitment to fundamental economic reform during a deep economic crisis. The
loan would assist in stemming the decline in output and protecting the
vulnerable sections of the population, while allowing time for the necessary
reforms to be implemented and the economic adjustment to take place.
72.   The Government's program of structural reforms to be supported by the
loan is outlined in the Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (Annex 3).
This program is complemented by a set of monetary and fiscal policies designed
to achieve macroeconomic stability, with support from a Systemic
Transformation Facility (in the amount of SDR 45 million) from the IMF.
B. Project Objectives and Description
73. The objectives of the proposed loan are to (i) support the Government's
reform program; (ii) finance imports of essential production inputs and health
care supplies in view of the acute shortage of foreigai exchange; (iii) support
foreign exchange markets and allow the private sector access to foreign
exchange; and (iv) catalyze the provision of technical assistance and balance
of payments support by other donors.
74.   The proceeds of the loan would be used to finance:
(i) the foreign exchange costs of importing health care supplies and
production inputs (which are expected to be mainly for the energy,
agriculture, and industry sectors) under a Direct Import Component (DIC)
in the amount of US$ 55 million. The final users of these imports will
include both private and public enterprises;
(ii) a Foreign Exchange Component (FXC) in the amount of US$ 5 million
to support the access of enterprises to the fledgling foreign exchange
market;
(iii) technical assistance for the implementation of the reform program
and of the project itself, insofar as such funding is not available on a



21
timely basis from concessional sourceis.26 The technical assistance
program identified by the Government, witb the assistance of Bank staff,
is attached at Annex 4.
The allocation between components will be subject to regular review; in
particular, the size of the PXC could increase if the development of the
foreign exchange market accelerates. The proceeds of the loan are expected to
be fully disbursed before March 31, 1995, the loan closing date.
75. Direct Import Comoonent. In order to facilitate efficient procurement
and rapid disbursement under the DZC, an indicative procurement plan has been
agreed with the Government. However, the overall allocation among sectors,
and the imports proposed within each sector, may be modified by mutual
agreement between the Government and the Bank. Such modification will be
based on actual disbursement performance and changing needs, in accordance
with the general objectives of the loan. Goods on the Bank's standard
negative list would be excluded from financing under the loan.
76.   In the energy sector, Moldova is almost wholly dependent on imported
fuel to supply its energy needs; fuel is therefore an essential import which
affects all sectors of the economy and is likely to be imported under the
proposed loan. Financing is needed for pharmaceuticals, essential medical
supplies and spare parts for medical equipment. Since Independence the
disruption of supply arrangements both to and within the F&tj has caused
chronic and severe shortages of essential drugs and vaccines; hospitals and
polyclinics are lacking essentia3 consu:.uable and disposable equipment.
Moldova requires substantial financing for agrochemicals, vitamin/mineral
supplements for animal feed and spare parts for agroprocessing plants and farm
equipment. Pesticides and herbicides would be imported under the proposed
loan to increase yields and reduce crop losses. The provision of
vitamin/mineral supplements for animal feed would sustain the breeding stock
and reduce feed grain requirements, thus enhancing the efficiency of the
livestock subsector. Spare parts for agroprocessing would maintain output for
domestic consumption as well as for exports. Imports of raw materials,
industrial chemicals, components and ancillary equipment are needed to stem
the decline in industrial output. In the critical period before and during
privatization, it is important to maintain a certain level of capacity
utilization in the industrial sector to provide employment, maintain a
presence in traditional export markets and provide import substitutes for
local consumption.
26     If the loan proceeds are not ultimately required for
technical assistance, the funds reserved for this
purpose (US$2 million), which are earmarked from the
DIC, will be reallocated to the financing of goods.



22
Foreiam ExchanQe Comnonent
77.   The National Bank of Moldova's interbank general auction is scheduled to
take place every two weeks. In view of the shortage of foreign exchange, and
the policy objective of building up official reserves, auction sessions have,
in fact, been very infrequent. However, with the implementation of the export
promotion measures described in Part I of this report, and with the expected
increase in the level of balance of payments support (including the proposed
loan), the availability of foreign exchange should increase substantially.
78.   Private and public enterprises are eligible to purchase foreign exchange
through their commercial banks, and both would thus benefit from the foreign
exchange component of this loan. These firms can be expected to procure goods
on the basis of commercial terms. State-owned enterprises still have
preferential access to credit; however, measures supported by the proposed
loan and the IMF Systemic Transformation Facility are expected to reduce this
preferential access. Public enterprises are being subjected to increased
financial discipline, and the share of directed credit in total credit is
expected to decline as a result of the measures described in Part I of this
report.
79.   On this basis, part of the proceeds of this loan will be provided
through a foreign exchange component. The foreign exchange component would
increase the amount of foreign exchange available to importers, thus
facilitating the access of commercial enterprises to imports on the basis of
market mechanisms rather than through administrative allocation. Under this
component, the proposed loan would reimburse up to the total amount of net
sales of foreign exchange by the National Bank on the interbank market after
September 30, 1993 based on evidence that imports of eligible goods have taken
place. Non-eligible imports would include (i) goods on the World Bank's
standard negative list; (ii) imports paid for in the currency of the borrower
or through barter; (iii) goods financed by other donors. The amounts
reimbursed through this component would be paid to the account of the NT4; the
local currency equivalent would be remitted by the NBM to the Ministry of
Finance.
C. Environmental Safety
80.   As an adjustment operation, this loan has been assigned to Category "U"
for the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessment.
The agro- and industrial chemicals proposed for financing under the loan have
been reviewed and found to be acceptable to the Bank, if properly applied.
The Government has agreed that all such chemicals will be handled, stored and
used in accordance with local regulations as well as the Bank's requirements.
During project implementation, consultations with appropriate environmental
specialists will be sought when agro- and industrial chemicals and fuels are
procured.
81.   The question of environmental liability for past pollution could become
important during the privatization process. Regulations for dealing with



23
these liabilities will be elaborated by January 1994, and technical assistance
is being sought to provide legal advice in this regard.
D. Project Implementation
82.   Project administration will be the responsibility of a project
coordination unit (PCU) established within the Ministry of Foreign Economic
Relations. The PCU will be staffed with capable officials seconded from the
ministries and agencies involved in implementation of the project.
Procurement under the DIC will be carried out by designated agencies which
specialize in the procurement of the goods in question. The PCU will be
responsible for coordinating the procurement agencies, maintaining the Special
Account, and administering disbursement requests.
E. Procurement and Distribution
83.   DIC and TA.  Because procurement in the PSU was handled c6ntrally, there
is relatively little expertise in public agencies in conducting competitive
procurement transactions (although some experience has been gained during the
implementation of the Emergency Drought Recovery Loan). Untied cofinancing
will be provided by the Government of the Netherlands to finance technical
assistance for procursment in accordance with the Bank's guidelines (see terms
of reference in Annex 5). During the period of the loan, procurement staff of
the participating agencies will be trained in commercial procurement
practices. A country procurement assessment review is not planned at this
time; however, grant financing is being sought to prepare country procurement
regulations.
84.   All goods and services financed under the DIC will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Imports will be grouped
into a limited number of packages to be purchased through international
competitive bidding (ICB), international shopping and direct contracting. ICE
packages will be procured under simplified procedures. Where applicable,
commodities shall be procured through organized international commodity
markets, according to the Bank's guidelines. Each ICB contract will exceed
US$ 200,000; items with a value of less than US$ 200,000 may be purchased by
international shopping, obtaining at least three quotations from three member
countries. Proprietary spare parts may be procured through direct purchase
from the manufacturer. Procurement of technical assistance under the loan
will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
85.   The Bank's standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and
commodities, modified as appropriate for the particular circumstances, will be
used. All ICB packages and all contracts negotiated under direct contracting
procedures will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
86.   Imports financed under the DIC will be distributed to the final users
through distribution channels which could include both public and private



24
enterprises. It is the Government's policy to make inputs available to final
users at their full cost27, (i.e. the local currency equivalent of the cost
of imported goods calculated at the market exchange rate) plus a margin for
the procurement and distribution agencies. Upon delivery to end users, the
agency will deposit the local currency equivalent of the import cost of the
items sold into a designated Government account at the NBM.
87. EXC. As it is expected that the foreign exchange component will be used
for the import of goods procured by competitive enterprises in the commercial
sector, procurement for all contracts under US$200,000 will be done directly
by the importers using established commercial practices. Contracts for
US$200,000 or greater will be subject to the procedures applicable to the DIC,
and simplified international competitive bidding (ICR) processes and prior
review requirements would be followed.
F. Disbursement
88.   The proceeds of the loan will finance 100 percent of the foreign
exchange costs of imports under the DIC and the FXC, and 100 percent of the
costs of consultant services (subsistence and travel expenses), studies,
training and study tours under the TA component. To facilitate disbursements,
the special commitment disbursement procedure will be used for all large
contracts and the Borrower will establish a Special Account (for payment of
smaller contracts and consultant's services) in US dollars in the amount of
$200,000 in a banking institution acceptable to the Bank. All applications
will be supported by full documentation.
89.   With respect to the FXC, imports eligible for reimbursement under this
component will be subject to the World Bank's standard negative list. Goods
procured under this component and imported after July 31, 1993 are eligible
for retroactive financing under the loan up to a maximum of US$5 million,
(equivalent to about 8 percent of the loan amount), in view of the
considerable policy reform actions undertaken to date and given the
substantial balance of payments needs of the economy.
90.   Disbursements under the FXC will be made to the NBM on the basis of the
following: (i) statements of expenditures, prepared by the PCU in accordance
with the Bank's simplified documentation requirement for adjustment operations
(i.e. based on customs certificates), for contracts valued at less than US$
200,000, or full documentation (i.e., contract, supplier's invoice, evidence
of shipment, customs certificate and evidence of payment), for larger
contracts, respectively; (ii) a statement from the National Bank of net sales
of foreign exchange by the National Bank through the interbank market since
September 30, 1993; and (iii) a statement by the Government that the imports
presented for reimbursement have not been financed by another loan or grant,
or imported through barter arrangements. The customs certificates covered by
27     Medicines, however, are subsidized at the pharmacy
level for certain categories of consumer.



25
the statements of expenditure will be retained by the PCU for review by World
Bank supervision missions and by the auditors.
¢. Reporting, AccountLng, and Auditiug
91.   The PCU will maintain all project accounts which, including the Special
Account and statements of expenditures, will be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines on auditing and financial reporting. Audit reports will be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close of each fiscal
year or the date of final disbursement. Separate audit reports will be
submitted for the Special Account and for statements of expenditures. The PCU
will also prepare monthly progress reports detailing the status of all
procurement transactions, commitments and disbursements.
H. Agreements Reached
92.   At negotiations, understandings acceptable to the Bank were agreed on:
(i) the attached Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies outlining the
Government's priority reform program, and its timing; (ii) terms of reference
for technical assistance necessary to the implementation of the reforms; (iii)
the functions of the committee established to monitor and coordinate
implementation of the reform program; (iv) indicative categories of goods to
be financed under the DIC; (v) details of the PCU's functions and staffing;
(vi) the recruitment of a procurement/disbursement advisor to assist in
procurement and disbursement under the loan; (vii) accounting and auditing
procedures.
93.   The official submission to the Bank of the Government's economic
program, as summarized in the attached Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies
(Annex 3), was a condition of Board 1resentation. The actions described in
the Memorandum (and above) that have been taken prior to Board presentation
and subsequent to appraisal include: (i) the exchange rate regime was changed
to reflect market factors more fully (this involved an initial devaluation of
30 percent); (ii) a range of export restrictions was removed; (iii) the first
refinancing auction was held by the National Bank; (iv) a new import tariff
regime (with most rates in the 15-20 percent range) was introduced; (v) VAT
was imposed on non-FSU imports; (vi) a revised budget for 1993 reflecting a
deficit target of 6 percent of GDP was passed; (vii) prices of bread and dairy
products were increased such that the average level of subsidy fell from 80
percent of cost to 40 percent; (viii) the first privatization auction for cash
took place; (ix) a law on collateral was submitted to Parliament; (x) a
regulation restricting credit to any single borrower to 30 percent of the
lending bank's capital was adopted; (xi) all prohibitions on the sale of goods
by state enterprises to private enterprises were removed; (xii) the Decision
on Social Jobs was amended to allow unemployed people whose benefit has
expired to be offered social jobs; and (xiii) legislation reducing the period
for which the Government and unions can delay mass dismissals was submitted to
Parliament.



26
94.   In view of the central role played by privatization in Moldova's reform
program, the holding of the first auction for the privatization by vouchers of
small-scale enterprises is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
I. Program Benefits and Risks
95.   The proposed loan would increase capacity utilization and maintain
employment through the financing of essential imports of inputs. In addition,
this objective will be served by the catalytic effect of the loan on the
provision of import support from other donors, in the framework of the
Consultative Group process. In a similar manner, the loan would assist in
institution building for the implementation of reform through direct or
parallel financing of technical assistance. In addition, the proposed loan
would strengthen the role of the market in the allocation of foreign exchange.
The proposed loan would also contribute to mitigating the social costs of
transition by financing basic medical supplies and heating fuel.
96.   The main risks attached to the policy reform program, and hence to the
proposed loan and to the creditworthiness of Moldova, are: (i) balance of
payments support from donors other than the Bank and the IMF may not be
adequate. This risk is being addressed by the holding of a Consultative Group
meeting, and by other donor coordination efforts; lii) the political consensus
behind reform may weaken due to economic hardship and ethnic strife
(particularly in Transnistria). The ongoing constitutional process, the
Government's public relations efforts, and the provision of a more effective
social safety net should significantly reduce this risk; (iii) substantial
institution building is needed for the sound management of the economy and the
implementation of reforms. The proposed technical assistance program, as well
as intensive dialogue between the Government, the Bank, the IMF and other
members of the donor community will mitigate this risk; and (iv) access to
markets for Moldovan exports may be restricted under protectionist pressures.
This risk can be partly offset by the diplomatic efforts of the Moldovan
Government, but remains nonetheless significant.
PART III. RECOMMENDATION
97.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
September 30, 1993
Attachments



Annex 1
Page fl=
OLOVA: Key Indfestos
...... ......... ....... ............. *_,...............   ......._................
1992       1993     1994      199      1996     1997      1998
...... .........  ......,,......_......................   .....................
Growth Rate of GDP                                -21.0%      -16.0K    -3.0%     3.0X     4.0X      S.0X     6.0X
Real Per Capita Growth Ratess
Gross Domestic Product (GOP)                     -18.0X      -16.4%    *3.5%     2.5X     3.5X      4.5X     S=.S
Debt and Debt Service (Lt4$T+INF):
Total Oebt/GOP                                     0.7K      IS.8M    28.2%    35.8X    41.7X    46.-6      47.1t
Debt Service (USS1)                               0.0        6.0      34.7     U6.1     67.6      84.6    119.6
Debt Service/Exports                               0.QX        0.7%     3.8%     8.8X     6.3X      7.0X     8.8%
Debt Service/GDP                                   O.OX        0.3%     2.0Q     4.9K     3.7X      4.42     5.7%
Interest Burden (LTIST+INF):
Interest Paid (USS)                               0.0        6.0      16.9     26.5     35.8      43.7     51.0
Interest/Exports                                   0.0%       0.7%      1.94     2.7X     3.3X      3.6%     3.82
Interest/GOP                                       0.0%       0.3%      1.0X     1.SX     2.0%      2.3X     2.42
Gross Investment/GOP                                5.QX       7.0      9.0K    12.0X    15.OX    18.0%    20.0X
Total Consumption/GDP                              96.5X     105.4%   103.6X    96.5%    92.3X    86.9%    81.7X
Gross Oomestic Savings/GOP                          3.5      *5.4%    -3.6X      3.5S     7.7%    13.1%    18.3X
Resource Batance/GOP                               -1.5%     -12.4X   - 12.6X    -8.5K    -7.32    -4.9X      1.?X
Gross National Savings/GDP                          3.4K       -5.3X    *4.94     1.5K     4.9%      9.6K    14.3%
BOP Current Account/GDP                            -1.6X     - 12.3K   -13.9%   -10.5%   -10.1K    -8.4K    45.7%
Government Revenuos/GDP                            17.42       13.1%    14.0X    17.0%    19.0%    20,0X    21.0X
Governrent Expenditures/GDP                        38.4%       19.1%    19.0%    22.0%    24.0%    24.0K    25.0%
Budget Deficit (-)/GDP                            -21.0%       -6.0%    -5.0%    *5.0%    -5.0Q    -4.0K    -4.0X
GOP Deftator ( growth rate)                      1276.0%     795.0%    98.0%    12.0%      6.0%      6.0%     6.0%
Terns of Trade Index, fSU (1992=100)              100.0       78.9      63.6     65.3     65.8      66.4     66.9
Terms of Trade Index, Foreign (1992.100)          100.0      101.6    100.7    100.9    101.0    101.0    101.1
Export Growth Rate                                             -7.5%    11.02     5.4K     6.4X      8.5X     8.92
Exports of Goods & UFS/GDP                         36.0%      46.0%    52.8%    55.7X    58.8%    62.7%    64.2X
Import Growth Rate                                            -3.9X    -8.3X      1.2X     5.0X      5.5X     4.8%
Imports of Goods & NFS/GDP                         37.52      58.42    65.42    64.2K    66.0%    67.5X    65.9X
Energy Imports/Total Imports                       36.1%      42.0%    49.92    45.7%    44.OX    42.2%    41.0%
Energy Price/World Price                           41.0%      64.0%    90.0X   100.0X   100.CX   100.0%   100.OX
Current Account Balance (US$# )                   -38.9     -216.9   -237.6   -185.6   -184.5   -161.8   -121.1
Gross Reserves (months of total imports)            0.0        0.4       O.S      0.8      1.1       1.3      1.5
Gross Reserves (months of non-FSU imports)          0.1        1.3       2.0      3.0      3.8       4.3      4.8
...............................................................................................................
Source: Moldovan authorities and staff estimstes.



Annex 1
Page-2 of-I3
4oldova: Balanlo  of Pasyents
(USS millions of current prices)
Actual   Estimated                   Projected
..................... ............  ........................................
1992      1993       1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
............ ...........................................  ........  ..... 1..... .............  .. ....................
A. Exports of GIFS                       867.8      809.2      902.6   981.5  1076.4  1205.4  1354.8
fSU                                 682.8     648.8      713.6   756.9   810.9   877.2   948.7
External                            185.0      160.3     188.9   224.6   265.5   328.2   406.1
S.  maports of ONFS                      904.7    1027.8    1117.9  1131.6  1209.5  1299.3  1391.0
fSU                                 700.0     719.3      639.0   815.2   852.1   894.3   944.7
of which: Enersy                  327.0     431.9      557.8   516.9   532.5   548.6   570.8
External                            204.7     308.5      278.9   316.4   357.5   405.0   446.3
C. Resource Balance                      -36.9    .218.6    -21S.4  -150.1  -133.1   -93.9   -36.2
0. Net Factor Services and Transfers    -2.0          1.7      -22.2   -35.5   .51.4   -67.9   -84.9
fSU                                   0.0       -0.8      -4.3    -2.8    -1.8    -1.1    -0.2
External                             -2.0        2.5     -17.9   -32.7   -49.6   -66.8   .84.7
E. Current Account
1. Before official capital grants  -39.7    -232.0    -241.9  -189.5  -184.5  -161.8  -121.1
2. Official capital grants             0.8       15.1       4.3      3.9
3. After official capital grants   -38.9    -216.9    -237.6  -185.6  -184.5  -161.8  -121.1
F. Long-Term Capital Inflows, n.e.i.    34.0        153.1       75.3    84.8   142.7   148.7   145.1
Direct Foreign Investment             17.4       30.0      36.0    60.0    80.0    96.0   115.2
medium & LT, net                      16.6      123.1      39.3    24.8    62.7    52.7    29.9
Disbursement                        16.6      103.0      SO.0    77.3    80.4    84.5    88.7
Amortization                         0.0        0.5     -10.7   -52.5   -17.7   -31.8   -58.8
Interenterprise arrears                       19.6
G. Total Other Items (net)                -9.1        1.8        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Net Short-Term                         0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Capital Flows, n.e.i.                  0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Errors and omiss0ons                  *9.1        1.8        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
H. Change in Met Reserves                 14.0       27.2       19.5   -33.0   -39.9   -42.1   -42.8
(i - ncrease)
1. IMF financing                       0.0       50.7      32.1      0.0    -6.9    -9.1    -9.8
2. Gross Official Reserves            -2.4      -31.6     -12.6   -33.0   -33.0   -33.0   -33.0
3. NUN Correspondent Accounts         18.7      -29.6       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
4. Commercial Banks                   -2.3       -5.2        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
5. Debt Conversion (net) 1/            0.0       42.9       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
........................................ .................................................... ...........................................
Source: World Bank and IMF estimates.
1/ Technical credit from Russia transformed into a government loan.



Annex 1
Page 3 of -3
Noldova: External Financing Requirements end Projected Sources of Financing
(in millions of U.S. dollers)
. .............................. ............................................................... .. ....  
1993             1994          1993-94
............................ ........................................................................................................ ................
Financing Requirements:
1. Non-interest Current account deficit               210.9            220.7            431.6
2. Public sector debt service obtigations               5.5             27.6             33.1
3. Changes in gross reserves                           36.8             12.6             49.4
4. Gross financing requirements (1+2+3)               253.2            260.9            514.1
5. Pipeltine loan disbursements                        29.1              0.0             29.1
6. Private capital flows 1I                            30.0             36.0              66.0
7. Other liabitities and adjustments 2/                15.1              0.0              15.1
8. Financing requirements (4-5-6-7)                   *79.0            224.9            403.9
Sources of Financing:
9. Additional disbursements                           144.2             82.1            226.3
Multilateral 3/                                  86.7              82.1            168.8
BiLateral                                        37.9               0.0             37.9
Interenterprise arrears                          19.6               0.0             19.6
10. Additional financing                               34.8            142.8            177.6
11. Total sources of financing (9410)                 179.0            224.9            403.9
.  .,..,,....,......................................................................................, .....  ..  ........................
Source: Wortd Bank and IMF estimates.
1/ Direct foreign investment.
2/ Includes USN correspondent accounts and in 1993) errors and omissions.
3/ Includes IMF financing.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
MOLDOVA - RERABILITATION LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.    Time taken to prepare:               6 months
2.    Project prepared by:                 Government with assistance of IBRD
staff and consultants'
3.    identification
and Pre-appraisal mission:           May 22-29, 1993
4.    Appraisal mission:                   June 22 - August 4, 1993
5.    Negotiations:                        September 20-22, 1993
7.    Planned Board presentation:          October 21, 1993
8.    Planned effectiveness:               November 1993
9.    Expected project completion:         March 31, 1995
10.   Relevant SAR:                        none
1/ Bank missions which visited Moldova in May and June-August 1993 assisted
the Government in preparing the project, and concurrently appraised it. The
appraisal mission was divided into two consecutive parts: the first to treat
policy issues, the second to deal with implementation questions. Mission
members dealing with policy issues included Mr. Jonathan Walters, country
economist and task manager (EC4C2); Mr. Radwan Al-Jabri, lawyer (LEGEC); Ms.
Karen Brooks, agricultural economist, (AGRAP); Ms. Azita Dastgheib, research
analyst (EC4C2); Mr. Dina Khatkhate, financial economist (ASTIF); Ms. Deborah
Mabbett, social sector and labor market consultant; Mr. Ricardo Martin, senior
economist, trade and pricing issues, (EC4C2); Ms. Galina Mikhlin, lawyer
(LEGEC); Ms. Melinda Roth Alexandrowicz, enterprise specialist, (PSD); Mr.
Onno Ruhl, country officer, (EC4C2); Mr. Eugen Scanteie, principal economist,
public expenditure issues, (AF3CO); Mr. T. Stolojan, enterprise specialist,
(PSD); Ms. Helen Sutch, senior economist, (EC4C2); and Ms. Oxana Zadorojnaya,
language staff assistant (EC4C2). Mission members dealing with implementation
issues included Ms. Elaine Patterson, senior operations officer and mission
leader, (EAPVP); Mr. Jean-Paul Bailly, procurement consultant; Mr. Denis
Broun, health specialist, (PHN); Mr. Michael Hinchliffe, industrial
consultant; Mr. Tjaart Schillhorn-van Veen, livestock specialist, (AGRTN); Mr.
William Smith, agiculturalist, (ASTDR); and Ms. Stella Uelmen, operations
assistant (EC4C2). Mr. Wafik Grais and Mr. Basil Kavalsky are respectively
the managing Division Chief and Department Director for the operation.



GUVERNUL REPUBLICII MOLDOVA
The GOVERNMENT of tte REPUBLIC of MOLDOVA
277033, Chisiu&u. Case Guvemulul
Tel. 233346; Fax 242696; Telex 163151
Index nr._O1-28=-11                             _ 04  09            199 3
Mr. Lewis T. PRESTON
President
Intemational Bank for Reconstuction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Preston,
The attached Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies outines the
program  of macroeconomic stabilization and stutural reform  of the Republic
of Moldova. We request the World Bank to support this program with a
Rehabilitation Loan in the amount of US $ 60 million equivalent.
The program of measures in the Memorandum is intended to achieve
the rapid resumption of economic growth a sustinable macroeconomic
framework. If adjusunents and corrective measures are required during the
course of implementation of the program we will, where appropriate, review
those measures with the World Bank.
Yours sincerely,
ANDREI SANGHELI
Prime Minister
of the Republic of Moldova



Annex 3
Page 1 of 15
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
MEMORANDUM OF ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
The Parliament of Moldova adopted the concept and main
principles of the transition to a market economy in successive
sessions in 1990, and a number of laws have been adopted since that
time to underpin the transition.  However, until this year the
implementation of stabilization policies and structural reform
measures was limited, as a result of the disintegration of the USSR
in 1991, and the armed conflict and severe drought in 1992.
The adoption by Parliament in March 1993 of the Government's
Action Program and Privatization Program marks a very significant
forward stap in the process of reform. The task of the next 18
months will be to accelerate implementation of structural reform,
while stabilizing prices and restoring positive econcni" growth.
This task has become all the more urgent in the face t 2 lloping
inflation in the former Soviet Union, and a massive aauline in
Moldova's terms of trade, as input prices rise rapidly towards
world levels.
The underlying challenge facing the country is the need to
release the productive forces of the economy to raise the living
standards of the population. This will require vigorous action to
achieve macroeconomic stability and profound structural reforms to
remove the rigidities in the economy which impede the reallocation
of resources to productive uses. The restructuring of the economy
will require considerable external resources, in the form of direct
investment,  loans and grants.   This will supplement domestic
savings, which should grow rapidly as a result of the reforms, but
which start from a very low level.
The Government is committed to bringing inflation under
control. In this regard, a program of monetary and fiscal measures
has been formulated in consultation with the IMF that aim to reduce
monthly inflation to about 5 percent by the end of 1993, and
strengthen significantly the level of international reserves. The
1994 budget and monetary program to be approved by Parliament will
be designed to reduce the rate of inflation further.   Tight
restrictions on credit, particularly to Government, will be
required, as will a substantial reduction in public expenditures
and revenue-raising measures. These fiscal adjustments will avoid
the excessive taxation of producers, and will protect expenditures
on essential services such as health and education as far as
possible. Monetary and fiscal policies are now being tightened in
preparation for the introduction of a national currency.
In order to lay the basis for appropriate macroeconomic



Annex 3.
Page 2 of 15
policies a number of measures have been taken in June-September
1993.   Administered prices of bread, milk, energy supplies and
communal services have been raised, and the corresponding level of
budgetary subsidies has been reduced. This reduction in subsidies
will continue in the rest of 1993 and in 1994.   In parallel,
pressure on credit creation is being reduced by eliminating the
granting of preferential credit.
The critical structural reforms that the Government will
undertake in the next 18 months are outlined below. This is the
first stage of a longer term effort.   The reforms consist of
measures to enhance efficiency in the enterprise and farm sectors
and to promote savings. These measures will lay the foundations of
an economy in which production is largely in private hands and is
sold in markets subject to domestic and international competition.
They will be accompanied by measures to protect the vulnerable
sections of the population in the period of transition ane beyond.
Znter_Jise Reform and Private SectgX Develorzent
The Privatization Program
Privatization is at the core of the Government's program of
economic reforms.  The legal framework for privatization is now
mostly in place as the Law on Privatization and related laws and
regulations have been passed by the Parliament and the Government.
In March 1993, the Parliament approved of the 1993 - 1994
privatization program. The program envisages that approximately
1600 entities will be privatized, mostly through the distribution
of patrimonial bonds to the population and a system of auctions.
This represents an estimated 35% of the total value of the assets
of the State.
Distribution of the patrimonial bonds began in September 1993.
The patrimonial bonds are not tradeable, but can be utilized to
invest in the 1,553 state owned enterprises (SOEs) and small scale
uni' 5 o.. .-he list approved by the Parliament for privatization
th, i - gh patrimonial bonds in the 1993 - 1994 program. Patrimonial
bonds can also be used to purchase housing units in the housing
privatization process or placed with financial intermediaries,
which will accumulate the patrimonial bonds from the population and
buy shares in privatizable SOEs. This will diversify the portfolio
risk to the individual investor, encourage participation by the
population, and allow the effective exercise of ownership rights.
Employees of SORs can utilize their patrimonial bonds to purchase
up to 20* of the shares of their enterprise at the initial price.
The Government is di-tinguishing between the privatization of



Annex 3
Page 3 of 15
small scale units and the share offerings for medium and large
SOEs. In order to accelerate implementation, the Government plans
to introduce streamlined aucLion procedures for the small scale
unit privatizations. Technical assistance has been provided for
implementation of the system of auctions for small scale units,
with the first pilot auction to be held in Chisinau in October
1993. This system will then be replicated in other cities and a
manual will be produced by end-1993 for local agencies of the State
Department of Privatization to conduct further auctions for small
scale units in remaining locations.
In parallel with implementation of small scale unit auctions,
the Government intends to prepare the privatization of medium and
large SOEs approved for privatization through patrimonial bonds in
the 1993 - 1994 program.   The Government will seek technical
assistance to implement the auction system, with the first auction
for shares of medium and large SOEs planned for January 1994.
Foreign investors will be able to participate in the trading of
shares immediately after the privatization of each unit.
Although the overwhelming majority of SOEs to be privatized in
the 1993 - 1994 program will be auctioned through patrimonial
bonds, there will be limited privatization for money, both for any
currency (37 SOEs) and hard currency (7 SOEs). These consist of
construction sites and enterprises which are not currently
operating.   The first such auction was held successfully on
September 11, 1993.
For privatization of certain food processing enterprises, 50*
of the shares will be distributed free of charge to the farms who
have supplied them in the past. These shares will pass directly to
the individual men.bers and not to the collective farms as an
entity.
Institutional  arrangements  for  implementation  of  the
privatization program have already been established.   The State
Department of Privatization (SDP) will execute the privatization
program approved by the Parliament. The SDP will conduct a massive
national publicity campaign regarding the privatization program,
with emphasis on the distribution of the patrimonial bonds and
their uses.
By end-1993, the Government will issue regulations on the
mechanisms for transforming enterprises on the lists approved by
Parliament in the 1993 - 1994 privatization program for the
purposes of privatization.  These regulations will elaborate the
procedures to tran-form the enterprises to be privatized into a
legal status in which shares can be offered.
The Government will elaborate by January 1994 regulations for



Annex3
Page 4 of 15
dealing with the environmental liabilities of enterprises to be
privatized.   Technical assistance will be sought to provide
guidance for the elaboration of this plan on environmental
liabilities.     By  end-1993,  the  Government  will  elaborate
regulations on the distribution of shares to employees for those
SOEs on the list approved by Parliament for partial privatization.
Regulations for financial intermediaries (e.g. investment
funds) will be adopted by the Government before auctions for medium
and large SOE shares for patrimonial bonds begin in January 1994.
These financial intermediaries will spur the development of a
capital market. A regulatory framework will also be established in
order to prevent potential fraud associated with such financial
vehicles.   The Government is utilizing technical assistance to
assist in preparing this legislation and establishing the
regulatory and institutional framework.
The Government will develop a privatization program for 1995 -
1996 by September 1994 and submit the new program to Parliament for
approval.
Rousing Privatization
Approximately 70% of the housing stock is already in private
hands. The legal framework is in place for the privatization of
the 350,000 dwellings still in State hands. The Government intends
to move rapidly to continue implementation of the housing
privatization program which began in July 1993. Privatization of
over 75% of these dwellings will not require any payment (units
which are within the normative area per person limitation and where
the husband and wife have worked for a combined total of at least
35 years); this is expected to be largely completed by mid-1994.
Those cases which require partial payment will begin by end-1993.
Corporate Governance
The Government is developing a program of corporate governance
for enterprises until their privatization as well as for the SOEs
to remain in State hands.   By end-1993,  the Government will
elaborate the regulations for appointing representatives to boards
of directors and their functions. These regulations will establish
selection criteria, training needs and transparent appointment
procedures.
The Government will introduce international accounting
standards in the enterprise sector in conjunction with the revised
accounting and auditing standards to be introduced in the financial
sector.  Monitoring of enterprises will therefore become easier



Pnnex 3
Page 5 of 15
than at present.   For the short term however, reporting and
monitoring mechanisms will be designed.   Quarterly performance
review  mechanisms  will  be  designed  in  order  to  ensure
responsibility and accountability of management of SOEs for their
economic and financial performance. Sanctions will be utilized in
the case of poor performance by rmanagement.  Incentive systems will
be introduced for managers of SOEs based on performance targets.
The Government plans to seek technical assistance in order to begin
to implement a system of corporate governance during 1994.
Enterprise Restructuring
The Government has already considerably reduced the level of
budgetary subsidies to SOEs and undertaken substantial price
liberalization. These measures will promote enterprise efficiency.
However, it is clear that many enterprises will be unable to
survive in a market economy. The Government intends to submit to
Parliament amendments to the bankruptcy law by June 1994 to allow
for debtor rehabilitation and more appropriate prioritization of
creditors.   Once a functioning bankruptcy law is in place, the
Government will develop a program for institutional arrangements
for implementation such as appropriate courts, trustees, etc.
Technical assistance for developing the legal framework for
bankruptcy will be sought by the Government.
Although  the  Government  intends  to  leave  enterprise
restructuring as much as possible to new owners, it is apparent
that many SOEs will remain under state ownership for some period of
time.   It is clear that many SOEs are using scarce resources
inefficiently (e.g., energy) and will require either restructuring
or closure; the Government will therefore elaborate the procedures
and policies, and will assign institutional responsibilities, for
enterprise restructuring by end-1993.
Competition and Anti-Monopoly Policies
Parliament passed anti-monopoly legislation in January 1992.
In October 1992, the Government issued a decree which broke up the
intermediary/regional trade monopolies, thus initiating the
demonopolization of the trade sector. Progress has also been made
in demonopolizing the construction sector due to the growth of
private construction companies.   However, in the privatization
process, any SOE which is defined as having more than 35% of the
domestic market sales is considered a monopoly. The Ministry of
Economy and the SDP must review each case before privatization can
proceed. It is the intention of the Government to elaborate the
procedures governing this review by January 1994.



Annex 3
Page 6 of 15
Private Sector Development and small Business Promotion
Legislation has been enacted to permit domestic private
activity and foreign investment. In August 1993, the Government
submitted to Parliament the law on collateral.  By end-1993 the
Government plans to submit to the Parliament legislation to
facilitate more actively the establishment and operations of small
businesses.    The  Government  will  submit  to  Parliament  laws
governing intellectual property by December 1993.
The Government intends to revise the Foreign Investment Law
and submit necessary amendments to the Parliament by mid-1994 in
order to bring it in line with international standards for the
minimal protection expected by international investors. Technical
assistance will be sought to assist in this effort.
A Government decree has established a Small Business and
Entrepreneur Fund to promote and facilitate entry of small
businesses and mandated the elaboration of the role of this fund by
end-1993.    The  Government  intends  to utilize  this  Fund  in
combination with donor financing and assistance to establish a
small business advisory center in the first half of 1994.
Financial Sector Reform
The Government has recognized the urgency of immediate
measures to prevent a rapid deterioration in bank solvency and in
the financial sector as a whole.  It also aims to transform the
existing financial system in order to mobilize savings more
effectively and channel them efficiently to productive investment
in the evolving market-oriented economy. The Government's strategy
for financial sector reform consists in essential actions to
underpin the program of macroeconomic stabilization, while building
the financial sector infrastructure appropriate to a market
economy. A high priority will be given to institution building
through consolidating the measures taken in the last two years and
introducing new ones aimed at estab'lishing an appropriate
framework: legal, regulatory, operational and policy.
In order to contain pressures for excessive monetary expansion
and prevent distortions in the financial sector, the granting of
new preferential credit was eliminated in July 1993. Furthermore,
the National Bank of Moldova (NBM) financing rate is to continue to
be set at least equal to that charged by the Central Bank of
Russia, while Moldova remains in the ruble area. Once inflation
stabilizes through strict adherence to monetary and fiscal
discipline, the NBM will set this financing rate to be positive in



Annex 3
Page 7 of 15
real terms.   In addition,  the NBM commenced the auction of a
portion of its refinancing in August 1993.
Automatic financing by the NBM is no longer available and
there will be restraints on loans by commercial banks to individual
borrowers with non-performing loans. Such loans will be classified
and provisioned according tc international standards. Extension of
credit in the future will be linked to measures of enterprise
performance.
In order to reduce risks arising from connected lending, a
regulation was introduced by NBM, in June 1993, to limit bank loans
to any shareholder of a bank who owns or controls 10 per cent or
more of the bank's total shares to an amount not exceeding 20 per
cent of the bank's capital (as opposed to the previous limit of 30
percent).   A regulation was adopted in August 1993 to restrict
credit to any single borrower to 30 percent of the bank's capital
(as opposed to the previous limit of 50 percent).
Key aspects of the NBM and commercial banking laws (such as
autonomy of the NBM, restriction on credit to Government, valuation
of foreign exchange assets and allocation of profits)  require
modernization in order to provide the underpinning for the sound
development of the banking system; appropriate amendments will be
submitted to Parliament before end-93. Bank supervision will be
made more effective by expanding the supervision staff, providing
training of the necessary skills and requiring banks to furnish
timely information about their operations in an internationally
accepted format and to observe proper accounting standards in
regard to loss provisions.   In addition, norms relating to capital
adequacy and other ratios similar to those adopted internationally
will be set within the framework of revised banking laws. Entry to
the banking sector is open to both private and foreign institutions
which comply with the capital adequacy, prudential regulations in
force and any other necessary standards to be elaborated by the
NBM.
The accounting and auditing practices of banks, inherited from
the command economy, will be modified to reflect the real
operations of the financial institutions, including the NBM.  A
number of changes have been already made to the existing plan of
accounts of the NBM, but more are required. The progress in this
area would be accelerated in 1993-1994 to bring the financial
statements of the NBM to international standards. In addition, the
NBM has taken the lead in introducing new accounting practices in
banks by establishing a working group. With the help of an outside
expert and the staff, who will be trained on-the-job in foreign
banks, the banks will adopt the new accounting format over the
coming two years.   The Government intends to set up training
programs to prepare the accounting profession for the introduction



Annex 3
Page 8 of 15
of international accounting standards in both the financial sector
and the enterprise sector.   Since it will be some time before
accounting procedures are changed, the NEM will, in October 1993,
initiate a special audit of the four largest specialized banks
(which account for the bulk of total bank credit) in order to
assess the quality of their assets.
Recognizing that financial discipline and systems development
depends critically on the infrastructure of a sound and well-
functioning payments system, the NBM has made a number of important
changes in the last year which have streamlined the operations of
the domestic payments system, to an extent that the system has been
brought considerably closer to practices in the market economies.
The NBM is now in a position to develop the payments system further
in the next two years to facilitate large-value interbank transfers
through payments between customers' accounts within one day and to
strengthen interstate payments arrangements through correspondent
links between commercial banks.
The Savings Bank will be restructured over the next two years
to create a viable savings institution.   The Savings Bank's
operations have had an adverse impact on financial sector
development.  The Government an. the NBM intend to explore several
options for the Savings Bank, including a merger with another bank
or restructuring with a one-time infusion of capital from the NBM
or the budget. A plan of action will be elaborated by end-1993.
Trad. and Pricing Policy
The Government recognizes that the trade regime is still
burdened by the remains of the old system of centrally controlled
state orders, and that it relies too much on export quotas,
licensing requirements, state trade monopolies and domestic price
controls. Although a complete elimination of state intervention in
trade is impossible until payments mechanisms have improved and
there  is  more  advance  in  structural  reforms   (including
privatization and labor market policy), the Government believes
that the current system can be improved so as to achieve a more
efficient allocation of resources.
The Government aims to create a trade and price regime which
achieves the following: (i) aligns the prices of tradeable goods
with opportunity costs, so that prices provide the correct signals
to reorient the structure of production according to comparative
advantage; (ii) facilitates adjustment of the economy to the terms
of trade loss due to the increase in the price of imported inputs,
particularly energy; (iii) provides competition and helps alleviate
supply bottlenecks; and (iv) generates enough foreign exchange to
allow building of reserves and support the introduction of the



Annex 3
Page 9 of 15
national currency.
Significant actions have already been taken in this regard,
such as the introduction of foreign exchange auctions, exchange
rate unification and devaluation of the official exchange rate of
the Moldovan ruble against the Russian ruble. The procedure for
granting export licenses was overhauled in June 1993 to simplify
and expedite the process; licenses are now granted for a period of
one year rather than for each trade operation.   Quotas on hard
currency exports and on exports in barter for energy products were
abolished in August 1993.   The Government will phase out all
remaining export quotas supporting barter trade and the interstate
agreements, as normal clearing procedures for FSU trade are
restored.   The obligatory part of trade under the interstate
agreement will be procured at market prices and will be subject to
competitive procurement practices.   In September 1993,  a law
eliminating all export taxes was adopted.
A new import tariff was adopted in September 1993, which
provides for a uniform tariff of 15 to 20 percent, except for some
items on an exceptional and temporary basis.   The Government
recognizes that a low import tariff rate is necessary for the
country to benefit from external competition to spur production
efficiency and control monopoly power. However, in order to allow
some time for domestic producers to restructure and adjust their
product lines and method of production, some especially sensitive
domestically produced items have a higher tariff (which will not
exceed 50*) for a maximum period of two years from the entry into
force of the tariff law. In the interim, the Government will take
concrete steps to eliminate the factors which give rise to the need
for special protection. At the same time, imports from non-FSU
countries were subjected to VAT to bring them in line with FSU
imports which are already at VAT-inclusive prices. In the longer
term, the Government will consider moving from a VAT system based
on the origin principle to one based on the destination principle.
The Government recognizes that trade liberalization by itself
will not be effective in achieving a more efficient allocation of
resources if domestic prices are not allowed to adjust flexibly to
reflect opportunity costs. Although domestic prices have already
been significantly liberalized during 1992, there remain some
restrictions, with fixed or regulated prices and margin controls.
In September 1993 a major step forward was taken with the increase
in bread and milk prices.
The Government will take the following actions:
(i)      the liberalization of bread and milk prices,
and the reduction of the corresponding subsidies, will



Annex 3
Page 10 of 15
continue and will be accompanied by measures to protect
the worst-off, which are described in the section on
social protection.
(ii)      Eliminate profit margin controls on all non-monopolistic
commercial enterprises by end-1993, and on monopolies
immediately prior to privatization (with an interim
increase in margins before end-1993 from the current 5-20
percent range to 20-30 percent).
(iii)     Shift the focus of anti-monopoly policy from price
regulation to eliminating barriers to competition: the
Government will prepare an action plan by end-1993 for
eliminating price regulation and excess profits tax
(except for natural monopolies); this will include a
review of the definition of monopoly in the anti-monopoly
legislation.
Aaricultural Policy
It is the Government's objective to stimulate agricultural
production and rational use of agricultural products by moving
rapidly to align domestic prices with border prices, to remove
regulations that inhibit market transactions and to accelerate
privatization and restructuring of the farming and processing
sectors. Because of the central position of grain in the economy,
the Government has announced a procurement price for grain from the
1993 summer and fall crop that is close to world levels.
Furthermore the Government will maintain the alignment of domestic
and world prices for grain. The new policy is in contrast to the
previous policy of setting procurement prices for grain well below
world levels.
The Government will build on this administrative adjustment of
producer prices by strengthening the functioning of market
relations in the grain market. During 1994, state orders for grain
will be limited to food needs (i.e. will exclude anirmal feed), and
will be eliminated in 1995. Livestock producers will pay market
prices for grain fed to the livestock sector and will not receive
government subsidies for feed. Higher relative feed prices will
result in a substantial drop in demand for feed grain.  The new
pricing policy is likely to induce significant change in domestic
utilization of grain and may create opportunity for exports.
Therefore closer linkage with world grain markets through trade is
a necessary concomitant to the change in grain price policy. The
Government will permit export of grain for hard currency, should an
exportable surplus develop in response to the new price policy.
Border prices, both in hard currency markets and within the



Anmex-3~
Page 11 of 15
former Soviet Union, are widely publicized on a regular basis.
Food processing enterprises are negotiating their own purchase
prices, and the tax on their excess profits will be removed
according to the plan referred to in the pricing section above.
In order to qualify for short term credit for current inputs,
agricultural producers will be required to show a business plan as
evidence of creditworthiness, and will be allowed to collateralize
a part of the expected value of the crop. Agricultural producers
unable to show creditworthiness under prevailing interest rates
will be denied credit until revisions in the business plan indicate
creditworthiness.   The Ministry of Agriculture and Food will
provide advice in the design of improved business plans to farms
that are denied credit. The objective of this activity will be to
improve the allocation of credit toward activities that have the
highest returns.
Because producer prices in the crop and livestock sectors have
been raised app-.-oximately to border levels, there is no longer
justification fcr special tax treatment for agriculture. From the
beginning of  )94, the Government intends to make contribution
rates to social security in agriculture and agroprocessing equal to
those in other sectors at a rate of 38 percent.
The restructuring of state and collective farms will be
continued on the basis of the legislation already approved. It is
expected that by end-1995, registration of state and collective
farms as joint stock companies, or other of the organizational
forms recognized by law, will be completed.   Registration of
private farmers who have already received land in the privatization
of state and collective farms will be accelerated, and grievance
procedures will be established for those who are not satisfied that
their rights have been respected. All those entitled to land will
have received documents confirming their entitlement by April 1994.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the State Department of
Privatization will jointly organize a public education campaign
from November 1993 to March 1994 to inform the farm work force of
the options regarding restructuring and land reform.
The agricultural service parastatals Fertilitatea, Arca
Moldova, Cereale, and Viorika are now on the list of enterprises
excluded from privatization in the 1993 - 1994 program. However,
while under state ownership, they will be managed independently and
will not receive transfers from the budget. By end-1994, a program
for geographic and functional demonopolization will be finalized
for each of these organizations. In the interim, competition in
supply of agricultural inputs and the marketing of output will be
enhanced by ensuring that trade regulations, price regulations, and
interest rates are the same for the private sector and the
parastatals.



Annex- 3
Page 12 of 15
Social Proteation an- Labor Market Issues
Reforms to improve the targeting of social security
expenditure will ensure that the most vulnerable members of society
are protected, in a manner compatible with work incentives. At the
same time, the financing of social security will be placed on a
secure basis and low income groups will be compensated for price
increases.  This adjustment is essential because, in the medium
term, the emergence of unemployment will place increased demands on
the social security system while undermining its revenue sources.
The design of the system for providing assistance to the unemployed
will also have to be improved and its coverage extended.
Izmediate Measures to Control Expenditure while Protecting the
Worst-Off
To address the problem of poverty among the most vulnerable members
of society, the Government will expand its system of targeting
social assistance through the Social Support Fund to the most
vulnerable groups by end-1993. This assistance will be financed
from the general government budget. Compensation to pensioners,
the unemployed and children for administered price increases will
be increased as subsidies are removed, and will continue to be
financed from the general government budget. The family income
tests for family allowances and unemployment benefits will be
reviewed and scales for the abatement of allowances and benefits
developed.
To restrain the growth in Social Fund expenditure, the
Government will undertake a gradual change in the retirement age,
and will submit legislation to this effect to Parliament during
1994. The Government will also undertake a public education
campaign on this issue. If the revenue of the Social Fund cannot
cover its expenditure, the Government will reexamine the payment of
wage-related supplements to pensions and benefits, and the rule
reducing payments to working pensioners will be reintroduced.
In the medium term, all pensions and benefits paid from the
Social Fund and the Employment Fund will be targeted, either
according to categories indicative of needs, or by income and
assets tests where appropriate, or by taxation, or by the
imposition of ceilings.
The social security contribution rate from industrial
enterprises, which is a payroll tax, will be reduced at the
beginning of 1994 from 45 percent to 38 percent.   Part of the



Annex 3
Page 13 of 15
revenue from the general budget will be transferred to the Social
Fund in compensation if necessary.  A separate insurance system
based on individual contributions may be developed in due course,
when appropriate conditions prevail in the financial and labor
markets.
Unemployment Benefits and Employment Programs
Over the next 18 months the Government intends to put in place
policies to promote adjustment in the labor market. The Government
will regularly review and, as unemployment projections require,
increase the staffing, equipment, and training funds of local
employment offices. The Government will also keep the financing of
the Employment Fund under review, and increase the share of Social
Fund receipts going to the Employment Fund if necessary.
Restrictive rules have been preventing the take-up of places
on job creation schemes ("social jobs") by the long-term
unemployed, who have no other source of income and are therefore
destitute. In September 1993, the Government amended its decision
on Social Jobs to enable unemployed people whose entitlement to
benefit has expired to be offered social jobs. The Government will
also assist workers who decide to leave enterprises which are not
able to pay the minimum wage. By end-1993, the Government will
submit to Parliament an amendment to the Employment Law to enable
workers to receive unemployment benefit if they give up their jobs
whan their average wage in the previous three months has been less
than the minimum wage (because of short-time working or involuntary
unpaid leave).
In September 1993, the Government submitted to Parliament
legislation to reduce the period for which Government authorities
and unions can delay dismissals due to redundancy from six months
to three months. The Government will submit to Parliament by end-
1993 legislation to remove the obligation on employers to pay for
worker retraining before dismissal; appropriate training will
instead be arranged through the Department of Employment's local
offices. The range of training opportunities available will be
extended, in accordance with information on vacancies collected
from employers.  Employment offices will be equipped to provide
information on vacancies through a national network. A national
register of job-seekers and recipients of unemployment benefit will
also be developed, and staff will be trained to provide counselling
and placement services to the unemployed.
Wage Determination
Wage determination in Moldova has evolved from the Soviet



Annex 3
Page 14 of 15
system in which all wages were set according to a national tariff;
wages in non-budget-covered organizations are now established by
bargaining subject to indicative wages at 11 hierarchical levels.
In 1994 the Government will submit legislation to Parliament to
allow wages in all non-budget-covered organizations to be fully
market-determined. The Government will review the current incomes
policy which caps the deductibility of wage payments for profits
tax assessment. Both the form and the duration of this policy will
be re-examined.
Economic Managrient
The Government recognizes that its role will be fundamentally
transformed in the transition from a command economy to a market
economy. The reorientation of the State away from direct control
over production to the provision of services and infrastructure
supportive of the productive sectors, will require a substantial
change  in  the  functions  of  most  public  organizations.    In
recognition of the urgent need to build institutions which can
manage the process of stabilization and structural reform, several
initiatives are underway or will be introduced in the coming
months.
In view of the paramount importance of macroeconomic
stability, training programs in macroeconomic analysis and
forecasting will be accelerated. A high-level committee, appointed
in August 1993, drawing together decision-makers and specialists
from key economic ministries and the NBM will coordinate the
formulation of macroeconomic policy and structural reform and
monitor its implementation.
The Government is undertaking the following organizational
reforms: (i) debt management and aid coordination capacities are
being created; (ii) expenditure control mechanisms are being
reinforced (including through the establishment of a Treasury); and
(iii) tax and customs administration is being strengthened. The
research capabilities of the NBM are being enhanced and capacities
are being built in the State Department of Statistics to produce
and disseminate the economic statistics required in a market
economy.
These initiatives will be deepened over the coming months and
complemented by further reforms in the process of public
expenditure decision-making. In 1994, the Government will commence
the introduction of a three-year "rolling" public investment
program (PIP) which will incorporate all investments financed by
the State budget or guaranteed by the State and submit them to
rigorous and standard evaluation and selection criteria based on
economic and financial returns using price signals. Standard and



Annx 3
Page 15 of 15
transparent public procurement procedures based on competitive
bidding, as well as public accounting and auditing practices
consistent with internationally-accepted norms, will be introduced.
Technical assistance will be sought to advise on redesign of the
institutions in charge of these functions and provide training and
equipment.



Moldova - Rehabilitation Loan Poligy Matrix
MACROECONOMIC NANAGEMENT
Objectives                               Measures already taken                                  Measures Supported by the
Rehabilitation Loan
restore positive GDP growth and           restrictive monetary policy guidelines enacted for    macroeconomic framework to be agreed with World Bank
price stability                           1993. and interest rates harmonized with those in
Russia                                                   introduction of the national currency
coupons introduced into circulation and framework        introduction of 3 year rolling public investment
legislation for creation of national currency            program
enacted
creation of foreign exchange auction and progress
on exchange rate unification
TEE COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT
create incentives framework to            introduction of foreign exchange auctions and             phase out other remaining export quotas
enhance competitiveness of                unification of official exchange rate
enterprise sector in the world                                                                      phase out state trading; introduce competitive
economy and reduce relative price         elimination of quotas on hard currency exports            procurement for residual stnte orders
distortions
new import tariff adopted                                elimination of profit margin coatrols on commercial
enterprises
restrictions on sate of goods between state owned
enterprise and private enterprise removed                elimination of price regulation (except for natural
monopolies), including review of anti-monopoly
abolition of export taxes                                legislation
simplification of procedures for granting export
licenses
non-FSU imports subjected to VAT



Objectives                                       measures                                   Measures Supported by the
already taken                                      Rehabilitation Loan
enact a legal framework conducive to    a considerable range of laws have been enacted to      subm,asion to Parliament of legislation to
developmaent of competitive market      permit domestic private activity and foreign           facilitate establishment and operations of small
economy                                 investment                                             businesses
law on collateral submitted to Parliament              submission to Parliament of amendments to bankruptcy
law to allow for debtor rehabilitation end more
appropriate prioritization of creditors
submission to Parliament law on intellectual
property
submission to Parliament of amendments to Foreign
Investment Law to meet international standards for
protection expected by foreign investors
foster a labor maiket that                                                                     strengthening of employment services
reallocates labor to more productive
uses                                                                                           submission to Parliament of legislation to allow
wages in aLL non-budget covered organizations to
become more market-determined
PRIVATIZATION
enhance efficiency and improve          Privatization Law and Program for 1993-1994 have       continued implementation of 1993-1994 program,
ownership structure of enterprise       been adopted                                           including pilot auction for medium and large
sector                                                                                         enterprise shares
implementation of 1993-1994 program has comenced,
including privatization for money, housing            regulations established on mechanisms for
privatization, distribution of patrimonial bonds to  transforming enterprises for privatization purposes
population, national publicity campaign for
privatization end pilot auction for small scale        creation of regulated investment funds and other
units                                                 financial intermediaries
regulations established to deal with enviroumental
liabilities of enterprises to be privatized
regulations elaborated on distril'ution of shares to
employees for enterprises to be partially privatized



CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
Objectives                                         Measures                                      Measures Supported by the
already taken                                        Rehabilitation Loan
improve performance of enterprises        reduction of budgetary subsidies to enterprises           furthfr hardening of budget constraint through more
to be retained in public sector in                                                                  performance-based credit allocation
medium~ or long term
development of corporate governance action plan to
allow exercise of ownership rights and to provide
enhanced reporting and monitoring mechanisms
elaboration of procedures and policies, including
institutional arrangements, for enterprise
restructuiring
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION
creation of a financial sector            enactment of basic banking legislation                   strengtheoning of prudential regulations, including
mobilizing savings for investment in                                                                capital adequacy
productive uses                           elimination of new preferential credit
enhancement of supervision of banks
financing rate set at least equal to Russia while
Moldova is still in the ruble zone                       classification of non-performing loans and
provisions mads according to international standards
cowmencement of refinancing audits by NBM
development of plan for reform of accounting and
bank loans limited to 20X of bank's capital for any   auditing standards
shareholder who owns/controls 10X or more of the
bank and 30 percent for any single borrower              amendments to banking Laws submitted to Parliament
(regarding autonDOm of NBM, restriction on credit to
the Government, valuation of fo.eign exchange assets
and allocation of profits)
audits of the four largest specialized banka
restructuring of Savings Bank
further improvements in payments system



AGRICULTURAL POLICY
Obijectives                                         Measures                                      Measures Supported by the
l_________________________                                   already taken                                         Rehabilitation Loan
improve producer incentives to             many explicit price controls have been removed            phased removal of residual price controls
respond to changing economic
conditions and reduce fiscal burden        reduction in budgetary subsidies                          harmonization of agricultural tax and Levy rates
of agricultural support programs                                                                     with those of other sectors
reduction of remaining producer and consumer
subsidies
state orders for grain limited to food needs
agricultural producers must show creditworthiness as
based on a business plan to qualify for short term
directed credit
enhance integration with world             procurement price for grain increased to world            facilitation of private trade in agricultural inputs
economy                                    levels                                                    and outputs
border prices, both in hard currency markets and          development of action plans to break up trading
within FSU, publicized on a regular basis                 monopolies
export of grain for hard currency permitted if
surplus develops
promote farm reorganization to             first stage of colLective farm restructuring              continued reorganization of state and collective
enhance efficiency                         underway                                                  farms
private plots enlarged



SOCIAL SAFETY NET
Objectives                                          Measures                                      Measures Supported by the
already taken                                         Rehabilitation Loan
an affordable, efficient and               unemployed whose benefit entitlement has expired           increase in targeted assistance, and limitation of
equitable system of social benefits        can be offered "social jobs'                              earnings-related supplements
through the period of transition and
beyond                                     submission to Parliament of legislation to reduce         phased increase in the retirement age
period to delay mass dismissals due to redundancy
from 6 months to 3 months
removal of obligation to pay for worker retraining
before dismissal
submission to Parliament of amendment to the
Employment Law to enable workers to receive
unemployment benefit if they give up their jobs when
their average wage is less than minimum wage over
last 3 months
reduction of benefits to working pensioners should
the Social Fund have a deficit
equalization of social security contributions
(payroll tax) for all sectors



Annex 4
Page 1 of 11
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The Government and the Bank have identified technical assistance that
will be instrumental in implementing the program of economic reform policies
to be supported by the proposed loan. This technical assistance program is
outlined below.' At the request of the Government. the Bank has assisted in
the identification of concessional financing for the TA program. To the
extent that such concessional financing is not available on a timely basis,
funds will be available from the proposed loan.
The program consists of the following components:
*     Enterprise Reform and Privatization
*     Financial Sector Infrastructure
*     Employment Service and Social Safety Net Development
*;    Public Investment Programming
*     Legal Technical Assistance to support Private Sector Development
and Market Reform
The total cost of the technical assistance program is estimated at
US$7,520,000.
ENTERPRISE REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
The proposed technical assistance program has been designed to assist
the State Department of Privatization (SDP) and other Governmental agencies
involved in enterprise reform and privatization, including the State Property
Fund (SPF), the Ministry of Economy and the Small Business and Entrepreneurial
Fund. The program consists of assistance in the following areas:
Privatization
As the Government has decided to accelerate the privatization of small
scale units, the SDP is working with a team of consultants to assist in the
implementation of a pilot auction of these small scale units. The consultants
will produce a manual which describes the methodology and which would be
utilized by the local offices of the SDP to replicate the pilot auction in
other cities. This work is being funded by the Government of the Netherlands.
1/    Detailed draft terms of reference are available from the Ministry
of Foreign Economic Relations or from the Bank.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 11
In parallel to the small scale unit auctions, the SDP will develop the
auction mechanisms for the medium and large enterprises which will be sold for
patrimonial bonds. As this program will constitute the bulk of the
Government's privatization program, it is critical to design a system which
can be readily implemented. Such a system will have to be developed in
accordance with existing legislation. It is proposed that the SDP recruit
outside advisory support with substantial experience of designing such
auctions in other countries in the region. This work will be funded by the
Commission of the European Communities.
The privatization program also includes 44 enterprises which are to be
privatized for cash. Seven of these enterprises are to be sold only for hard
currency, while the remainder can be sold for any currency. It is proposed
that the SDP recruit financial advisory support to prepare several of these
enterprises which are targeted for foreign investment. This work would
include preparation of an informational memorandum on each enterprise which
would provide operational and financial information at an internationally
acceptable level as well as identification of potential investors and
marketing of these enterprises.
Public relations will be a crucial element to the success of the
privatization program. Such a publicity campaign should cover all aspects of
the privatization process, with specific emphasis on the patrimonial bonds. A
public relations expert should be retained by the SDP for the period covering
the distribution of the patrimonial bonds and first wave of auctions. This
work will be funded by the Commission of the European Communities.
Investment funds and other financial vehicles such as holding companies
and trust companies are currently planned for Moldova. Some legislation has
been drafted, but a comprehensive regulatory framework is necessary in order
to avoid mistakes made regarding such funds in other countries in the region.
Legal assistance with finalizing this legislation and framework is proposed
for the Ministry of Economy and SDP. This work will be funded by the
Commission of the European Communities.
Securities market legislation was approved by the Parliament in May
1993. However, mechanisms for trading shares have not yet been finalized.
The form and systems of a stock exchange and orderly equity market need to be
in place once privatization of medium and large enterprises begins. To this
end, it is proposed that a team composed of a securities lawyer and a trading
specialist be recruited as soon as possible to support the SDP in this area.
This work will be funded by the Commission of the European Communities.
It is expected that the staff of the SDP will experience considerable
"on-the-job" training. In addition, the staff could greatly benefit from
regular seminars on privatization topics. Exposure through working level
exchanges with nearby countries in the region which are already implementing
privatization programs would also be of tremendous value. This training will
be funded by the Commission of the European Communities.



Annx 4
Page 3 of 11
The SDP, SPF, the State Department for the Protection of the Environment
and Natural Resources and other environmental authorities should pay due
attention to the potential issues emerging regarding environmental liabilities
during the course of privatization. These environmental issues must be
considered since uncertainty over responsibility for such liabilities could
deter potential purchasers of enterprises. It is proposed that the SDP
receive legal advisory support regarding these issues.
Corporate Governance
One important issue concerns the enterprises which are on the list of
enterprises approved by the Parliament not to be privatized in the 1993 - 1994
program or those which will take some time to privatize. Commercialization or
corporatization of these enterprises will be undertaken, with 100% of the
shares to be held by the newly created State Property Fund (SPF). Technical
assistance will be sought to assist in the design of an appropriate corporate
governance mechanism in order to achieve greater management accountability
while at the same time increase management autonomy and reduce unwarranted
government interferernce. This work will be funded by the Commission of the
European Communities.
Foreign Investment
A key element in revitalizing the enterprise sector will be to attract
foreign investors, both in the privatized companies as well as in "greenfield"
operations. Although a Foreign Investment Law was approved by Parliament in
April 1992, this legislation should be reviewed as it is less encouraging to
foreign investment than in other countries in the region and does not meet
generally accepted international standards for the protection expected by
foreign investors. Technical assistance is proposed to review the existing
Law and other relevant legislation, draft necessary changes and assist the
Government in designing a program to attract foreign investment.
Anti-Monopoly and Competition
As in other FSU countries, Moldova has a highly monopolized industrial
structure and a high degree of vertical and horizontal integration. Anti-
monopoly legislation was passed in January 1992. In order not to delay the
privatization of medium and large enterprises which is planned to begin in
January 1994, the procedures governing this anti-monopoly review should be
elaborated and a program designed to deal with the largest monopolies
operating in Moldova. It is proposed that the Ministry of Economy receive
technical assistance to review the existing legislation, draft any needed
changes and design this review program in cooperation with the SDP.



Annex A
Page 4 of 11
Business Development
Moldovan private entrepreneurs face a host of obstacles when trying to
establish a new business or expand an existing one. Several of the issues
which are affecting the growth of the private sector include the following:
(i) difficulties with business registration; (ii) problems with locating
adequate premises; (iii) a weak banking system; (iv) a lack of mechanisms for
commercial contract resolution; (v) difficulties in purchasing some products
and inputs from state owned enterprises; and (vi) the level and complexity of
taxes. In addition, skills such as finance and marketing are in short supply.
The Government plans to address these issues through reform of regulations
which cause many of these constraints as well as support and active promotion
of the emerging private sector. Technical assistance is proposed to assist
the Ministry of Economy in reforming needed legislation as well as designing
the role of the Small Business and Entrepreneurial Fund which will be
established by the fall of 1993. This Fund will seek additional donor
financing and assistance to establish a small business incubation center in
Chisinau.
The estimated total cost for the above program is US$ 1,740,000, of
which approximately US$ 1,000,000 will be funded by the Commission of the
European Communities and US$ 100,000 has been funded by the Government of the
Netherlands.
FINANCIAL SECTOR INFWASTRUCTURE
Objectives of Proposed Technical Assistance
While the institution building in regard to the National Bank of Moldova
(NBM) and its functions has advanced considerably, there are significant gaps
in regard to infrastructure of commercial banking activities. The future
technical assistance, which will have to be organized in cooperation with
other international and bilateral agencies, will focus on removing these
deficiencies and building institutional and management skills as input in
developing the financial sector and financial policy during the transition
phase.
More specifically, the technical assistance and advice need to be
directed to the following areas: (i) revision of the NBM and commercial
banking laws in order to bring them in line with modern banking laws in market
economies and to provide the legal framework for new financial and capital
market institutions that may emerge in future; it is understood that EBRD has
shown interest in this area; (ii) provision of technical assistance to help
establish and implement new accounting procedures among commercial banks,
through supply of training material, consultant and training facilities for
commercial bank staff on-the-job in foreign banks; (iii) assisting the NBM and
the Government of Moldova to consider the feasibility of alternative proposals
for restructuring the Savings Bank, having regard to the budgetary and



Annaex 4
Page 5 of 11
institutional implications of the various alternatives; {iv) creating training
opportunities for the staff of commercial banks to develop skills to run banks
on modern principles in regard to evaluation of projects and credit worthiness
of borrowers operating in a competitive environment and conducting foreign
exchange transactions.
Setting up a legal framework
The Government of Moldova has amended several times the NBM and the
commercial banking laws to create an appropriate legal framework for the banks
to operate in market-oriented fashion. However, there are many gaps remaining
in the laws which will not only stifle the growth of the financial sector
under competitive conditions but also weaken the monetary policy capability of
the NBM. For instance there is no restriction in the present NBM law on the
amount of central bank credit to government. The independence of the NBM from
the Government and the Parliament is not clearly established. Likewise,
provisions on valuation of foreign assets of the NBM as well as commercial
banks are absent. This will cause serious problems in future for the
financial institutions including the NBM, unless the relevant legislation is
clarified and made transparent. Besides, it is necessary to prepare a set of
rules and regulations, separate from the laws but not inconsistent with the
substance and form of the legal provisions so that bank management can
function with flexibility and initiative.
Technical assistance is proposed to complete the required revision in
coordination with the IMF, EBRD and other donor agencies.
Accounting
The NBM has already set up a working group consisting of the
representatives of commercial banks and the NBM, under the chairmanship of the
vice Governor of the NBM. It is recommended that the representatives of the
business enterprises be associated with this group as accounting practices of
the enterprise are in as much need of reform as those in commercial banks. In
fact, without changing the accounting in enterprises, full benefits of changes
in accounting practices in the comaercial banks will not be achieved.
However, its work needs to be guided by an experienced advisor for a period of
at least one year so that appropriate concepts are developed and the staff is
trained to understand new concepts and regulations formulated to translate
those concepts into operational terms. If a resident advisor could not be
obtained, the expert could visit Chisinau periodically until the elements of
new accounting procedures are in place.
The Ministry of Finance has elaborated a program to improve accounting
systems for the period 1993 - 1995. This program covers all accounting
practices. To facilitate the introduction of internationally recognized
accounting systems by Moldovan enterprises, consulting services are needed.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 11
Besides an advisor, it would be necessary that tne statf of Commercial
banks (and also enterprises) at different levels are given on-the-job training
at the foreign banks with which the local banks have correspondent
relationships.  This would involve the cost of transport and subsistence for
the staff on secondment.
Auditing of Banks
Introduction of new accounting practices in commercial banks will take a
long time and in the meantime it will not be possible to know the quality of
banks, assets. This information is essential for identifying non-performing
loans and taking measures to prevent their growth and also to make
arrangements for provisioning according to international standards. The
Government has, therefore, decided to institute a special audit of the four
largest banks in the country which account for as much as 80 percent of total
bank credit. This audit will be carried out by a reputed international
auditing firm in a period of six months, with a focus on identifying the
amount of non-performing loans and suggesting short and long-term solutions in
the form of procedures and safeguards. The auditor's report will be used for
taking immediate action by the Government, the NEM and the banks.
Restructuring of the Savings Bank
The Savings Bank occupies an important role in the Moldovan financial
system in view of its dominance in mobilizing savings from the household
sector. However, its financial position has been seriously eroded by the
freezing of a large proportion of its assets in Russia. In addition, the NBM,
being a part-owner of the Savings Bank, infuses central bank money into it to
enable it to index the deposits, which is highly inflationary. As a result,
its weak position is adversely affecting the stability of the entire financial
system. The NEM and the Government are seized of the urgency to restructure
the Savings Bank. A foreign expert for a period of six months would be useful
to guide the NBM and the Government in the evaluation of various options it
has been considering to restructure it and to plan a sustainable
implementation strategy.
Training of Commercial Bank Staff
The main thrust of the technical assistance program for the financial
system will be on training of the commercial banks staff in banking practices
and technologies. This will involve study of modern techniques of commercial
bank operations, particularly in regard to asset liabilities management,
international accounting standards, credit evaluation, interest rate
management, analysis of client and enterprise accounts, loans and business
restructuring, foreign exchange operations, correspondent banking and trade
finance etc. It will be necessary to develop teaching materials and to train
the trainers so that the local bankers can set up, in course of time, the
training institutions in the country. In addition, support will be provided



Anne 4
Page 7 of 11
for training, needed outside the country to participate in international
banking seminars on specialized topics. This training program will be under
the direction of the NBM.
The estimated total cost of the above program is US$ 2,400,000.
ENPLOYENT SERVICE AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET DEVELOPMENT
Organizational Capacity of the Employment Centers
Open unemployment has yet to emerge on a large scale in Moldova, but
there is considerable underemployment. As the restructuring process gets
underway and some enterprises are closed, demands for assistance from
employment centers will increase dramatically. Assistance will be needed in
the following areas:
-     Information systems;
-    Development of employment training capacity;
-     Staff and management development;
-     Policy development capacity at head office, including legal
aspects.
Information systems: The plan for a Labor Market Information System developed
by the Department of Employment should be implemented to enable the centers to
cope with these increased demands.
The main requirements of the plan are:
-    upgrading of existing personal computers and installation of at
least one in each office;
-    development of new software, based on a more flexible database
package than the existing one;
-    development of an on-line national network.
The Computer Services Division of the Department of Employment has the
capacity to write programs appropriate to local needs. It also has a training
program, where staff either come on courses in Chisinau or a member of the
division travels out to the field. However, technical assistance will be
needed. Provision should be made for an engineer familiar with both the
hardware and the software to accompany delivery of the equipment and provide
training to the staff of the Computer Services Division.
Certain aspects of the recording of information on the system require
assistance from a consultant with software engineering skills. In particular,
the existing recording systems do not distinguish clearly between stocks and
flows of unemployed people and it is difficult to get a picture of the
incidence and duration of unemployment. The system should be designed in such



Page 8 of 11
a way thot the long-term unemployed can be identified and targeted for
additional assistance, along with people experiencing repeated spells of
unemployment. The practicalities of implementing the occupational
classification system will also require outside advice.
Trainina for unemnloved people: It is necessary to broaden the range of
available training opportunities, and to upgrade the level of the courses, if
workers who lose their jobs in the enterprise restructuring process are to
have reasonable prospects of productive re-employment. The Department of
Employment needs capacity at head office:
-     to commission development of short modular courses relevant to
emerging labor market needs;
-     to advise and assist local offices in contracting with educational
institutions, or other institutions able to provide education and
training alongside their main functions, to provide these courses.
The providers of training could be either State or private sector
organizations, depending on where qualified trainers can be found;
to commision and reproduce course materials, where such services
are not available from local suppliers.
EC Proiect: In discussion with the Government, the TACIS program of the
Commission of the European Communities has a project well advanced to meet a
major part of the needs set out above, including staff and management
development, and general policy development. The budget of this project is ECU
940,000. The major part of this funding will be for technical assistance.
There will be needs for equipment for both information systems and development
of employment training capacity that will not be covered by the EC project.
Operation of the Pension and Family Ulowance System
The operation of the pension system is already under considerable
pressure because of the extra administrative work created by high inflation.
While inflation should soon be brought under control, longer-term factors will
then come into play. Changes in the labor market will require the development
of more sophisticated targeting arrangements for benefits. Enterprise
restructuring will reduce the ability of employers to deliver benefits,
generating increased demands for delivery by local offices.
The development of a national population registration system is under
consideration, and could form the basis of a new system for pension and
benefit delivery. If this system were also integrated with the revenue-
collection functions of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, some of
the fiscal problems facing the administration at present could be addressed.
Technical assistance is needed to carefully assess the different possibilities
and to help develop a plan for the future structure of the system of pensions,
family allowances and other benefits.



Annex 4
Page 9 of 11
The estimated total cost of the above program is US$ 1,630,000.
US$ 1,130,000 (ECU 940,000) of this total will be financed by the SC under
their project for development of employment services.
PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAMING
The objective of the proposed technical assistance is to replace
normative planning and investment allocation by the Government with public
investment programming. The three-year "rolling" public investment program
(PIP) would include all capital investment (including technical assistance)
with direct central government financing, or guaranteed by the State, from
both domestic or external sources, and irrespective of the terms of financing.
Other investments (private, or financed entirely by public enterprises or
local authorities) would not be part of the PIP. The first year of the
program would be reserved for projects fully evaluated and with a complete
financing plan (i.e., having firm budgetary commitments and/or external
financing already negotiated, signed or effective). This first year of the
PIP would be equivalent to the annual government budget for that year, which
would thus consolidate domestically and externally-financed capital outlays,
according to a common classification.
The introduction of public investment programming would essentially
cover the following: (i) formulation of medium-term economic policies,
providing a comprehensive vision of the Government's development objectives in
the transition to a market economy; (ii) the impact of these policies on the
economy, expressed in a medium-term macroeconomic framework; (iii) formulation
of sector strategies and investment policies; (iv) preparation and evaluation
of investment projects using accepted international standards for economic and
financial evaluation (shadow-price analysis); (v) introduction of explicit,
transparent and uniform project selection criteria based on overall policies,
macroeconomic constraints, economic and financial returns, and sector-specific
objectives; (vi) design of the PIP using an acceptable database capable of
capturing project costs in constant and current prices, financing plans,
sectoral and regional distribution, financial and physical execution,
environmental impact, and other parameters to oe determined; (vii) improved
project implementation, including the introduction of uniform and transparent
procurement standards based on competitive bidding, and of project accounting
and auditing norms; (viii) development of a monitoring system for financial
and physical implementation; and (ix) methodology for ex-post project
evaluation.
The technical assistance would focus on systems development and
training-of-trainers over a 12-18 months period. A second phase of the
project could be envisaged by the Government after sufficient progress is made
in these areas, and would concern (i) the deepening and broadening of the
reform of the public investment programming system (including training of
Moldovan staff) in line ministries and public enterprises, and (ii) the
introduction of medium-term public expenditure programming, starting with the



Annex 4
Page 10 of 11
introduction of public expenditure programs (PEP) in health, education,
transport and agriculture.
The estimated total cost of the above proposal is US$ 850,000.
LEGAL T.A. TO SUPPORT PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND MARXET REFORM
The technical assistance proposed is intended to support the econiomic
reform program, including provision of assistance to develop the capacity of
agencies that are closely involved in designing and implementing the reform
program, particularly the Ministry of Economy. The Ministry of Justice also
needs support and assistance in order to be able (i) to provide adequate legal
advice on draft legislation; (ii) to ensure that new laws are internally
consistent, or if in conflict with other laws provide for appropriate changes;
and (iii) to promote better knowledge of the new laws throughout the legal
profession. The technical assistance will be aimed at eliciting the needed
cooperation between various donors, such as the EC, the EBRD, bilateral
donors, the assistance from various national bar associations and a possible
direct assistance of the World Bank in order to finance the services descr-bed
below.
The technical assistance should be coordinated by a Legal Coordinator
(LC) who will be resident in Moldova for a period of about 9-12 months. The
LC should be a lawyer with experience in market economies and economies of the
countries of the former Soviet Union, with emphasis on legislative drafting,
and good knowledge of property law, corporate law, commercial law, banking
law, bankruptcy law, security (collateral) law, dispute settlement mechanisms,
environmental law, and labor and employment law. The LC would head a team of
legal assistance and would be responsible for assistance in planning long-term
strategy in the economic reform area as it relates to legal infrastructure.
The LC will report to the Vice Minister of Economy as head of the Legal Reform
Unit.
The LC would be expected to assist in (i) drafting relevant laws and
supporting regulations and decrees when needed, and (ii) reviewing all
relevant legislation presently in force or in draft form to assess its impact
on private sector development and to suggest appropriate amendments where
necessary. In performance of these tasks the LC will be assisted from time to
time by other lawyers who would provide specialized knowledge when needed on a
short-term basis in such areas as bankruptcy law, capital markets law,
accounting and auditing matters, anti-monopoly law and dispute settlement
mechanisms.
In view of the importance of commercial law to the economic reform of
Moldova and the lack of adequate local expertise in this area, the legal
technical assistance team should be aided by a Commercial Law Specialist for
about 6-9 months, of which about 3-4 months would be resident in Moldova.
This Specialist should have broad experience in the commercial law area,



Armexi 4
PAge 11 of 11
(including commercial transactions, secured transactions and collateral law
generally etc.,). she/he would be expected to contribute to the drafting of
the necessary new laws, amendments of the existing laws, overall coordination
between the new and existing legislation to insure internal and overall
cohesiveness of the commercial law framework. She/he would also be involved
in monitoring the implementation of commercial legislation and assistance with
any implementation problems, if any, identified during such monitoring.
Without a qualified and well-trained group of legal professionals,
effective implementation of the new laws and regulations required by a market
economy will not be effective. Therefore, a series of training programs
should be implemented under the direction of the LC with the assistance of the
Ministry of Justice. These training programs should focus on problems that
legal professionals will encounter in the transition to a market economy, and
will be addressed to aa audience of judges, law professors, law students and
other young lawyers (both within and outside government), and Parliamentarians
involved in the legal aspects of the economic reform program. The training
would consist of seminars, lectures and other materials provided by outside
legal experts. Although it is expected that the training would mostly take
place within Moldova, there should be the flexibility to send legal
professionals identified as likely future trainers overseas for short-term
internships.
Finally, in order to implement more efficiently the work set out above a
limited amount of equipment and supplies will be needed, including: 1)
computers and computer software for a legal database which is to be maintained
by the Ministry of Justice; 2) legal text-books and comparative studies for
training courses and seminars; 3) samples of contracts, charters and by-laws
which can be used by lawyers in practical work; and 4) collection of
international treaties and reviews of international commercial practice.
The estimated total cost of the above program is US$ 900,000.



Annex E
Page I of 2
Moldova Rehabilitation Loan
Terms of Reference for Procurement/Disbursement Advisor
Backgroun
The Govenmuent of Moldova has requested assistance from IBRD in the form of a rehabilitation
loan in the amount of US$60 million equivalent. The proceeds of the loan are expected to be used to
finance pririly direct imports of production inputs in the energy, agriculture and industry sectors as
well as health care supplies. In addition, there will also be a component to be allocated by the foreign
exchange market. Te loan may also finance technical assistance in support of the Government's reform
program. The loan has been designed to disburse rapidly in view of the very difficult balance of
payments situation. In accordance with the standard terms and conditions of World Bank loans,
procurement procedures will follow World Bank guidelines for the procurement of goods and services,
using standard World Bank tender documents.
To expedite procurement and disbursement under the Moldova Rehabilitation Loan, a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) has been established in Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. The PCU will
provide advice on procurement to the various agencies responsible for procurement under the loan, and
will assist in the implementation of that procurement, as well as to administer disbursement procedures.
ScoNe of Work
The Procurement/Disbursement Advisor will advise and assist the PCU and the other agencies
in carrying out their purchasing responsibilities. This will include assistance in:
(a)   detailing the procurement plan (types of goods, quantities, costs, delivery requirements,
sources, methods of procurement, procurement schedule);
(b)   preparing notifications of bidding opportunities;
(c)    preparing and issuing specific bidding documents;
(d)   conducting bid openings, and preparing minutes;
(e)   classification of bids, evaluating bids, and preparing evaluation reports and
recommendations for contract awards;
(f)    placing contracts with successful bidders and advising unsuccessful bidders;
(g)   preparing withdrawal applications with the required supporting documentation;
(h)   opening letters of credit;
.,



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
(i) administering the Special Account;
(j)   expediting reviews and approvals by the World Bank; and
(k)   carrying out other duties as required to ensure timely inmlementation of the project.
The Advisor will develop monitoring procedures for Moldova's use in managing future
procurement and disbursements to produce monthly progress reports and allow timely refyonse to
requests for information from implementing agencies.
Training of implementing agency staff is an important part of this assignment. The Advisor will
conduct formal training sessions as well as on-the-job training and use other methods as may be
appropriate to achieve transfer of know-how regarding procurement and disbursements.
Tiyinge and Logistics
The assignment will be for nine months commencing in October 1993, and will require residence
in Cbisinau. Fluency in English and/or French will be necessary, and a working knowledge of Romanian
or Russian would be desirable.
The Government will provide office accommodation and secretarial support; housing and
transportation will be the responsibility of the Advisor.
ReBortina
At the close of the assignment, the Advisor will prepare a Final Report which summarizes the
project implementation experience. This report will be prepared in English, and translated into Russian
or Romanian, with S copies each for the Client and the Bank.
Estimated Budget: US$ 185,000



AM"e 6
Page I of I
Summary of Bank Group Operations in Moldova
Summary Statement of Loans
(as of September 17, 1993)
US$ million Amount
(less cancellation)
Fiscal                                                                           Closing
Loan No.     Year        Borr ower   Purpose             Bank              Undisbursed          Date
3569        1993        Republic    Emergency
of          Drought
Moldova     Recovery            26.0              5.0                3/31/94
TOTAL                                              26.0              5.0
Of which has been repaid                      0.0
Total held by Bank                           26.0
Total undisbursed                                             5.0



