Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15311
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOLDOVA
REHABILITATION LOAN
3653-MD
DECEMBER 28, 1995
Country Operations Division II
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(November 1995)
US$ 1.00 = Lei 4.53
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
METRIC EOUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)              =           3.28 feet
I square meter (sq.m)    =            10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)         =           0.62 miles
I square kilometer (sq.km) =         0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCFF              Contingency and Compensatory Financing Facility
CIFCE             Chisinau Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange
CIS               Commonwealth of Independent State
CPAR              Country Procurement Assessment Review
FSU                Former Soviet Union
EU                 European Union
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
MERP               Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies
MFN                Most Favored Nation
NBM                National Bank of Moldova
NMP                Net Material Product
PSD               Private Sector Development
SAL                Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA               Standby Arrangement
STF               Systemic Transformation Facility
USAID             United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ....................................i
Evaluation Summary ......................................ii
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment  ............................I
A.    Project Origin and Objectives .       ............................
B.    Achievemnent of Project Objectives .........           .................  3
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.                   4
D. Project Sustainability.                                                              8
E.     Bank  Perfonnance    .   ..................................    8
F. Borrower Performance.                                                               9
G.  Assessment of Performance anid Outcome .10
H. Future Operations .10
I.     Key Lessons Learned   ....     ............................ 10
Appendices
A.  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR .12
B.    Tables
1.     Summary of Assessments
2.     IBRD Loans/Credits
3.     Project Timetable
4.     Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5.     Key Indicators for Project Operation
6.     Key Indicators for Project Operation
7.     Studies Included in the Project
8A.   Project Costs
8B.   Project Financing
9.     Economic Costs and Benefits
10.   Status of Legal Covenants
11.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12.   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
13.   Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Implementation Completion Report
Moldova
Rehabilitation Loan 3653-MD
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Loan in
Moldova, for which a loan 3653-MD in the amount of US$60 million equivalent was approved
on October 21, 1993 and made effective on November 3, 1993.
The loan was closed on March 31, 1995, the original closing date. The loan was fully
disbursed by May 25, 1995. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Export Import
Bank of Japan and the Government of the Netherlands.
The Task Manager for the Loan was Jonathan Walters, Country Economist, EC4C2. The
ICR was prepared by Chandrashekar Pant, Consultant, for the Country Operations Division II
of the Europe and Central Asia Region, and reviewed by Wafik Grais, Division Chief, EC4C2,
and Ms. Judy O'Connor, Principal Operations Officer, EC4DR. The borrower provided
comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was done as a desk task in the second half of 1995. It is based
on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing
its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation.



Evaluation Summary
Rehabilitation Loan
3653-MD
Moldova
Introduction
The Bank had approved four lending operations for Moldova at the time of this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The first operation was the Emergency Drought
Recovery Loan in March of 1993, which closed March 31, 1994, and for which an ICR dated
July 21, 1995 has been prepared. The second operation was the Rehabilitation Loan, approved
and effective in October 1993, the subject of the present ICR. The third is the Moldova
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), approved and effective in December 1994. The fourth is
the Moldova Pre-Export Guarantee Facility, approved in March 1995, effective October 30,
1995. In addition there have been Sector Reviews in Agriculture, Transport, and a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment, a Country Economic Memorandum and economic updates
for the participants to two meetings of the Consultative Group for Moldova.
Project Objectives
The main objectives of the Loan were to (i) support the Government's economic reform
program, which was outlined in its Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (MERP); (ii)
finance imports of essential production inputs and health care supplies; and (iii) catalyze the
provision of technical assistance (TA) and balance of payment support from other donors to
facilitate Moldova's economic transition.
Implementation Experience and Results
Despite some setbacks and slippage, the thrust of the economic reforms supported by the
Rehabilitation Loan has been maintained into late 1995. In some policy areas, significant
progress has been achieved. The continuing tight fiscal and monetary policies have succeeded
in dampening the rate of inflation since mid-1994, and allowed for the smooth introduction of
a national currency, the Leu. Progress has also been good in enlarging the role of markets and
reducing state interference in resource allocation. The foreign trade and exchange regime has
been liberalized, and prices are largely free from administrative intervention. While progress
has been slow in enterprise and agriculture restructuring (including privatization,
demonopolization, enterprise closures and land reforms), the broad direction of reform has been
unambiguous.
However, the program risks being derailed unless critical reforms are implemented
consistently and quickly in the following areas. Real economic restructuring in enterprises and
farms is yet to occur on a serious scale, as attested by the low rate of unemployment, the build-
up of inventories, and the growth of inter-enterprise and other payment arrears. Unless this



iv
situation is addressed and firms are forced to adjust to market discipline, prospects for
sustainable economic growth will remain dim.
Part of the delay in reform can be explained by the fact that the implementation and
impact of the policy reforms was adversely affected by factors that were beyond the
Government's control. First, there was the severe drought and subsequent floods in 1994 which
delayed economic recovery and diverted scarce resources (people and money) towards disaster
relief. Second, disbursements from external donors (other than the Bank and the IMF) to bridge
the financing gap were less than anticipated. Third, important components of the reformn
program, like privatization, were delayed by the preoccupation with electioneering in early 1994.
The limited technical and institutional capacity to manage a wide ranging reform program was
also a constraint to timely implementation of the reforms.
Notwithstanding these constraints, disbursements to fund the imports financed by the
Loan was swift, mainly due to effective technical assistance. Thus, the objective of providing
timely financing for critical imports was achieved, although somewhat at the expense of longer-
term institution building efforts. Disbursements were rapid, and the loan proved to be designed
flexibly enough to allow for re-allocation between categories, based upon implementation
experience.
While the Government succeeded in obtaining grant financing for the technical assistance
package identified as part of the program supported by the Rehabilitation Loan, the
implementation of this technical assistance led to mixed results. In most cases, the technical
assistance did achieve its stated objectives, but the exclusive reliance on donor-implemented
technical assistance has led to very weak results in terms of building implementation capacity
in the Government. As the programs were donor-implemented, there was no immediate need
to build implementation capacity in the Government, which puts Moldova at a disadvantage
compared to countries that implemented a country-executed technical assistance program.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
Since the Rehabilitation Loan was approved, the Bank has also approved a SAL,
November, 1994, and a Pre Export Guarantee Facility in March, 1995 to cover policy risks for
exporters. Planned future operations include a mix of adjustment and investment operations
designed to promote the private sector and deepen reforms in agriculture and energy sectors.
The Rehabilitation loans were meant to ease in reforms at a time when the precise
conditionality and tranching associated with SALs and SECALs would be impractical. The
lessons from the Moldova experience may have relevance for other countries where similar loans
are being considered. More general lessons for Bank support for structural reforms may also
be drawn from this experience. The main lessons are as follows:



v
(i) importance of timeliness. The Bank's prompt response to the economic crisis was
important to the initiation of the reforms in Moldova. The noticeable link between
reforms and Bank funding, which partly went to alleviate energy shortages in the winter
months, strengthened the hands of reformers in the government. The responsiveness of
the Bank bought it credibility with respect to the government and helped subsequent
policy discussions.
(ii) importance of the big picture. The economies of eastern Europe and the FSU are
attempting a historic systemic transformation under very adverse external conditions.
Theirs is not a marginal change. In these circumstances, it is important to keep the
larger objectives of the reforms in focus and to recognize that there will be ups and
downs in the reform process. Even if the reforms are generally on track, the government
may be forced to retreat temporarily on some issues. The Bank should be prepared to
continue providing its support over the longer term, shaping its size and composition to
support the most critical policies and to remove the most important bottlenecks.
(iii) the need for flexibility. It was recognized that there was insufficient track record
in the country both with regard to the implementation capacity as well as the response
of the economy to the reforms. The external environment was also uncertain. In these
circumstances, and in view of the deepening economic crisis, flexibility was favored over
strict conditionality which could have held up disbursements. However, it may also be
argued that the absence of leverage until the approval of the SAL slowed down the
reform process. Tranching that allows for more flexibility than typically allowed in a
SAL may be a good solution. The approach adopted in the Ukraine Rehabilitation loan
that combines specific conditionality and phased disbursement (as in a SAL) with greater
flexibility in interpreting progress in implementation is one possibility.
(iv) the necessity of intensive supervision. In the early stages, a lot of Bank effort will
be required during implementation of the loan. This will be needed not only in re-
designing components of the loan in the face of emerging realities, but also in assisting
the government in specific implementation issues (eg., in privatization, pension reform,
procurement, etc). The delay in setting up the Resident Mission was unfortunate in this
respect.
(v) the importance of capacity building. The Rehabilitation Loan would have been
more successful if it were accompanied (or preceded) by effective, country executed,
technical assistance in implementing key elements of the reform program. More up-front
efforts in this direction may have a high pay-off though it should be recognized that the
effort will be intensive in staff resources. Similarly, the strong focus on implementation
over capacity building, while understandable given the urgent need for balance of
payments support, have resulted in a weak implementation capacity in Moldova as
compared to other countries in transition.



vi
(vi) reform priorities. By far the most important and most difficult refonns are those
that enforce financial discipline in enterprises, farms and banks. Apart from privatization
and land reform in agriculture (which give an unambiguous signal of an irreversible
change in regime, and forces accountability on the new private owners), other measures
to instil financial discipline include the phasing out of subsidies from the government,
collecting taxes, strengthening the commercial banking system, improving the payment
discipline in the energy sector, and facilitating new entry. Obstacles that prevent the
initiation of bankruptcy and/or liquidation by creditors and owners need to be removed
and labor mobility enhanced.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOLDOVA
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Ln. 3653 -MD)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
1.    Moldova became independent on August 27, 1991 in the wake of the collapse of the Former
Soviet Union (FSU). From its independence, the country has been in the grip of a severe economic crisis
resulting from the break-up of trade and payments arrangements in the FSU, the recession in neighboring
economies, a sharp deterioration in its terms of trade, a very severe drought in 1992 and again in 1994,
and disruption in economic activity due to civil strife in Transnistria. Overall, output is estimated to have
declined by a cumulative 35 percent between 1990 and 1993 when the Rehabilitation Loan was approved.
The collapse of output was accompanied by sharply rising prices and erosion of living standards. By the
first half of 1993, monthly inflation was about 25 percent and real wages in the first quarter of 1993 were
only 39 percent of their level in 1990. This rise in prices was due to a number of factors including
factors that were beyond Moldova's control (such as the drought, the large increase in imported energy
prices) and inappropriate government policies that resulted in a widening budget deficit and its monetary
financing.' This deterioration in the internal balances mirrored a growing deficit in the external sector.
As relative prices of imported energy rose to world market levels, Moldova's current account balance
moved from a surplus in 1990 to a deficit of close to 11 percent of GDP by 1993.
2.    It was in this environment that in March 1993 the Parliament adopted the Government's Program
for stabilization and economic recovery. A first drawing of the Systemic Transformation Facility (STF)
in support of the Government's stabilization program was approved by the IMF's Board on September
16, 1993. The Rehabilitation Loan, for $60 million, approved on October 21, 1993, signalled the Bank's
support for the structural reform policies of the Government. The Rehabilitation Loan also served to
mobilize other external donor support for Moldova at the first meeting of the Consultative Group for
Moldova.
3.    The main objectives of the Loan were to (i) support the Government's reform program, which
was outlined in its Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (MERP); (ii) finance imports of essential
production inputs and health care supplies; and (iii) catalyze the provision of technical assistance (TA)
and balance of payment support from other donors to facilitate Moldova's economic transition. To
achieve these objectives, the proceeds of the Loan were to be used for (a) financing the foreign exchange
costs of importing specified health care supplies and production inputs (mainly energy, agriculture, and
industrial) up to $53 million; (b) $5 million for sale in the foreign exchange market for use by public and
1/A balanced budget in 1991 had turned into a cash deficit of 21 percent of GDP by 1992, due
largely to massive net lending to public enterprises. The deficit in 1993 was about 12.5 percent of
GDP.



private sector enterprises for eligible imports; and (c) $2 million for financing TA necessary for
implementing the reform program, insofar as this could not be financed from concessional sources. As
in other Rehabilitation Loans at the time, the full amount of this loan was made available at effectiveness
based on agreement on the MERP and a certain number of prior actions.2 This loan did not contain
specific policy conditionality to govern the release of the funds, i.e., no tranches. There was however
a general commitment by the Government to implement the policy measures included in the MERP. The
loan design was sufficiently flexible to adjust to emerging conditions and both the policy commitments
and the pattern of utilization of the loan proceeds were adjusted in the course of loan implementation (see
below).
4.     The objectives of the Loan were ambitious given:
(i)  the extremely unfavorable starting position, with high inflation, sharply deteriorating terms
of trade3 and a shrinking economy;
(ii)  the continuing ideological opposition of many holdovers of the previous regime inside and
outside government to the idea of market oriented reforms;
(iii) the limited understanding of the reform policies both within the Government and outside;
(iv) the limited implementation capacity to deliver such a wide-ranging program of actions over
a 12-18 month period;
(v)  the rudimentary level of institutions and policy instruments available to implement the
transition to a market-based economy;
(vi)  Moldova's extreme isolation from  the rest of the world while a part of the USSR
contributed to the very limited knowledge and interest among the international community
about Moldova and its reform efforts; and
(vii) the continuing uncertainty regarding Transnistria and Moldova's relationship with Russia.
This not only created uncertainties among potential investors in Moldova, but also made
the government cautious in implementing radical measures (such as the introduction of the
new currency, privatization) that could jeopardize the relations with Transnistria.
These risks were acknowledged at the time of loan preparation but it was believed that the government
should be encouraged to adopt an ambitious program, which could subsequently be adjusted as constraints
2/ (i) the exchange rate regime was changed to reflect market factors more fully (this involved an
initial devaluation of 30 percent); (ii) a range of export restrictions was removed; (iii) the first
refinancing auction was held by the National Bank; (iv) a new import tariff regime (with most rates in
the 15-20 percent range) was introduced; (v) VAT was imposed on non-FSU imports; (vi) a revised
budget for 1993 reflecting a deficit target of 6 percent of GDP was passed; (vii) prices of bread and
dairy products were increased such that the average level of subsidy fell from 80 percent of cost to 40
percent; (viii) the first privatization auction for cash took place; (ix) a law on collateral was submitted
to Parliament; (x) a regulation restricting credit to any single borrower to 30 percent of the lending
bank's capital was adopted; (xi) all prohibitions on the sale of goods by state enterprises to private
enterprises were removed; (xii) the Decision on Social Jobs was amended to allow unemployed people
whose benefit has expired to be offered social jobs; and (xiii) legislation reducing the period for
which the Government and unions can delay mass dismissals was submitted to Parliament.
3/ Taking the increase in energy prices alone, it has been estimated that Moldova suffered a terms of
trade loss equivalent to 20 percent of GDP over 1991 and 1992.



- 3 -
became more evident. In the event, several commitments could not be met in the original time frame but
are being implemented in the context of follow-up operations (see below).
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
5.     Despite some setbacks and slippage, the thrust of the economic reforms initiated by the
Rehabilitation Loan has been maintained. In some policy areas, significant progress has been achieved.
The continuing tight fiscal and monetary policies have succeeded in dampening the rate of inflation since
mid-1994, to a yearly rate of around 25% for 1995, and allowed for the smooth introduction of a national
currency, the Leu. The Leu was introduced in November 1993 at a rate of 3.85 to the US dollar. After
a gradual drop to around 4.5 to the dollar in its first year, it has been stable since. Progress has also
been good in enlarging the role of markets and reducing state interference in resource allocation. The
foreign trade and exchange regime has been liberalized, and prices are largely free from administrative
intervention. While progress has been slow in the areas of ownership reform and enterprise and
agriculture restructuring (including privatization, demonopolization, enterprise closures and land reforms),
the broad direction of reform  has been unambiguous.  The status of compliance with specific
commitments outlined in the MERP is described in Annex 1.
6.     The proceeds of the loan were largely used for purchase of fuel, agricultural and industrial
inputs, raw materials and spare parts. While the timely availability of fuel for heating and medical
supplies obviously benefitted the population at a critical time, the impact of the increased imports of raw
materials for production is hard to assess. Agricultural production and infrastructure was badly affected
by the severe drought and the floods that occurred in Moldova in 1994, which dominated any positive
impact the loan may have had in terms of output. Not surprisingly, there is not much evidence to suggest
that the reforms generated a large supply response to prevent continuing decline in economic activity.
Overall GDP shrank by 20 percent in 1994.
7.     The Rehabilitation Loan was also to serve as a catalyst for stimulating financial assistance to
Moldova from other international donors. A first Consultative Group meeting was held in Paris in
October 1993, followed by a pledging session in Washington in December. Counting assistance from
all sources, including the Bank and the Fund, a financing package of approximately $300 million was put
together in balance of payment support for 1994. However, other than assistance from the Bank and
IMF, disbursements from other donors were very slow, essentially due to the bureaucratic procedures
in donor countries. This delay severely complicated economic management in 1994, aggravated the social
cost of adjustment, and undermined the confidence of the government in the external support Moldova
could receive for its efforts.
8.     While the Government succeeded in obtaining grant financing for the technical assistance package
identified as part of the program supported by the Rehabilitation Loan, the implementation of this
technical assistance led to mixed results. In most cases, the technical assistance did achieve its stated
objectives, but the exclusive reliance on donor-implemented technical assistance has led to very weak
results in terms of building implementation capacity in the Government. In addition, it proved to be
impossible for the Government to implement urgent, smaller technical assistance activities in a timely
manner. Donor procedures do not allow for such flexibility.



- 4 -
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
(i) Implementation of the Economic Reform Program
9.     The Rehabilitation Loan supported a wide range of policy reforms aimed at stabilizing the
economy and increasing the role of competitive markets in resource allocation. The stabilization package
that was supported by the IMF's STF comprised measures to restrict the budget deficit through cuts in
expenditures and rationalization of taxes, strict control of money and credit, and restraint on wages. The
structural reforms included the liberalization of prices and domestic trade, the liberalization of the foreign
exchange and trade regime, privatization and improved corporate governance of state enterprises,
liberalization and improved regulation of the financial system, agricultural policy reform including land
reform, and measures to protect the most vulnerable sections of the population. Specific measures in each
of these areas were to be implemented over an 18 month period ending in December 1994.
10.   There is no doubt that the Government has implemented major policy reforms over the period
of the loan.   A centralized command economy largely run from Moscow until recently has been
transformed into one where, formally at least, the state's role is considerably diminished. Markets and
private owners play an increasing role in the allocation of resources. Command economy institutions are
being dismantled and new institutions and mechanisms consistent with a market economy have been
established or are in the process of being set up. Policy-makers are more familiar with the ways of a
market economy which can make further progress more rapid. However, the pace of reform has been
uneven, and in some areas progress has been much slower than warranted. Unless this is corrected, the
gains from reform may fail to materialize.
11.   Stabilization Program. The sharp drop in the monthly rate of inflation, and the stability of the
newly introduced national currency (see para 5), are evidence of the satisfactory implementation of tight
fiscal and financial policies that constituted the stabilization program supported by the IMF's STF and
the Rehabilitation Loan. The monthly inflation rate dropped from an average of 20 percent in the fourth
quarter of 1993 to 3 percent during the fourth quarter of 1994. The rate has remained low since. This
goal was achieved by tightening credit and by the positive real interest rates resulting from the credit
auctions organized by the NBM, thus strengthening the confidence of the population in the leu and
reversing currency substitution. Less success was achieved in reducing the government's budget deficit,
primarily due to the failure to contain expenditures. Overall, government expenditures exceeded the
programmed level by about 5 percent of GDP, largely attributable to higher spending in the social areas
(higher wage costs and disaster-related payments), and net lending to enterprises. The slower than
anticipated disbursements of external financing necessitated more than anticipated reliance on domestic
borrowing to finance the deficit.
12.   While the primary objective of the stabilization program was achieved, the experience indicates
the need for deeper structural reforms (and more, and timely external financial support) if the stabilization
is to be sustained at a reasonable cost.  As mentioned, the period was marked by a continuous and
significant decline in economic activity. Real GDP fell 20 percent in 1994 compared to the decline of
3 percent foreseen for the year at the time the program was prepared. While agricultural output fell more
sharply due to the severe drought (and subsequent flooding) in the third quarter of 1994, this factor alone
does not explain the continuing drop in industrial production, which fell by more than 30 percent in the
first three quarters of 1994.
13.    To promote efficient and sustainable economic activity, structural reforms that will promote a



positive supply response from the real economy are necessary. Without this, merely tightening financial
policies will not necessarily result in real changes at the enterprise level. Thus, enterprises avoided
restructuring by accumulating payment arrears to other enterprises (estimated at Mdl I billion by end June
1994), and not paying wages to workers (wage arrears amounted to Mdl 100 million as of end August
1994) and taxes to the government (total tax arrears reached Mdl 276 million as of end September 1994).
With inadequate mechanisms and institutions to enforce payment discipline, enterprises resisted
fundamental changes by maintaining their work force (despite the continuing collapse in output, registered
unemployment is estimated at only I percent of the labor force) and building up stocks, especially in the
agro-processing sector.
14.    At the same time, the Moldovan experience confirms what has also been observed in other
countries: there is a tendency to make optimistic projections about the supply responsiveness of the
economy to reforms and concomitantly, requirements for external financing are underestimated. The
situation was worse because the actual disbursements tended to lag far behind commitments. Insufficient
foreign capital inflows in Moldova not only complicated the stabilization efforts, but it also undermined
the liberalization of the import regime. The shortfall in foreign capital inflow made it difficult for the
Government to resist protectionist pressures, resulting in the temporary imposition in early 1994 of
extremely high import tariffs on a number of "strategic" goods, mainly wine and other processed goods
produced in Moldova. Thus, the credibility of the external financial institutions supporting the reforms
was undermined at a critical juncture, soon after the election of a new government.  A realistic
assessment of the economy's supply responsiveness and the external financing needs and prospects must
be made to ensure adequate and timely financial inflows.
15.   Structural Reforms. Fundamental changes have been introduced in the Moldovan economy since
it became independent in 1991. Economic activity is increasingly directed by markets and less and less
by government fiat. However, accompanying structural reforms to impose market discipline on
enterprises and banks have not kept pace with these changes, as new loopholes to avoid a hard budget
constraint on enterprises kept popping up. Most notable in this context was the lax payment discipline
in the energy sector. This has prevented real economic restructuring and could jeopardize the transition.
The most important of these reforms are privatization (small and large enterprises) and land reform,
improvement in corporate governance, and other measures to enforce financial discipline and
accountability in state enterprises.
16.    A complete inventory of the status of implementation of all the policy reforms undertaken by the
government in the context of the Rehabilitation Loan is provided in Annex 1. Broadly, considerable
progress was made in increasing the role of markets and reducing state intervention in resource allocation.
Most prices were freed from direct government control; quotas on most export goods (with the exception
of grain, grain products, and energy) were removed and export taxes eliminated; import licensing was
restricted to those products where licensing is necessary for security, health or cultural reasons; a new
import tariff was introduced, with most rates in the 15-20 percent range, and a schedule for gradual
reduction of the small number of very high rates; and a unified foreign exchange market was established.
The role of state orders was reduced and state procurement conducted increasingly on competitive lines.
In the financial system, directed and preferential credits were largely eliminated, and interest rates are
market determined. All these changes represent a major achievement towards establishing a market based
economy. However, while markets were created, effective market competition was limited because the
lack of institutional mechanisms and/or political will to enforce financial discipline allowed state-owned
enterprises (which constituted most of the economy) to operate with a soft budget constraint (see below).
Competition from imports was limited by the severe scarcity of foreign exchange.



17.    The area where least progress was achieved was the reform of state-owned enterprises, which
allowed them to avoid real economic restructuring. While considerable progress was made in developing
legislation and institutions necessary to place enterprises in a market setting, not much happened on the
ground. Under the Loan the government was committed to privatizing by end-1994 about 1600 (later
amended to 1200 as the list, which dated from early 1993, was updated) enterprises, small and large, that
were included in the 1993-94 program. However, partly for technical reasons that prevented the
distribution of privatization vouchers, and also for political reasons, including the fear of losing the
conservatively- led Transnistria, the privatization of large enterprises didn't take-off till the last quarter
of 1994. The privatization of small enterprises, which has been so successful in other countries, was also
stalled by the government's inability to overcome the resistance of local authorities. The slow pace of
privatization was unfortunately matched by lack of progress in improving the governance of state owned
enterprises. While budget subsidies and NBM directed credits to state enterprises were cut back, these
were replaced by other forms of subsidization such as payment arrears. During the period of the Loan,
the bankruptcy law and liquidation procedures remained mostly inoperative permitting enterprises to avoid
restructuring by accumulating arrears and building inventories.4 Limited progress was made by way of
introducing modern international accounting standards or developing monitoring indicators to assess the
performance of state enterprises and penalize/reward them.
18.     In the area of social protection, there was progress in replacing the system of generalized
support to the population with a more targeted system. The government introduced cash compensations
to the poorest beneficiaries for the increase in prices of basic goods (such as bread and milk). Pensions
and other benefits were de-linked from the minimum wage, and replaced by a system of targeted price
compensation. While these targeted mechanisms are necessary to provide support to the vulnerable at
a time of severe resource scarcity, it not clear for how long even these schemes will provide effective
protection in the face of continuing economic decline. The fiscal pressure forced the Government to run
the benefits system on arrears for most of 1994, leaving household plots and links to the countryside as
the only effective social safety net. This did, however, not lead to pressure to change the system. The
implementation of the commitment to gradually raise the retirement age for men and women was
postponed to 1995.
(ii) Implementation of the Import Component
19.    The proceeds of the loan were to be used for three purposes: (i) a direct import component, for
purchases of essential raw materials and inputs and health supplies ($53 million); (ii) as inflow to the
foreign exchange market for purchase by enterprises for their import needs ($5 million); and (iii) for
financing essential TA that could not be procured from other concessional sources (up to a maximum of
$2 million). After a slow start (except for the foreign exchange component), the pace of disbursement
was rapid. By end December, 1994, only about $100,000 remained undisbursed.
20.    A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established to control and monitor the flow of funds,
assist in the preparation of procurement documents and procedures and train government staff and
personnel from the implementing agencies. The PCU comprised an overall coordinator (initially a vice-
minister in the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations), an assistant coordinator, a disbursement
specialist from the NBM, an accountant, a secretary and interpreter. In order to speed up procurement
4/ Indeed, some enterprises weie explicitly allowed, by Government, to accumulate arrears on
payments for electricity.



of fuel oil and coal for the winter of 1993 an international procurement agency was hired. Subsequently
a procurement specialist and a disbursement specialist were recruited from abroad to assist the PCU.
21.    Notwithstanding teething troubles and continuing problems due to PCU staff turnover, on the
whole disbursements and procurement under the project were implemented satisfactorily. Continuous
discussions to build capacity took place between the government and the Bank on procurement and
disbursement issues and considerable flexibility was shown by both sides to speed up procurement and
disbursements and respond to the emerging needs of Moldova.  As a result of this focus on
implementation, however, the secondary objective of the technical assistance to the PCU - to build
implementation capacity in the Government - was not achieved.
22.    Procurement under the direct import component of the loan was arranged for fuel oil and coal,
pharmaceutical, insulin, vaccines, agrochemicals, and animal feed. Unfamiliarity with World Bank
procedures and logistical difficulties (such as long delays and uncertainty about courier services) resulted
in some delays in procurement especially in the case of pharmaceuticals.  Disbursements through the
foreign exchange market proceeded rapidly and the original $5 million was disbursed by December 1993.
To meet the needs of the government budget, at the request of the Ministry of Finance, another $14.4
million were reallocated to the foreign exchange market from the direct import component.
23.   In retrospect, it may be said that the use of the direct import component for the procurement of
energy and medicines in late 1993 and early 1994 was useful and efficient, especially considering the fact
that the foreign exchange market had been set up only very recently. However, once the market began
functioning, channeling Bank funds through it was more consistent with the spirit of the market-oriented
reforms. This mechanism is also more simple to administer.
24.    The implementation of the direct import component led to one unforeseen development. In the
absence of strict payment discipline, the direct import component undermined budgetary discipline: the
government was unable to collect payment from enterprises for the sale of the goods procured with the
loan. The capacity of these enterprises to pay for the goods had not been considered in deciding which
goods to buy. Thus one important goal of the whole reform program was endangered by the very
mechanism that the Bank set up to implement the loan. This aspect needs to be considered very carefully
in future operations that have a direct import component.
(iii) Factors Affecting the Project
25.    At a time when Moldova was just getting introduced to the international community as an
independent country, the timely assistance from the Bank was immensely appreciated. This set the stage
for a good working relationship between the government and the Bank. The Bank's willingness and
ability to respond quickly to the food emergency through the Emergency Drought Recovery Loan and
later to the energy shortage through the Rehabilitation Loan (both within about six months of each other)
was matched by the government's receptivity to Bank advice. This made for the continuing satisfactory
engagement between the government and the Bank on a wide variety of reform issues. The choice not
to use Bank financing for technical assistance, however, set an unfortunate precedent for later operations.
26.    The implementation of the project was adversely affected by factors that were beyond the
government's control. First, there was the severe drought and subsequent floods in 1994 which delayed
economic recovery and diverted scarce resources (people and money) towards disaster relief. Second,
disbursements from external donors (other than the Bank and the IMF) to bridge the financing gap were



- 8 -
less than anticipated, which increased the reliance of the government on domestic borrowing and
jeopardized the stabilization and liberalization objectives. It also increased the cost of transition. Third,
important components of the reform program (like privatization) were delayed, inter alia by the pre-
occupation with electioneering in early 1994. The limited technical and institutional capacity to manage
a wide ranging reform program was also a constraint to timely implementation.
27.   In some cases,  slow  implementation may be attributable to wavering commitment of the
government to implement the hard decisions that were necessary to reform the system. This was true in
the case of privatization (especially small scale) and the inability to take steps to close down enterprises
that were insolvent and delinquent in payments. The slow pace of land reform in agriculture can also
be attributed in part to political concerns. And while these may be legitimate issues for any government,
the prospects of a strong supply response will remain negligible unless they are satisfactorily resolved.
D. Project Sustainability
28.   The reform program initiated by the government in 1993 is still broadly on track, albeit with slow
progress in some critical areas (like enterprise reform) and back-sliding in others (agricultural land
reform). While there is discontent at the decline in living standards and increased poverty caused by the
continuing drop in output and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, there is no popular unrest
directed against the reform program as such. Moreover, after many years there are at least some positive
achievements. The inflation rate has come down sharply and the national currency remains stable. The
decline in output may also be bottoming out. These conditions make it easier to continue and accelerate
the reform program.
29.    However, the program  will derail unless critical reforms are implemented consistently and
quickly. Real economic restructuring in enterprises and farms is yet to occur on a serious scale, as
attested by the low rate of unemployment (despite the large decline in output), the build-up of inventories,
and the growth of inter-enterprise and other payment arrears. Unless this situation is addressed and firms
are forced to adjust to market discipline, prospects for sustainable economic growth will remain dim.
And unless the economy recovers, the stabilization program will also unwind as more and more resources
are used to repair an increasingly tattered safety net.
E. Bank Performance
30.    The Rehabilitation Loan was the second loan from the Bank to Moldova. In March 1993, the
Bank approved an Emergency Drought Recovery Loan to finance the import of critical agricultural
supplies to mitigate the effects of the worst drought in a century. The Bank and the government also
accelerated their cooperation in preparing a structural reform program. Work proceeded rapidly, and
after six months of preparation the loan was approved by the Board on October 21, 1993. This rapid
response enabled Moldova to import critical energy supplies during the severe winter of 1993. The
Bank's willingness and ability to respond quickly were instrumental in increasing its credibility and
maintaining good relations with the government.
31.    The Bank took the lead in mobilizing and coordinating donor assistance to Moldova. It organized
and chaired the first Consultative Group meeting on October 26, 1993, followed by a pledging session
in mid-December 1994. Counting assistance from all sources including the Bank and the IMF, a



- 9 -
financing package of approximately $300 million in balance of payment support for 1994 was put together
although this fell short of projected requirements. In the context of the preparation of the Rehabilitation
Loan, the Bank worked closely with the government in identifying priority TA needs and sources of
funding these on concessional terms (which enabled the $2 million allocated for this program in the
Rehabilitation Loan to be reallocated to the foreign exchange component).
32.   Common to other Rehabilitation Loans in the region, the reform package supported by the loan
was comprehensive in coverage. The indicative targets and goals were ambitious. Yet it was also
recognized that implementation capacity was weak. This contradiction between ambitious goals and weak
implementation capacity was known during the preparation of the loan. It was argued, however, that
the government should make its best efforts and that the record of implementation would be assessed
flexibly against the stated targets. This approach was also one reason why the loan was not tranched -
there was no previous experience of implementation and flexibility was of the essence.
33.   Supervision of implementation was undertaken not only in the context of loan supervision
missions, but also during economic and sector work (Review of the foreign trade and exchange regime)
and preparation of the first Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL). Following an in-depth supervision of the
enterprise reform component of the loan in December 1993, a first comprehensive supervision of the loan
was undertaken in March-April 1994. Subsequently monitoring and supervision of the government's
reform program was undertaken in the context of preparation of the SAL (although to some extent this
resulted in diminished attention to the detail of Rehabilitation Loan supervision). Indeed, adequate
progress in implementing commitments undertaken in the Rehabilitation Loan was a pre-condition for
approving the SAL. A productive dialogue was maintained in all areas, and Bank advice on privatization
and social safety net were especially welcome. The dialogue involved intensive participation by the Prime
Minister, the President and the Chairman of Parliament. Bank staff made considerable efforts to broaden
the policy dialogue to include the Parliament, the academic community, business people, trade unionists
and journalists. Throughout the period the Bank continued its efforts to identify and procure priority TA
and prod the international financial community to support Moldova's efforts. Intensive assistance by
Bank staff on procurement and disbursement issues was also required and delivered, although this
focussed more on actual implementation of the Loan, than on longer-term capacity building.
F. Borrower Performance
34.   When Moldova began its reform efforts, it was one of the pioneers among the countries of the
FSU (excluding the Baltics). Despite civil strife, bad weather and a deteriorating economy, and less than
expected international financial support, the government began implementing a tough stabilization
program, introduced a new currency, and started fundamental structural reforms. And while there have
been slippage in some important respects (see para 29), on the whole the government has succeeded in
staying the course of reforms. The government has also shown an openness to advice, and cooperation
with the Bank and the IMF has been good. The support provided by the IMF through a Standby
Arrangement and by the Bank's SAL subsequent to the Rehabilitation Loan illustrates the continuing
commitment of the government to reforms and the close involvement of the Bretton Woods institutions
with this effort.
35.   With respect to the implementing arrangement, the government was prompt in establishing a
PCU. However, in the absence of domestic funding for its work, the PCU was much too dependent on
foreign funding and expatriate assistance. Government salaries, when they were paid, were not adequate



- 10 -
to retain good staff and the PCU was plagued by a high turnover of staff. This meant that the objective
of domestic institution building was not met.  Nevertheless, considering the circumstances, the
performance of the PCU in implementing the project was satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Performance and Outcome
36.   Taking a broad view, performance was satisfactory. Macroeconomic imbalances are less severe.
The rate of inflation has been brought down sharply and the national currency is stable. Despite taking
some harsh and unpopular measures, the Government remains committed to market oriented reform, the
broad thrust remains unchanged, and efforts continue to be made to deepen the reform process. Already,
the state's role in resource allocation has been much circumscribed and market forces are playing a larger
role. Progress has also been made in privatization and it remains high on the government's reform
agenda, as evidenced by the completion of the mass privatization program by the end of 1995.
37.    Yet, there are still few signs that real restructuring is occurring and a strong supply response is
yet to emerge. Output continued to slide across the board until mid 1995. Since, the economy seems
to have bottomed out, and modest growth is expected for 1996. The slow progress in introducing real
financial discipline and accountability in state enterprises, and the slow pace of land reform in agriculture
are important factors contributing to the absence of real structural change in the economy. Rapid
progress in these areas is essential to sustain the reform process. Some of these issues are being
addressed under the SAL and the proposed Private Sector Development Loan.
H. Future Operations
38.    Apart from the Emergency Drought Recovery Loan, the thrust of Bank operations thus far has
been to promote efficient and sustainable economic recovery. The Rehabilitation Loan was the first loan
to provide balance of payments support to Moldova's reform program. In November 1994, learning
from the experience of the Rehabilitation loan, the Bank followed up with a second balance of payments
loan (the SAL) to further deepen the reform program, emphasizing privatization and enterprise reform.
While not without problems, this operation succeeded in generating strong momentum, notably in
privatization. Soon thereafter, to promote exports and reduce the risks of policy slippage, the Bank
approved a Pre-export Guarantee Facility to cover policy risks for exporters. Future planned operations
include a mix of adjustment and investment operations designed to promote the private sector and deepen
reforms in agriculture and energy sectors. The Bank has also continued to take the lead in mobilizing
and coordinating external donor assistance and a second CG meeting was held in early 1995.
I. Key Lessons Learned
39.    The Rehabilitation loans were meant to be one-shot operations designed to ease in reforms at a
time when the precise conditionality and tranching associated with SALs and SECALs would be
impractical. The lessons from the Moldova experience may have relevance for other countries where
similar loans are being considered. More general lessons for Bank support for structural reforms may
also be drawn from this experience. The main lessons are as follows:
(i) importance of timeliness. The Bank's prompt response to the economic crisis was important



- 11 -
to the initiation of the reforms in Moldova. The noticeable link between reforms and Bank
funding, which partly went to alleviate energy shortages in the winter months, strengthened the
hands of reformers in the government. The responsiveness of the Bank bought it credibility with
respect to the government and helped subsequent policy discussions.
(ii) importance of the big picture. The economies of eastern Europe and the FSU are
attempting a historic systemic transformation under very adverse external conditions. Theirs is
not a marginal change. In these circumstances, it is important to keep the larger objectives of
the reforms in focus and to recognize that there will be ups and downs in the reform process.
Even if the reforms are generally on track, the government may be forced to retreat temporarily
on some issues. The Bank should be prepared to continue providing its support over the longer
term, shaping its size and composition to support the most critical policies and to remove the
most important bottlenecks.
(iii) the need for flexibility. It was recognized that there was insufficient track record in the
country both with regard to the implementation capacity as well as the response of the economy
to the reforms. The external environment was also uncertain. In these circumstances, and in
view of the deepening economic crisis, flexibility was favored over strict conditionality which
could have held up disbursements. However, it may also be argued that the absence of leverage
until the approval of the SAL slowed down the reform process. Tranching that allows for more
flexibility than typically allowed in a SAL may be a good solution. The approach adopted in the
Ukraine Rehabilitation loan that combines specific conditionality and phased disbursement (as in
a SAL) with greater flexibility in interpreting progress in implementation is one possibility.
(iv) the necessity of intensive supervision. In the early stages, a lot of Bank effort will be
required during implementation of the loan. This will be needed not only in re-designing
components of the loan in the face of emerging realities, but also in assisting the government in
specific implementation issues (eg., in privatization, pension reform, procurement, etc). The
delay in setting up the Resident Mission was unfortunate in this respect.
(v) the importance of capacity building. The Rehabilitation Loan would have been more
successful if it were accompanied (or preceded) by effective, country executed, technical
assistance in implementing key elements of the reform program. More up-front efforts in this
direction may have a high pay-off though it should be recognized that the effort will be intensive
in staff resources. Similarly, the strong focus on implementation over capacity building, while
understandable given the urgent need for balance of payments support, have resulted in a weak
implementation capacity in Moldova as compared to other countries in transition.
(vi) reform priorities. By far the most important and most difficult reforms are those that
enforce financial discipline in enterprises, farms and banks. Apart from privatization and land
reform in agriculture (which give an unambiguous signal of an irreversible change in regime, and
forces accountability on the new private owners), other measures to instil financial discipline
include the phasing out of subsidies from the government, collecting taxes, strengthening the
commercial banking system, improving the payment discipline in the energy sector, and
facilitating new entry. Obstacles that prevent the initiation of bankruptcy and/or liquidation by
creditors and owners need to be removed and labor mobility enhanced.






Appendix A
Implementation Completion Report
Moldova
Rehabilitation Loan
(Loan 3653 - MD)
Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
The objectives of the project were relevant to the economic and political situation in the
country in the middle of 1993. The objectives were broad and ambitious given that, during
project preparation and implementation, dynamic changes and uncertainties beyond the control
of the Government or the Bank were taking place, most importantly economic development in
the former FSU countries and social changes inside Moldova. Achievement of the project
objectives was important to support Moldova's determination to move away from central
planning to a market system in the fastest possible way, while maintaining production of
essential goods and services. The loan facilitated dialogue between the Government and the
World Bank and established a relationship between Moldova and the donor community.
The opinion of the Government is that operation was prepared in a timely manner and
implemented successfully.
The economy of Moldova was badly affected by the collapse of the USSR and the
situation was complicated by the politically unstable situation in the East and South regions of
the country. With a view to creating a new economic environment, the Government effected,
in cooperation with the World Bank and the IMF, an Economic Reform Program reflected in
the Memorandum of Economic Reform and STF agreement wi.h the IMF.
The main objectives of the program were to stabilize the economy and to replace the
centrally planned system with a market-based one. Bearing in mind the critical state of the
economy, immediate priority was given to macroeconomic stabilization. Measures which had
to be taken included: (i) tightening of monetary policy; (ii) price liberalization for most of the
previously controlled items and elimination of subsidies; (iii) foreign trade liberalization; (iv)
strengthening of the tax-based income policy; (v) enterprise privatization and restructuring; (vi)
financial sector reform; (vii) design and implementation of an adequate social safety net.
In support of the program, there was considerable international mobilization of financial
resources for the balance of payments and technical assistance.  The Government highly
appreciates the role played by the World Bank in the process of resource mobilization.



In particular, it is necessary to mention the excellent coordination between the World
Bank and the IMF in their dialogue with the Government. The agreement reached under the
first SBA with the IMF was a continuation of the program agreed with the World Bank and the
STF program.
Substantial progress was achieved in all sectors. However, there was a delay in
implementation of the 1993-94 privatization program on elimination of profit margin controls
on commercial enterprises. This was caused by subjective and objective factors.
Another very important objective of the project -- to finance imports of essential
production inputs, energy resources and health care supplies -- was successfully achieved. This
objective was reinforced with additional funds provided through cofmancing agreements with the
Government of the Netherlands and the JEXIM Bank.
While the impact of the loan and the imports it has fmanced are difficult to assess in
quantitative terms, the loan has provided inputs to keep essential services running during a very
difficult transition period characterized by disruption of normal living standards. To some
extent, maintaining these essential services helped dispel dissatisfaction among the population,
making it less problematic for the Government to proceed with reforms.
The provision of fuel oil and coal imports to ensure heating and electric poser generation
was critically important. The provision of gas (under the JEXIM loan) helped provide Moldova
with the necessary time to renegotiate the gas supply agreement with Russia and prevent
discontinuation of gas delivery. In the agricultural sector, the loan financed a large percentage
of Moldova's annual imports of fertilizers and pesticides. A key factor in providing the health
care system of Moldova with medicines and medical equipment was the import component of
the loan.
The indirect and initially unforeseen benefits of increasing the knowledge of procurement
and other international commercial practices and establishing long term relations with suppliers
have also been important. Purchasers gained experience in international procurement, which
increased their efficiency and in some cases helped them survive the transition process and
remain viable in a market environment.
During the whole project (preparation and implementation) the Government has had very
close and fruitful cooperation with World Bank staff through visiting missions and
communications.  The World Bank has assisted Moldovan authorities and the Project
Coordination Unit in carrying out this project successfully. The World Bank provided some
very useful procurement and disbursement training.



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives*      Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                                    El a         o 
Sector policies                    O              O           al
Financial objectives              O7              OR           al
Istitutional development           a                           El ol
Physical objectives                O              O           M                 E
Poverty reduction                  a              o            ol
Gender Issues                      Ol ao
Oeher social objectives            E              C            0 El
Environmental objecrives           al             o            nl
Public sector management           El                         El                El
Private sector development         Gl                         E                 El
Other (specify)                    a              O            O                G
B. Project sustainability              Likely             Unlikely          Uncertain
CE                  n                 El
C. Bank Performance               Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                                             El                El
Preparation assistance                                     El                El
Appraisal                                                  El                El
Supervision                           Q                                     El
D. Borrower performance           Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                                El               El 
Implementation                        Q                                     El 
Covenent compliance                   E                                     El
Operation (if applicable)             Q                   E                 E
E. Assessment of outcome     Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
E                       El              El
*Some of the objectives were identified in the MERP. Other objectives not originally envisaged were
indirectly achieved through loan implementation (such as sector policies arid environmental screening).



Table 2: IBRD Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title            Purpose         Year of Approval       Status
Preceding Operations
1. Emergency Drought       Drought assistance           FY93             Closed
Recovery
Following Operations
1. Pre-Export Guarantee    Foreign private investment   FY95       Under implementation
2. Structural Adjustment   Balance of payments          FY95       Under implementation
assistance



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                       Date planned    Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      5/93                 10/92
Preparation                                     N/A
Appraisal                                       6/93                  6/93
Post appraisal                                  N/A                   N/A
Negotiations                                    9/93                  9/93
Letter of development policy/MERP               9/93                  9/93
Board presentation                              10/93                10/93
Signing                                         10/93                10/93
Effectiveness                                   11/93                11/93
First tranche release                           N/A                   N/A
Midterm review                                  N/A                   N/A
Second (and third) tranche release               N/A                  N/A
Project completion                              3/95                  3/95
Loan closing                                    3/95                  5/95
* 2 month grace period extended to finalize disbursement.



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY94               FY95
Appraisal estimate                   50                  10
Actual                             50.32                9.68
Actual as % of estimate             100%                97%
Date of final disbursement            -               5/25/95



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
MOLDOVA REHABILITATION LOAN
Implementation Record
POLICY COMMITMENTS                                                  STATUS OF ACTIONS
1. Privatization
1. Introduction of streamlined procedures for auctions of small scale   Streamlined procedures were introduced and a first auction of nine small
units and first auction by October 1993.                         scale units completed in October 1993. But small scale privatization
significantly delayed. As of December 1994 only 203 entities privatized.
2. Initiate first auction of medium/large enterprises by January 1994.   For political and technical reasons, privatization by vouchers started only
Complete privatization of 1555 units (small and large) by end 1994.  in June 1994 with a pilot auction, followed by auction of 10 enterprises in
end July. By end December only 378 large enterprises (and 203 small
ent;;ies) had been privatized.
3. Issue regulations on mechanisms for transforming enterprises listed  Enabling Presidential Decree on Commercialization promulgated in April
in 1993-94 privatization program by end 1993.                    1994.
4. Elaborate regulations for dealing with environmental liabilities of   No progress.
enterprises to be privatized by January 1994.
5. Elaborate regulations for distribution of shares to employees of  Done by Presidential Decree on Commercialization, April 1994.
SOEs listed for partial privatization by end 1993.
6. Adoption by government of regulations for financial intermediaries  Done in February 1994.
in January 1994.
7. Develop privatization program for 1995-96 by September 1994.    Draft program adopted by Parliament in early 1995.
Housing Privatization
Privatize 75% of (350,000) dwellings in state hands by mid-1994.  The list of property in state hands revised to 225, 000. Of this as of
March 1994, 30,000 units had been approved for privatization. By May
1995 only 124,000 units (55 percent) had been privatized.



POLICY COMMITMIENTS                                                  STATUS OF ACTIONS
II. Corporate Governance
1. Elaborate regulations for appointing representatives to Boards of   Law on State Enterprises adopted by Parliament in first half of 1994.
directors, and the functions of the Board by end 1993.
2. Introduce international accounting standards.                 Modest accounting changes introduced in January 1995. Further
improvements being supported by an IDF Grant.
3. Design monitoring and reporting mechanisms for state enterprises.  Selected financial and other information on state enterprises is being
monitored by the Government. However, no formal mechanisms were
introduced.
III. Enterprise Restructuring
1. Amend Bankruptcy Law by June 1994 to allow for debtor        The law has not yet been amended, though after some delay technical
rehabilitation and privatization of creditors.                   assistance is being provided to propose appropriate changes. Revisions
are to be introduced this year. Regulations allowing out of court debt
reconciliation adopted in May 1995.
2. Elaborate procedures and policies for enterprises restructuring by   A program for restructuring and break-up of selected large state
end 1993.                                                        enterprises is being developed in the context of an enterprise isolation
program being designed with the assistance of the World Bank.
IV. Competition and Anti-Monopoly Policies
Elaborate procedures for antimonopoly review prior to privatization    Done in early 1994.
by January 1994.
V. Private Sector Development and Small Business Promotion
1. Submit to Parliament legislation to facilitate the establishment of   Done in mid 1994.
small businesses by end 1993.
2. Submit to Parliament laws on intellectual property by December    Draft legislation on copyright protection submitted to Parliament on
1993.                                                            December 1993.



POLICY COMMITMENTS                                                   STATUS OF ACTIONS
3. Revise Law on Foreign Investment by mid 1994.                Amendments to Law introduced in mid-1994.
VI. Financial Sector Refonn
1. Submit to Parliament amendments to NBM and Commercial        The NBM law was adopted in mid-1995 and the Banking law is under
Banking Laws before end 1993..                                  consideration by Parliament.
2. Initiate special audits of the 4 major banks to assess the quality of  Audits initiated in September 1993 and completed in mid-1994.
their portfolios by October 1993.
3. Modify accounting and auditing practices of banks             NBM  prepared a timetable for modernizing commercial bank accounting
system and BAFS will be introduced on January 1, 1996.
4. Develop plan of action for restructuring of Savings Banks by end   Technical work underway with foreign assistance. Draft action plan
1993.                                                           prepared in March 1995.
VIl. Trade and Pricing Policy
1. Liberalize bread and milk prices.                            Done in end May 1994.
2. Eliminate profit margin controls on all non-monopolistic      Margin controls on commodities (except some essential goods) removed as
commercial enterprises by end 1993 and on all monopolies         of January 1, 1995. The rest to be eliminated by end-December, 1995.
immediately prior to privatization.
3. Prepare action plan by end 1993 for eliminating price regulation    Done in early 1994.
and excess profits tax on monopolies (except for natural monopolies).
4. Phase out all remaining export quotas.                        Export quotas on grain and grain products were eliminated in October,
1995.
5. Introduce competitive procurement practices on inter-state trade  Progress continues to be made.
VIII. Agricultural Policy
I. Set procurement price of grain at world market level.        Done in mid-1993, but not done consistently thereafter.



POLICY COMMITMIENTS                                                    STATUS OF ACTIONS
2. Limit state order for grain to food needs in 1994 and eliminate  Done. State procurement is undertaken on commercial lines.
them in 1995.
3. Equalize contribution rates for social security for agriculture and    Done.
non-agricultural at 38% in 1994.
4. Provide by April 1994 documents confirming land ownership       Land reforms continue but some restrictions on entities of exit from
rights to those eligible.                                          existing farms. Distribution of documents not likely to be completed until
1996.
5. Finalize program of demonopolization for agriculture parastatals    Starting mid 1994. process initiated to break up and privatize Cereale
by end 1994.                                                       (grain procurement and processing) and Fertilatatea (fertilizers and other
input supplies). Most of the constituent enterprises have been privatized.
IX. Social Protection & Labor Market Issues
1. Expand system of targeting social assistance through Social Support System of targeted price compensation for all eligible beneficiaries
lFund by end 1993.                                                 introduced starting November 1994. Pensions and other henefits de-linked
from the minimum wage.
2. Submit legislation to gradually increase retirement age in 1994.  Draft legislation is expected to be submitted to Parliament by end-
December. 1995.
3. Submit by end 1993 to Parliament legislation extending unem-     Not done, for lack of resources in the Employment Fund.
ployment benefits to those who leave below-minimum-wage jobs.
4. Submit to Parliament by end 1993 legislation to remove obligation  Obligation removed by the act amending Law on Employment in May
for worker retraining prior to dismissal.                           1994.
5. Submit legislation to Parliament in 1994 to allow wages in all non- While tariffs continue to be set for salaries in non-budgetary organizations,
budget organizations to be fully market determined.                 these are increasingly non-binding and "indicative".



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated          Actual
1. Key operating indicators in SAR )
It. Modified indicators (if applicable) )      - NOT APPLICABLE -
111. Modified indicators for future  )
operation (if applicable)          )



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study             Purpose as defined        Status         Impact of study
at appraisal/redefined
- NOT APPLICABLE -



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                     Local   Foreign   Total          Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs                  costs    costs
1. Import                 0.0     107.2    107.2          0.0      107.2    107.2
2. TA                     0.0      2.0      2.0            0.0      2.0      2.0
Total                   109.2    109.2          0.0     109.2    109.2



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Source                    Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                   costs    costs
1. IBRD/IDA                   0.0     60.0     60.0            0.0     60.0      60.0
2. Cofinancing institutions *  0.0    49.2     49.2            0.0     49.2      49.2
3. Other external sources     0.0      0.0      0.0            0.0     00.0      00.0
4. Domestic contribution      0.0      0.0      0.0            0.0     00.0      00.0
* NLG 15M - Dutch Grant (USD equivalent 9.2)
USD 40M - JEXIM



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
- not applicable -



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original     Revised
Agreement   Section    Covenant   Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment        Description of Covenant       Comments
Type                  Date         Date
LA        3.01 (a)      9          C                       ---      Consultation and exchange
of views
LA         3.02         9          C          ---          ---      Procurement schedule
LA         3.03         3          C          ---          ---      Local currency transactions
to be made at Market
Exchange Rate
LA        3.04(a)       5          C          ---                   Maintain PCU and staff.
LA         3.05         5          C          ---          ---      Maintain staffed inter-agency
committee responsible for
monitoring and coordinating
Program implementation.
LA         3.06         5          C          ---          ---      Employ consultants in
(i) procurement and disbursement
and (ii) implementation of
the program.
LA        3.07 (a)      1          C                       ---      Maintain records and
accounts.
Covenant type:                                                          Present Status
1 = Accounts/audits                 8 = Indigenous people               C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue   9 = Monitoring                      CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not covered b CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds  categories 1 - 9             NC = not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding             11 = Remedies
5 = Management aspects of the project or 12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
executing agency                     other resource allocation
6 = Environmental covenants         13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
- NOT APPLICABLE -



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
($ '000)
Planned             Revised             Actual
Stage of project cycle     Weeks       US$      Weeks      US$      Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal    72.3      172.7      72.3      172.7     72.3     172.7
Appraisal                    68       201.8      53.0      146.6     53.0    146.6
Negotiations through Board   17        47.5      13.6      34.3      13.6      34.3
approval
Supervision                  17        50.5      40.4      72.7      47.3    123.1
Completion                   10        28.5       5        10.3       1.8      4.6



Table 13: Bank Resouces: Missions
Performance Rating 2
No. of    Days in                   Implementation   Development   Types of 3
Status of project cycle  Month/Year  Persons    Field     Specialization      Status        Objectives    Problems
Preparation                 01/93      7          10         E,F,A,O
Appraisal through            06/93     13         25         E,F,A,O
Board approval
Supervision                  12/93     3          10           E,O               1               1
04/94     6          8            E,O               1               2
08/94     6          8             0               HS              2
Completion
1 - Specialization                 2 - Performance Rating                3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                1 = Minor problems                    F = Financial
E = Economist                      2 = Moderate problems                 T = Technical
F = Financial Analyst              3 = Major problems                    M = Managerial
* Other includes country officer, operations analyst, sector specialist,
procurement and disbursement specialists. Many of the specialists
visited the country in combination with other missions.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24285R2
28-
T. N..,,.,                                                      M O  L D OVA
(k~~~~gil6v-                         U    K    R  A    I N    E
tT\.  >   _/   g  \;   k>Vj7nStso                            SELECTED CITIES
Brich ni
NATIONAL CAPITAL
orOr oca  'tt)9g' '~                                                 RIVERS
48'                                                                                                       48              -i---i --r---RAILROADS
ft        Fltoreshti    f                                               I IIROADS
Ribnit-                              INTERNATIONAL
* < _  Pezina t> 4          BOUNDARIES
30'
i                 X                n       J                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~denominfations aond  aony
other nfrainhour
on  thisma    o   i
Orhei                               ;-~~~~~~~iPly, onteP."t o
The, World B.ak Group.
q                     WOrhei          t4- t                              rnho'; g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa jdgmnent on the fegal
u as                                f~~~~~ttu   f  n  tertoy
ng~~~~~~~~~~i erc ndremn
   r   trash   g/         2   Dubasori       g                  ~~~~~~~~~or acceptance of such
T.heni L-                                               GrJ  ooriopdi
>_          \         FC~~~~~HISINAU               \ lT  S
hti          ~~~Bender     Trospol
$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Od ges.t\~os
T. H-s           /     \         $Kuhni  Iw                        
_                                                      >z()Chimishl <                                               cJ~~~~~~~~~mi y
R O M A N I A    (Leov 
T. Buri d           Comrat             ,                                        T  a    r
T. Ar,sie                           ToTrlob-ry
468'                                                                                                      U K R A I N E                                            46'
.Cgul                _
Vulkaneshe    To Bolgrod
KILOMETERS
0           25            50            75To Bunred
-nd Coos-no 
0                    25                   50
MILES
28'                                                                                30'
NOVEMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No:     15311
Type: ICR



