Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3653 MD
                          Loan Agreement
                       (Rehabilitation Loan)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated October 22, 1993
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3653 MD
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 22, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated
September 24, 1993, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve economic
stabilization and structural reforms in the Borrower's economy
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports
and technical assistance required during such execution; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
      (b)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement;" and
             (d) Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
      such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
      Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
      to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan.".
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Market Exchange Rate" means: (1) while the Republic of
Moldova is in the ruble zone, the multiple of (i) the exchange rate
of the Russian ruble for convertible currencies established on the
Moscow Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange or any successor thereto
and (ii) the exchange rate for the Moldovan ruble and the Russian
ruble established in the Moscow currency market as reported by the
Central Bank of Russia; and (2) upon introduction of the national
currency of the Republic of Moldova, the exchange rate established
on the Moldovan Interbank Foreign Exchange Market or any successor
thereto;
      (b)   "National Bank" means the National Bank of the Republic
of Moldova;
      (c)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit described in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
      (d)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);
      (e)   "Small-Scale Enterprises" means enterprises that meet
the criteria specified in the Borrower's Privatization Program for
1992-1994, dated March 12, 1993; and
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
Page  3
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a banking
institution acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
Page  4
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that all local
currency transactions related to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be made at the Market Exchange Rate.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a project
coordination unit (PCU) within the Borrower's Ministry of Foreign
Economic Relations, which will be at all times headed by a
coordinator with qualifications, terms of reference and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, who shall be assisted by qualified staff
in adequate numbers and by consultants, acceptable to the Bank,
advising on such matters as procurement and disbursements;
      (b)   The PCU shall be responsible for: (i) advising on,
overseeing and coordinating procurement and disbursement actions
under the Loan; and (ii) maintaining all Project accounts including
the Special Account.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain an adequately
staffed inter-agency committee which will be responsible for
monitoring and coordinating implementation of the Program.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, in order to assist the Borrower
in: (i) procurement and disbursement activities under the Loan; and
(ii) implementation of the Program, including advice on such matters
as enterprise reform and privatization, financial sector
infrastructure, employment service and social safety net
development, public investment programming and legal reform
supportive of private sector development and market reform.
      Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
Page  5
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the initial auction for the privatization of Small-
Scale Enterprises has been carried out in a manner satisfactory to
Page  6
the Bank.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                        ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            277005 Chisinau
            Cosmonaut Street, 7
            Republic of Moldova
                                           Telex:
                                             (3732) 22 86 10
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
                         By /s/ T. Pantsiru
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia
Page  7
                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds in accordance with the allocation of the Loan to
the following Categories:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Pre-identified            53,000,000            100%
    imports
(2) Other imports              5,000,000            100%
(3) Consultants'               2,000,000            100%
    services,
    studies, train-
    ing and study
    tours
                              __________
         TOTAL                60,000,000
                              ==========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods under Category (1) unless the
goods are included in a list of eligible imports as agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank;
      (b)   expenditures for goods under Category (2), unless the
Borrower has submitted to the Bank evidence that the National Bank
has sold an equivalent net aggregate amount of foreign currency in
the Moldovan Interbank Foreign Exchange Market or any successor
thereto, as determined by the Bank (hereinafter called the FEX
Market) on or after September 30, 1993.
      For purposes of this paragraph the "net aggregate amount of
currency sold by the National Bank" means the aggregate amount of
foreign currency sold by the National Bank minus the aggregate
amount of foreign currency bought by the National Bank in the FEX
Market in a given period.
      (c)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
      112               -           Alcoholic beverages
      121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse
      122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)
      525               -           Radioactive and associated
                                    materials
      667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-
Page  8
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked
      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                    for nuclear reactors
      728         728.43            Tobacco processing machinery
      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                    wares (including set gems)
      971         -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)
      (d)   expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of
the Borrower;
      (e)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures under Category (2) before that
date but after July 31, 1993;
      (f)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
      (g)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 1999                            1,120,000
October 15, 1999                          1,165,000
April 15, 2000                            1,205,000
October 15, 2000                          1,250,000
April 15, 2001                            1,300,000
October 15, 2001                          1,345,000
April 15, 2002                            1,395,000
October 15, 2002                          1,450,000
April 15, 2003                            1,500,000
October 15, 2003                          1,560,000
April 15, 2004                            1,615,000
October 15, 2004                          1,675,000
April 15, 2005                            1,740,000
October 15, 2005                          1,800,000
April 15, 2006                            1,870,000
October 15, 2006                          1,940,000
April 15, 2007                            2,010,000
October 15, 2007                          2,085,000
April 15, 2008                            2,165,000
October 15, 2008                          2,245,000
April 15, 2009                            2,325,000
October 15, 2009                          2,415,000
April 15, 2010                            2,505,000
October 15, 2010                          2,595,000
April 15, 2011                            2,690,000
October 15, 2011                          2,790,000
April 15, 2012                            2,895,000
October 15, 2012                          3,005,000
April 15, 2013                            3,115,000
Page  9
October 15, 2013                          3,230,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                     Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:
Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
Part A:
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof and subject to prior
review in accordance with paragraph 1.10 of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), contracts for the procurement of goods
to be financed under Categories (1) and (2) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement shall be awarded through international competitive bidding
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines, subject to the following modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
Page  10
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or
            (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international
                   circulation; or
            (iii)  a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods
                   required."
       (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
      (d)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods under Category (2) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
      (a)   estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000
shall be awarded in accordance with established commercial
practices; and
      (b)   estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding
paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
Part B:
1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different member countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
2.    Contracts for proprietary equipment may be awarded after
direct negotiations with suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
Page  11
Part C:
1.    With respect to: (i) each contract referred to in Part A.1 and
A.2 (b) of this Schedule; and (ii) each contract referred to in
paragraph 2 of Part B of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to this
paragraph shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence
required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments under a
contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account,
the documentation and the information to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to
the Bank as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required during
the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
Page  12
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Program, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
Page  13
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
