                                           Document o f
                                       The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL, USE ONLY

                                                                           Report No: 49954-GE




                                       PROJECT PAPER

                                              ON A

                            PROPOSED RESTRUCTURING AND
                          A PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF U S 2 8 MILLION

                                               TO

                                           GEORGIA

                                            FOR THE

                FIRST EAST-WEST HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                        October 14, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective September 9,2009)

                     Currency Unit     =    GEL
                         1.69GEL       =    US$l
                            1 GEL      =    US$0.59

                               FISCAL YEAR

                        January 1      -     December 3 1

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB                         Asian Development Bank
AF                          Additional Financing
CPS                         Country Partnership Strategy
CY                          Calendar Year
DPL                         Development Policy Loan
EBRD                        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EDPRP                       Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Program
EIB                         European Investment Bank
EIRR                        Economic Internal Rate o f Return
EMP                         Environmental Management Plan
FEWHIP                      First East-West Highway Improvement Project
FM                          Financial Management
FMR                         Financial Monitoring Report
FPU                         Foreign Projects Unit
GDP                         Gross Domestic Product
GEL                         Georgian Lari (Currency Unit)
GNI                         Gross National Income
IBRD                        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                         International Development Association
IFR                         Interim Unaudited Financial Report
JBIC                        Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
JICA                        Japan InternationalCooperation Agency
LA                          Loan Agreement
MoED                        Ministry of Economic Development
NPV                         Net Present Value
PAD                         Project Appraisal Document
PDO                         Project Development Objective
PPP                         Public-Private Partnership
PPIAF                       Public-Private InfrastructureAdvisory Facility
PRSP                        Poverty Reduction Strategy
RD                          Roads Department o f the Ministry o f Regional Development and Infrastructure
SDR                         Special Drawing Rights
SEWHIP                      Second East-West Highway Improvement Project
SIL                         Specific Investment Loan
TEWHIP                      Third East-West Highway Improvement Project
TRRC                        Transport Reform and RehabilitationCenter
voc                         Vehicle Operating Costs



         Vice President:      Philippe L e Houerou, ECAVP
       Country Director:      Asad Alam, ECCU3
         Sector Director:     Peter Thomson, ECSSD
        Sector Manager:       Henry G. R. Kerali, ECSSD
      Task Team Leader:       Elizabeth Wang, ECSSD
                                                                                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                         GEORGIA
                      FIRST EAST-WEST HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                  ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                                                     Contents


                                                                                                                                                          Page


I Introduction.. ..,,....,...........,................,,...............,,.,.....,..,,....,,.................................................1
 .

1.
 1      Background and Rationale for Additional Financing and Restructuring.. ....,......................... 1

111. Proposed Changes ..............................................................................................................                          3

I V . Consistency with CPS ...........,.............................,,...,...........,................................,................. 5

V.      Appraisal o f Scaled-Up Project Activities ..............................                         ............. ...................................   5

VI. Expected Outcomes ................................................................................................................                        9

VII. Benefits and Risks..........................              ......................... ..............................................................       10

VIII. Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing ..,..................................                                               ....... 10
Annex 1 .........................................................................................................................................             12




      document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                                         Project Paper Data Sheet

Date: October 14, 2009                                 Task Team Leader: Elizabeth Wang
Country: Georgia                                       Sector Manager: Henry G.R. Kerali
Project Name: First East-West Highway Improvement Country Director: Asad Alam
Project - Additional Financing (FEWHIP-AF)             EnvironmentalCategory: B
Proiect ID: P117860
Borrower:
Georgia
Responsible agency:
Roads Department o f the Ministry o f Regional Development and Infrastructure(RD)
12 Kazbegi Avenue
Georgia
Tel: (995 32) 276-286 Fax: (995 32) 3 13-052




Revised project development objectives/outcomes
Project Development Objectives are revised as follows:
(i) contribute to the gradual reduction o f road transport costs and improve access, ease o f transit and safety
   to
along the central part o f Georgia's East-West corridor, through upgrading segments o f the East-West Highway
from Tbilisi to Rikoti, including the rehabilitation o f the Rikoti Tunnel; and (ii) strengthen the capacity of
                                                                                   to
the government, Roads Department and the local road construction industry to plan and better manage the road
network.
The results framework and the monitoring indicators have been updated to reflect the
Additional Financing
Does the scaled-up or restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies?
No.

                                       For Additional Financing
[ X I Loan [ ] Credit [ 3 Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): US$28 million
Proposed Terms: IBRD Flexible Loan in U S Dollar with an interest rate equal to 6 months LIBOR plus




' The disbursement was faster than the original projection. The revised disbursement schedule reflects the actual
disbursement for FY08 through 09 and incorporates the disbursement fiom Additional Financing.
* Additional Financing only.
    I.   Introduction

 1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an additional
loan in the amount o f US$28 million to scale up and restructure the First East-West Highway
Improvement Project (FEWHIP) (Credit: IDA 4248-GE). The FEWHIP Additional Financing
(FEWHIP-AF) would support the rehabilitation o f the Rikoti Tunnel, repair i t s by-pass road, and
provide additional institutional strengthening. Restructuring i s required to accommodate a slight
revision o f the Project Development Objective to include the tunnel and related changes to the
Results Framework. While there i s no co-financing from other donors for this project per se,
there i s close coordination among donors supporting the upgrade o f the East-West transit
corridor in Georgiaa3  JICA plans to invest in upgrading the East-West Highway in west Georgia,
west o f the Rikoti Tunnel, and the ADB plans to invest in the E70 highway, which carries transit
traffic from the East-West Highway towards the border with Turkey.

11.      Background and Rationale for Additional Financing and Restructuring

2.      Original Project: The original IDA-financed FEWHIP project with a credit o f SDR 12.9
million4 was approved in November 2006 and became effective in March 2007. The Project
Development objectives were: (i) contribute to the gradual reduction o f road transport costs
                                       to
and improve access, ease o f transit and safety along the central part o f Georgia's East-West
corridor, through upgrading a segment o f the East-West Highway from Tbilisi to Rikoti; and (ii)
to strengthen the capacity o f the government, Roads Department (RD), and the local road
construction industry to plan and better manage the road network. The Project upgrades a section
o f highway from Agaiani to Igoeti to four lanes and supports road sector institutional
development and capacity building. The civil works are largely completed; the institutional
development component i s s t i l l under implementation; the credit i s almost fully disbursed.

3.     The Rikoti Tunnel needs a major upgrade as the present condition i s very poor. Given the
urgent need and lack o f interest shown b y private sector investors in the current financial climate
to invest in the Tunnel through a concession arrangement, the Government chose to rehabilitate
the tunnel with public funds. Domestic resources are scarce due to the financial crisis, which
means that external financial support i s needed to rehabilitate the tunnel.

4.       Country Context: In recent years Georgia's annual economic growth has averaged over
9.0 percent. However, the August 2008 conflict with Russia, cind the global economic downturn
have altered the dynamics. Although Georgia has maintained its reform agenda, the country may
be unlikely to sustain past growth rates, as levels o f foreign investment and trade may be lower,
at least in the near term. Current projections show that GDP will contract by about 4.0 percent in
2009 before growth will resume at about 2.0 percent in 20 10.

5.    The Government o f Georgia has responded to the twin crises with an appropriate
macroeconomic policy mix. The currency was devalued by about 16 percent against the US

3
 The East-West Highway i s a part o f the European route E-60, which runs from Brest, France, to Irkeshtam,
Kyrgyzstan (at the China border).
 At Board presentation in November 2006, SDR 12.9 million was equivalent to US$19.0 million, but disbursements
have been US$20.1 million due to exchange rate fluctuations.

                                                      1
dollar and an auction system was introduced for foreign currency. Exchange rates have
stabilized, as have gross reserves, at about US$1.5 billion, re-establishing pre-conflict levels. O n
the fiscal side, authorities have implemented strict controls over non-priority public spending,
leveraging donors to support countercyclical funding in key job-creating investments, and
widening the social safety net. In the financial sector, short-term rollover risk related to the
banking system has been contained, though vulnerabilities remain in the medium term.

6.      Donor support has been a central element in providing economic and financial stability
during the current period. In September 2008, the IMF approved a US$750 million standby
program. The program was recently scaled up with an additional US$400 million, and extended
to mid-2011. In October 2008, the international community collectively pledged US$4.5 billion
over a three-year period, including budgetary support, expanding the social safety net and
addressing the needs o f Internally Displaced Persons, core infrastructure projects, and support to
the private sector, including significant support to commercial banks. T o date, donors have
committed over US$ 2.0 billion o f the amount pledged. Under the newly approved Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2010-13 (Report No: 48918-GE),5 new World Bank lending to
Georgia will focus on budgetary support and infrastructure. Therefore, a scale-up o f the
FEWHIP to cover the Rikoti Tunnel i s consistent with the CPS.

7.      Road Sector: The 20,329 km Georgian road network includes 1,497 km o f international
roads, 92 percent o f which are in good to fair condition. There are five main roads and highways,
totaling 859 km: (i)  Poti-Tbilisi-Red Bridge; (ii) Mtskheta-Kazbegi-Larsi; (iii)   Sarpi-Batumi-
Samtredia; (iv) Khashuri-Akhaltsikhe-Turkish border; and (v) Tbilisi-Marneuli-Guguti. The
challenging topography, low-capacity highway design (typically only 7.0 meters wide without
shoulders), inadequate maintenance, poor technical standards for vehicles, and other adverse
conditions result in slow traffic flows and high accident rates. Road transport i s the lifeline for
most Georgians' economic activities - local traffic comprises up to 90 percent o f road use, even
on the main foreign trade road corridors.

8,       The two main transit corridors are the E60 East-West Highway (Senaki-Tbilisi-Red
Bridge) and the E70 (Senaki-Poti-Batumi-Sarpi/Turkish Border). The E60 i s the major road; due
to its location i t carries over 60 percent o f total foreign trade on the Georgia road network.
Transit flows represent about 10 percent o f total freight flows, or about 1.0 percent o f total
traffic. Transit on this corridor represents European, American, African, and Mediterranean trade
exchanges with the Caucasus and Central Asian regions.

9.       Rationale for the Additional Financing: The proposed Financing would scale up the
original Project to rehabilitate the Rikoti Tunnel, repair i t s by-pass road, and support additional
institutional strengthening. The tunnel, built in 1982, has severely deteriorated due to lack o f
regular maintenance, creating unsafe driving conditions. However, the Rikoti Tunnel is the
crucial link on the East-West Highway because i t provides the only all-weather route. The
alternate 4.2 km two-lane by-pass road crosses mountainous terrain and is frequently closed due
to severe weather.



5
    Discussed by the Board o f Executive Directors in September 2009.

                                                          2
10.     Since 2004, the Bank has been financing three projects along the East-West Highway,
focused on the Tbilisi to Rikoti section. The original FEWHIP, approved in 2006, upgraded the
E60 from Agaiani to Igoeti, a 13 km section. The Project was followed by the Second East-West
Highway Improvement Project (SEWHIP) (Credit No. 4373-GEYLoan No. 45 12-GE) approved
in 2007, which continued the upgrade from Igoeti to Sveneti, a 25 km section. The Third East-
West Highway Improvement Project (TEWHIP) (Loan No. 7741-GE), approved by the Board in
September 2009, i s further continuing the upgrade from Sveneti to Ruisi, a 15 km section. The
Rikoti tunnel i s at km 143 o f the East-West Highway.

 11.     Rationale for Project Restructuring: Project restructuring i s requested to revise slightly
the original Project Development Objective (PDO) and the Results Framework, to include the
Rikoti Tunnel rehabilitation, the repairs to the tunnel by-pass road and additional support for
institutional strengthening.

111.   Proposed Changes

12.    Revised PDO: The proposed FEWHIP-AF w i l l rehabilitate the Rikoti Tunnel and
support institutional development. The revised PDO (changes in bold) is:

   (i) contribute to the gradual reduction o f road transport costs and improve access, ease o f
      To
      transit and safety along the central part o f Georgia's East-West corridor, through
      upgrading segments o f the East-West Highway from Tbilisi to Rikoti, including
      rehabilitation o f the Rikoti Tunnel; and
   (ii) strengthen the capacity o f the government, the RD and the local road construction
      To
      industry, to plan and better manage the road network.

13.     The results framework and the monitoring indicators have been updated to include the
additional investments (Annex 1).

14.        Project Components: The Project's components w i l l remain unchanged, but their scope
will be adjusted to reflect additional civil works and technical assistance. Therefore, the project
w i l l consist o f the original project and the following additional parts:

               Component 1: Rehabilitation o Rikoti Tunnel. This component would (1)
                                                  f
               rehabilitate the Rikoti tunnel to: (a) restore structural integrity; (b) improve the
               ventilation system; (c) improve the lighting system; (d) provide fire and traffic
               safety facilities; and (2) carry out repairs to the Rikoti tunnel by-pass road.
               Financing comprises funding for civil works, including equipment upgrades.
               Supervision costs and technical audits o f civil works are covered under a contract
               to be funded by the TEWHIP. This operation does not require any land
               acquisition.

           0   Component 2: Road Sector Institutional Development and Capacity Building.
               The FEWHIP-AF w i l l provide funding for technical assistance for: (i)
                                                                                     developing
               a framework for highway rest areas; (ii)     implementing a road management



                                                3
                    system; (iii)preparing a new road and traffic safety draft law;6 and (iv) scaling up
                    support for the Technical University road transport department.

                    Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. This provides
                    institutional support to the RD and the TRRC related to Project implementation,
                    audits and Project monitoring and evaluation.

     15.   The total Project cost for all components o f the FEWHIP-AF i s US$35 million, which
    includes an unallocated US$3.17 million to cover contingencies.

                          Table 1 Cost Summary by Expenditure Categories'

                                                               Bank           Government
         Summary by Expenditure Categories
                                                             Financing         Financing          Total Cost
            (Additional Financing only)
                                                           (US$ million)     (US$ million)       (US$ million)
Civil Works, Goods, Consultant Services, Training
and Incremental Operating Costs                                  27.93                7.00              34.93
Front End Fee   *                                                 0.07               0.00                0.07
Total for all Components                                         28.00                7.00              35.00

* IBRD portion only; reflects 0.25 percent o f the total loan amount.
 16.     Counterpart Funding: In the original Project, co-financing percentages for the
Government are 30 percent for Component 1 (civil works) and Component 3 (Project
implementation), and 100 percent for Component 2 (institutional strengthening). The FEWHIP-
AF w i l l cover 80 percent o f all components - IBRD/Government financing ratio i s 80/20 for
eligible expenditures.

 17.    Implementation Arrangements: The TEWHIP has instituted new implementation
arrangements that apply to all externally financed transport projects in Georgia. All
responsibilities for Project implementation are now with the RD. The Foreign Projects Unit
(FPU) was recently created within the RD and i s responsible for procurement, monitoring and
reporting, technical audits, and other implementation matters under all externally financed road
projects. For financial management, the RD i s assisted by the Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center (TRRC), which has already performed this function on previous projects.
An updated Project Implementation Agreement was signed on July 3, 2009, and amended on
September 18,2009, between RD and TRRC. The RD technical supervision and audit teams, and
tunnel experts, will support the supervision o f Project implementation.

 18.     Project Closing Date: Completion o f expanded activities i s expected within two years
and four months o f the existing Project closing date, February 28, 201 1, The revised closing date
i s June 30,2013, and the original Project closing date will be extended for the same period.


6
 An assignment under the FEWHIP was to prepare a new road law. It was agreed to replace this earlier assignment
under FEWHIP-AF with the preparation o f a road law, which also reflects the recent adoption of the National Road
Safety Strategy and Action Plan.
'Inclusive o f local taxes.

                                                       4
IV.      Consistency with CPS

 19.     Improving road infrastructure has been a Government priority since 2004. Along with a
planned series o f DPLs, investments in essential infrastructure and service delivery are the
central components o f the Bank's support to Georgia, as described in the newly approved
Country Partnership Strategy covering the period 20 10- 13. In terms o f road infrastructure
investments, the focus i s to strengthen internal connectivity and Georgia's role as a transit
corridor country within the South Caucasus. Bank engagement with Georgia i s based on a two-
pillar approach: (i) meeting post-conflict and vulnerability needs; and (ii) building long-term
competitiveness. The proposed FEWHIP-AF supports these priorities by: (i)     improving priority
road networks-specifically     the section with the highest traffic intensity on the East-West
Highway; and (ii)   furthering regional competitiveness and regional trade by developing the
transit economy and encouraging investment in growth sectors.

V.       Appraisal o f Scaled-Up Project Activities

20.     Economic Analysis: The analysis covers the rehabilitation and upgrading o f the Rikoti
Tunnel and its by-pass road. The tunnel has poor ventilation and lighting, compromised
structural integrity and waterproofing. Because the tunnel does not meet acceptable minimum
international safety standards, postponing rehabilitation not only poses serious imminent risks
but also guarantees continued deterioration and eventual closure due to unsafe conditions.

21.     The base case for the analysis consisted o f an eventual tunnel closure due to safety
concerns, whereupon three options would remain for traffic diversion: (i) tunnel by-pass road,
                                                                        the
a 4.2 km long steep, meandering narrow road; (ii)    Chumateleti-Kharagauli-Dzirula; and (iii)
Gomi-Sachklhere-Tchiatura-Zestafoni. Both o f these latter roads are narrow, winding, and in
very poor condition. To become viable alternative routes, these roads would need to be repaved
and rehabilitated. The following traffic diversion scenarios were used in the event o f tunnel
closure:

     a   The by-pass road i s the preferred diversion route but it is closed for about one month
         every year due to winter weather conditions; all traffic i s then diverted to Chumateleti-
         Kharagauli-Dzirula,
     a   Very large trucks, such as those transporting pipeline materials (assumed to be about 5.0
         percent o f heavy trucks), must divert to Chumateleti-Kharagauli-Dzirula, and cannot use
         the by-pass.
     a   The by-pass road capacity i s limited; when traffic volumes exceed 10,000 vehicles per
         day, excess traffic diverts to Chumateleti-Kharagauli-Dzirula.

22.     The cost-benefit analysis is based o n actual traffic volumes and forecasts, vehicle
operating costs, travel-time savings for users, and benefits derived from avoiding traffic
diversions due to tunnel closure and based on traffic from Chumateleti to Dzirula.'



                                    Chumateleti-Rikoti Tunnel-Dzirula: 45 km; (ii)
 Distances for the scenarios are: (i)                                            Chumateleti-Rikoti Tunnel
bypass Road-Dzirula: 47.2 km; and (iii) Chumateleti-Kharagauli-Dzirula 5 1.6 km.

                                                      5
    23.     The date o f tunnel closure due to unsafe conditions i s unknown. Connsidering the poor
    condition o f the current structure, ventilation, and lighting, the economic analysis (base case)
    assumed that,the tunnel would need to be closed in five years. Allowing for a two-year
    reconstruction period, with the tunnel completely closed for five months each year during
    construction, the economic analysis yielded an Economic Internal Rate o f Return (EIRR) o f 32.5
    percent, and a N e t Present Value (NPV) o f US$120.4 million. Table 2 shows the results o f the
    analysis, for rehabilitation in 2010- 11, but with different years o f tunnel closing, if the works are
    not done ("without project" scenario). Even if the tunnel could stay open another ten years
    without the reconstruction, the currently planned investment would s t i l l be economically viable.

                                     Table 2: Results of Economic Analysis

    Economic Return                               Number of Years Until Tunnel Closure
      of Investment            2           3         4       5       6     7       8      9            10
    EIRR fYo)                45.5        39.0      35.2    32.5    30.3   28.6   26.9    25.2         23.8
1   N P V (US$m)         1   138.7   I   132.4                         1
                                                 I 126.4 I 120.4 I 114.1 107.9 1 100.7 I 92.3     I   84.1    I
    24.     Table 3 shows the results o f the sensitivity analysis, for closure in year five, with
    variations in traffic and costs.

                   Table 3: Sensitivity Analysis Scenarios for Closure at Five Years

                                                         EIRR (%)     N P V (USD
                                                                        million)
                             Base Case                       32.5        120.4
                             Traffic - 20%                   30.1         84.2
                             Traffic + 20%                   34.8        159.7




    25.     The above results show that the investment in rehabilitating the tunnel i s economically
    viable even when considering only direct benefits to road users. When other benefits, particularly
    road safety and ensuring Georgia's position as a transit corridor are taken into account, this i s a
    very appropriate investment project.

    26.     Technical: The 1750-meter long Rikoti tunnel's structural integrity and waterproofing
    are compromised. The ventilation, safety equipment, and lighting are inadequate, and in many
    cases obsolete. The objective o f rehabilitation i s to ensure that the tunnel i s structurally sound
    and safe for road users. The project will:'(i) restore tunnel structural integrity with a new
    reinforced concrete lining and improved waterproofing; (ii)    improve the ventilation system; (iii)
    improve the lighting system; (iv) provide fire and traffic safety facilities; and (v) repair the
    Rikoti tunnel by-pass road.




                                                         6
27.       There are two sets o f civil works activities:

      0    By-pass Road: Improvements to the tunnel by-pass road will be completed before
          tunnel rehabilitation works commence; by-pass road improvements include widening
           some turns to increase traffic safety, providing slow-vehicle bays, improving the two
          junctions, providing traffic safety features, and repairing the asphalt pavement.
      0    Tunnel Rehabilitation: Tunnel rehabilitation is expected to start by March 2010 and to
           last about two years. The tunnel will be closed to traffic for about five months each year,
          but not during winter. Although it would be possible to keep the tunnel open during most
          o f the construction period, this option would lengthen the duration o f works, increase
          costs, and reduce safety for road users and workers; therefore Government chose the
          tunnel closure option.

28.     Procurement: Procurement for the additional loan for the FEWHIP will be carried out in
accordance with the World Bank "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits"
published in M a y 2004 and revised in October 2006 (Procurement Guidelines) and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in May 2004
and revised in October 2006 (Consultants Guidelines) and provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement. Procurement activities will be carried out by the RD through FPU. Except for this
new arrangement, all procurement arrangements for the FEWHIP will apply to the FEWHIP-AF.
Procurement risk rating i s moderate after mitigation.

29.     Works contracts procured under the FEWHIP-AF will include: (i)        rehabilitation o f the
Rikoti Tunnel and, (ii)repairs to the Rikoti tunnel by-pass road. Consultant services will be used
to: (i)develop a framework for highway rest areas in Georgia; (ii)    prepare new road and traffic
safety laws; and (iii)
                     scale up support for the Technical University's road transport department,
which will include procurement o f goods. A "Supply and install" contract will be used for
implementing a road management system. Trainingheminars are also envisaged under the
Project. The Procurement Plan for FEWHIP-AF sets forth those contracts, which are subject to
the Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts are subject to post review by the Bank.

30.     Financial Management: The financial management (FM) function under the FEWHIP-
AF, including the flow o f funds, staffing, accounting, budgeting, reporting and auditing, will be
handled by the TRRC, on behalf o f the RD. There would be no changes in the existing FM
arrangements for the FEWHIP-AF, unless those are agreed in advance with the Bank. Financial
management arrangements o f the FEWHIP implemented by the TRRC have been reviewed
periodically during Project supervision and have been found satisfactory. According to the latest
FM supervision o f the TRRC (September 2009) and recent audit report for FY08 (issued in June
2009), FM arrangements at TRRC continue to be satisfactory, and adequate internal control
procedures are in place. The client i s in compliance with the audit covenant: the audit reports for
the ongoing projects implemented by TRRC including the FEWHIP project have been received
by the due dates and the auditors have given unqualified opinions on the Projects' financial
statements with no internal control issues in the management letters. The overall FM risk for the
project i s Moderate.




                                                    7
31.     Audit arrangements adopted for the FEWHIP-AF are similar to those o f the original
Project. The Project will be audited by independent private auditors using terms o f reference
acceptable to the Bank. Annual audited project financial statements will be submitted to the
Bank within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year and at project closing. Existing formats for
the project management-oriented Interim Unaudited Financial Reports (IFRs) would be used for
the monitoring and supervision, and a full set o f IFRs would be submitted to the Bank every
quarter, no later than 45 days after the end o f the calendar quarter. .

32.      Disbursement: The main disbursement period i s CY2010-CY 2012. There would be one
Designated Account (DA) for the FEWHIP-AF, with the ceiling o f the IBRD Loan at US$2.8
million. The AF funds will disburse when financing under the original Project is depleted; there
are still funds available under the original Project DA. To facilitate payment o f loan proceeds, a
foreign currency DA will be opened and maintained by the Treasury Service o f the Ministry o f
Finance in the National Bank o f Georgia. The World Bank Financed Project Operational
Manual, used for all projects, was revised to incorporate the FEWHIP-AF requirements. The
same Disbursement Procedures used for the original Project will continue to be used for this
Additional Financing. Details o f minimum application size and documentation to be submitted
for disbursement purposes are provided in the Disbursement Letters.

                                 Table 4: Allocation o f Proposed Loan

                                         Amount o f the Loan    Percentage of Expenditures to be Financed
         Expenditure Category
                                          Allocated (US%)                  (inclusive o f Taxes)
I (1)Civil Works, Goods, Consultant            27,930,000                         80%                        I
 Services, Training and Incremental
 Operating Costs
 (2) Front-end Fee                                 70,000      Amount payable pursuant to Section 2.03 o f
                                                               this Agreement in accordance with Section
                                                               2.07(b) o f the General Conditions
 (3) Premia for Interest Rate Caps and                   0     Amount due under Section 2.07(c) o f this
 Interest Rate Collars                                         Aueement
 Total                                         28,000,000

33.    Disbursements from the Loan would be made only for eligible expenditures and
payments made on or after October 2, 2009. Retroactive financing would not exceed an
aggregate amount o f US$5.5 million. All contracts procured under the retroactive financing must
have been procured following procurement and safeguards procedures acceptable to the Bank.

34.      Social: The FEWHIP-AF will rehabilitate the Rikoti tunnel and repair the by-pass road.
These activities will not require the acquisition o f any land or private property. The by-pass road
is about 4.2 km and passes through state-owned forest. However, OP 4.12 i s triggered as a
prudent measure in the event that: (i)    additional land is required for temporary facilities during
the Rikoti tunnel rehabilitation; or (ii)   further by-pass road widening i s required to cater for
higher traffic flows or a different traffic management plan. Under the current detailed design, the
repairs to the by-pass road will be conducted within the existing right-of-way, which i s
unencumbered. Only one permanent structure and some kiosks exist on top o f the by-pass, none
o f these will be affected by the repairs. Most o f the kiosks are recently built in anticipation o f


                                                     8
     increased business during the tunnel closure. A Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was
     disclosed on September 23,2009 and will be used if land must be acquired.

  35.    Environment: The FEWHIP-AF i s classified as Category B for Environmental
  Assessment, because the tunnel and by-pass road are existing and rehabilitation would not
  transform the landscape or have a substantial or irreversible impact on the natural environment.
  Tunnel rehabilitation will improve tunnel ventilation, enhance earthquake resistance, and
  improve lighting, drainage, and safety. Upgrading the by-pass road will widen curves, improve
  road surfaces, and increase traffic safety and road capacity. An Environmental Impact
  Assessment (EIA) was carried out for the proposed works and disclosed in Georgia on
  September 17, 2009; the EIA was submitted to the Bank's InfoShop on September 18, 2009. A
  consultative meeting was held on September 28, 2009, and the final EIA was disclosed on
  October 1,2009.

     36.  Environmental issues expected during construction works include generating large
  quantities o f surplus materials from tunnel rehabilitation and by-pass road improvements, and
  ground water outflow from the tunnel. Disposing o f fragments o f existing asbestos pipes and
  ensuring safe working conditions inside the tunnel during i t s rehabilitation are important.
  Mitigation measures to address these and other smaller impacts from the construction and
  operation phases are provided in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP), as part o f the
  contract documents. The Project contains a dated covenant that the RD environmental team will
  be established as a separate unit with trained staff responsible for supervising and monitoring
  environmental comp~iance.~

  VI.      Expected Outcomes

  37.    The Results Matrix i s revised to reflect changes in the PDO and new indicators are
  incorporated. The revised "Arrangements for Results Monitoring" i s attached as Annex 1.

                                    Revised Results Framework
                   (only new additions introduced under the Project are included)

                                              Results Framework


                                                                                        Information
The project development objectives (PDO):
(i)to contribute to the gradual reduction of
road transport costs and improve access, ease Rikoti Tunnel meeting safety standards
o f transit, and safety along the central part of
Georgia`s East-West corridor, through
upgrading segments o f the East-West
Highway from Tbilisi to Rikoti, including
rehabilitation o f Rikoti Tunnel.


 9
  The EMP compliance has been generally good under the original Project. Most civil works were completed in a
 sound manner. Tasks remaining include landscaping, restoring the borrow pits, and ensuring replacement trees
 survive. The time remaining for the Project will be used to implement these activities.

                                                         9
(ii) to strengthen the capacity o f the
government, Roads Department and the local
road construction industry to plan and better
manage the road network.
                                                                                        Use o f Intermediate
                                                                                        Outcome Monitoring
Component 1                                     Component 1
Rehabilitation o f the Rikoti Tunnel            Rikoti Tunnel rehabilitated
                                                By-pass road repaired
Component 2
Road Sector InstitutionalDevelopment and
Capacity Building

         Develop framework for highway          Rest area framework and feasibility
         rest areas in Georgia                  study completed and a business plan
                                                developed to pilot test the
                                                recommended approach on the East-
                                                West Highway and border crossings

        Implement road management               Road management system operational
        system                                  and populated with data

        New road and traffic safety law         Road and traffic safety law drafted

        Strengthening of Technical              Laboratories for Technical University
        Universitv                              equipped and used in teaching


 VII.     Benefits and Risks

 38.     The proposed financing for the Rikoti Tunnel addresses an urgent need: the tunnel is
 unsafe for road users and requires rehabilitation. Bank involvement would ensure that the
 rehabilitation i s technically sound and meets safety standards. A firm with international expertise
 on tunnel engineering i s preparing the tunnel design. Under the TEWHIP, the RD established a
 Technical Audit unit to support Project implementation. A "Technical Advisory Panel" will be
 assembled and can be brought in on specific issues. The Bank team includes a tunnel specialist.
 The technical risk i s moderate and manageable. The only significant risk i s that the rehabilitation
 could take longer than planned due to unanticipated technical challenges or traffic management
 issues. Remedial work could be more extensive than anticipated after the tunnel lining i s opened,
 and the Project includes contingencies to cover unforeseen technical design changes. Overall, the
 benefits o f the FEWHIP-AF outweigh any potential risks.

  VIII. Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing

 39.    The lending instrument is a Specific Investment Loan (SIL). The FEWHIP-AF will be an
 IBRD Flexible Loan in U Dollars with an interest rate equal to 6 months LIBOR, plus variable
                           S
 spread with final maturity o f 30 years, including a grace period o f 5 years.

 40.     There i s one effectiveness condition for the FEWHIP-AF: "The Borrower has taken all
 actions necessary for staffing the FPU with professional specialists in adequate numbers whose


                                                          10
qualifications, experience and terms o f reference are satisfactory to the Bank for proper Project
implementation."

41.    All project covenants applying to the original project will apply to the FEWHIP-AF,
except for dated covenants that were already met. Additional terms include the following:

   0   an Additional Event o f Suspension consists o f the following: that the Borrower shall
       have failed to notify, and provide adequate information to the Bank before entering into a
       concession agreement for the operation and maintenance o f the East- West Highway,
       including the Rikoti Tunnel, financed under the Project, or the Bank shall have raised
       objections to the Borrower entering into such agreement;
   0   the Borrower shall permit the use o f standards for construction, planning and design o f
       highways adopted by the European Union (in addition to national standards), acceptable
       to the Bank, in the design, construction,and maintenance o f road works under the Project;
       the Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary resources are made available for the
       maintenance o f the Rikoti tunnel after the completion o f the rehabilitation works.; and
   0   the Borrower shall, by not later than April 10, 2010, establish within RD: (a) a traffic
       safety unit; (b) an environmental unit; and (c) a land acquisition unit with staff whose
       qualifications, experience, and terms o f reference are satisfactory to the Bank.




                                               11
    f
    0
    E
    W
    x




*
M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 37167
                     40° E                                                       41° E                                                                                      42° E                                                                                  43° E                                                                              44° E                                                                   45° E                                                                    46° E



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GEORGIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FIRST EAST WEST HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
              To                                                                                                                                                     RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                         ADDITIONAL FINANCING
            Sotchi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT TUNNEL UNDER ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                                                                      EAST WEST ROAD CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MAIN ROADS
                                    Gagra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ROAD SECTIONS UPGRADED:                                                                                                                                        SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UNDER THE THIRD EAST WEST HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                       RAILWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UNDER THE SECOND EAST WEST HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (EWHIP-2)                                                                                            RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UNDER THE FIRST EAST WEST HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (EWHIP-1)                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
43° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALTERNATIVE ROUTES AROUND THE RIKOTI TUNNEL                                                                                                                    MAIN CITIES
                                                                                  Sukhumi                                                                                                                                                         Mestia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Engu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         43° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To Vladikavkaz
                                                                                                                                            Tkvarcheli

                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                   Dzvari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kazbegi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Oni




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  li
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               isc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ri on i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ambrolauri                         107.8 km




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ch
                                                                                                                                                               Zugdidi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Martvili
                                        B l a c k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gvi                                                                                                              RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Khoni                                                                    Sachkhere                       K v ir il
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tskaltubo                     Tkibuli
                                                                                                                                                                                   Senaki                                                       Kutaisi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tchiatura                           Rikoti Tunnel                                                                                                                                                                              FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Tskhinvali




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ior
                                            S e a
                                                                                                                                                                        Ri on i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sveneti ­ Ruisi
                                                                                                                                Poti                                                                           Samtredia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Igoeti ­ Agaiani




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  let
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Zestaponi                                                                                 Ruisi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ate
                                                                                                                                                                                  Chokhatauri                                                                              Dzirula




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            um
42° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sveneti                                                                                                                                                                                      42° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kharagauli                                                                                                                                      Akhmeta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gomi                                                  Igoeti                                                                           Al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   az
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gori                                                                                                                 an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Khashuri                                                             Agaiani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l

                                                                                                                                                                            Ozurgeti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Telavi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        51.6 km                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lagodekhi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Borjomi                                                                                                     Mtskheta
                                                                                                                                     Kobuleti                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sveneti ­ Igoeti                                 Zagesi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        K   ura                                                                                                                                                                             Gurjaani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ri (                                                                                                 TBILISI                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             kva
                                                                                                                           Batumi                                                                                                                                                       Mt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Zagatala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Akhaltsikhe                                                                                                                                                          Ponitchala                         Ior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i
        40° E                                                            41° E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rustavi
                                                                                                                   Sarpi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Marneuli              Gardabani                                                                  Dedoplistskaro
        UKRAINE                                                         K AZAK H STA N
                                                                                                                                    roki




                                                                                                                   To Trabzon
                                                                                                                                  Cho




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Akhalkalaki                                                                                                           Vakhtangisi
                                      RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Red Bridge
                                    FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Gazah         M tk va ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A la za n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (K
   Black         Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ur                                             Ior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a)                                              i

                                            GEORGIA
                                                                  Caspian
                                                                                                                                                                                                     TURKEY                                                                                                                                                                      To Tashir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Alaverdi
                                                                       Sea
                                            TBILISI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 41° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Gyumri
                                                                                            TURKMENISTAN




                                                                                                           41° N
                                               AR




                                                          AZERBAIJAN
                                                ME
                                                    NIA




                                                                                                                     T h i s ma p wa s p r o d u ce d b y th e M a p D e si g n Un i t o f T h e Wo r l d B a n k .
                T U R K E Y                                                                                          T h e b o u n d a r i e s , co l o r s , d e n o mi n a ti o n s a n d a n y o th e r i n f o r ma ti o n        0              15         30                45
                                                                                                                     s h o wn o n th i s ma p d o n o t i mp l y, o n th e p a r t o f T h e Wo r l d B a n k                                                                                                                                                                                ARMENIA
                                                                                                                     G r o u p , a n y j u d g me n t o n th e l e g a l sta tu s o f a n y te r r i to r y, o r a n y
                                                                                                                     e n d o r s e me n t o r a cce p ta n ce o f s u ch b o u n d a r i e s .                                                        KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AZERBAIJAN
                     SYRIAN ARAB REP.        IRAQ            ISLAMIC REP. OF IRAN                                                                                42° E                                                                                          43° E                                                                                     44° E                                                                   45° E                                                                        46° E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEPTEMBER 2009
