_  | t  \  \ kJ 19                                         RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-560b
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
TUNISIA
January 19, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1 = 0.520 Dinars (520 Millimes)
D 1 = 1,000 Millimes = US $1.923
D 1,000,000 = US $1,923,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



T U N I S I A
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..
I.  INTRODUCTION  .  .  .  .  .  .*.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .*. *   .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  . .  1
II.  BACKGROUND INFORNATION . . . . . . . .  .. .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .
III.  THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * * * * . *. 2
As  General*  ............. -  e  ,  o  a  a  o  a -o   a  e  9 ................a...   2
B. Land Tenure and Cooperatives.   .g.     . .   ..  e...      2
C. Mechanization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Do Livestock. .   * . . e . . . e a  a . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
E.  Extension and Research ae*e@*g        ee4.....*            4
F. Marketing. . . . . . . a . . .       e .  .   e . . . .  .  5
IV.  THE  PROJECT . o  . .   .   .  .   .  .  . .   .   .  o  . ..   .  .  .   .   .   .e.  .e..  5
A.  General Description. . . a . . . . . . . . * . .  .* * . . a 5
B.  Detailed Featureso . . . . . . a , . . . . , . . . . . . . . 6
C. Cost Estimates . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   a  7
D. Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a   . .  . . . . . . 9
E. Operating Results. . . . . . . . . . . . . * * . . . . . . . 9
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT. . . . . .  e. e e e.              11
VI* PROCUREMENT. . . . . . . . .   . a . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
VII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONSo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
This report is based on the findings of a mission in June 1966
to Tunisia composed of Messrs. P.C. Goffin, C.P. McMeekan (Consultant),
A.M. van Nimmen, and G. de Brichambaut (FAO). It was prepared by
Messrs. Goffin, McMeekan and van Nimmen.



ANNEXES
1. Land Tenure
2. Organization and Management of Cooperative Units
3, The Office des Terres Domaniales (OTD)
4. The Office National de Motoculture et de Mise en Valeur Agricole
5. Marketing and Prices
6. The Banque Nationale Agricole (BNA)
7. List of Goods
8. Cashflow Projection
9. Gross Receipts
10. Decree No. 67-2 of January 2, 1967 Concerning the Agricultural Coopera-
tion Commission
11. Ministerial Circular of December 22, 1966 Setting up the Bureau of
Control (Organization Chart of the Undersecretariat of State for Agri-
culture)
12. Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
MAP 1
MAP 2
MAP 3



T U N I S I A
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Tunisia has requested a loan/credit to help
finance a cooperative farming project as part of its program of organizing
agricultural and livestock production.
ii.       This program is essentially an exercise in agrarian reform whereby
the benefits of the economies of scale are provided to the traditional sub-
sistence level smallholder and to farm workers by integrating traditional
smallholdings and State-owned land, farmed on a mechanized cereal cropping
pattern, into large cooperative units.
iii.      The Project would establish new production cooperatives over a
two-year period on about 160,000 ha in Northern Tunisia, the most productive
zone of the country. It would also consolidate development of 213 existing
cooperatives on 185,000 ha and provide additional capital inputs to State
farms intended for eventual absorption into the cooperative movement. The
new cooperative would introduce livestock as a major element in production.
iv.       The Project would be managed by a new organization, comprising a
high-level National Commission having overall control and a management unit
(Bureau of Control) with a direct chain of command from the Commission to
the field level.
v.        The cooperatives would be financed by loans from the Banque
Nationale Agricole (BNA) from funds derived from Government and the proposed
loan/credit. BNA would act as financial agent of the Commission and would
audit the cooperatives' accounts.
vi.       Investments financed under the Project would include farm build-
ings, livestock buildings, farm machinery, irrigation equipment, tree crop
establishment, range pasture improvement, soil and water conservation,
livestock, management and technical assistance and feasibility studies.
The total investment cost would be about US$32.5 million, of which 30 per
cent would be for existing cooperatives, 62 per cent for new cooperatives
and 8 per cent for State farms. The proposed Bank loan of US$12 million
and an IDA credit of US$6 million would cover 55 per cent of the total
investment cost. The foreign exchange component would amount to about 38
per cent of the total project cost.
vii.      The Project would move a large number of subsistence farmers to
a cash economy status. The average annual net return to the economy would
be about 10 per cent.
viii.     The Project is technically feasible and economically justified
if executed as projected. The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$12
million, at the standard rate of interest and with a term of 18 years,
including five years of grace, and for an IDA credit of US$6 million on
normal IDA terms.



T U N I S I A
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Tunisia has requested a Bank loan and an IDA
credit to help finance the formation and development of Agricultural Units
of Production (cooperatives) in Northern Tunisia. The Government proposes
to establish cooperatives on some one million hectares of land comprising
ex-colon farms and "traditional" smallholdings adjacent to the former.
The total program is phased over about 10 years. The area involved lies
in the Northern Governorates of Tunis, Bizerte, Beja, Djendouba, Le Kef
and Nabeul (Map 1).
2.        This report is based on the supporting documents of the loan/
credit application from the Government of Tunisia and on the findings of a
mission in June 1966 to Tunisia composed of Messrs. P.C. Goffin, C.P.
McMeekan (Consultant), A.M. van Nimmen and G. de Brichambaut (FAO). The
FAO mission which visited Tunisia in October-November 1964t, and a Bank
mission which visited Tunisia in October-November 1965 assisted the Govern-
ment of Tunisia in the preparation of the Project. This report was prepared
by Messrs. McMeekan, Goffin and van Nimmen.
II. BACKGROUND INFORMATION
3.        Agricultural production represents about 25 per cent of Tunisia's
gross national product and agricultural products about 60-65 per cent of
total exports. Over 50 per cent of the labor force is employed in agricul-
ture. Population is 4.5 million with an annual rate of growth of about
2.5 per cent. Annual per capita income is about US$180.
4.        The principal crops are hard and soft wheat, barley, olives,
grapes, citrus, dates and other fruits and vegetables. The most important
export crops are olives, grapes (wine), wheat, citrus and other fruits and
vegetables. The annual growth rate of agricultural production is currently
assessed at 2.4 per cent per year. Farming is practiced with varying
degrees of intensity over four million hectares (9.8 million acres). This
represents a little over one hectare (2.47 acres) of cultivated land per
inhabitant, which is rather low. Over much of the country the scope for
development is severely limited by natural conditions. While the northern
area lends itself to a Mediterranean type of agriculture, the land gradually
deteriorates through the central area to desertic conditions in the South.
Rinfall varies from 1,000 mm to 400 mm from north to central Tunisia.
5.        The northern area of Tunisia is served with an extensive network
of paved roads and gravel feeder roads. The principal towns of the area
are also connected by railroad.



- 2 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
6.        Northern Tunisia is the area with the best climate and soils.   The
Project traverses the large cereal and livestock sector of the country. It
is rainfed. The cereal belt includes the Great Plains with 400 to 600 mm
rainfall. Livestock are raised mainly in the more hilly and mountainous
regions of higher rainfall. The production potential is good.
B. Land Tenure and Cooperatives
7.        Land is held under four main tenure systems:   (1) Melkland of
traditional smallholders operating largely on a subsistence level; (2) pi-
vate (modern) farmland held in units of economic size and farmed by more
sophisticated Tunisian farmers using modern techniques; (3) State land
farmed on a large-scale, mechanized basis mainly for cereal production by
the Office des Terres Domaniales (OTD); and (4) Cooperative Production
Units (CPU's), the farming cooperatives. Most of the useable land in the
project area is held by traditional smallholders, Extent of this and of
the other forms of tenure are indicated in Annex 1. Annexes 2 and 3 give
further details of the CPU's and the OTD, respectively.
8.        Historically, cooperative farming was commenced in 1961.   By the
end of 1965, 213 cooperative units were farming about 185,000 ha with
approximately 15,000 members. This growth of cooperatives, from 1962 to
1966, was as follows:
---------Number of Hectares--------
Year      Cooperatives     Members     Melkland     State Land       Total
1962           15              530        4,804        3,661          8,h65
1963           80            6,057       41,406        2h,357        65,763
1964           51            3,288       20,944       18,855         39,799
1965           67            5,237       51,000       20,548         71,548
Total         213           15,112      118,154       67,421        185,575
9.        Essentially, the planned change to production cooperatives repre-
sents the Tunisian Government's approach to agrarian reform. The interest of
this approach lies in the fact that it is the direct opposite of that adopted
by many countries which commonly subdivide large land holdings into small,
individual lots. The Tunisian program is to eliminate subsistence small-
holdings through the cooperative system.
10.       Cooperatives are founded around a nucleus "Colon Estate" (taken
over by Government from former French or Italian settlers) by adding
adjoining Melkland (traditional smallholdings) to bring each cooperati e



- 3 -
unit up to about 1,000 ha. A key feature is the extension of the economies
of scale to the traditional sector. The land is farmed mainly for cereal
production (hard and soft wheat) with some forage and tree crops on suitable
land. It is intended to integrate livestock production based on forage
which will replace fallow in the present mixed cropping pattern.
C. Mechanization
11.       The ex-colon lands previously owned by expatriates were highly
mechanized with tractors, implements, and combine harvesters. With the
commencement of the cooperatives in 1961, the Government, with the assist-
ance of U.S.AID, has modernized much of the old equipment.
12.       Concurrent servicing facilities were not provided. During 196h/65
Government built 16 agricultural machinery workshops, 12 of which are in
the project area. They are operated by a government agency, the Office
National de Motoculture et de Mise en Valeur Agricole (Annex 4 and Map 2).
13.       During 1966, negotiations were completed with U.S AID for finance
totaling about US$1 million to assist in equipping and staffing these work-
shops. U.S.AID has contracted four French-speaking Canadian agricultural
engineers to set up the servicing organization, to supervise it and to train
staff. The services of these workshops will be used by cooperatives at
negotiated prices.
D. Livestock
14.       Most of the nation's one half million head of cattle and about
1.5 million sheep (one third) are in the project area. Production follows
the traditional pattern of smallholder operation by stockowners, who see
greater merit in numbers of animals than in per animal output.   Animals
are regarded as capital from which animal output is less important than the
asset itself. Livestock thus tend to be scavengers subsisting on the fringe
of a cropping economy. Tunisian farmers have not yet become good husband-
men in a modern sense though this is not true of the small private, modern
sector.
15.       The establishment of cooperatives sets the stage for a completely
new approach. The large output of forages (oats and vetches, beans, sorghum,
alfalfa, etc.) under the new cropping system makes available suitable food
in quantity for improved animal production. While cooperatives can sell
and have sold these fodders to independent producers, this outlet has limited
scope and suffers from the disadvantage that the cooperative does not derive
the full potential. The use of forage within the cooperative is highly
desirable not only to maximize returns, but to exploit fully the labor
intensive character of livestock enterprises. Such use too provides a
practical way of overcoming the husbandry weaknesses. Centralized animal
production units under competent professional supervision using unskilled
labor of members can achieve modern level production efficiency.



- 4 -
16.       So far, cooperatives have not integrated livestock production in
this way save in a few cases. Members have strongly resisted attempts to
bring their livestock into the cooperative. This approach has not been
pressed.  Sufficient progress has been made, however, with purchased animals
both on State and cooperative farms to show that this alternative is feasible.
Accordingly, it is now being concentrated upon as a major feature of the
Project.
17.       Essentially a small herd of milking cows of local origin is
acquired. This is increased in numbers by breeding up to the estimated
capacity of the cooperative and graded up in quality by the use of imported
sires through artificial insemination. Concurrently, fattening operations
involving purchased calves and surplus homebred male calves are established.
Calves are grown from four to five months to twelve to fifteen months for
sale as meat. Older cattle may be purchased to add 50 to 100 kg liveweight
prior to sale for slaughter. Smiliar sheep fattening operations are carried
out. Most animals will be fed in centralized housing units. Some 14
cooperatives and many of the State farms are now operating along these lines.
18.       The results obtained indicate that cooperative members can care
for livestock efficiently when properly supervised and that the financial
returns are high. The greatest bottleneck to more rapid implementation of
the program is the lack of trained personnel and the lack of suitable
sources of finance for livestock purchases. The Government intends to
train additional people as rapidly as possible and to provide the necessary
additional finance.
E. Extension and Research
19.       Extension services to cooperatives are provided by the Under-
secretariat of State for Agriculture as part of its overall extension service
obligation. The rate of staffing of the services to cooperatives is adequate.
For each Governorate, one Regional Commissioner of Agriculture is in charge.
This officer supervises cooperative unit teams consisting of five to six
agricultural assistants headed by one professional agriculturist for each
unit group of about 20 cooperatives.
20.       The quality of the advisory and supervisory work is not good.
Graduate level operators are young and inexperienced. Assistants are also
young with lower level training. Both groups are keen and prepared to
accept responsibility. The State farms are better off since OTD employs
a number of expatriate agriculturists and animal husbandmen who do a very
efficient job in both direct extension and in training local counterparts.
The position of the cooperatives should improve when similar personnel
become available to them as provided for as part of the Project (see para 43).
21.       The authorities are aware of this general situation and are par-
ticularly conscious of the lack of livestock technicians. The problem is
being met in various ways. Two schools train men at senior and junior
levels, respectively. Both concentrate on agriculture. One center for



animal production training operates with assistance from Germany. Its out-
put could be stepped up to supply field needs of cooperatives. Overseas
veterinary training of some 10 selected Tunisians is in progress. Similar
overseas training in animal production should be organized.
22.       On the research side an agricultural research station and a live-
stock center are supported by Government. Both have accumulated data rang-
ing back to former French administration times. Both are currently suffering
from lack of experienced personnel. Work is not oriented sufficiently
closely to current national needs. Thus, little attention is being devoted
to fertilizer use to permit cooperatives to increase cereal yields. Animal
studies are particularly academic and need to be reoriented toward more
useful objectives. In particular, improved methods of utilizing available
and new forage in a practical way need investigation. UNDP assistance is
being sought to improve the overall agricultural and animal research situa-
tion.
F. Marketing
23.       Prior to independence, export surpluses went mainly to France
under special tariff and price conditions so that marketing presented no
real problems. The French market virtually disappeared in 1964, creating
serious difficulties particularly for wine and olives. Solution has been
sought by both Governments and limited exports of agricultural products
have been resumed. Export of hard wheat to world markets has continued at
prices about 20 per cent below the official support price.
24.       While the cooperatives are not currently involved in wine produc-
tion, they could be so, should State farms producing grapes be absorbed.
However, this appears unlikely. Most of the cooperative production under
the Project would be wheat and animal products, the bulk of which can be
absorbed by the local market. There is an expanding market for milk and
dairy production capable of absorbing the output planned. Currently, the
equivalent of 70,000 tons of milk is imported annually. Currently also,
Tunisia is an importer of meat. The outlook for olives and olive oil is
uncertain, dependent upon the conclusion of negotiations with France and
the Common Market countries (Annex 5).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
25.       The Project is a part of a ten-year national program to integrate
and develop about one million hectares of State and smallholder land into
a cooperative farming system in the northern zone of Tunisia, and has three
main parts: (1) the consolidation of the 213 cooperatives on about 185,000
ha established prior to 1966; (2) the establishment during the period Sep-
tember 1966 to September 1968 of new cooperatives on about 160,000 ha, each



- 6 -
on about 1,000 ha; and (3) the maintaining of productivity on State (OTD)
farms during their pre-cooperative stage. The Project would be implemented
substantially over a four-year period. It would cost a total of about
US$32.5 million involving a foreign exchange component of US$12.4 million
(about 38 per cent).
26.       The Project is about half the size requested by the Government.
Scaling down is justifiable on the score of organization and managerial
difficulties (Section V) and was agreed to by government representatives
during appraisal. Even the reduced scale involves greater annual rate of
progress in cooperative formation than achieved during the past five years.
27.       The Project is geared to the production of hard and soft wheat as
the major cash crop supplemented by forage crops and livestock. Replacement
of fallow by forage crop production for utilization by animals represents
a significant change in the traditional land-use pattern in the project
area. Livestock production would be implemented by the establishment of
centralized animal units for milk production and/or the fattening of sheep
and cattle (paras 15-18). The Project would make provision for the pro-
duction of tree crops (olives, almonds, citrus and other fruits) on selected
areas of some cooperatives.  Some vegetable production would occur on
limited irrigated areas on suitable cooperatives.
B. Detailed Features
Existing Cooperatives
28.       The 213 existing cooperatives, many of which have been hastily
established, and few (para 16) of which have yet been organized to embrace
livestock production, require additional inputs to bring them into full
productivity. Farm machinery and small-scale irrigation equipment to pump
underground water for sprinkler irrigation are required. The major need,
however, is for farm buildings, largely for centralized livestock production
and for a revolving capital fund for livestock purchases for fattening.
Provision is also made for the establishment of tree crops and the regener-
ation of range pasture land. The total estimated cost is US$9.8 million,
or about 30 per cent of the total project cost (para 33).
New Cooperatives
29.       These average about 1,000 ha, including a central core of State
(OTD) farmland with a variable proportion of smallholder land (about 60
per cent). The cooperative would take over the buildings and much of the
equipment of the State unit, but would require considerable additional
capital inputs. These include farm machinery for large-scale mechanized
grain production and harvesting, forage harvesting equipment, small-scale
pumping and sprinkler irrigation facilities, farm buildings, including
centralized livestock production units, as well as finance for tree crop
establishment and the regeneration of range pasture land. Finance would
also be provided for livestock purchases, including some imported males of
dairy breeds for grading-up of local stock.



- 7 -
30.       In addition to capital inputs of this type, technical assistance
for supervision and management would be necessary, along with finance for
feasibility studies by contracted consultants. Personnel provided under
technical assistance (para 43) would service all cooperatives. However,
the total estimated cost of establishing the new cooperatives would be
about US$20 million, or about 62 per cent of the total project cost (para
33).
31.       Some 106 new cooperatives were established late in 1966 on about
123,000 ha, of which about 91,000 were Melkland, and 32,000 State land; of
this total,however, some 20,000 ha are wasteland, leaving only 103,000 ha
of cultivable land. This first tranche of new cooperatives under the
Project has approximately 8,600 members. No capital inputs for this tranche
have yet been authorized pending the result of the loan/credit application;
in the meantime, the machinery from the Office de Motoculture (ON) is being
used over the whole of the new cooperatives.
State (OTD) Farms
32.       It is intended to absorb most State (OTD) farms into the coopera-
tive system as and when this becomes administratively and financially
feasible. In the interim, during what might be termed the "pre-cooperative
phase", it is highly desirable to maintain efficient production on the
300,000 ha of such land in the project area. Even more important, it is
desirable to extend forage crop and livestock production on all State farms
so that they may be better prepared for eventual transfer to the cooperative
system. Currently, the State farms are well managed by OTD whose operations
as a whole are profitable (Annex 3 and Map 3). However, much machinery is
old. Capital for replacement would be provided under the Project. The
total estimated cost is about US$2.7 million, or about eight per cent of
the total project cost (para 33).
C. Cost Estimates
33.       The total investment cost to the Project and the proposed extent
of Bank participation are as summarized on the next page:



- 8 -
Cost Estimates and Bank Financing
--------------Project Cost-------------
Of Which    Proposed
Dinars      Equivalent to    Foreign     Bank/IDA
(millions)    US$ Millions     Exchange    Financing*
....(US$ millions)...
A. Existing Cooperatives
Buildings                    1.4            2.7             0.4          2.1
Farm machinery               0.7             1.3            1.0          1.1
Irrigation equipment         0.7            1.3             0.5          1.0
Tree crops                   0.9            1.7            --            --
Pasture -/                   0.6            1.2             --           --
Cattle purchase              0.5            1.0             --
Sheep purchase               0.3             0.6            --           --
Subtotal        5.1            9.8             1.9          4.2
B. New Cooperatives
Buildings                    1.0            1.8             0.3          1.4
Farm machinery               4.1             7.9            6.0          6.3
Irrigation equipment         1.6            3.0             1.2          2.4
Tree crops 1/                1.0            1.8             --           --
Pasture                      0.9            1.7             --           --
Sheep purchase               0.2             0.5            __           __
Cattle purchase             )              ( 0.7            --           --
Imported bulls of          ) 0.4           (
dairy breeds              )              ( 0.1            0.1          0.1
Water & soil conser-
vation                     0.4            0.8             --           --
TechnicaL,services 3/        0.4             0.9            0.4          0.7
Studies 4/                   0.5             0.9            0.5          0.7
Subtotal       10.5           20.1             8.5         11.6
C. State Farms
Farm machinery               1.4             2.7            2.0          2.2
Total       17.0           32.5           12.4          18.0
Percentage        --             100            38.3         55.2
1/ Mainly planting material.
2/ Regeneration of existing pasture land.
3/ Salaries and other costs of expatriate and local supervisory staff.
JT/ Feasibility studies prepared by consultants.
* The Bank/IDA would finance 80 per cent of the total cost of all items
involving foreign exchange.



-9-
D. Financing
3h.       All funds required for the Project would be channeled through the
Banque Nationale Agricole (BNA) (Annex 6). These funds will be passed on
to the cooperatives and the State (OTD) farms at a uniform interest rate of
six per cent per annum, according to the following terms:
1) For cooperatives: average term of 13 years (never exceed-
ing 17 years), with a grace period normally of four years
(and never exceeding five years).
2) For State (OTD) farms: maximum term of five years with
no grace period.
Of the interest charged, two per cent will be kept by BNA to cover operating
expenses and to build up a fund for meeting bad debts. This commrission is
considered sufficient in view of the fact that BNA will only bear 15 per
cent of the risk of nonrepayment of debts in the case of loans to coopera-
tives and none of the risk in the case of loans to the State (OTD) farms.
Grants to be provided to the cooperatives for water and soil conservation
activities (see para 38) will be also channeled through BNA.
35.       It is proposed that a loan/credit be made available to the Govern-
ment in the amount of US$18 million, sufficient to cover some 55 per cent
of the total project cost. It is proposed that US$6 million should be an
IDA credit, on normal IDA terms, and that US$12 million should be a Bank
loan at the standard rate of interest for a term of 18 years, including
five years of grace. Disbursement of the loan/credit would be against
documentation comprising (1) invoices relating to all imported items in
the list of goods; and (2) documentation of local currency costs of items
in the list of goods which have been incurred by BNA. In all cases, dis-
bursements would amount to 80 per cent of the cost of each item in the list
of goods (Annex 7 and para 33).
36.       It is possible that the Govermment would be assisted by U.S.AID
in financing a revolving fund, in BNA, totaling about D 1.5 million, to
finance livestock purchases for fattening operations on a continuing basis.
U.S.AID officials both in Tunisia and Washington are currently working on
this possibility.
E. Operating Results
37.       Analysis of the financial accounts of the production units as of
August 31, 1964, shows that out of 95 cooperatives then in existence, 28
were making a profit and 67 a loss. Total losses for the fiscal year 1963/64
amounted to D 84,663. At August 31, 1965, of the existing 146 cooperatives,
103 were making a profit and 43 a loss for the fiscal year 1964/65. Profits
totaled D 360,546. Some of these accounts are not completely reliable,
because of the inefficient bookkeeping methods used. However, the accounts
do indicate a satisfactory rate of performance in view of the short period



- 10 -
since establishment, A major weakness apparent is that the volume of short-
term debt has grown substantially. At December 31, 1965, it amounted to
D 1,888,613 as against a total of D 1,977,337 for the long-term and medium-
term debt. It is clear that part of the expenditures for capital investment
has been financed with short-term money, both from BNA and from suppliers'
credits. The borrower has therefore decided to review the financial posi-
tion and prospects of all existing cooperatives, case by case, before the
end of 1968.  The object of this will be:
1) if necessary, to adjust the terms of any existing loans as
appropriate, for instance by conversion of some short-term
debts into longer-term debts; and
2) where the existing cooperative is not considered like'ly to
become profitable within a reasonable period, to draw up,
and then arrange the implementation of,a revised plan to
make it profitable.
In cases where it does not prove possible to draw up a revised plan to make
a particular cooperative profitable within a reasonable period, that coop-
erative will not receive additional capital inputs under the Project.
38.       Financially, the need to provide work for more members than
required by farming operations has been a severe burden on the cooperatives
which have had to accept loans from the Government to employ surp'2us labor
in specified water and soil conservation activities unrelated to production.
This cost should not therefore be a cooperative responsibility and the
Government has agreed that in future it would cover such activities with
direct grants, channeled through BNA.
39.       Subsidy elements (ranging from 10 to 50 per cent of the cost of
capital inputs) and variable interest rates (ranging from 1.5 to 6 per
cent) that are presently in existence are also undesirable, since they do
not allow the real development costs to be appreciated by the cooperatives.
The Government has therefore proposed that subsidy elements should be
withdrawn from capital inputs and that the standard interest rate specified
in paragraph 34 should be used in the Project.
40.       The cashflow projection for a typical cooperative of 1,000 ha,
taking into account the terms of the loans to be made available, and the
elimination of subsidies on capital inputs, is given in Annex 8. Estimated
gross receipts for such a cooperative are given in Annex 9. The cooperative
members will be moved from subsistence farming to the monetary economy.
Their net income will reach about D 40 in the first few years and will rise
to D 250 at full development.



- 11 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
41.       The organization and management of the production cooperatives
at the time of appraisal is explained in Annex 2. It was not satisfactory
at that time and is the key problem for this Project. The Government has
since taken some major steps to improve the situation, including the estab-
lishment of a high-level policy-making National Commission for Agricultural
Cooperation (Annex 10), the setting up of an executive Bureau of Control
with exclusive responsibility for supervising the management of the cooper-
atives (Annex 11) and the appointment of BNA as sole financial agent of the
Government for the Project. The remodeled organizational arrangements for
the sulpervision of the management of cooperatives is shown diagramatically
in the chart of Annex 11.
42.       The National Commission was set up by Presidential Decree of
January 2, 1967. It has overall control of policy for all the cooperatives
and its members represent all the major interested parties. In particular,
it has the responsibility of deciding the pace of formation of new cooper-
atives (which will be within the agreed definition of the Project) and to
decide the needs of the cooperatives, as well as the means for putting the
cooperative development program into effect.
43.       The Bureau of Control has been established within the Under-
secretariat of State for Agriculture in accordance with a Ministerial
Circular of December 22, 1966. The Bureau has exclusive responsibility,
under the Commission, for supervising the management of cooperatives and
should be an effective coordinator of all the various services presently
being provided to them. Arrangements have been made for the appointment
in the near future of managerial and technical experts satisfactory to the
Bank and IDA. These experts, who are expected to be recruited abroad and
to have Tunisian counterparts, would be contracted for about four years
and would comprise one senior agricultural production economist, four
assistant production economists and four animal production spec-ialists.
44.      The Bureau will be specifically charged with reviewing the
feasibility reports prepared on new cooperatives by consultants (see Annex 2,
para 4). Only after accepting the cooperatives' potential economic viability
on the basis of this report will the Bureau recommend the necessary financing
to BNA, who will only be able to make loans to cooperatives after such a
recommendation has been received. The Bureau will then be responsible for
the organizing of the new cooperatives.
45.       In regard to the supervision of the management of existing coop-
eratives and of the new cooperatives once established, the Bureau would
actually delegate the execution of some tasks to existing organisms. But
the Bureau would retain the responsibility to see that this execution is
carried out according to its directives and standards. Furthermore, it is
understood that in future no public or semipublic bodies will be permitted
to issue directives concerning the functions of the cooperatives except



- 12 -
through, or under the authority of, the Bureau. The Bureau will only make
recommendations to BNA to finance those cooperatives that meet the Bureau's
standards of management, whose farm plans, budgets and investment plans
have been approved by the Bureau, whose financial records are kept in
accordance with the Bureau's standards and that are following the technical
advice given out by, or under the authority of, the Bureau.
46.       The Bureau will be responsible for carrying out the reviews of
the financial positions and potentials of the existing cooperatives (see
para 37). It will also be responsible for putting into effect any recommen-
dations made by BNA for improving bookkeeping methods in the cooperatives,
which recommendations will be made as a part of the independent auditing
services to be provided by BNA.
47.       To enable BNA to carry out its role effectively arrangements are
being made to appoint one agricultural credit specialist satisfactory to
the Bank and IDA and to appoint three qualified accountants to work exclu-
sively on cooperative accounts. It is expected that the credit specialist
will be recruited abroad and will have a Tunisian counterpart.
48.       It is thought that the above arrangements, if strictly followed,
will lead to improved management of the cooperatives themselves. The
management situation should be closely watched by supervision missions
during the implementation of the Project, however, and the whole position
should be reviewed after one year's operations.
VI. PROCUREMENT
49.       The Government has an official tender system which provides for
competitive bidding. Foreign as well as domestic suppliers may submit
proposals. The calling of tenders is advertised in the large newspapers
of Tunis. A number of well-known international firms in agricultural
machinery and equipment are represented in Tunisia and are required to
provide after-sales service. These local trade channels are used for
procurement, and importations are normally under dealer licenses. Eval-
uation of tenders for items financed under the loan/credit would be decided
on sound economic criteria, but with a preferential margin allowed to local
producers of up to 15 per cent.
50.       A decree dated July 19, 1965, imposed restrictions on the import
of tractors in order to protect a new assembly plant in Tunisia. Assurances
have been obtained that the Government will exempt all tractors purchased
under the Project from the provisions of this decree, and will announce this
exemption in all tendering documents and related advertisements.



- 13 -
VII, ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
51.       Proposed investments on the 185,000 ha of existing cooperatives
should help to lift the gross receipts of these cooperatives from the present
level of D 19 per ha to approximately D 50 per ha (see Annex 9). Of this,
60 per cent would be derived from wheat and olives and 37 per cent from
animal products. Present net annual income on these cooperatives can be
estimated at D 12 per ha and will rise to approximately D 27 per ha when
the cooperatives are at full development, i.e. after 17 years of operations.
Yearly added value resulting from the presently envisaged investments in
the existing cooperatives will then amount to some D 2.8 million.
52.       The proposed investments in new cooperatives would also lead to
annual gross receipts of some D 50 per ha, similar in nature to the gross
receipts from the investment in already existing cooperatives. Considering
that present net annual income before creating these cooperatives can be
estimated at D 9 per ha and that it will rise to approximately D 27 per ha
when the cooperatives are at full development, yearly added value resulting
from this part of the Project will amount to about D 2.9 million.
53.       The investment in the new cooperatives would yield an annual rate
of return to the economy of about 10 per cent over a lifetime of 24 years
(see Annex 12).
5h.       The farm machinery investments in the State lands will generate
a satisfactory rate of return in line with the existing returns to mechanized
cereal farming on these lands. The total investments under this heading
represent a small part of the Project and of the total investment require-
ments of an on-going, profitable organization (see Annex 3).
55.       By the investment in the agricultural cooperatives, the coopera-
tive members will be moved from subsistence farming to the monetary economy.
Their net income will reach about D 40 in the first few years and will rise
to about D 250 when production reaches full development. This additional
purchasing power would stimulate the national economy. The Project is
economically justified.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
56.       The development of production cooperatives has become the estab-
lished policy of the Government of Tunisia in seeking more efficient land-
use. Appraisal has indicated that the new system is capable of raising the
low production of traditional land to a much higher level, of expanding
export earnings and of increasing the per capita income of the Tunisian
farmer.
57.       Attention should be drawn to the fact that with this Project, the
Bank and IDA would be entering a new field--that of production cooperatives.
Participation in the Project would be noted by countries interested in this



- 14 -
approach to agrarian reform either because of its ideological connotations
or its promise as an alternative to perpetuating the economic and sociolog-
ical inefficiency of subsistence-level smallholdings. The Bank and IDA
might therefore be faced with further requests for financing of a similar
type in even more difficult circumstances.
58.       Moreover, the weak incentives which characterize the functioning
of production cooperatives must be recognized. Historically, this defect
appears to have been a major reason for their relatively poor performance.
In practice, it has proved difficult to incorporate effective alternatives
to the incentive motive provided by private ownership and operation. This
makes successful performance of such an enterprise highly dependent on
organization, management and supervision.
59.       However, the Bank and IDA should be aware that in the case of
Tunisia, it has no alternative in the existing political climate if it
wishes to contribute significantly to the performance of the agricultural
sector of the economy. The Government is firmly committed to production
cooperatives. It is determined to make the system work and it is encourag-
ing that it has proved most amenable to suggestions made by the various
Bank missions that have reviewed the Project. The Bank/IDA mission has
formed the distinct impression that the existing senior administrators
regard the current concepts as "evolutionary" rather than "static." Par-
ticipation by the Bank and IDA could well stimulate changes in a useful
direction.
60.       If executed as outlined in this report, the Project is technically
feasible and economically justified. During the past two years, the
Tunisian cooperatives have made progress toward better management and are
prepared to strengthen their financial base, to have qualified personnel
and to take further measures to increase the efficiency of labor use. The
Tunisian Government has recently taken steps to improve the supervision of
the management of the cooperatives which should assist the improvement of
the management itself.
61.       The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$12 million, at the
standard rate of interest and with a term of 18 years, including five years
of grace, and for an IDA credit of US$6 million, on normal IDA terms.
January 19, 1967



ANNEX 1
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
Land Tenure
After nationalization of foreign property in May 1964, the presept
status of land tenure in Northern Tunisia is estimated to be as follows:
Agricultural Surface in Northerm Zone--1965
(in 1,000 ha)
Traditional agriculture           1,132
State land                          313
Modern (private) agriculture         150
Cooperative Production Units        185
Irrigation land outside CPU's        20
Total agricultural land           1,800
The traditional agriculture contains mostly small and scattered
holdings, farmed in the traditional, that is, more primitive, way with low
productivity.
According to the original development program, this land should
be transferred by 1973 to cooperatives. In the last four years, about
120,000 ha have been transferred. As holdings are small, scattered and in
many cases no firm title or even ownership is established, the transfer in
itself proves to be a very complicated and lengthy operation.
The State land, under the "Office des Terres Domaniales" (see
Annex 3), is largely land taken from French and Italian settlers, but also
consists of some previous public habous land (nontransferable land, the
revenues of which were used as a gift for public charities); the latter
might be of lower quality than the old colon land. A large part of this
State land, which contains some of the best large-scale farm areas, was
originally scheduled to be transferred by 1970 to serve as nucleus for the
formation of cooperatives out of State land plus traditional or private
land. VJhether this scheme of transfers will be realized as quickly as
planned is doubtful. The agricultural operations on the State lands have
been running fairly well and have assured an important part of the total
Tunisian agricultural production.
More recent measures indicate that some State land might also be
sold to private farmers.
1/ SOURCE:   Undersecretariat of State for Agriculture, Tunisia.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Modern (private) agriculture consists of the larger and in general
well-cultivated Tunisian holdings. In the program for agricultural develop-
ment this category is supposed to remain unchanged. This, in general, is
an important sector in Tunisian agriculture and further expansion either
from rent or ownership of traditional land or from buying State property
could be possible. Support of this sector, as well] as support of State and
cooperative agriculture, might be useful to give Tunisian agriculture the
necessary flexibility.
The Cooperative Production Units (CPU's), numbered 213 on 185,000
ha by the end of 1965 and are supposed to increase rapidly till a large
part of the traditional agriculture and most of the State land has been
organized in this way. The annual increase in acreage of CPU's for the
next five years, as foreseen in the Tunisian agricultural development plan,
varies from 150,000 ha to 180,000 ha a year. For 1966 alone this would be
equal to the program executed in the four preceding years. As explained
in this report this too ambitious tempo has been scaled down for the years
1966 and 1967 to about 160,000 ha for the two years taken together and will
be reviewed thereafter.
Irrigated land in the Medjerda Valley Authority forms most of a
limited section of irrigated agriculture, outside the production coopera-
tives. A slow and rather regular increase till a maximum of 90,000 ha in
1974 is expected.  So far the growth has been about 5,000 ha a year and the
subsequent increase planned may also prove to be too ambitious.
Summarizing, the agricultural program plans a transfer from State
land and traditional (that is small and backward) agriculture to cooperative
agriculture, maintaining a limited private sector and developing a limited
area of irrigated agriculture.
Land tenure structure is completely changed under the CPU. Here
farm units of about 700-1,200 ha are formed, consisting of a nucleus of
State-land (so far about 40%--usually an old colon farm) to which various
traditional holdings are attached so as to farm one well marked unit for
farming.
The State land remains State property for the first five years
when it is rented to the cooperative, and after this may be sold to the
members of the cooperative to increase their shareholding and with it the
profit-sharing and income capacity of these members. Traditional land is
attached and holders lose individual ownership, but receive a proportionate
share in the cooperative instead. Small private moderm farmers can be
included and then also receive a share for their land. A landowner within
the designated area of the cooperative can decline membership and in that
case either sell or rent his property to the cooperative. Larger private
owners are not obliged to become part of the cooperative, but may decide
so if they wish. The basic principle is that individual landownership is
transformed in share ownership and that the individual characteristic of a
holding disappears as it becomes part of the overall cultivation plan for



ANNEX 1
Page 3
the cooperative. Shares in the cooperative can be transferred to other
members or members-to-be of the cooperative or can be sold back to the
cooperative. The prices at which shares are or will be transferred are not
indicated in any of the regulations, but appear to be determined at the
moment of the transaction by each individual cooperative.
For his share, the farmer-landowner now receives the right to work
at the cooperative as far as work is available, at fixed rates, and to share
proportionately in the profit of the cooperative after deduction of the
amount paid out for work, and a contribution to legal reserves.
In practice, however, the transfer of some private holdings into
the cooperative has not been realized, which means that the cooperative
farm unit is in places broken up by other landholdings. Even in the older
Medierda Valley, land consolidation and transfer is still a problem. The
transfer problem should be more manageable with the reduction in scope of
the Project (see para 26 of the main report).
In the Medjerda organization some of the cooperatives have been
organized differently and after consolidation and reallocation the members
have an individual plot to take care of, with obvious advantages of incen-
tive for good farming.
Although the various decrees do not say so, a realistic appraisal
of the situation might in the future lead to the same kind of owmership in
the CPU's which would then become a kind of service cooperative with possible
extended powers for directives for production.
The other forms of land tenure in State land and larger modern
private holdings will be maintained.



ANNEX 2
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
Organization and Management of Cooperative Units*
The cooperatives included in the Project were, or will be, estab-
lished in accordance with Law 63-19 of 1963 which replaced the old Protec-
torate Law of 1934 on agricultural cooperatives. The new law is different
from most cooperative laws, as it leaves out the usual definition of a
voluntary organization of people to obtain a certain goal as a basic
description of a cooperative. Law 63-19 states the function of the coop-
eratives as ccamon utilization by farmers of all technical and economic
means to facilitate their agricultural production and to get the benefits
from the results of their activities.
The CPU (Cooperative Production Unit) is, next to the service
cooperative, one of the two forms recognized in the Law. There are three
kinds of CPU's foreseen in the Law: the production cooperatives for the
North, the ones for animal production and the cooperatives for mixed
farming. Only the first group is dealt with in the Project.
The statutes of each cooperative have to follow certain prescribed
rules and must be approved by the Secretariat of State for the Plan and the
National Economy which, through the Undersecretariats for Agriculture and
Finance, is in charge of the financial and technical supervision of the
cooperatives.
The constitution of a CPU originates at the Undersecretariats
for Agriculture and Finance after consultation with a Regional Commission
for Cooperatives. Future members (small farmers and agricultural labor)
also have to be consulted. Beforehand, the Undersecretariat for Agriculture
has investigated the size, location, land tenure, cultivation plan, economic
prospects (to reach a minimum income of D 250 per member family), etc., by
employing consultants to prepare a feasibility study based mainly on eco-
logical and economic considerations.
Once the area has been established, small farmers within these
boundaries have the option to become members of the cooperative, or to
exchange their parcel for a lot outside the cooperative. Larger landowners
can sell or rent their farms to the cooperative (see also Annex 1).
The cooperative therefore has three kinds of land: (a) the
nucleus, property of the State and rented to the cooperative for five
years; (b) land bought or rented from landowners who did or could not join
the cooperative; (c) land brought in by members (usually small plots from
one half to ten hectares) for which they have to give up title and receive
a proportionate share in the capital of the cooperative.
* Prior to the recent changes in the arrangements for the supervision of
the management of the cooperative (see Section V of the main report).



ANNEX 2
Page 2
The results or profits of the cooperative are divided (after
various rules on reserves, etc.) among members on the basis of two criteria:
labor and shares. During the year, members receive an advance on the profit
in the form of established wages (350 millimes per day for general labor,
400 for tractor driver, 500 for combine driver, 600 for technical director)
for their actual work in the cooperative. Membership in the cooperative
without contributing labor is excluded.
Management is split into an administrative and a financial part.
The administrative function belongs to a board of at least three members as
elected by the total membership. This board selects its president among
their own group. The board also nominates a technical director (usually a
rather young man who received a year's training at the National School for
Cooperatives) who also receives a land share to be a full member of the
cooperative. This director is also the accountant and administers small
expenses, pays salaries and advances on labor. For larger expenses, usually
per check on the BNA, he needs the approval and signature of the Regional
Director of Cooperatives. The latter also is responsible for the annual
accounts and balance sheets of the cooperatives.
The CPU's themselves are grouped in Local Cooperative Units (LCU's)
(including also service cooperatives in the same area); these LCU's are
again grouped in a Regional Union of Cooperatives per Governorate.
Under this construction the overall supervision and direction of
the CPU's is quite complicated. The Undersecretariats of Agriculture and
Finance all have a say, not only in the constitution, but also in the oper-
ation of the cooperatives. The Undersecretariat of Agriculture nominates
a regional agriculturist for each Governorate as a kind of technical super-
visor and consultant for the cooperatives. But this man can also receive
directions from the Governor (as nominated by the President) and the local
delegates. At the same time the Regional Union of Cooperatives has a
Manager of Cooperatives, nominated by the Board of the Regional Union of
Cooperatives, upon approval of the Undersecretariat of Finance, who also
can give directives to the cooperatives and exercise control over their
finances.
The shortcomings in the actual organization and management are
obvious when visiting the cooperatives in the field. Expert studies are
made and detailed plans are worked out in the Undersecretariat of Agricul-
ture, but the implementation of all this work remains difficult. Delays
in credits, supplies, spare parts are problems in the field, but the central
planning moves on and does not seem to take delays, shortfalls and other
handicaps into account. Directives can and are given by so many authorities
that the execution of them must be confusing. The young directors of the
cooperatives are school graduates who have little practical experience and
find it difficult to provide competent leadership.



ANNEX 2
Page :R
Yet there is a tremendous determination to make the program work,
noticeable with all the people involved in these cooperatives. This,combined
with the real potential for further development, justifies supporting the
gradual transfer from traditional to modern agriculture.
It is also clear that, with the present problems, the rapid expan-
sion, proposed under the original program, will have to slow down to enable
an adjustment of the existing situation and to develop the capable manpower
know-how and experience on how to run further CPU's effectively. The key
problem for this program is not financing, but organization and management.



ANNEX 3
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
The Office des Terres Domaniales (OTD)
Purpose
The Office des Terres Domaniales (OTD) is a public institution
established by a Decree of September 30, 1961, with the purpose of continu-
ing agricultural production and providing efficient management on most of
the lands previously owned by foreign settlers.
The aim of the Government by setting up OTD was to maintain as
much as possible the high productivity prevailing on the ex-colon lands
which constitute the most fertile agricultural soil in the country. In the
long-run, however, the majority of the State lands in the northern region
of Tunisia will gradually be attached to smallholder plots to form the
nuclei of agricultural production units. The jurisdiction of OTD over
these lands will thus be relinquished little by little over a period of
several years, forecasted--according to the Tunisian development plan--to
end around 1972.
At present, OTD is still managing approximately 394,000 ha of
agricultural land, 313,000 ha (or 78%) of which are located in Northern
Tunisia.
Organization and Management
OTD is administered by a Board of Directors composed of 10
members under the chairmanship of the Undersecretary of State for Agri-
culture. Members of the Board comprise four representatives of the Govern-
ment, the President of BNA, the Director of the Office de Motoculture, a
representative of the Neo-Destour, two trade-unionists and the Director of
OTD.
Responsibility for the management of OTD lies with the Director,
the latter being appointed by the Government. Coordination of the work and
centralization of the accounts is undertaken in the Head Office at Tunis.
This office is equipped with a staff of administrative, technical and
financial personnel which deals with problems related to land registration,
acquisition of equipment and bookkeeping.
The territory covered by OTD is divided into 16 regions, ten of
which are located in Northern Tunisia (see Map 3). Each region is headed
by a Regional Director with a personnel staff organized along the same
lines as the one in the Head Office.
Each region is in turn composed of a certain number of sectors
depending on the number of hectares as well as on the number of farms
included in the region. At the head of a sector stands a Sector Supervisor,
who is responsible for all farm operations within his sector and who is
assisted on the larger farms by a farm manager.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Farm machinery owned by OTD is presently inadequate, but in order
to increase its productivity, it is rotated between farms and during plow-
ing, planting and harvesting season, used as long as 21 hours a day. For
lower echelon maintenance work OTD runs a few workshops at the regional
level and some supplementary shops taken over from the colons on the larger
farms.
Including management, staff at the regional offices, sector super-
visors, technical agents and mechanics, OTD has a total personnel payroll
of 415 people, 36 of which are foreign expatriates.
Financial Situation
Separate budgets are drawn up by the Regional Directors and sent
to the Head Office where they are consolidated into the OTD budget and
approved by the Board of Directors. The Secretary of State for the Plan
and the National Economy gives a final approval to the proposed budget.
Current expenditures are financed by OTD from its accumulated
reserves or, occasionally, from special governmental loans. For capital
investments OTD can, furthermore, turn toward BNA, foreign aid givers or
suppliers' credit as sources of finance.
As shown in the balance sheets attached below, the profits of
OTD which in 1962 amounted to D 237,904, were as high as D 3,183,682 in
1965.
The accounts of OTD are controlled by an independent auditor
appointed by the Secretary of State for the Plan and the National Economy.



ANNEX 3
TABLE 1
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
OFFICE DES TERRES DOMANIALES
Comparative Balance Sheets
(in Dinars)
Situations as at December 31.
1962             1963              1964          1965
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Land                                            121,039          276,399          521,318        841,098
Buildings, Machinery, Vehicles                  213,349        1,430,410         ,1i43,294    1,208,237
Total Fixed Assets                              334,388        1,706,809        1,664,612      2,049,335
Investments                                        -               5,000            8,000       312,280
Current Assets
Stocks, receivables                           1,127,634        1,716,869        2,743,344     5,823,209
Cash                                            272,388        1,424,609          859,065       461,305
Total Current Assets                          1,400,022        3,141,478        3,602,409     6,284,514
Total Assets                                  1,734,410        4,853,287        5,275,021     8,646,129
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                         500,000        2,120,000        2,956,927     4,198,570
Amortization Reserve                            400,000          600,000          217,700       217,700
Total Capital and Reserves                      900,000        2,720,000        3,174,627     4,416,270
Long Term Loans                                 151,772          628,936          503,674        309,975
Current Liabilities                             444,734          429,972          h03,614       736,202
Surplus
1962                                            237,904          237,904             -             -
1963                                                             836,475             -             _
1964                                                                            1,193,106          -
1965                                                                                          3,183,682
Total Liabilities                            1,734,410         4,853,287        5,275,021     8,646,129
-~                                          ,  _=



ANNEX 3
TABLE 2
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
OFFICE DES TERRES DOMANIALES
Income Statements
(in Dinars)
Situations as at December 31.
1962           1963             1964         1965
A. REVENUES
Rent                         151,350        99,274           121,087      340, 052
Agricultural Produce
Wheat and vegetables      842,362      1,134,751        1,698,349    2,247,563
Oil and olives            414,196       389,953           910,763    1,256,341
Dates and fruit           153,788        86,028           190,859      431,965
Other                     132.646       559,077           399,840      889,251
Total Agricultural Produce 1,542,992     2,169,809         3,199,811    4,825,120
Other                      __174,153       287,688           243,769      139 288
Total Revenues             1,868,495     2,556,771         3,564,667    5,304,460
B. OPERATING EXPENSES
Wages and salaries           700,578       677,592         1,271,470    2,306,810
Fuel                         247,889       173,268           258,859      541,698
Spare parts                  109,017       139,967           193,371      573,443
Fertilizer                   134,311       143,673           227,457      625,847
Depreciation                 448,005       410,555           519,380      472,610
Other                        237,561       236,644          413,669       883,026
Total Operating Expenses   1,877,361     1,781,699         2,884,206    5,403,434
C. CHANGE IN STOCKS              246,769        61,403          512,645     3,282,656
D. OPERATING RESULTS (A+C-B)     237,904       836,475        1,193,106     3,183,682



ANNEX h
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
The Office National de Motoculture et de Mise en Valeur Agricole
Purpose
The "Office National de Motoculture et de N4ise en Valeur Agricole"
was created by a law dated July 21, 1959. It is a semi-public organization
which functions primarily as an equipment rental agency, performing soil
conservation and reclamation as well as cultivation work for the Government,
the cooperative production units and the private sector.
The Office also does its own repair work. This is performed in the
field for preventive maintenance and minor repair works and in a central shop
in Tunis for major repairs. In this context the organization has a responsi-
bility for on-the-job training of mechanics and drivers. It has also served
as a distributing agency for fertilizer, but the latter activity is on the
decline.
Finally, the Office is responsible for the management of 16 repair
shops which are being equipped by a loan from U.S. AID. Eight of these shops
will be specialized in maintenance and minor repairs; the other eight will
perform maintenance only. Spread all over the agricultural regions of
Tunisia (see Map 2 ), the shops will be used to repair the agricultural
machinery of the Office, but they will also provide repair services on a
commercial basis to the cooperative farms and to the private sector. Twelve
of these shops are located in the project area and will be within a distance
of not more than 30 km. from any cooperative unit, They wiU start operation
in the beginning of 1967. It is the intention of the Government to eventually
transfer the management of the shops from the Office to the Regional Unions
of Cooperatives.
Organization and Management
The Office is managed by a Director and has a total staff of around
400, including some 25 officers. Although functioning within the Under-
Secretariat of State for Agriculture, it is an autonomous organization which
finances itself with the revenue from its operations. The management seems
to be competent, and the work done so far seems satisfactory. In the frame-
work of the U.S. AID loan, four Canadian engineers will be hired as technical
assistants to set up the new repair shops.
The Office will not have a monopoly for repairs, but will compete
with private repair shops.  An agreement is being worked out between the
Office and the cooperatives concerning the tariffs or scale of charges.
Financial Situation
The attached summary income statements show that of all activities
undertaken by the Office, the work performed for the Government in connection
awith soil conservation and reclamation constitutes the greatest source of
profits.
Total profits of the organization have increased from D. 21,078 in
1963 to D. 49,508 in 1965.



ANNEX 4
TABLE 1
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DE MOTOCULTURE ET DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE
Income Statements
(in Dinars)
1963                          1964                    1965
A. REVENUES
Cultivation work                                 40,277                       41,806                  73,922
Soil conservation                               455,175                      538,542                 629,824
Fertilizer operations                          170,118                       524,724                 240,595
Workshops                                       122,534                      167,106                 165,277
Adninistration                                   13,322                       15,653                   5,699
Total Revenues                            801,426                     1,287,831               1,115,317
B. EXPENDITURES
Cultivation work
Wages and salaries          11,534                         9,706                     10,138
Goods and services          31,184                        40,884                     49,903
Depreciation                 8,792                         2,426                      4,980
Other                        1,217                         1,284                      2,241
Total                                 52,727                        54,300                  67,262
Soil conservation
Wages and salaries           45,742                       50,575                     51,073
Goods and services         102,322                       138,596                    146,249
Depreciation               124,176                       138,849                    220,367
Other                        7,757                         8,743                      8,570
Total                                279,997                       336,763                 426,259
Fertilizer operations
Goods and services         161,000                       485,884                    233,456
Other                        5,095                        19,746                      3,383
Total                                166,095                       5o5,630                 236,839
Workshops
Wages and salaries          40,482                        54,622                     61,088
Goods and services          69,807                        85,422                     97,630
Depreciation                22,762                        17,753                     11,872
Other                        14,1814                       8,229                      7,960
Total                                137,235                       166,026                 178,550
Administration
Wages and salaries          44,312                        50,529                     50,426
Goods and services          16,626                        15,471                     18,173
Depreciation                62,315                        92,163                     11,036
Other                       21,457                        20,775                     27,222
Total                                11414710                      178,9141                106.857
Total Expenditures                        780,764                     1,241,660               1,015,767
C. PROFITS (OR LOSSES) ON
PREVIOUS YEARS                                    416                          650                (-50,042)
D.  PROFITS (A + C - B)                              21,078                       46,821                  49,508



ANNEX 5
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
At the time of the French, farmers marketing was no specific problem
for the project area. The modern farms mostly produced staples like hard
wheat, soft wheat and barley, some wine and olives, whereas the large area
of traditional farming mostly produced for their own subsistence. Apart
from the wine, the staple crops were largely consumed locally and whatever
surplus remained available was assured of a market in France, mostly at
specially favorable prices, sometimes duty-free, or at least at preferred
tariffs. Wine was also sold at a special high price to France, where it was
mostly used for mixing with other wines.
In 1963, there already was some change in position because of the
Common Market regulations which led to lower prices for hard wheat, but
after the break with France in May 1964, the position changed completely as
the automatic outlet at privileged prices in the French market vanished
overnight. At the moment, this has only seriously affected wine, a product
which is not included in the Project. The exportable surplus of other crops
is sold in the French market or elsewhere at world market prices and some-
times in barter trade with Eastern Europe. It should be realized, however,
that hard wheat exports are at prices below the official support price of
D. 42 per ton as paid by the Office des Cereales to the farmers.
The following table shows the main agricultural exports of Tunisia
over the last few years:
Export of Main Agricultural Commodities 1960-1965
(quantity in 1,000 tons, unit value in dinars per ton)
----1960--       1961---     ----1962---   ----1963---   ----1964---  ---1965---
Qt.   U.V.   Qt.   U.V.   Qt.   U.V.   Qt.   U.V.    Qt.   U.V.   Qt.  U.V,
Hard
wheat     116.0    44   33.0    47    29.0    48  116.0    31   90.0    30   8.8    38
Wine       135.0    55  133.0    60  125.0     61  167.0    61  149.0    59  72.3  38.3
Olive oil   24.0   239   44.0   217   54.0    236   29.0   342   51.0   234  46.3   292
Citrus      38.0    42   42.0    44   38.0     47   31.0    58   44.0    50  46.0    56
Dates &
other
fruits      4.0   179    1.4   240    3.8   206    3.7    119    4.0   242   5.6   272
Prese-ved
f!'!;ts &
ugs.        7.8   130    7.5   132   10.7   111   12.5    146   18.0   141  17.2   133
COiRCE:  Rapport sur le Budget Economique de l'Annee 1966, Secrebariat d',tat au Plan
et a l'Economie Nationale, September 1965.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
I'iarketing of the CPU production does not seem to present any major
problem. In five years time the total annual increase in cereal production
from the already existing and newly created cooperatives will only amount
to some 30,000 tons. Allowing for small increases in production in other
parts of the country, total wheat production in Tunisia will only increase
by about 2 percent a year. The Development Plan expects wheat production
in 1968 to cover not only the increase in domestic consumption, but also to
maintain exports of hard wheat and to eliminate imports of soft wheat, now
amounting to about 150,000 tons. This seems too ambitious, and probably a
part of wheat consumption will still have to be imported in the coming years.
Similar arguments apply to the milk and meat production. The large
quantities of cattle and dairy products which are presently imported (in
1964 for D. 0.7 million and D. 1.4 million respectively) could easily be
produced domestically at an economical price. After ten years of operation
the milk production from the already existing and newly envisaged cooperatives
will only be equal to the amount of milk presently being imported in Tunisia.
Wool production, on the other hand, will be sold on the local market for the
traditional, cottage-type industry as wTell as for the recently Government
established production of carpets.
Problems might arise in the future with respect to the marketing of
fruits and vegetables, which will have to be sold largely abroad, either
fresh or in processed form. To find a profitable market for these products,
sales will have to overcome various handicaps. Internal production and
transportation costs, as well as processing costs, are rather high:  produc-
tion costs because of less than optimum yields and quality, transportation
costs because internal transport appears to be too rmuch monopolized and pro-
cessing costs because materials for processing are expensive and also because
in various cases maximum efficiency in processing is not attained.
The importance of fruits and vegetables in the total income resulting
from the project is negligible. In some cases, however, a relatively small
but unmarketable surplus of high value fruit and vegetable crops could
jeopardize the profitability of a given coop. Particular attention should
be given to this problem, especially by the recommended management unit to
be set up in the Undersecretariat of State for Agriculture.
With regard to olive oil no major marketing problems seem to exist
in the short period. Export receipts will, however, be somewhat lower than
before, as Tunisian oil export now has to face the EEC tariff of 17 percent
in its main market -- France --, instead of the previously existing rate of
9 percent. Long-term prospects depend on the hitherto uncertain status of
Tunisian relations to the Common Nsarket. Negotiations on some form of associa-
tion have been started in July 1965, and are presently being continued.
Italian opposition to concessions, in particular for fruits and vegetables,
seem to be rather strong, and even if satisfactory solutions could be found
for many problems it would take at least two years before Tunisia would have
an easier access to, these important markets.



ANNEx 5
Page 3
Officials in Tunisia are aware of some of the marketing problems.
Studies are being made and technical assistance has been asked on how to
develop and expand exports for agricultural products. The Association of
Tunisian Exporters is developing activities in the market expansion. Apart
from these activities, trade political problems and some basic internal
problems of productivity, cost and quality will have to be tackled.
On the domestic scene the CPU's will use the existing "Cooperative
Centrale des Agriculteurs de Tunisie" (CCAT) and the Regional Union of
Cooperatives for the marketing of most of their products. CCAT is a servicing
cooperative which was created several years ago with local agencies and
storage facilities. It sells the cereal crop to the Office des Cereales, the
Government agency which is the sole buyer of cereals.
To maintain adequate quality and supply of dairy products to the city
of Tunis, the Government has set up a dairycorporation (STIL) under the contro'
of the BNAe This organization purchases milk from producers at agreed pricos
"at the factory", collection and transport being the responsibility of the
producers.
While most of the meat of the country is slaughtered and sold at
local village killing and selling centers, an arrangement similar to that for
milk has been developed for the meat trade of Tunis. A Government established
company (Ellouhoume) took over a very old privately-owned large city slaughter-
house after independence. It operates this in collaboration with local
butchers, buying stock of all types from producers, slaughtering, processing
and selling the product to retail butchers.
With regard to prices the high special prices received in the French
market now are a thing of the past and in most cases sharp competitive world
market prices will prevail. For hard wheat there is quite clearly a gap
between the internal ex-farm price of D. 42/t. and the present world market
f.o.b. price of around D. 30-38/t. The wine price will also drop almost
certainly to about half the previous level and a recent plan document
estimated that the average price per ton for 1966 will drop to D. 29 compared
to about D. 60 in 1961-1964.
The prices for other products are highly uncertain. In its calculation
of revenues of the Plan for the Development of Agriculture certain price
levels, in general close to the 1964 prices, have been assumed. As far as
exports are concerned these figures are just a guess. Competition could force
down prices; on the other hand, a favorable future association with the Common
Market might support price levels.



ANNEX 6
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
The Banque Nationale Agricole (BNA)
Background
The Banque Nationale Agricole de Tunisie (BNA) was established on
June 1, 1959, by the Government to centralize and coordinate in one insti-
tution the agricultural credit activities scattered in several public and
private organizations operating in Tunisia under the French protectorate.
In its desire to eventually separate the subsidy and assistance type
of intervention to agriculture from regular methods of financing, the
Government has accepted that the new Agricultural Credit Bank should be
operated by a businessmanlike management.  The BNA was, therefore, given
the legal status of a private corporation.
Purposes
The primary objective of the DNA is to promote agricultural develop-
ment through the issue of short-, medium- and long-term loans, and more
generally to carry on all the normal banking and financial operations,
including commercial loans. It can also participate in industrial enter-
prises by taking direct equity investments.
Ownership
The BNA capital is composed of nominative shares of D. 10 each,
distributed as follows:
Tunisian Government            D. 200,000
Office des Cereales Legum-
ineuses Alimentaires et
Autres Produits Agricoles
(Gov't. Marketing Board)       D. 109,920
Private Tunisian share-
holders (farmers)              D.  90,080
Total                          D. 400,000
Organization and Mianagement
The BNA organization consists of the Head Office and 24 agencies
spread all over the country, with a density decreasing from North to South.
Total personnel on Say 31, 1966, amounted to 387 as against 333 on October 30,
1965, and 318 in December 1964. The Agricultural Credit Department in the
Head Office has a staff of over 50.
The BNA is administered by a Board of Directors with extensive power.
The Board is composed at present of eleven members, five of which are



ANNEX 6
Page 2
appointed by the Government and six by the General Assembly. Of the latter'
group two represent private farmers and four represent a series of semi-
public institutions which deal with agricultural matters. The members hold
office for six years and can be re-elected, The Board of Directors appoints
among its members a chairman who is also the chief executive (President
Directeur General).
Having the same president since its establishment the BNA has had
continuity in management. It has gradually increased and improved the
quality of its staff.
The present system of accounting provides an effective control of
expenditures. The BNA, however, is studying with the help of consultants
the possibilities of modifying and mechanizing their present system in order
to cope with the increased operations and to enable more up-to-date data to
be readily available to management.
Internal auditing is the responsibility of the controller. His
department consists of five units and effects periodic visits to the agencies
in the field. External auditing is presently carried out by two auditors
appointed by the General Assembly. The BNA is also subject to inspection
and control by the Government. A financial controller appointed by the
Undersecretary of Finance attends all Board meetings.
PowJers
The General Assembly of the shareholders has general sovereign
powers on the corporation. It appoints and discharges members of the Board
and decides on all matters exceeding the Board's competence: approval of
the balance sheet and the profit-and-loss account, merger or dissolution of
the corporation, changes in capital structure, etc.
Resources
The lending resources of the BNA are made up by capital which is
mostly government subscribed, deposits, one loan and funds administered by
the BNA.
12.     Its share capital of D. 400,000 is fully paid and its reserves and
non-distributed profits as of December 1965 were respectively of D. 171l,008
and D. 38,820.
Sight and short-term deposits, since 1960, have started at
D. 2,800,000 and have been increasing year by year to reach D. 17,125,000
in 1963; they declined to D. 14,584,000 in December 1965.   The share of semi-
governmental agencies together with the time deposits of US AID account
for about 60 percent of these deposits.
The rates of interest paid to depositors are ruled by the Central
Bank of Tunisia. For sight deposits the rate is maximum 1.25 percent to
private depositors, and 1.75 percent to governmental and autonomous



ANNEX 6
Page 3
governmental agencies and cooperatives; for term deposits, the rate varies
from 2 percent to 3.5 percent according to the period of notification (three
to twelve months) and to the amount deposited (D. 1 to D. 5,000).
There is no limit to the borrowing power of the Bank. Since its
establishment, it has contracted only one loan from the Development Loan Fund
(DLF) with the government's guarantee. The loan of-US $5,000,000 at 4 percent
interest was granted on June 27, 1961.
These resources are backed up by rediscount facilities at the Central
Bank of Tunisia by a quota of up to D. 1.2 million. In specific cases these
facilities may be used, with the Central Bank agreement, to finance a medium
term loan up to 5 years, renewable every 3 months.
Several funds have been entrusted to BNA by the Tunisian Government
for specific end-use lending operations or in the framework of the law on
agricultural development (May 1963). Some other funds are set up to cope
with emergency situations or to assist farmers in traditional areas. A fund
is to be set up within BNA for this present Project.
Use of Resources
Investment. BNA's own resources are used for short-term loans and
partly for equity investment. At March 31, 1966, their participations amounted
to D. 213,357.
Short-term loans. The largest part of short-term credit comes from
the current accounts and deposits representing about 70 percent (D. 11.5
million) of the total money available at short term. Out of the total amount
of short-term loans granted in 1965 (D. 22.5 million) only D. 4.5 million
or 20 percent went to agriculture, while about D. 18 million or 80 percent
has been granted to commerce and industry.
Medium- and long-term loans are normally financed on special funds
with the Government's guarantee to cover risks of defaults. No long-term
loans are granted on BNA funds. Besides the funds, the only medium-term
loans granted by the BNA to agriculture are those which can be rediscounted
with the Central Bank.
Risk and Guarantee
The BNA's risk is total for the short-term and limited according to
fund specifications for medium-term loans. The guarantees requested are the
same for the loans issued on both BNA's own resources and on Government funds.
For short-term credit the guarantees are:
Ci) Lien on crops;
(ii) insurance certificate (fire and hail risks) in favour of BNA;
(iii) delegation of payment for produce delivered to the marketing
boards through which all products are practically channeled.



ANME 6
Page 4
For medium- and long-term loans the guarantees are:
(i) lien on livestock and farm equipment;
(ii) a mortgage on the land is also required.
This last guarantee, however, is more nominal than real. There is a lot of
work that has to be accomplished before all land is registered, identified
and given a title of property; and even with a title deed, it would in the
present Tunisian climate of opinion be difficult if not improbable for a
Bank to sell the land.
The real guarantee, therefore, depends on the profitability of the
production units, and on how well these units are managed. These two elements
become essential in assessing the risk.
Lending Procedures
The loan applications from farmers or cooperatives are received by
the field agencies, which are supposed to check the statements and eventually
visit the farmer or the cooperative. But provisions vary slightly between
farmers and cooperatives.
For farmers, comments may be requested by the local credit committees,
before their application is submitted to the Head Office in Tunis, while for
cooperatives an approval of the demand for credit is required by the Regional
Manager of Cooperatives and the agricultural extension member of the govermor-
ate. For loans under this Project, a recommendation has to be made by the
Bureau of Control.
In the agricultural credit section at the Head Office, the appraisal
covers the following parts: for the farmers it examines the validity of the
titles to the land, the securities he can offer and its credit-worthiness
while for the cooperatives, the economics of the applicant's scheme including
an evaluation of present and projected income are analysed with the assistance
of delegates from the Undersecretariats of Agriculture and Finance.
In order to ensure proper utilization of the short-term loans, cash
payments are usually made in tlhree installments according to an agreed
schedule, set up between the cooperatives, the Undersecretariat of Agri-
culture and the BHIA. The medium and long-term loans, on the other hand, are
whenever possible disbursed by direct payments to the suppliers.
Lending Operations
Details of the number and amount of agricultural and commercial loans
made in the 1959-1965 period are given in the attached tables.
In 1959-60 the loans granted to agricultural cooperatives and farmers
were 13 percent of the total loans granted by BNA; those increased to 27
percent in 1965 due to the increasing share of credit to cooperatives. BNA
financing to agriculture out of its own resources and deposits represented



ANNEX 6
Page 5
in 1965, 20 percent of the total loans granted and the balance, 7 percent,
was financed through the special funds. Repayments of loans are satisfactory.
Bank's Income
For the short-term operations and the DLF loan, the bank derives
its income from the margin between interest paid and interest received. For
the various funds entrusted to its administration, the BNA receives a fixed
renumeration of about 2 percent. Further, the BNA obtains dividends on its
investments and various remunerations on operations of liquidation of former
credit institutions.
Although no precise income and expenditure statements are available
on operations made on behalf of the government and on agricultural loans, an
estimate indicated that with a 2 percent remuneration on the funds, expendi-
tures to carry out these operations are covered.
Financial Situation
Confronted with the low interest rates in agriculture fixed by the
law-i (1.5 - 6 percent), and on the other hand desiring to make both ends meet,
the BNA expanded from the very beginning in the commercial credit field and
restricted its agricultural credit to short-term operations which allow a
6 percent interest rate. In order to maintain its low interest rate policy
to agriculture and also not to bring BNA in a permanent deficit, the Government
has set up funds to be administered by the BNA - paying a commission of about
2 percent to cover administrative costs and some of the risks. Within this
framework, the BNA has managed rather satisfactorily and has shown a profit
and built up some reserves.
Profits have been sufficient to enable the payment of a 5 percent
dividend to the shareholders, and to build up reserves. These reserves may
appear adequate for past ordinary operations, but should be increased if the
bank develops its lending activities without any government guarantee. Con-
densed balance sheets and profit-and-loss accounts as of December 31, 1960,
to December 31, 1965, are given later.



COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
BANQUE NATIONALE AGRICULE
Comparative Balance Sheets
(in Dinars)
Situations as at December 31.
Assets                          1960           1961          1962           1963          1964           1965
Cash in hand - Central Bank
Postal checks                   410,210        222,688       681,191        808,261       1,353,998      470,583
Banks and correspondents         369,812       477,554     1,366,349      4,952,301         741,050    1,168,785
Government Development bonds   4,140,201     5,177,270     9,189,642     13,867,145      13,553,924   18,222,429
and Portfolio
Current accounts                 518,720     1,198,804     2,046,855      1,964,040        3,525,064   2,634,124
Guaranteed advances             170,744        411,954        81,780        462,529         369,090      394,011
Miscellaneous advances and        51,078        92,474       187,329        245,782          382,449     655,364
accounts receivable
Investments                      10,640         32,370        85,240       143,907          154,907      206,407
Suspense accounts and            266,269       229,948     1,086,773      1,938,928       1,729,122    1,685,416
miscellaneous
Fixed assets                      26,561       279,595       292,306        311,667          312,417     355,243
Guarantee Deposits                 -               757           851          1,065           1,095        1,124
Sub-total                      5,964,235     8,123,414    15,018,316     24,695,625      22,123,116   25,793,486
Loans on Special Funds
Special agricultural fund        981,142     1,229,814     1,437,454      1,516,319       1,423,308    1,305,044
Refinancing of debts             225,157       379,198       347,913        289,475         252,389      218,192
Medjerda board                    35,565        26,613        22,359         19,839            -            -
DLF                                 -             -          148,394        505,429        1,755,336   1,652,950
Cereal campaign 1962/63             _             -        1,476,466      1,132,874       1,007,205      944,053
Farming Cooperatives                -             -                          19,771         368,143      465,086
Cereal campaign 1963/64            -              -                                         216,267      209,522
Special fund for agricultural       -             -             -              -               -       1,231,204
deve'lopment                                                   -
Sub-total                      1,241,864     1,635,625     3,432,586      3,483,707        5,022,648   6,026,051
Total                          7,206,099     9,759,039    18,450,902     28,179,332       27,145,764  31,819,537
Government credits to cover    4,688,721     4,754,411     4,580,491      4,370,079        4,015,060   3,825,279
Grand Total                   11,894,820    14,513,450    23,031,393     32,549,411      31,160,824   35,644,816



Liabilit ies                           1960         1961          1962           1963            1964             1965
Der-osits anr current ;ccrunts    2,721,909        3,477,254   7,948,536      14,810,502       11,455,255      11,414,233
Banks and corres9oncents             9 2,490       1,375,706   2,307,837       1,797,836        1,503,427       1,800,688
Bills demosited for collection        75,276         132,364     197,364         312,303          293,613         717,301
Sundry creditors                     361,033         394,661     571,247         855,011        1,066,024       1,548,272
Dividends to be paid                    -             33,617      36,074          28,004           39,588          50,454
Bonds and term deposits               76,784         139,312     603,002       2,314,719        1,491,006       3,169,880
Suspense accounts and misc.          761,052      1,713,664    2,214,660       2,208,912        2,690,196       3,662,437
Payment received against
current.commitments                261.743         443.738     592.079         729.205          814.294         837.828
Sub-total                    5,250,277       7,710,316   14,470,799      23,056,492       19,353,403     23,201,093
Special Funds
Government agricultural
special fund                    1,054,304        1,154,304   1,664,287       1,671,789        1,678,429       1,698,651
Government advance for
debt refinancing                  400,000          360,000     320,000         320,000          320,000         320,000
Special fund Medjerda board           39,423          30,668      26,414          26,414             -               -
Special fund for assistance to
wine growing industry                 _               -        150,000         150,000          150,000         150,000
DLF                                     _               -         75,590         247,239        2,229,224       2,382,396
Funds for cereal loans 1962/63          -               -      1,161,000       1,161,000        1,161,000       1,161,000
Srecial fund for promoting
servicing cooperatives                                -          -             850,000          700,000         660,000
Funds for cereal loans 1963/64          -               -          -                              218,380         213,742
Special funds for develo?ment
of agriculture                        -               -          -                -             500.000       1.037.828
Sub-total                    1,493,727        1,544,972   3,397,291       4,426,442        6,957,033       7,623,617
Owned Resources
Capital                              400,000          400,000    400,000         400,000          400,000         400,000
Reserves                                -              67,232    147,274         268,998          366,989         471,008
Social fund                                              -          -               -              35,000          85,000
Profits carried forward                 -              36,519     35,538          27,400           33,339          38,820
Profits (before distribution)         62.095             -          - 
Sub-total                      462,095           503,751    582,812         696,398          835,328         994,828
Government credit accounts
to collect                      4,688.721        4.754.411   4.580.491       4,370.079        4o015o060       3.825.279 
Grand total                 11,894,820        14,513,450 23,031,393      32,549,411       31,160,824      35,644,817   m   =2:
(D   \



COOPERATIVE FA.RM PROJECT
BANEUZ NATIONALE AGRICOLE
Comoarative Statement of Income and Exoenditures
1960         1961            1962        1963        1964         1965
A. Income
Intere-.t and commission received
and other income                            354,690       423,967        480,843     588,199     652,950       698,381
B. Exrenditures
Interest and discount oaid;
Administration ex',enditures                277,989       341,421        380,005     453,725     493,132       517,992
-- DeDreciation                              14.6o5                                     -           -          _
Total                                       292,594       341,421        380,005     453,725     493,132       517,992
C. Net Income (A-B)                             62,o96        82,546        100,838     134,474     159,818       180,389
D. Balance carried forward                         -          28,102         35,631      35,539      27,400        33,339
E. Disposable Income (C + D)                    62,096       110,648        136,469     170,013      187,218      213,728
F. Distribution of Disnosable Income
Dividend                                  20,000        20,000         20,000      20,000       20,000       20,000
__ Legal Reserve                               3,105        4,128          5,041       6,724        7,990        9,019
-- Extraordinary Reserve                      10,000       50,000         75,000     115,000       90,000       95,000
Social Fund           -                      -                                       -         35,000        50000
__ Carried forward                            28,102       35,631         35,539      27,400       33,339       38,820
__ Board                                         889          889            889         889          889          889
Total                                        62,096       110,648        136,469     170,013      187,218      213,728
,23



COOPEEATIVII FAI tPROJ3C?
BNA Eqeity Inveet,ant Situation as at Mlarch 31. 1966
BNA Share                              inan                    Results                     Dividends Paid
Date of                   in Capital           Jobs Held by    Oranted by                (in D)                         (in %)
Nam af Corporation                lish-    Capital                           BRA Officials      35k
mnt        (in D.)    Date      Evolution                                 1962     1963     1964     1965    1962    1963     1964    1965
(in  D.)                                                                                   _ _  _
1) Ccporatios        SOCIET TVgISIEhNE DE L'INDUS- 27.5.61     50,000    27.4.61      9,430     MHnnging Direo-   887,000    * 13,100 * 35,650 + 49,718 + 58,875  7%     8%       10%    10%
brdw            TRI LTIfI  I 'S.T.I.L.'                   150,000     4.12.6.    51,000        tor.                                           *
B a SDC   DIPRTATI5   & D_ S  216.1.62    100,000    17.2.62     25,000      sMaging Diree-    18,000    + 6,659 + 8,74b t 11,453 * 13,735    6%     8%      10%     10%
70IC1DX 03  ODUITS ALUBT&1I0mr
& DlXm          > 
SDCt3Th 'UNISIE-0Lh030'       26.6.62      25G,DO      _           _                           57,000      -        '       10,316    -       -      _        _       _
SOCIHTB TUNISE4NNE D'INDUSTRIE  23.2.61   150,000    9.3.61      10,000      Beard Memr           _      * 17,3D   10,CS3 t t0, 559   .       _      5S        
AVUTI BIZBS -S. T." I
MDCI     ETiOXN TUNIIIUNI
DN    CU1    W.D,T.c.0        G9$ 1JD ,2GWO0         28.8.62         50           _            i2          -      655,369 -1,267.5            _ -  -                  _
SoCMT TV 0U    1 _                      1 700.000    17.1.60     10,O00      Board lMr        105,V      -1A,072 +479,840 51l,170 558,000                     5%      5%
SDaCT  TUXIII      DS H-      23.7.62   4,,20O,D    21.7.62     38,0      G      O _   _                           a _  . _
RmIn AL    MADH
SOCIrBT MDUS8Th   CRDqIQUS    23.3.62     l1OD000    .U.63 9    10,000      B_d llAbr           _         _        _        _        _       _      _        _
SDC)30  DE fh8FATMB DE         6.1.60     100,00     9.12.63     29,IE90          *              _         -        .           _     _          _      _     _
&*c3AWAlt & DES MJIMDm s.
RIDCI.3 *35CK*
SDCIZTE TDNISIZSNB DBB  BTh0
TIO1N & BB RMPARATICOS !WN I-  6.2.64     100,000    9.12.63      2,000                          _                          24,634 - 213Sv1   -      _        _
SCIISS INOEXIEHR ZI BOTELIMN   31.5.60    350,000    30.12.63     4,050           _              _         _     - 26,000   44,000     _      _      .        _       _
KASS *
2) Olthers          50CI3B0 INTNNATIaOAL HARVESTER 16.6.64    210,000    8.1.64        5,000          _              _                          12,800   14,660    _        _
SOCIrTS MCD350 RlZ DE3S PO- 23.9.6b       80,000    28.8.64      3,000      Board Mlnb.r       _-                                     - _  _  _
D3urTs DE LSIOIVIER 
SOCI0 TUBSUH                  30.10.64     50,000    22.10.64     2,000                        28 ,D000    _        _        _       2,b48     _     _         _      _
SOCnIR DES HARBZSS CHRtU       8.9.65     150,00D    10.2.65      5,000           .              _         _        _        _         _         _      _      _
SOCIZTZ qIFATURES DU SAHKL-
b% M_d - X1.AP6)       jdth  11.7.60     200,000     4.4.61       2,000                         - _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _
SOCIlT8 GENEUALE DIM lDR11
COTO=753 OSQlI0.COTIjT.       17.12.61    885,000       -         2,00            -              - _        47,459 *135,000  264,000 "2,000   D
SOCIS   VURAFRICAINX INZOBT0ILIE  - _   P. 250, 000   6.12.63       532           -              -         -        -        _         _       _     _
SDOCIETE IURARICAIN3 ODMIIRCA1          F.750,000     6.12.63     1,595           -              -         -        -        -    _       _  _ _
SOCIETE TIJNIS CDNSULT         9.1.60      10,000     2.2.60        140           -              -         -        -        -                 _     _         _      _
SOCIB11 DE TRUSPCRT LT MALVSOAU  4.3.65    14 000     8.10.65       500           -              -         -        -        -         _         _      _      _
AEREMJ 
SOCIETE L'ACTION D'EDITION ET  29.1.65    250,000    10.11.65     7,O             -             __         _        _        _         _       _     _         _
DE FRSSSE
)CIOETE DZ1VBSTISSZMT T         4.6.65    100,000    23.11.65     5,000           -              _         _        _        _         _       _     _         _
RIONSAL 0E BIZETE -EL
10IDDIKAR"
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   -   Ii   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



ANNEX 6
TABLE b
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
BANQUE NATIONALE AGRICOLE
Repayment Records 1961 - 1965
(% of loans due)
Situation as at December 31, 1965
1961      1962      1963       1964        1965
Type of Loans
Short-term (BNA resources)   93        98        98          95         79
Special short-term Loan
(1962/63 Fund)              -          -         45          6         -
Medium-term                  92        89        87          83         40
Long-term                    87        89         85         44         26



COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
BANQUE NATIONALE AGRICOLE
Total Loans Granted by BNA
(in D thousands)
1959 (7 mos.)       -- 1 9 6 o        -- 1 9 6 1 --    -- 1 9 6 2     -     1      9 6 3  --1   9 6 4       -19 6 5 -
Number   Amount      Number  Amount     Number   Amount  Number    Amount  Number   Amount  Number   Amount  Number  Amount
Agricultural                 1,453      959       3,081   1,835      3,165    2,058  119,745   3,873    26,133   3,829   28,797  4,420    5,257   6,610
Commercial                     176    1,200      1,129   17.464        878   10.234      653  12.748       835  11.522      567 10.650      599  18.036
2,159              19,299              12,292            16,621           15,351          15,070           24,646
% Agricultural                         44.4                9.5                16.7               23.3            24.9             29.3            26.8



COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
BANQUE NATIONALE AGRICOLE
BNA Loan Ooerations by Type of Borrower and Origin of Resources
(in D thousands)
Type of Borrower    Origin of Resoauces         1962                 1963                  1964                  1965
Agricultural Loan
a)  Coop Societies    BNA own resources-/   6                     713          5        74O        5     2,853          12
Funds & DLF Loan      43                     39                 1.515  _            1.709
Total Coops           49    2             1,110   29            2,255  51           4,562   E
b)  Individual                         I
farmers          BNA own resources  1792         11        1,865        12       1,594       10     1,654           8
Funds & DLF Loan     5     -                424 _         _24          _              394   _
Total Indiv.
Farmers           2347   60             2,289  60             1,941  44          2,048    31
Special short-
term loans        1476   38   -           430  11               224   s
Total Agricultural Loans                  3873  100   23        3,829 100    25       4,420 100   29     6,610   loo    27
Co=ercial Loans       BNA own   *
resources-J      12,748                 11,522                10,650              18,036
Total Commercial Loans                 12.748                  11.522         75     10.650    _71       18.036         73
Total Loans BNA                        16,621        100       15,351        100     15,070      100    24,646         100
*/ For which the BNA assumes full responsibility and guarantee.
O\ iC



ANNEX 7
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
List of Goods
Amounts in
US$ Equivalent
1. For Existing Cooperatives
a)  Construction of farm buildings                         2,100,000
b)  Farm machinery                                         1,100,000
c)  Small-scale irrigation equipment                       1,000,000
2. For New Cooperatives
a)  Construction of farm buildings                         1,400,000
b)  Farm machinery                                         6,300,000
c)  Small-scale irrigation machinery                       2,400,000
d)  Imported bulls of dairy breeds                           100,000
3. For OTD
a)  Fanm machinery                                         2,200,000
4. For Technical and Advisory Services
a)  For the preparation of feasibility studies               700,000
b) For organizing & supervising the management
of cooperatives                                        700,000
Total       18,000,000



COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
Cashflow Projection of a Cooperative of 1,000 ha
(in Dinars)
Year:     1          2         3        4          5         6         7          8         9         10       11        12         13        11        15
CASH OUTFLOW
A) Investment
Buildirgs                             2,000     2,000     2,000
Farm machinery                       25,600      --        -                            11,700                        13,900               11,700
irrigation equipimnt                  h,000     5,700      --                            2,000                          -                   2,000
Tree crops I                          1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500                 --                                                 --
Pasture (rangeland) 1/                1,370     1,370     1,370     1,370                 --
Sheep                                   750       750      --        -
Cattle                                1,200     1,46o      --        __                   __                            __                   __
Subtotal               12,780    7=,870      2,70               13,700                          37,900             13,700
B) Operating Costs                      17,250    18,280    18,600    18,580    18,480     18,620    18,620    18,650    18,680     18,700    18,770    18,770    18,770     18,770    18,770
Labor                                 1,000     4,000     L.OQ      li200      5500      5500      7500      7,700     7700       7,700     7,700     7,700     7,700      7,700     7;700
Subtotal     21,250    22,280     22,600    22,780    23,980    28,10     26,120     26,350    26,380    223tI7 22                ft, 7  26,       b,7U  0 2,     7
C) Repaymernts on Loans + Interest
Interest on loans                     3,000     b,ooo     4,,300    1,4L00    3,900      3,900     3,300     2,500     2,500      2,1400    2,500     1 100     1 000      1,000     1,000
Repayments of loans                    __   --             -        4 4,1o     7,220      __       8,990     1,.870      _        7,680      --      15'270                           - 800  __
Subtotal      3,000     1,,000  8T,300                11,120     3,900    12,290      7,370     22,500                       t2,50       6,oOO     1,Q00     1,000
Total A+B+C                             60,670    39,060    31,770    34,4160   35,100     h1,720    38,1410   33,720   1h2,780     36,1480   4,2,670   12,8140   33,270     27,1070   27,1L70
CASH INFLOW
A) Gross income                         20,560    25,650    31,050    34,,60     38,1410   38,410    33,410    37,950     38,550    38,750    4,0,400   42,840     43,820    45,800    h5,230
B) Loan withdrawal                      1,0lio    13,410       720      --        --         --                  -         --         --        - __--                         -- _  
C) Self-financing                         --        --        --        --        --        3.310      __         _       h.230       --       2.270      -          --        --
Total A+B+C                             60,670    39,o60    31,770    314L,L60   38,1410   Ll,720    38,1410   37,950    142,780    38,750   142,670    42,8140    4,3,820  415,800    45,230
Suirplus reserve                          -         --        --        --        3,310      -         -         ,230       --       2,270      -         --         _         --
Profit                                    --         -        -         --        --         -         --        --         -         --        -         -       10, 550    18,330    17,760
1/ No labor has teen included as a cost item in tree crops (D 6,DOO) neither in pasture (D 1,1U1,0). This represents the cooperative members' contribution.
2/ A value equivalent of D 700 has been deducted for consumption of wheat in the cooperative (200 kg/year/member).



ANNEX 9
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
Gross Receipts
(in dinars, for a hypothetical unit of 1,000 hectares)
A. Cereal Rotation
The following proportion of cereals in the use of land has been
assumed:
Hard wheat      50%
Soft wheat      35%
Barley         15%
and the respective prices of the products have been estimated at:
Hard wheat      D 4.20/quintal
Soft wheat     D 3.h5/quintal
Barley          D 2.50/quintal
Since the average yield will rise from 10 q/ha in the first year to 13 q/ha
in the fifth year, the average income per hectare of cereal will increase
from approximately D 38 in the first year to about D 50 in the fifth year.
Considering that the average yield of pulses (peas and chickpeas)
will vary from 5 q/ha in the first year to 6 q/ha in the fifth year, and
assuming a price of D 4/q, the income per hectare of pulses will vary from
D 20 to D 2b.
The gross income for the proposed land-use in cereal rotation will
thus amount to:
Year:         1                2               3                4_  h            5
Area  Income/   Area   Income/   Area  Incoim7e   Area  Income/   Area   Income!
(ha)  ha (D)    (ha)  ha (D)     (ha)  ha (D)     (ha)  ha (D)    (ha)  ha (D)
Cereals     447 x    38      432 x    1       17     x  44    02 x    47      387 x    50
Pulses       83   x  20       78 x   21        73  x  22       68 x   23        63  x  2
Total        D 18,646         D 19,350        D 19,954         D 20,458        D 20,862
The decrease in area planted with cereals from year one to five, is due to
the development of tree plantation. From the fifth year on, the source of
income will remain constant.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
B. Olive Tree Plantation
It is assumed that all land suitable for plantation will be planted
with olive trees and that the yields per hectare will amount to:
-Y e a r--------------
1-5      6-1o       11-15     16 on
.....   ........ '.in kg).
Existing plantations      1,000     1,500      1,500     1,500
New plantations             --        250      1,000     2,200
Considering that the price per ton of olives is estimated at D 30, and that
no new plantations will be started in the first year of operation, the total
income accruing to the Project from olive production looks as follows:
Area    Year    1       2       3        4       5       6        7       8       9       10
(in ha)
Existing 30       900     900     900   1,000    1,200   1,350   1,350    1,350   1,350    1,350
New 30            --      --       --      --      --      --       225     225      225     225
New30             --      --      --       --      --      --       --      225     225      225
New30             --      --      --       --      --      --       --      --      225      225
New30             --      --      --       --      --      --       --      --      --       225
900     900      9001 , 1,00   1,200   1,535    I77     Too      2,025   2,250
Area    Year 11        12      13       14      15      16      17       18      19       20
(in ha)
Existing 30    1,350    1,350   1,350   1,350    1,350   1,350   1,350    1,350   1,350   1,350
New 30            225     900     900      900     900     900    1,980   1,980   1,980    1,980
Ne;. 30           225     225     900      900     900     900      900   1,980   1,980    1,980
New 30            225     225     225      900     900     900      900     900   1,980    1,980
New 30            225     225     .225     225     900     900      900     900     900    1,980
0 2,925          3,600   4,275    ,9O             6,030   7,110    8,190   9,270
C. Intercropping
Intercropping, which will produce exclusively soft wheat at a price
of D 3.45/q and wi-th an average yield of 12 q/ha, provides the following
income:
Year   1     2     3      4       5        6       7      8      9
Area (ha)     --    10    20      30       40      40      30     20    10
Income (D)    --   420   840   1,260    1,680   1,680   1,260    840   420



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Irrigated Crops
Six hectares of vegetable production will produce an average income
of D 300/ha, i.e. D 1,800.
In the first year of operation, however, while the soil will be
prepared, the land will be planted with soft wheat; this will generate an
income of D 500. In the second year of operation the income generated by
irrigated crops will amount to D 900 only.
E. Livestock
Livestock income will originate from three sources:
1) Cross-breeding of the local cattle will lead to the production
of meat and milk. The price of meat has been estimated at
D 60 to D 65 per calf, depending on the degree of improvement
in the cattle, and at D 70 to D 80 per adult cow, depending
on the age of the animal. Marketable milk production will
increase from 200 liters per cow in the second year of oper-
ation to about 2,200 liters in the tenth year. The milk price
has been estimated at D .0h5 per liter.
2) In the early years of operation (years two to twelve) the
surplus fodder production will be used for cattle fattening.
Calves will be bought in the local market at D 30 and sold
after nine months of fattening at D 85; this will provide
for a net income stream of D 55 per calf.
3) Gross income per sheep has been estimated at D 8. This will
provide for an income of D 640 in the second year of opera-
tion, increasing to D 2,520 in the fifth year and remaining
constant in all subsequent years.



ANNEX 9
TABLE 1
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
GROSS RECEIPTS
Total Gross Income for a 1000 ha. Unit
(in Dinars)
1                2               3              4               5              6
Cereal            Tree            Inter-      Irrigated
Year  Rotation      Plantation         Cropping        Crops          Livestock       Total
1    18,650            900                              500 -         1,210          21,260
2    19,350            900              420             900           4,780          26,350
3    19,950            900              8h0          1,800            8,260          31,750
4    20,450          1,000            1,260           1,800          10,650          35,160
5    20,850          1,200            1,680          1,800           13,580          39,I10
6    21,000          1,350            1,680          1,800           13,280          39,110
7    21,000          1,575            1,260          1,800           13,475          39,110
8    21,000          1,800              840           1,800          13,210          38,650
9    21,000          2,025              420          1,800           14,005          39,250
10    21,000          2,250                            1,800          14,400          39,4h50
11    21,000          2,500                            1,800          15,800          41,100
12    21,000          3,000                            1,800          17,,740         43,5h0
13    21,000          3,600                            1,800          18,120          44P520
14    21,000          4,200                            1,800          19,500          46,5oo
15    21,000          4,900                           1,800           18,230          45,930
16    21,000          5,500                           1,800           20,660          48,960
17    21,000          6,000                            1,800          18,560           7,360
18    21,000          7,100                            1,800          19,240          49,9140
19    21,000          8,200                            1,800          20,500          51,500
20    21,000          9,300                           1,800           18,890          50,990
1/ First year. The soil is prepared and the land is planted with soft wheat.



ANNEX 10
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
Decree No. 67-2 of January 2, 1967 Concerning the
National Agricultural Cooperation Commission
HAVING REGARD TO:
Law No. 63-19 of May 27, 1963 (4 Moharrem 1383) relative to cooperation
in the agricultural sector;
Decree No. 64-251 of August 7, 1964 (29 Rabia I 1384) relative
to the Regional Agricultural Cooperation Commissions; The opinion of the
Undersecretary of State for Finance and Development and the Undersecretary
for Agriculture;
The recommendation of the Secretary of State for the Development
Plan and the National Economy,
NOW THEREFORE, WE, HABIB BOURGUIBA, President of the Tunisian Republic,
hereby decree as follows:
Article 1: A National Agricultural Cooperation Commission is hereby
established, the composition, duties and rules of operation of which shall
be determined by the articles below.
Article 2: The commission mentioned in Article 1, headed by the Secretary
of State for the Development Plan and the National Economy, or in his
absence by the Undersecretary of State for Agriculture, shall have the
following composition:
- The Undersecretary of State for Finance and Development, or
his representative;
- The Undersecretary of State for Agriculture, or his represen-
tative;
- The Governor of the Central Bank of Tunisia, or his represen-
tative;
- One representative of the Parti Socialiste Destourien;
- One representative of the Union Nationale des Agriculteurs
Tunisiens;
- The President of the National Agricultural Bank, or his
representative;
- The Director of the Tunisian Central Farmers' Cooperative, or
his representative;



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2
- The Chief of the Bureau of Control of the Unites de Production
dhi Nord.
Article 3: The Secretary of State for the Development Plan and the
National Economy may invite to meetings of the Commission any agencies
and perscns deemed competent or concerned in the matters on the agenda.
Article 4:  The Commission shall meet not less than once each quarter
and shall also meet whenever called by the Chairman or by four of its
members whenever they think it advisable.
For that purpose, the members of the Commission shall be sent an
invitation stating the date, the place and the agenda of the meeting. The
decisions shall be adopted by majority vote of the members present; in the
event of a tie the vote of the Chairman shall be decisive. Four members
shall constitute a quorum.
Article 5: The functions of the Commission shall be:
- To consider questions concerning cooperation in the agricultural
sector and the opinions and suggestions of the regional cooper-
ative commissions;
- To determine the programs for establishing agricultural coop-
eratives;
- To determine the needs of the agricultural cooperatives and the
means to be used to carry out the program of development of
cooperatives.
Article 6: The Secretary of State for the Development Plan and the National
Economy shall be responsible for implementing the present Decree, which
shall be published in the Official Journal of the Tunisian Republic.



ANNX 1]1
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
Ministerial Circular of December 22, 1966
SUBJECT: Establishment of a Bureau of Control for the Unites de Production
du Nord (UPN)
There is hereby established within the Undersecretariat of State
for Agriculture a Bureau of Control under the direct supervision of the
Undersecretary of State for Agriculture.
This Bureau shall be responsible, to the exclusion of all other
offices, for carrying out the recommendations of the National Commission
on Agricultural Cooperation, with which it shall work in close liaison.
The duties of the Bureau shall include in particular the following:
a) To furnish assistance to the UPN on technical, ecorlomic
and financial matters and to supervise their operations.
b) To establish and organize new cooperatives with due regard
to an economic feasibility study prepared by the technical
services.
c) To participate, with the central technical services, in the
preparation of programs to establish cooperatives, with the
right to make any recommendations it seems advisable regard-
ing possible modification of the studies.  It shall, also
with the central services, study the needs of the UPN for
agricultural supplies; in this connection, the central tech-
nical services must keep the Bureau of the UPN informed of
the progress of the studies and of projects likely to be of
interest to the UPNo
d) To approve the loans to the UPN.
The head of the Bureau shall have at his disposal the experts
necessary for the efficient operation of the office.
He shall have the power to issue directives to the staff of the
special subdivisions (UPN) through administrative channels (see organization
chart).
For the purposes of carrying out its mission, he shall have the
power to call upon the government administrative and technical services
and on the public agencies that are concerned with the UPN.



ANNEX I
TUNISIA: COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE UNDER-SECRETARIAT OF STATE FOR AGRICULTURE
SECRETARIAT OF STATE
FOR THE PLAN
AND THE NATIONAL ECONOMY
UNDER-SECRETARIAT            UNDER-SECRETARIAT             UNDER-SECRETARIAT
OF STATE FOR                 OF STATE FOR                  OF STATE FOR
FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT             AGRICULTURE            INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE
NATIONAL
I COMMISSION FOR
COOPERATIVE
AGRICULTURE  I
L -------- -----
I  BUREAU OF CONTROL  I
( (MANAGERIAL UNIT)  I
REGIONAL      1              HYDROLOGY
COMMISSARIES                    DIVISION
COOPERATIVE                   PRODUCTION
SUPERVISORS                    DVSO
+ 6 Assistants  ]              DIVISION
per 20-25 cooperatives          RESEARCH AND
EDUCATION
DIVISION
AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION
EXISTING
PROPOSED
ER) IBRD -3100



COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
Calculation of Econ-riic iate of Return
(in Dinars for a hypothetical unit of 1,000 h1ct:res)
(1)          (2)             (3)          (4)       (5)         (6)           (7)             (8)            (9)
Investment   Operating         Total       Gross     Previous  Incremental  rurrent Value   Present Value  Present :IfortH
Year    Costsa/    Expendituresb/ Expenditures    Incomec/   Income     Income     of Surplus or   of 1 at 10%    of Surplus or
__     _(1) + (2)                                         (4) -    (5)  (Deficit)     Ann. Discount      (Deficit)
1     40,260        17,650        57,910        20,362     9,000      11,362        (46,548)       1.000           (46,548)
2     13,620        18,680        32,300        25,054     9,000      16,054        (16,246)        .909           (1h,768)
3      5,710        19,000        24,710        30,503     9,000      21,503        ( 3,207)        826            ( 2,619)
4      3,710        18,980        22,690        33,962     9,000      24,962          2,272         .751             1,706
5        540        19,180        19,720        37,961     9,000      28,961          9,241         .683             6,312
6     13,700        19,320        33,020        38,110     9,000      29,110        ( 3,910)        .621            ( 2,428)
7                   19,320        19,320        38,110     9,000      29,110          9,790         .564             5,522
8                   19,350        19,350        37,650     9,000      28,650          9,300         .513             4,771
9     13,900        19,380        33, 80        38,250     9,000      29,250        ( 4,030)        .467             1,882
10                   19,400        19,400        38,450     9,000      29,450         10,050         *h24              4,261
11     13,700        19,470        33,170        40,100     9,000      31,100        ( 2,070)        .386            (   799)
12                   19,470        19,470        42,54C     9,000      33,540         14,070         .350              4,925
13                   19,470        19,470        43,520     9,000      34,520         15,050          .319             4,801
14                   19,470        19,470        45,500     9,000      36,500         17,030         .290             4,939
15                   19,470        19,470        44,930     9,000      35,930         1-4,460        .263              3,803
16     13,700        19,470        33,170        47,960     9,000      38,960          7,790         .239              1,862
17     13,900        19,470        33,370        46,360     9,000      37,360          3,990         .218                870
18                   19,470        19,470        48,140     9,000      39,140         28,670         .198              5,677
19                   19,470        19,470        50,500     9,000      41,500         22,030         .180              3,965
20                   19,470        19,470        49,990     9,000      40,990         19,520         .164              3,201
21     13,700        19,470        33,170        49,990     9,000      40,990          9,820         .149             1,463
22                   19,470        19,470        49,990     9,000      40,990         21,520         .135              2,905
23                   19,470        19,470        49,990     9,000      40,990         21,520         .123              2,647
24                   19,470        19,470        49,990     9,000      40,990         21,520         .112              2,410
a/    Includes expenditures for water and soil conservation to be carried by Government, as well as the cost of
feasibility studies and technical assistance.
b/    Includes cost of extension services to be borne by Government.
c/    The production of hand wheat is valued at a market price of D.38 per ton, not at the domestic support price
of D.42 per ton.
N3



TUNISIA
1~~~~~~rd  _  EA COVERED EY MAP.
AFRICA                                              ~~  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  5  '0  IS  20  ,
KILOMETERS
L  XBOUNDARIES OFiULF OF TUNIS
t L \  /  W  , >  ,' ~~~~~~~Mateur -       V    
(   J-f      >   ~   ~     ~    ~~~~~                                  ~~~~~ _  v  N  FAR COOPERNOATS V
2    /   \X_^  SX           b -7Le I) e                                         _  _  BOUNDAR IDES OF
,r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S IS? S.SSX d  j,A
JANUARY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /6                                             IBD184
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
~~,I,,  - ~ ~  -u
- A- 
-  N  ~~~I  -    I                         1                                   -ejo
% ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~sI         - 
%        FARM COOPE~~~~~~~~~~~lR- ATIVE



MAP 2
M4 e di/ t e rro  e o     e S e aE-TE
OU ,A.A       KAIROUAN 
K~~~~E
A~~~~~~~~
/ )'           KASSERINE                                , 0
/FAX
GAFSA
,                    tk       ~~~~~~~~G vu/  o f G a b e s
<\BE S      
a)
EDNINE
T U N-l S I A
WORKSHOPS FINANCED BY USAID FOR THE OFFICE NATIONAL
DE MOTOCULTURE ET DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE
BOUNDARY OF GOUVERNORATS
*     CAPITALS OF GOUVERNORATS
*     REGIONAL WORKSHOP
O     LOCAL WORKSHOP
k\\\\\N> PROJECT AREA
0     20    40     60     80    100
JANUARY 1967                                                                                                    ISRD-1839R1



MAP 3
TUNISIA
DISTRIBUTION OF STATE LANDS
BY DIRECTION       REGIONALE                        BIZRT
rd'>> jj aLr oUNIS
-<     $EDJE~~ZELBAE           / 
(   ,   t      < ~~~~~34.890 ) R 6MBAL
DJENDOB   *J       53
> U~~~~~AFOU
P0 -  -ANS  \ZAGHIOUA
~~~~* ~~~~~~-4
A      L G E R I A             \           KAIROUAN
2       A~~!SBEITLA 
I. o-          /k~\ OJ                       -U)
K           ~~~~OGAFSA,/S
DI... 
*  OFFICES OF DIRECTIONS ROGIONALES
--BOUNDARIES OF GOUVERNORATS                                                         LI B Y A
SOURCE: OFFICE DES TERRES DOMANIALES
O 0  70  30  40  50  6 600
AUGUST 1966                                                                              IBRD-i845



