RESTRICTED
Report No. P-525
This report wos prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
February 6, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDEIT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND A PRO-
POSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A
COOPERATIVE FARM PROJECT
1.        I  submit herewith the following report and recommendations on
a proposed loan and a proposed credit in various currencies equivalent to
US$ 12 million and US$ 6 million respectively, to the Republic of Tunisia
to help finance a Cooperative Farm project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Government of Teunisia has requested assistance from the Bank
group to help finance a cooperative farming project in Northern Tunisia as
part of its program to reorganize agricultural and livestock production on
more effective lines. The project was prepared with the assistance of an
FAO mission which visited Tunisia in October-November 1964 and completed
its work in April 1965. A Bank preappraisal mission examined the project
in the field in October-November 1965 and made recommendations on steps to
be taken to prepare the project for final appraisal, which took place in
June 1966. Negotiations took place in December 1966 with a Tunisian dele-
gation which was headed by lMr, Hedi Ghachem, General Counsel, Secretariat
of State for Planning and the National Economy,
3.        The proposed Bank/IDA operation, if approved, would be the third
Bank loan and the third IDA credit to Tunisia. The Bank has so far lent
Tunisia US$ 12 million, of which US$ 7 million was for the Tunis-
La Goulette port project and US$ 5 million to the Societe Nationale
d'Investissement (SNI). The Association has made available two credits
amounting to US$ 5 million and US$ 13 million respectively, for two educa-
tion projects. As of December 31, 1966, the status of the loans and the
credits was as follows:
Amount (US$ millions)
Year  Borrower              Purpose        Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
1962  Republic of Tunisia  Education                   5.0          .2
1964  Republic of Tunisia   Port            7.0                    2.7
1966  Societ6 Nationale    Development
d'Investissenment  Finance Co.      5.0                    4.8
1966  Republic of Tunisia  Education                  13.0        13.0
Total now outstanding                 12.0       18.0
Amount sold                                  .4
Total now held by Bank and IDA             11.6       18.0
Total undisbursed                           7.5       13.2         20.7



-2-
4.        In 1963 the Bank also made a technical assistance grant of
US$ 375,000 to Tunisia to carry out studies directed toward improving
She design of school buildings and reducing their costs.
5.        The International Finance Corporation has so far made two in-
vestments in Tunisia. The first was in NPK-Engrais, a producer of phos-
phate fertilizers. Made in August 1962, it consisted of an equity
investment of $1.5 million and a long-term loan of $2 million. A total
of $339,573 of the investment and $817,600 of the loan has been sold.
The second investment o' $570,000 was made in 1966, in shares of the SNI,
to which the Bank simultaneously made a loan.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
6.        Bank Loan
Borrow1er:         Republic of Tunisia
Amount:            The equivalent in various currencies
of US$ 12 million
Interest Rate:    Six percent (6%) per annum
Commitment CharZe: Three-eighths of one percent (3/8 of
1%) per annum
Amortization:      Term of 18 years, including 5-year
grace period, with semi-annual pay-
ments beginning April 15, 1972 and
ending April 15, 1985
Purpose:          To help finance a Cooperative Farm
project as part of the Tunisian
Government's program of organizing
agricultural and livestock produc-
tion
RelendinA Terms:   Six percent (6%) per annum for sub-
loans to Cooperatives and Office des
Terres Domaniales. Average term of
13 and not exceeding 17 years, includ-
ing 4 to 5 years grace period, for
Cooperatives; term of 5 years to
Office des Terres Domaniales.



-3-
IDA Credit
Borrower:                    Republic of Tunisia
Amount:                      The equivalent in various currencies
of US$ 6 million
Purpose                      As for Bank loan
Amortiza-ion:                Term of 50 years, by semi-annual pay-
ments comrmiencing April 15, 1977 and
ending October 15, 2016, each install-
ment to and including the installment
payable on October 15, 1986 to be one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of the
principal amount and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per-
cent (1-1/2%) of the principal amount
Service Char-e:              Three-quarters of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum for the principal amount
of the credit disbursed and outstanding
Relending Terrns:            As for Bank loan.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A report on the project, "Cooperative Farm Project - Tunisia"
(TO 560-.b) is attached.
3.        Agricultural production represents about 25% OI Tunisia's gross
national product and agricultural products about 60-65% o0f total exports.
Over 50% of the labor force is employed in agriculture, many of them living
on subsistance level smalliholdings.  The Tunisian Government, since the
accession of the country to independence in 1956, and in particular under
its present 1965-1953 development plan, has laid special emphasis upon
increasirg and reorganizing agricultural and livestock production. The
area which offers the m,ost promising conditions for such improvement is the
nort'her n part of the country.  Climate and soils, and hence the production
po-ential, are good.   The project is located in this region.
9.        The prooosed project would establish new production cooperatives
over a two-year period on 160,000 ha in Northern Tunisia, each on about
1,000 ha; it would also consolidate development of the 213 cooperatives
established prior to 1066 on 135,000 ha and provide additional capital in-
puts to State farms, now under the Office des Terres Domaniales (OTD),
intended for eventual absorption into the cooperative movement.    Invest-
ments financed under the project would include farm buildings, livestock
buildings, farm machinery, small irrigation equipment, tree crop
establishment, range pasture improvement, soil and water conservation,
livestock, managerial and technical assistance and feasibility studies.
The project is geared to the production of hard and soft wheat as the major



-4-
cash crop supplemented by forage crops and livestock. It would be
implemented substantially over a four-year period and would cost a total
of about US$ 32.6 million with a foreign exchange component of US$ 12.4
rm,illion (about 38%).
10.       The project would be run under a new system of management super-
vision worked out in discussions between the Tunisian authorities and the
Bank group. Overall policy control for the cooperatives would be vested
in a new National Commission for Agricultural Cooperation (the Commission)
representing at a high level all major interested ministries and organ-
izations.  The execution of the policy would be the responsibility of a
new management unit (Bureau of Control). In view of the present shortage
of qualified Tunisian personnel, it is expected that the unit would
initially be partly staffed by expatriate specialists with local counter-
parts. There would be a direct chain of command from the unit to the
field level. The Banque Nationale Agricole (DNA) would act as financial
agent of the Commission and Government, and all government loans and
grants to the cooperatives and the State farms (including the proceeds of
the proposed loan/credit) would be channeled through it.
11.       If this project is approved, the Bank group would be entering
a new field - that of production cooperatives. Under this approach to
agrarian reform, to which the Tunisian Government is firmly committed,
large land holdings are not split up into small individual lots of un-
economic size; instead, traditional subsistence smallholdings which offer
little or no scope for effective development are eliminated by joining
them into production cooperatives centered on nuclei of good quality
former "colon" lands (taken over by the Government from former French or
Italian settlers). This system is capable of raising the low production
of traditional land to a much higher level, of expanding export earnings
and of increasing the per capita income of the Tunisian farmer. However,
the weak incentives which characterize the functioning of production
cooperatives must be recognized, and the successful performance of such
enterprises is highly dependent on organization, management and super-
vision. In this case there appears to be a good chance that these
elements will be forthcoming.
12.       In order to ease Tunisia's balance of payments and external
debt position, there was general agreement among members of the Consul-
tative Group at its December 1965 meeting that they should, whenever
possible, provide a significant portion of their financial assistance on
more lenient terms and also through program grants or loans or through
project assistance which would cover part of the local currency requirements.
Consistently with this approach, it is proposed that the Bank and IDA:



-5-
(a) provide about 55%, i.e. US$ 18 million, of the project's
total investment cost covering the foreign exchange com-
ponent (38%) and part of the local expenditure component;
(b) finance the operation with a blend of Bank and IDA re-
sources, the loan amounting to US$ 12 million and the
credit to US$ 6 million.
13.       The Government has an official tender system which provides for
competitive bidding, Foreign as well as domestic suppliers may submit
proposals. A number of international firms nandling farm machinery and
equipment are represented in Tunisia and are required to provide after-
sales service. A Decree of July 1965 imposed restrictions on the import
of tractors in order to protect a new assembly plant in Tunisia. The Bank
has obtained assurances, however, that these restrictions would be elimin-
ated for all tractor imports required for the project. All bids would be
evaluated on sound economic criteria with a preferential margin of up to
15% being allowed to the Local producers.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
14.       The draft Loan and Credit Agreements between the Republic of
Tunisia and, respectively, the Bank and the Association, the report of the
Committee provided for in Article 3, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's
Articles of Agreement, the report of the Comimit..ee provided for in
Article 5, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
and the draft Supplementary Letter on Procurement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
15.       The Loan and Credit Agreements will be subject to ratification
by Tunisia's National Assembly.
16,       The Bank and Association shall have, respectively, the right to
suspend the Loan and the Credit if the Borrower shall have cancelled any
part of the Loan without cancelling a corresponding proportionate amount
of the Credit, or the other way around, or if the Decree establishing the
Co.nmission, the Decree establishing the OTD, or the circular establishing
the Bureau shall have been abrogated, suspended or materially modified
without the agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART V: THE ECONOMY
17.       A Bank report entitled "Tunisia - Review of 1965-1968 Develop-
ment Plan" (AF-39) was distributed to the Executive Directors on January
19, 1966 (R66-12). A Bank mission visited Tunisia in October-November
1966 at the same time as an IXF mission which was there to negotiate the
renewal of a standby agreement and the two missions collaborated closely.
The IMF mission's report was issued on November 23 and the renewal of the
INF standby was approved on December 2. The report of the Bank mission
is in preparation and will be submitted to the Consultative Group on
Tunisia for its March meeting.   The fiF report and tihe basic facts



-6-
and preliruinary   tables which will be part of the Bank's report are being dis-
-.-ibu;ed '-o the Executive Directors 'as background information.
18. During the period 1960-66, Tunisia achieved an average growth
in its gross domestic production of 5% in spite of a serious drought
which depressed output in the year 1966. This rise in output was accom-
panied by a large public development program ilich brought gross invest-
.aent to an average of 26% o_ ;he GDP in 1964-66 as compared to 14% in
1960. Domestic savings and foreign capital inflow both went up substan-
;:ially during this period, but not sufficiently to avoid pressure on
donestic prices and on external reserves.
19.       At the end of 1964 a number of steps, including a 25% devalua-
tion (from Dinars .42 to the dollar to Dinars .52), were taken in order to
reduce these pressures. Increases in long-term foreign capital inflow,
together with an IMF drawing and a considerable increase in supplier
credits, also helped to relieve the domestic financial situation in 1965.
However, during 1966 this exceptionally high level of external capital
inflow could not be mainLained and pressures on external reserves again
began to mount.   Late in 1966 the Government therefore adopted new
measures designed to limit gross domestic investment in 1967 to a level
that could be financed from domestic savings and the amount of foreign
capital already reasonably well assured from existing commitments and
fromn loans under negotiation. The investment level planned for 1967 cor-
responds to around 22% of GDP and includes a specific allowance for a
build-up of inventories that will be needed to permit the smooth func-
tioning of several important plants just starting production. It should
also permit a moderate improvement in the net foreign reserve position -
which has been negative for the past few years.
20.       In 1965 and 1966 Tunisia achieved a marked shift in the compos-
itiOll of its investwent program towards a greater emphasis on directly
productive investments than was the case in the 1962-64 period. The pat-
tern of investment for 1967, which was finalized after discussions with
the recent Bank mission, represents further progress in this direction,
since the major cuts by comparison with earlier years will be in housing,
primary education and administrative building. Action is also under way
,o improve the productivity of investments in agriculture, including a
nu,nber o£ measures to 'oe taken in connection with the project now under
consideration, and in transport, with the assistance of a UNDP Transport
Survey for which the Banlc probably will be Executing Agency. In tourism
and manufacturing, the private sector is being given a progressively more
important role. One reflection of this is the rapidly expanding activity
of the private development finance company (SNI) which was reorganized
with IFC help in 1966.
21.       An important factor in the improvement foreseen in the external
position for 1967 is an expected expansion in export earnings. Between
1960 and 1965 exports of goods and services did not rise at all, while
imports rose by 6% annually in real terms. In 1966, however, exports
(including invisibles) went up by 12% chiefly because of the beginning
of crude petroleum shipments from the El Borma field and a sharp rise in
receipts from tourism. For 1967 a further expansion of over 15% is
foreseen in exports because of continued increases expected in petroleum



-7-
and tourist earnings, higher fertilizer exports, and a renewal of wine
exports to France which were stopped in 1965. With 1967 imports
expected to be held to approximnately the 1965 level, the current deficit
for this year is estimated at $105 million, as compared with one of $163
million in 1965.
22.       Fcr the period between 1967 and 1970, prospects are good for a
continued expansion in exports, although at a slower rate than in the
1965-1967 period. After 1969, petroleum exports from known deposits are
expected to stabilize, but sales of phosphate rock and fertilizers should
continue to rise. Agricultural exports should also expand moderately
provided there is reasonable access to European markets. A problem could
arise in this respect if Tunisia's present preferences on the French mar-
ket (which are scheduled to be phased out) are not replaced by arrangements
with the Common Market to provide similar export opportunities. Production
for domestic use will rise significantly in the next few years as a result
of important investments recently completed or now under way in the manu-
iacturing and agricultural sectors, so that a growth rate in total output
of between 5% and 6% annually should be feasible in this period.
23.       To sustain such a growth, investment will probably have to be
maintained at least atthe 1967 ratio to GDP. Nevertheless, it should be
possible to keep the rate of increase in imports below that foreseen
for exports for the 1967-70 period. This would require a continued in-
crease in domestic savings and for this to be achieved would almost
certainly require both a reduction in the growth rate of current government
expenditures and a substantial improvement in the financial position of
public enterprises. The Government is aware of the need for action on
both points: it has stated that it will attempt to reduce the growth of
current expenditures to a rate no faster than that of GDP, although this
probably will not quite be realized in 1967. In the case of enterprises
some measures have already been initiated to improve profits (or reduce
losses). But further action may prove to be needed in the next few years
on both points in order to provide sufficient savings.
24.       Assuming that the rate of domestic savings can be increased
gradually and that the investment rate remains roughly stable, Tunisia's
resource gap could be reduced significantly in the next several years.
However, even on these assumptions, the gross foreign capital inflow
required in the 1968-70 period is unlikely to decline below the level
foreseen for 1967 because of the growth in service payments on external
debt and because of the need to reconstitute foreign exchange reserves.
25.       Tunisia's total external debt, including amounts undisbursed,
stood at about $430 million as of late 1966.   Virtually all of this consists
of debt of the Government and of public enterprises. Ungaranteed private
debt accounts for only 5% of the total. Debt service in 1966 amounted
to $33 million, that is, 18%/o of total current foreign exchange receipts.
Service will rise in 1967 to around $46 million, resulting in a ratio of
13%/ of estimated earnings for that year. Service on existing debt will
start to drop in 1970 when payments are estimated at $40 million. The



service requirements on new debt will, of course. depend heavily on the terms
which Tunisia is able to obtain.   The Government has stated to the IMF its in-
-ention to avoid-any net increase in its suppliers' credit indebtedness, and
lis year will in fact probably see a significant reduction in this indebted-
ness.  Apart from suppliers credits, foreign capital inflow into Tunisia
lias jeen on comparatively Lavorable terms in the pas. few
years, including an tr,portant eiement of grants, loans repayable in iocal
currency, and low interest loans with long repayment periods. If
Tunisia's gross external capital requirements are not to be increased sub-
stantially in the 1970's, it would appear necessary for Tunisia to continue
to obtain a significant part of its capital inflow on concessionary terms
at least for the next few years. Whether a gradual hardening of average
terms could be achieved after that without leading to a serious debt ser-
vice problem and a reduction in Tunisia's growth rate will depend primarily
on Tunisia's ability to maintain a healthy expansion of exports and
domestic savings in the decade of the 1970's.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGRFEMENT
26.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Credit would comply
with the Articles of, respectively, the Bank and the Association.
PART VII - RECONAENDATIONS
27.       I recommend that:
(a) the Executive Directors of the Bank adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Republic of Tunisia in an
amount equivalent to U.S. $ 12,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic
of Tunisia in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twelve million United States dollars (U.S. $ 12,000,000),
to mature on and prior to April 15, 1985, to bear interest
at the rate of six per cent (6%) per annum, and to be upon
such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
form of Loan Agreement (Cooperative Farm Project) between
the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank, which has been pre-
sented to this meeting.
(b) the Executive Directors of the Association adopt the fol-
lowing resolution:



-9-
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of a Development Credit to Republic
of Tunisia in an amount equivalent to
U.S. $ 6,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit
to the Republic of Tunisia in an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to six million United States dollars
(U.S. $ 6,000,000), to mature on and prior to October 15,
2016, to bear a service charge at the rate of three fourths
of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in
accordance wii-h the terms and conditions set forth in the
form of Development Credit Agreement (Cooperative Farm
Project) between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Association, which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
Attachm.ents                                        Presidenc
ocbiruary 6, 19'67



