0
CREDIT NUMBER 99 TUN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Cooperative Farm Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 21, 1967


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 99 TUN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Cooperative Farm Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 21, 1967


﻿Prurtopmunt Trubit Agrmment
AGREEMENT, dated February 21, between REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Associa-
tion to provide a credit to it in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000) to
assist the Borrower in financing a cooperative farm
project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter
called the Bank) to make a loan to it to provide additional
assistance towards financing such project;
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to make such a loan to
the Borrower;
(D) the Borrower, the Association, and the Bank intend
to enter into an arrangement enabling the Bank to process
applications for withdrawal of part of the proceeds of the
financing to be provided severally by the Association and
the Bank; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, upon the basis of
the foregoing, to provide a credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said De-
velopment Credit Regulations No. 1 as so modified being
hereinafter called the Credit Regulations) :
(a) The second sentence of Section 2.02 is amended by
deleting the words "at the same rate" and substituting
therefor the words "at the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/ of 1%) per annum".
(b) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new Section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods
is to be Paid and Proceeds of the Credit are to be
Withdrawn.
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in the re-
spective currencies of the countries from which such
goods are acquired.
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures in currency of the
Borrower or for goods produced in (including
services supplied from) the territories of the
Borrower, in such currency or currencies as
the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in which the


﻿5
cost of the goods financed out of such proceeds
has been paid or is payable.
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from
time to time agree on any other currency in which
withdrawals shall be made."
(c) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03
as follows:
"Section 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal
with Other Currency. If withdrawal shall be made in
any currency which the Association shall have pur-
chased with another currency for the purpose of such
withdrawal, the portion of the Credit so withdrawn
shall be deemed to have been withdrawn from the Credit
Account in such other currency for the purposes of
Section 3.03."
(d) Section 3.04 is renumbered as Section 3.05.
(e) Section 8.04 is deleted.
SECTION 1.02 Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
defined in the Loan Agreement shall have the same mean-
ings as in such Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this De-
velopment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such
Credit Account the amount of the Credit. The amount of


﻿6
the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account as
provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, this Agreement and the Credit
Regulations.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of this Agreement, to withdraw from the Credit
Account:
(a) the equivalent of a percentage or percentages to
be established from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association of such amounts as
shall have been paid for the reasonable cost of goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(b) if the Association shall so agree, such amounts
as shall be required to meet payments under (a) above;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made on
account of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(34 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October
15 commencing April 15, 1977 and ending October 15, 2016,
each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 1986 to be one-half of one per cent (/ of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1 %) of such
principal amount.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out the Project described in the
Schedule to this Agreement. The specific goods to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit and the methods
and procedures for procurement of such goods shall be
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, subject to modification by further agreement
between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) Sections 5.01, 5.02 and 5.03 of the Loan
Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Development
Credit Agreement with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein; provided, however, that (i) all
references to the Bank in such Sections or in any of them
shall be deemed to be references to the Association, and (ii)
all references in such Sections or in any of them to the
Loan shall be deemed to be references to the Credit.
(b) So long as any part of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement or the Bonds executed and delivered
pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of such Loan
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unpaid, all action
taken, including approvals given, by the Bank pursuant to
the Sections of the Loan Agreement enumerated in the


﻿80
foregoing paragraph shall be deemed to be taken or given in
the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Asso-
ciation; and all information furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank pursuant to the provisions of such Sections, shall
be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 4.02. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories."
SECTION 4.03. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Credit Regula-
tions shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty
days, or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of
Section 5.02 of the Credit Regulations shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower, or (iii)
if the event specified in Section 5.02 (a) of this Agreement,
shall occur, then at any subsequent time the Association,
at its option, may declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and upon
any such declaration such principal shall become due and
payable immediately, anything ir, this Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.


﻿9
SECTION 5.02. The following are specified as additional
events for the purposes of Section 5.02 (j) of the Credit
Regulations:
(a) the outstanding principal of the loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement shall have been declared, or
become, due and payable in advance of the agreed
maturity thereof ;
(b) the Borrower shall have cancelled any part of the
loan provided for in the Loan Agreement without
cancelling a corresponding proportionate amount of
the Credit;
(c) failure by the Borrower to fulfill an obligation to
make payment of principal or interest or any other
payment required under this Agreement or under
any other development credit agreement between
the Borrower and the Association or under any loan
agreement or guarantee agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank or under any bond delivered
pursuant to any such agreement even though pay-
ment has been made by other persons; and
(d) the Decree establishing the Commission, the Decree
establishing OTD or the Circular establishing the
Bureau shall have been abrogated, suspended or
materially modified without the agreement of the
Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01(b) of the Credit Regu-
lations, namely that the Loan Agreement shall have become
effective in accordance with its terms.


﻿10
SECTION 6.02 If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by May 17, 1967
this Development Credit Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Associa-
tion, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1971,
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. "lhe folk oing addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Credit Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Secr6tariat d'Etat au Plan et & E'Economie Nationale
Place du Gouvernement
Tunis, Tunisia
Alternative address for calbleg-rans aii( ra(liograms:
Secr6tariat d'Etat au Plan f 1I 'Economie Nationiale
Tunis, Tunisia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
Uniled States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.


﻿11
SECTION 7.03. The Secretaire d'Etat au Plan     et '
1'Economie Nationale of the Borrower is designated for the
purposes of Section 7.03 of the Credit Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thezeunto dry authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective nanes and &GAivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REP UBLIO OF TUNISIA
By /s/ RAC11m1 I)IZIss
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION
By /s/   J. Bri,KE K-NAPP
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of a ten-year program of the Bor-
rower for the establishment of Cooperatives on some one
million hectares of the Governates of Tunis, Bizerte, Beja,
Djendouba, Le Kef and Nabeul and includes:
1. The consolidation of the 213 Cooperatives existing
prior to September 1966 on about 185,000 hectares to which
Cooperatives loans shall be made for:
(a) the construction of farm buildings, largely for cei-
tralized livestock production;
(b) the purchase of farm machinery for lr.ge-scale mech-
anized grain production and harvesting and for for-
age harvesting;
(c) the purchase of small-scale irrigation equipment to
pump underground water for spray irrigation;
(d) the establishment of tree crops;
(e) the regeneration of existing range pasture land; and
(f) the purchase of cattle and sheep.
2. The establishment of new Cooperatives on about 160,000
hectares, each on an average of about 1,000 hectares, within
the period from September 1966 to September 1968, each
to include livestock production, and to which loans shall be
made for:
(a) the construction of farm buildings, largely for cen-
tralized livestock production units;
(b) the purchase of farm machinery for large-scale mech-
anized grain production and harvesting and for for-
age harvesting;
(c) the purchase of small-scale irrigation equipment to
pump underground water for spray irrigation;


﻿13
(d) the establishment of tree crops;
(e) the regeneration of existing range pasture land;
(f) the purchase of sheep and cattle; and
(g) the purchase of imported bulls of dairy breeds.
3. The maintenance of agricultural productivity of OTD
farms on about 300,000 hectares which might be transferred
to Cooperatives to be established after September, 1968,
to which loans shall be made for the purchase of farm
machinery and agricultural equipment.
4. The provision of technical and advisory services for:
(a) the preparation of feasibility studies for the Co-
operatives W be established under part 2 of the
Project;
(b) the organizing of such Cooperatives; and
(c) the supervising of the management of all the Co-
operatives.


