Document of          r          f py
The World Bank- FILE CP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3017-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
NATIONAL URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING PROJECT
April 9, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 Won (W)
US$1                    =    W 650
W 1                     =    US$0.001538
W 1 million             =    US$1,538
W 1 billion             =    US$1.538 million
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)              =     0.03937 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                    -    39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)          =    10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)           =    35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer                    =     0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                 -    10,000 sq m or 2.471 acre or
3,024 pyongs (py)
1 pyong (py)                   =     3.307 square meter (sq m) or
35.586 square feet (sq ft)
1 liter (1)                    =     0.264 US gallon (gal) or
0.220 Imperial gallon
1 liter per capita per
day (lcd)                    =     0.264 US gallon per capita
per day (gcd)
1 metric ton (mt)              =     1,000 kilograms (kg) or
2,240 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton per day (mtd)   =       1,000 liters per day of
water (approx.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPL    -    City Planning Law
EPB    -    Economic Planning Board
FYP    -    Five-Year Plan
GNP    -    Gross National Product
KECO   -    Korea Electric Company
KDB    -    Korea Development Bank
KDI    -    Korea Development Institute
KHB    -    Korea Housing Bank
KLB    -    Korea Land Bank (Defunct)
KLDC   -    Korea Land Development Corporation
KNHC   -    Korea National Housing Corporation
LR     -    Land Readjustment
MOC    -    Ministry of Construction
OSROK  -    Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
ROK    -    Republic of Korea
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
NATIONAL URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:    Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC) and the Korea
National Housing Corporation (KNHC).
Amount:             $90.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest at
9.6% p.a.
Relending Terms:  $33.4 million will be relent to KLDC and $56.6 million to
KNHC for a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace
with interest at 9.65% p.a. KNHC will onlend its share of
the proceeds of this loan plus additional KNHC resources
for a total of approximately $85.0 million as 20-year
mortgages to low-income home buyers at the prevailing
Korea Housing Bank (KHB) rate, presently 15.5% per annum.
Project
Description:    The objectives of the project are to provide housing for
low-income families and to further develop the capabili-
ties of the major public institutions serving the housing
sector, namely KLDC and KNIHC. These objectives are to be
pursued in the context of an ongoing dialogue on housing
policy issues between the Bank and the Korean Government
which will be intensified through the technical
assistance and housing sector study to be financed from
this loan. The project includes development of about 380
ha of urban residential land in ten medium-sized cities
including off-site infrastructure, construction of about
8,500 housing units for low-income households, community
and commercial facilities and technical assistance
covering staff training, professional services, project
preparation, studies and monitoring and evaluation.
The project entails the following risks: (a) construction
costs may escalate faster than incomes of the target
population; (b) local governments may face difficulties in
providing counterpart funds and (c) problems in marketing
serviced plots and housing units may be encountered if the
current recessionary situation is prolonged. Measures to
reduce these risks are included in the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project costs:                               Local   Foreign   Total
------($ million)------
Land development          34.0      22.7      56.7
Housing construction    52.8        30.9      83.7
Public facilities         20.1      11.8      31.9
Technical Assistance       1.3       1.4       2.7
Subtotal             108.2      66.8    175.0
Contingencies
Physical                4.6       2.7       7.3
Price                  37.2      20.5      57.7
Total                150.0      90.0    240.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                       -        90.0      90.0
KLDC                      48.9       -        48.9
KNHC                      68.5       -        68.4
Local govt./central
agencies                32.6       -        32.7
Total                 150.0      90.0    240.0
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY            1982      1983      1984      1985
Annual           16.1      36.1      28.8       9.0
Cumulative       16.1      52.2      81.0      90.0
Rate of Return:   16.5% (weighted average of 10 subprojects)
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3298-a, KO, dated March 23, 1981.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRFSIDENT OF TIIE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMIENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THIE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A
NATIONAL tJRBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT AND IIOUSING PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $90.0 million to help
finance a National Urban Land Development and Housing Project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including a 3-year period of grace, with interest at
9.6% p.a. The terms to the ultimate subborrowers would be 20 years at the
prevailing interest rate of the Korea Housing Bank for low-income home
buyers, currently 15.5%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Current Developments
and Policy Issues" was distributed under cover of SecM80-449, dated May 20,
1980. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance and Emerging Structural Problems
3.        During the last two decades, Korea achieved remarkable economic
progress. At the beginning of the 1960s, the country was suffering from the
typical vicious circle of poverty. GNP was about $80 per capita and exports
only $41 million. During the following 16 years, 1962-78, real GNP grew by
9.3% p.a., exports by 25% p.a., and industrial production by about 16% p.a.
By 1978, per capita GNP exceeded the thousand dollar mark, merchandise exports
were above $12 billion, the net foreign capital inflow was only about 15% of
total imports, the rate of unemployment was down to 3.2% and the ratio of
population below the poverty level was estimated to be under 15%.
4. Korea succeeded in achieving a high rate of growth between 1973 and 1978
despite a total dependency on imports for its petroleum needs and the
quadrupling of oil import prices between 1972 and 1974. Korea's oil import
bill grew to $1.0 billion in 1974, absorbing 22% of export receipts. The
terms of trade worsened by about 21% between 1972 and 1974 leading to slightly
over 4% of GNP loss. In spite of this, Korea succeeded in maintaining a GNP
growth rate of 8% in 1974 and about 11% p.a. during 1974-78. Notwithstanding
the recession in developed countries and growing protectionism, Korea's
exports grew by 24% p.a. during 1974-78. The ratio of foreign savings to GDP
rose from about 7.4% in 1973 to 11.5% in 1974 and 11.1% in 1978. Throughout
this period, the rate of unemployment continued to decline and the
investment-income ratio during 1974-78 was higher (29%) than during the
preceding five years (26%).



- 2 -
5.         Among the policy instruments which contributed to Korea's success in
very rapidly overcoming the effects of the first oil crisis were:  (a)
increased borrowing from abroad in order to maintain the momentum of growth;
(b) devaluation in 1973 and 1974; (c) restraint in wage increases in 1974 and
1975 when real wages in mining and manufacturing increased by 5.1% p.a. and
labor productivity by 10.5% p.a.; (d) an increase in government savings from
2.2% of GNP in 1974 to 4.9% of GNP in 1978; and (e) continued emphasis on
export diversification in products as well as markets.  In addition to these
policy adjustments, the Korean economy also gained from (a) an improvement in
terms of trade and (b) a spectacular growth in overseas construction contracts
which stood at $15 billion at the end of 1978 and yielded gross earnings of
about $2.2 billion.
6.         However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
exports, investment and growth during 1975-78 seriously strained the economy.
Between 1975 and 1978 the real domestic demand (consumption, investment and
exports) expanded by 15%. Both the volume of exports and the level of real
fixed investment doubled over these three years and purchasing power of
exports improved as terms of trade showed a recovery of 37%. Such a rapid
expansion in demand, along with multiplier effects understandably created
bottlenecks in the economy and fueled inflationary pressures. Labor markets
witnessed a major transformation in this period. Non-agricultural employment
expanded by 27% between-1975 and 1978, and employment in the critical
construction sector increased by 55% during this period. Reflecting the
tightening of the labor market, money wages in manufacturing increased by 33%
p.a. during 1977-79 and real wages clearly outstripped the growth in
productivity. The constraint on the supply of housing, together with fast
accelerating demand, led to very sharp increases in prices of dwellings.
Structural factors such as shifts in the pattern of demand and bottlenecks in
the supply of agricultural products such as meat and vegetables put further
pressures on consumer prices. The sharp rise in Korea's price level compared
with the major trading partners in turn eroded export competitiveness and led
to a major deterioration in the balance of payments. Only a part of the
widening of the current account deficit from $1.1 billion in 1978 to $4.2
billion in 1979 was attributable to an increase in the oil import bill. The
basic underlying factors were the stagnation in the volume of exports and
rapidly rising non-oil imports reflecting continuation of a major investment
boom until the third quarter of 1979.
7.         The difficult economic situation prevailing in 1979 was further
aggravated by the second oil crisis and the political problems emerging in
1979/80. As a result of the increase in the price of oil, Korea-s annual oil
import bill rose from about $3 billion in 1979 to about $6 billion in
1980. The deterioration in the terms of trade amounted to a loss of GNP of
about 4% between 1978 and 1980. Moreover, the oil price increase contributed
to a slowing down of the growth rate of the industrialized countries and to an
acceleration of their rates of inflation. The prospects for world trade in
manufactures deteriorated and for an economy like Korea's, where growth has
been led by exports, this amounted to a significant worsening of growth
prospects. At the same time, the months between the October 1979 assassin-
ation of President Park and the inauguration of the present administration
last September were marked by a high degree of political uncertainty and civil
unrest.



- 3 -
8.        Under the combined impact of the adverse economic and political
events, the economy went into a recession: the seasonally adjusted GNP, as
well as nonagricultural GDP, declined in each of the last three quarters of
1979. Notwithstanding the recessionary tendencies wholesale and consumer
prices rose by over 18% during 1979, compared to a 12-14% increase during
1978.  The current account balance of payments deficit widened sharply from
$1.1 billion in 1978 to $4.2 billion, or about 7% of GNP, in 1979. The nature
of the current economic difficulties and some key policy issues were reviewed
in the latest Bank economic report which concluded that in order to tackle the
serious problems created by the past structural imbalances and the oil crisis,
it would be necessary to adopt measures for a restructuring of the economy
aimed at improving efficiency, controlling inflation and improving the balance
of payments position. Among the needed measures that the report identified
were: (a) a review of the investment pattern in the heavy industries sector,
(b) restructuring agricultural income support programs, (c) improved energy
efficiency through proper pricing as well as energy saving investments, and
(d) reform of the financial system. As noted below, the Government took a
series of measures in 1980 both to revitalize the economy and address the
structural issues. In spite of these measures, however, the rate of growth of
GNP in 1980 was negative (estimated at -5.7% of which about 4 percentage
points decline was due to the drop in agricultural production), the rate
of inflation (GNP deflator) about 30%, and current account deficit about $5.5
billion.
Policy Measures Taken in 1980
9.        In its attempt to correct the emerging structural imbalances and
to respond to the oil price hikes, the Government initiated a series of
policy actions in 1980, in three phases. At the beginning of the year,
within the overall framework of a "stabilization first" policy, the
Government introduced changes in the exchange rate, interest rates and
energy prices in order to respond to the changing structure of international
prices. In June, the Government moved to increase public expenditure and
relax credit ceilings to tackle the growing problems of unemployment and
declining industrial production. The third phase came a few weeks after
the current administration took office in September 1980 and was character-
ized by a more active program for the revitalization of the economy through
promotion of exports and of the construction industry and consolidation of
the heavy industries sector through mergers. Prospects for the effective
implementation of this program are heightened by the fact that the new
Government includes a number of highly experienced and competent individuals.
The Prime Minister served in key Cabinet positions during most of the 1970s
and is identified with the formulation and application of the imaginative and
bold policies which enabled Korea to surmount the difficulties posed by the
first oil crisis of 1974/75. Some details of the measures adopted during
these three phases are noted below.
10.       Exchange Rates, Interest Rates and Energy Prices.  In January
1980, the won was devalued by about 20% from W 484 to W 580 per US$1. This
was followed in February by a new exchange rate system under which the value
of the won would be determined on the basis of a basket of currencies
(consisting of SDR and a sub-basket of currencies reflecting the shares of
the countries in Korea's merchandise trade) although other factors such as



- 4 -
relative price movements could also be taken into account.  The new system
has given flexibility to Korea's exchange rate and the dollar value of the
won has declined by about 10% since February 1980. In January 1980, interest
rates were also raised by about 6 percentage points for most lending and
deposit rates. Subsequently there have been some minor downward adjustments
in interest rates; and, at present, the prime lending rate stands at 19.5%.
In response to rapidly rising oil import prices, the Government had already
raised domestic oil product prices by about 75% in 1979. In 1980 the prices
were raised again several times bringing the total increase to 227% between
July 1979 and November 1980.
11.        Demand Management.  At the beginning of 1980, the Government was
pursuing an extremely tight monetary policy. In spite of the substantial
increase in domestic prices, due to the energy price increases and devalua-
tion, the rate of growth of money supply (M2) was to be kept at the
target of 20% in 1980. In order to restrain the budget deficit, Government
expenditures were to be cut back, with principal emphasis on reducing
expenditures with a low employment impact or high fuel or import intensity.
However, by mid-year, concerned at the rising unemployment and declining
industrial production, the Government eased the monetary and fiscal squeeze.
In response to the Bank-s suggestions for flexible monetary policy and in
agreement with the IMF, the target growth rate of M2 for 1980 was raised
to 25%. Budget expenditures of W 112.7 billion frozen earlier were made
available for public works programs and additional credit was made available
for small and medium industries and for construction of housing units,
particularly for low-income families. Further incentives for residential
construction were given in September by reducing the rate of capital gains
tax on real estate transfer (from 50-80% to 35-75%), and increased funds
were made available to the Korea Housing Bank and the Korea Land Development
Corporation. To promote exports, loans per dollar of letter of credit for
exports were increased and the banks were asked to pool resources for
providing performance guarantees requested by domestic companies for
overseas construction contracts, and for helping exports of heavy and
chemical industries on a deferred payment basis.
12.        Protecting Livelihood of the Poor.  Throughout 1980, with growing
unemployment and rising prices, the Government adopted various measures
to alleviate the economic strain on the poor. Among these measures were:
expansion of public works programs; various subsidy schemes on essential
goods and services such as rice, coal briquettes and bus services; a program
for increasing imports of major grains and giving tariff reductions on some
essential commodities; and an increase in interest rates on special savings
programs for low income families.
13.        Industrial Rationalization Program.  The new administration has
moved to tackle the very difficult issues arising from recent excessive
investment in some heavy industries. It has issued instructions for
consolidation in six industries, namely, motor vehicles,/l power generation
equipment, copper smelting, heavy electrical equipment, electronic switching
/1 The plans for mergers in the motor vehicle industry have recently been
modified to allow two competing automobile manufacturers.



systems, and marine diesel engines. Since all these operations are
privately-owned, the mergers involve complicated changes in ownership,
licensing arrangements contractual relationships and management patterns.
In a move to encourage greater equity financing, the Government will
disallow the treatment of interest payments as expenses in the calculation
of tax liability for firms which are already too heavily leveraged. The
larger companies will be required to register all land owned and the land
found unnecessary by the Government for the companies' operations will have
to be sold and the proceeds of these sales used for improving debt-equity
ratios of these firms.
14.       Expansion of Social Development Expenditure.  The new administra-
tion proposes to expand rapidly expenditures in the areas of education,
housing, health and social welfare. It has announced a large increase in
enrollment quotas for higher education, reform of the private tutoring system,
and an expansion of the medical insurance program.
15.       The Government is in the process of formulating the Fifth Five-Year
Plan (FYP) which will cover the years 1982-86./1 The objectives of the plan
are restoration of growth momentum along with equity through employment
generation and increased social development expenditures. The general
strategy is to increase efficiency of resource use by opening up the economy
to greater international competition, by liberalizing the financial system and
by promoting competition in domestic production and marketing. The emphasis
on heavy and chemical industries would continue but will be combined with
efforts at consolidation of the industrial structure and promotion of science
and technology. Energy conservation and substitution for oil will receive
major attention. The income support program for the poor (including rural
income support programs) would gradually shift from generalized subsidy
programs to targetted investment and income transfer programs. There would be
greater efforts than in earlier plans on reducing regional imbalances, meeting
basic needs, tackling urban problems such as housing, transport and water
supply and environmental pollution and development of a social security
system.
External Capital Requirements
16.       At the last meeting of the Consultative Group for Korea, held in
June 1980, there was a consensus that in spite of the current difficulties,
Korea-s longer-term prospects remained good. Among the sources of strength
for the economy are: a large investment base, the young, skilled and rapidly
growing labor force, the scope for exports of capital goods including
construction equipment, and the dynamism of its private sector. It is
generally recognised, however, that even with strenuous government efforts
/1 The Bank is the executing agency for a UNDP-financed program for
assistance to the Fifth Plan formulation. This assistance involves
mobilizing some 30 foreign consultants to advise on some selected
aspects of the Plan and organizing training programs for Koreans
at selected institutions abroad.



for structural adjustment, Korea's balance of payments can improve only over
a period of several years. The current account deficit in balance of
payments is expected to remain about $5 billion per year during the next few
years. Allowing for debt service and addition to reserves, the gross
external capital inflows required during 1980-81 are estimated to be about
$7.5 billion per year, of which about $1.3 billion could be expected from
public sources (excluding Ex-Im banks but including the IMF), and the rest
from private sources.
17.       While Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans
and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond market and is expected to
derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from such sources,
the magnitude of these external capital requirements is such that it will have
to continue to rely on considerable capital inflows from official sources. It
should, however, be emphasized that the higher anticipated levels of external
capital inflow (relative to the Fourth Plan targets) are a consequence of its
higher investment rates rather than a shortfall in the domestic savings rate.
The ratio of foreign savings to GNP is expected to decline in the 1980s,
following the restructuring and readjustment planned for the next few years.
Servicing of the debt should not pose difficulties given the present debt
service ratio and the continuing emphasis on export growth, provided that the
proportion of external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest
rates is not excessive.  The projected ratio of debt service payments to total
export earnings is not expected to rise significantly above 16% during the
eighties.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       As of February 28, 1981, Korea had received 54 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $3,135.0 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$994.3 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory,
however, delays in several projects - irrigation and rural development,
highways and population have occurred due primarily to shortfalls in
government budgetary contributions. Measures to increase local funding of
the affected projects are under discussion with the Government.
19.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government-s efforts to:  (a) secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining
a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.



20.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four major development
banks.  The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received $410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank, $352.5 million, and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank, $145 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry, and the
Citizens National Bank, $30 million to meet the financial needs of the small
enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these loans have been the numerous
industrial enterprises which have received funds through the financial
intermediaries. This has resulted in the overall development of the
industrial sector, and also contributed to the achievement of institutional
improvements as well as the Government's objective of decentralizing industry.
21.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of
industrialization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of
transport facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the
Government's efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating back
to 1962, has played an important role in these developments. Financing of
$432 million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to increase
the railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling
$334.5 million have been made for highway construction and paving of high
priority sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance
organization; and two loans amounting to $147 million have been provided for
the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
22.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together, these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.
23.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricultural
output grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country
becoming nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible a
steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 35% of
Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on agrarian
pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million for the
improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the
provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. In 1979, a $125 million loan was provided by the Bank to
help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation water in
the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood damage; and
generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for Korea's power
system.



- 8 -
24.        The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO), has proved
successful. The project was designed to support Government policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region. A loan of $65 million for a second project for the develop-
ment of the region was approved by the Executive Directors in September 1979.
25.        Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
February 28, 1981, entered into 29 commitments, totalling $70.4 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.
26.        A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing.
27.        In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures such as those described in Part I above. These measures are incor-
porated into a structural adjustment program for which Bank support has been
requested through a series of structural adjustment loans. The Bank is
currently reviewing this request. The maturity of many of the Korean
institutions suggests that it would be appropriate to adopt a sector lending
approach in some areas along the lines of the loan for higher technical
education approved in 1980 which will contribute to the modernization and
improvement of the system of higher technical education so as to increase its
flexibility and responsiveness to the changing requirements of the economy.
28.        Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. To support such diversification
and expansion, projects are envisaged for land/water resource development,
for agricultural marketing and for the further development of rural
infrastructure and facilities in selected provincial areas, which would
enhance incomes and quality of life in the lesser-developed regions of the
country and would have a significant impact on the problems of migration to
the major metropolitan areas.
29.        The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed lending program.
30.        The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1979 was about 11%, and its share of debt
service was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are expected to be
around 9% and 6% respectively by the mid-eighties.



- 9 -
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Urban Development in Korea
31.       Korea, like many other developing countries, has experienced rapid
urban growth during the past several decades. Between 1970 and 1981, the
urban population increased by 93% while the national population increased by
only 20%. During the same period a trend toward smaller household sizes has
resulted in an even more rapid increase of 116% in the number of urban
households. It is estimated that 5.24 million of the country's 8.16 million
households (62.4%) are now living in urban areas. These urbanization trends
are expected to continue into the 1990s; it is projected that three-quarters
of the population will be living in urban areas by 1991.
32.       During the 1960s and 1970s much of the urban population growth was
concentrated in the two largest cities, Seoul and Busan. Together they
accounted for 5.7 million (58%) of the 9.8 million new urban residents added
between 1960 and 1975. Since 1975, the rate of population growth of Seoul and
Busan has slowed, with relatively more rapid growth now occurring in medium
and small cities. This rapid urbanization and growing personal incomes have
put great pressure on urban housing markets. For these reasons and in part
owing to deliberate past Government policies which gave higher priority to
economic growth than to social infrastructure development, Korea has been
unable to overcome a persistent housing shortage.
B. Housing Situation in Korea
33.       The major housing problem confronting Koreans is an acute shortage.
Nationwide, the ratio of dwelling units to households was only 76.5% in 1979,
a shortage of 1.66 million units. Moreover, this ratio has actually fallen
slightly over the last decade despite rising levels of income and housing
construction as shown below:
Annual rate
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979 of increase
Population (OOOs)   30,882  34,679  35,860  36,436  36,628  37,355    2.1
Households (000s)    5,576   6,367   6,430   6,606   6,829   7,079    2.7
Housing units (000's) 4,360   4,734   4,945   5,100   5,242   5,416    2.4
Supply ratio            78.2    74.4    76.9    77.2    76.7    76.5         -
In urban areas, the situation is more severe than indicated by national
averages:  in 1970 the ratio of housing units to households was only 56% and
by 1975 the ratio had fallen to 53%.  The housing situation in rural areas is
projected to be considerably easier, primarily as a result of declining rural
population.



- 10 -
34.        Continuing housing shortages during a time of rapidly rising real
incomes have contributed to rapid rates of increase in rents and housing and
land prices. Housing prices rose at a rate of 20% per year over the decade
of the 1970s, considerably faster than the rate at which the Consumer Price
Index grew. Land prices rose even more rapidly, at 30% per year over the
decade, and still more rapidly in the late 1970s.
35.        Despite the continuing shortage and rising prices, average per
capita space availability has improved over the last decade.  The number of
persons per room in all cities declined from 2.7 in 1970 to 2.5 in 1975; space
per person increased from 1.7 py (5.6 sq m) to 2.1 py (6.9 sq m) over the same
period. The contrast between the worsening housing ratio and improving
housing space standards can be explained by: (a) the tendency of the private
sector to build only large units and (b) a significant upgrading of the
existing stock.
36.        From 1975 to 1979, according to the Ministry of Construction (MOC),
the public sector built 438,000 (40%) of the 1.1 million new units
constructed. Although the private sector share was falling throughout this
period the picture is partially misleading since "public sector"
construction, as used in Korea, includes all houses built with the help of
mortgages which are only available from public sector institutions.
37.        The three main factors which have constrained the expansion of
housing in Korea are: (a) a limited mortgage finance system; (b) an inadequate
level of investment in the housing sector; and (c) the scarcity of inexpensive
urban residential land. This situation is worsened by a high level of
demolition of existing houses in the past and the fact that the private sector
concentrated only on large expensive units.
38.        The limited housing finance system in Korea has severely restricted
the ability of potential purchasers to convert their present incomes into
effective demand for housing. In 1977, less than one-quarter of the resources
invested in the housing sector were mobilized by mortgage loans. In fact 60%
of the new units were paid for entirely by cash.  The government policies
which have inhibited the flow of capital into housing are: (a) prohibition of
mortgage lending for residential real estate by banking institutions other
than the Korea Housing Bank (KHB); (b) restrictions on KHB lending for housing
stemming from government requirements that as much as 56% of KHB's portfolio
be held in the form of non-housing investment; and (c) failure to develop any
secondary market for mortgages, thereby limiting KHB-s ability to raise funds
from institutional sources.
39.        The overall financial policies of the Governmaent, which have
historically favored the industrial sectors, have kept the level of housing
investment low. Rising from 1.7% of GNP during the First FYP (1962-66)
housing investment was only 3.6% of GNP in the Third FYP. It is estimated
that approximately 5% of GNP will have been devoted to housing during the
Fourth FYP which is still below the minimum required to meet the goals of



- 11 -
the next FYP. Nations with comparable housing problems such as Germany and
Japan were and are devoting much larger shares of GNP to housing./I
40.       In 1978 about 7,674 sq km or 7.8% of total land in Korea was
designated as urban areas which included residential, commercial, industrial
and green belt zones. Of that, only about 12% was zoned as residential and
nearly 80% was classified as green belt zones with severe restrictions on
their use. Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC) has identified
nationwide about 1,800 developable parcels greater than 1 hectare (ha) which
together comprise about 100 million py of land, only half of which are
presently zoned residential. It is estimated that about 64 million pyong
(py) will be necessary to meet the residential construction goals of the Fifth
FYP, thus creating the possibility of a severe squeeze on residential land
in the not too distant future.
C. Recent Government Policies in the Housing Sector
41.       A systematic effort to improve the housing situation really began
with the announcement of a formal 10-year (1972-81) housing plan and the 1972
Housing Construction Promotion Law (No. 2409) which set out the institutional
framework for planning, policy formulation and implementation of the plan.
Inadequate funding of the public sector program caused MOC to issue a revised
plan in 1975 which emphasized the needs of low-income households and proposed
a series of measures to improve the operations and expand the funding of
the two public housing institutions, the Korea National Housing Corporation
and Korea Housing Bank. Although the investment targets of the Fourth FYP
turned out to be inadequate to build the number of units indicated in the
Governments stated objectives, the Plan did discuss housing finance issues
in more realistic terms and indicated a willingness on the part of the
Government to increase the mobilization of domestic and international
resources for this sector.
42.       In 1977, reforms were undertaken to rationalize public sector
lending for housing in order to promote the development of a mortgage market
with more consistent practices and to increase the resources available to
public lending agencies. On the demand side, measures were taken to improve
access to financing for lower and medium-income households. Increased
attention was paid to the relative size distribution of newly-built housing
in order to limit the construction of larger luxury units.  Strong capital
gains taxation measures were devised to discourage speculative investors.
43.       The problem of housing supply, however, continued to be severe
during 1979 and early 1980, and the Government began to focus on specific
measures to increase output of both the public and the private sector. In
October 1980 a "Master Plan for Public Housing Construction and National
Urban Land Development" was released, with the endorsement of the President
of Korea, and is now the focus of a high level committee charged with
developing a plan for its implementation.
/1 Germany devoted 6.3% of GNP to housing in 1965 and 5.4% in 1970, Japan
devoted 6.1% in 1965 and 7.2% in 1970.



- 12 -
44        Major elements of the new Master Plan include:  adoption of a target
of providing 90 dwellings for every 100 households by the end of the Sixth
FYP (1991); an increased level of investment in the housing sector,
initially set at 6% of GNP; an expanded role for the public sector, especially
KLDC, KNHC and KHB; an emphasis on small unit housing construction, with 60%
of public sector units proposed to be 10 py or smaller; measures to reduce
housing costs through increasing productivity, relying on cross-subsidization
schemes and large-scale land development to provide serviced land to low and
middle-income families at affordable prices; financial and fiscal reform to
increase the supply of funds to the housing sector and to provide incentives
for builders, developers and end users of housing; and measures to enhance
security of tenure among renters.
45.       The new Master Plan represents a significant step forward for
Korean housing policy. Its major directions are consistent with many of the
recommendations made by the Bank in the course of the housing policy
discussions held with Korean authorities during the preparation of this
project. While questions may legitimately be raised concerning certain
aspects of the Plan and concerning the Government-s ability to fully implement
it, the Plan provides a far sounder framework for a continuing housing policy
dialogue than has heretofore existed. Several aspects of the new Master Plan,
namely the core house, the use of internal cross subsidies and graduated
payment mortgages, are also features of this project. In addition, agreement
was reached during negotiations that the Government and the Bank would
continue to exchange views on the formulation and implementation of housing
sector policies and plans and periodically review progress toward achieving
goals (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). The technical assistance
component includes a housing sector study (Schedule 2, Part D of the draft
Loan Agreement).
D. Housing Sector Institutions
46.       MOC through its Housing Bureau and the Economic Planning Board (EPB)
are responsible for the formulation of national housing policy and plans and
provide guidance to Korea National Housing Corporation (KNHC), Korea Housing
Bank (KHB), and Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC). KHB, established
in 1967, is the major institution which mobilizes savings for the purpose of
extending housing loans. KNHC and KLDC are fully discussed under Project
Coordination and Implementation (paras. 59-71).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government (KLDC and KNHC)
with the assistance of local consultants during 1980; preappraised in February
1980; and appraised in September 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington
from March 9 to 13, 1981 with the Korean delegation led by Mr. Wei Sung-yong.
A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - National Urban Land Development
and Housing Project" (No. 3298-a, KO, dated March 23, 1981) is being distri-
buted separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.



- 13 -
Project Objectives and Description
48.       In support of the Government's overall objective to formulate and
implement appropriate housing policies, the proposed project has three primary
objectives:
(a)  to enable KLDC to develop the capability to provide serviced
residential sites on a large scale;
(b)  to provide housing affordable by households in the second quartile
of the urban income distribution through KNIIC; and
(c)  to establish a framework for continuing the housing policy dialogue
between the Bank and the Government.
49.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a)  servicing of about 380 ha of urban land, including off-site
infrastructure, to provide about 11,300 low and middle-income
plots;
(b)  construction of nearly 8,500 housing units by KNHC on the portion
of the land, developed by KLDC for low-income families;
(c)  public facilities, including commercial, community and educational
facilities to be provided by local or national agencies; and
(d)  technical assistance covering professional services, project
preparation, staff training, monitoring and evaluation and a
housing sector study.
Detailed Features
50.       The design of the project is based largely on experience gained
through the housing components of the two Bank-supported regional development
projects /1 in the Gwangju region which introduced the expandable core-
house concept and the idea of internal cross-subsidies to make units more
affordable for low-income families. The project would provide affordable
housing for low-income families and serviced residential land for middle-
income families /2 in ten medium-sized cities geographically scattered
throughout the country. The development of each site would involve:
(a) acquisition, servicing and marketing of land by KLDC; (b) construction
of housing by KNHC and (c) provision of community and commercial facilities
by local and national agencies. At each site, nearly 50% of the net
/1  Secondary Cities Regional Project (Loan 1070-KO), approved in 1975 and
recently completed; a Project Completion Report is due in June 1981.
Second Gwangju Regional project (Loan 1758-KO), approved in 1979.
/2  Low-income families for which housing will be provided through this
project are defined as those in the second quartile of the urban house-
hold income distribution. Middle-income families are those above
the 50th percentile.



- 14 -
residential area will be earmarked for low-income households and sold by
KLDC to KNHC (Schedule 2, Annex 1, Part B of the draft Loan Agreement).
KLDC will sell the remaining land as serviced residential plots, designed
for the middle-income populace. The profits gained through the open market
sale of land will be utilized to lower the sales price of the low-income
plots.
51.       The project cities were selected jointly by MOC, KLDC, and
KNHIC based on city size, housing shortage/demand, availability of land
and willingness of the local government to participate in the project.
Seoul and Busan are not included in the project because the Government,
in line with its policy of deconcentration of economic activity, is giving
higher priority to secondary cities. Site selection has been based on
site-specific studies of estimated cost of land acquisition and development;
accessibility to centers of employment; conformity to city master plans and
zoning; minimizing demolition of existing structures (especially
residential); and the affordability of the low-income housing.
52.       Planning criteria and design standards were formulated during
preparation of the first four subprojects, called Phase I. These sites are
located in Changwon, Yeochan, Pohang and Gunsan, and will provide in total
about 4,100 dwellings for low-income families and serviced lots for 1,200
middle-income houses. Phase II activities, which would commence six to twelve
months behind Phase I, are likely to overlap during the actual construction
period. The six sites in Phase II are expected to provide more than 6,000
housing lots including about 4,400 low-income dwelling units.
Land Development
53.       Two methods of land development will be used under this project:
City Planning Law (CPL) and Land Readjustment Project Law (LR). CPL is a
conventional method involving outright purchase of land for development by a
public authority. Land Readjustment, on the other hand, is a mechanism
for land development practiced mainly in Korea, Taiwan, Japan and Australia,
whereby the public authority develops the land in partnership with the
landowners and shares the benefits with them. Under LR, a site with many
owners is first declared a readjustment area. The executing agency then
prepares a subdivision plan, obtains the approval of the participants,
installs basic infrastructure and sells a portion of the site at market
prices to recoup development and management costs. The remainder of the
site is returned as serviced plots to the owners in proportion to the value
of their original holdings.
54.       In Korea the proportion of land returned to owners has varied from
about 80% during the formative years of LR implementation (1966-76) down
to 50% or even 45% during recent years. The willingness of landowners to
accept smaller percentages of returned land reflects the progressively
improved standard of infrastructure provided and the inflation of land
values in newly urbanized areas. Currently in a typical LR project, land
would be divided as follows: (a) about 25-30% for public use (roads, parks
and community facilities); (b) 10-20% retained by the executing agency for
open plots sale to recoup development costs; and (c) 50-65% returned to the
original owners. Under this project the public agency will, for the first



- 15 -
time, also set aside a portion of the land usually sold to recover develop-
ment costs under LR and a portion from the part usually returned to owners
(categories (b) and (c) above) in order to acquire serviced residential
land for low-income housing.
55.       Although under CPL procedures it may initially be possible to
provide somewhat cheaper developed land than under LR, KLDC is reluctant to
apply CPL on a large scale because it is unpopular with landowners and local
officials. There is a strong preference on the part of landowners for LR
over CPL because they are able to retain a portion of their land, the value of
which has been increased due to the provision of services. LR projects are
also attractive to an implementing agency like KLDC because no upfront money
is required for land purchase, resulting in an improved cash flow position.
56.       KLDC has agreed to undertake the following measures which would
enhance the viability of LR projects (Section 2.09 of the draft KLDC Project
Agreement):
(a) KLDC would gradually increase the proportion of "retained land" in
future projects such that LR projects become comparable with CPL
projects in terms of the cost of retained land;
(b) The minimum size of lots in the returned land would be reduced to
27 py instead of the current 60 py. This would benefit a larger
number of original small land owners; and
(c) Where necessary, KLDC would buy additional land within the
scheme so as to increase the size of area developed for low-income
housing to at least 13% of the gross area.
KLDC will monitor and evaluate the LR projects, particularly the project's
impact on the original landowners.
Housing Construction
57.       Following acquisition, subdivision, and servicing of land by KLDC,
about 50% of net residential land will be sold to KNHC, which will construct
and market a mix of three types of low-income dwellings:  single-story core
houses and two-story row houses (both types designed for future expansion by
the occupants) and 5-story walk-up apartments. The approximately 8,500
low-income housing units to be built would be comprised of about 40% core
houses, about 30% row houses and about 30% apartments (Loan Agreement
Schedule 2, Part B). These targets would be for the project as a whole with
the actual mix of unit types varying among sites to take local conditions
into account. The project has been designed with these proportions in mind
to make the number of affordable units balanced across the entire income
range of the target group and to introduce Korean home buyers to the core
house and row house options.
Technical Assistance
58.       The technical assistance component of the project includes:
(a) training for KLDC and KNHC staff; (b) advisory services in the form of
short-term consultants for KLDC in the areas of physical planning,
engineering, and real estate planning; (c) project preparation assistance



- 16 -
for a second land development project on which KLDC plans to start preparation
in mid-1981; (d) monitoring and evaluation, of the project and (e) a housing
sector study focusing on sector issues, inter alia, housing finance,
low-income housing, rental accommodation and upgrading programs (Schedule 2,
Part D of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Coordination and Implementation
59.       A working group for this project composed of representatives of the
Housing Bureau of MOC, KLDC and KNHC, was established in early 1980. The
Director General of the Housing Bureau will have ultimate responsibility for
coordination and project implementation and the role of each implementing
agency has been defined.
60.       KLDC is responsible for acquiring and developing the land,
marketing the commercial and residential areas, arranging for school sites
to be turned over to relevant educational institutions and ensuring that an
adequate supply of reasonably-priced, serviced land is available for low-
income housing needs in both CPL and LR sites. The LR projects will be
jointly undertaken by KLDC and the respective city governments. The city
mayor will be the legal implementing authority for the project. Through an
agreement with the municipality, KLDC will undertake site planning,
engineering and development works on behalf of each city. All dealings with
original land owners will be undertaken by the city government, including
agreement on the basic development plan for the area (Section 2.07 of draft
KLDC Project Agreement).
61.       KNHC will have primary responsibility for the construction and
sale of housing for low-income families. Lands required by KNHC for the
construction of low-income housing will be purchased from KLDC or the city
at prices which are reduced to reflect the internal cross-subsidies
available and will subsequently be sold together with the core houses, row
houses and apartments that are purchased by families who meet the project's
eligibility criteria.
Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC)
62.       KLDC is a Government-owned corporation, established in March
1979 as a result of the dissolution and restructuring of the Korea Land Bank
(KLB). KLDC was given a broad mandate to acquire, develop and sell urban
land for residential and industrial use with a major priority on the
development of residential land for low-income groups.
63.        In 1979 KLDC undertook six new land development projects in
addition to two projects that were carried over from the KLB. KLDC incurred
project expenditure totaling W 24.4 billion. KLDC's 1980 basic operating
plan called for an increase in land development to 18 projects at a total
estimated cost of W 80.0 billion.
64.       Financial Structure.  To date, KLDC's sources of finance have
consisted mainly of equity contributions from the Government and issues
of land debentures, with some funds being provided from repayments of loans
which were taken over from the KLB. KLDC started its operations with a



- 17 -
total capital of W 38.9 billion, of which 51% was paid in by the Government
and 49% by the KDB. The Government provided an additional W 20.0 billion
in December 1979 as a capital contribution to KLDC. KLDC issued a total
of W 3.6 billion of land debentures in 1979 for land acquisition, which
carry an interest rate of 17.1% per year with a maturity term of two years
and an additional W 26 billion of land debentures for land acquisition
in 1980. KLDC's current financial position appears to be sound with
adequate net working capital. The assets taken over from KLB amounted
to W 41.6 billion and total assets at the end of 1980 are estimated to be
about W 109.3 billion.
65.       Future Program and Financial Projections.  KLDC's investment
program for the five-year period 1981-85 calls for the acquisition of 10.4
million py of land. About 8.6 million py of land is projected to be
developed during this period, with the main emphasis of development on
low-income residential land. This program is considered to be within the
implementation capacity of KLDC.
66.       The total capital requirements for KLDC's program would be about W
714 billion (US$1.2 billion) in constant (August 1980) prices and about W
1,020 billion (US$1.7 billion) in current prices. The Master Plan (see
paras. 43-45) released in October 1980, announced major government support
for the program in the form of substantial equity contributions. The
Government is proposing to contribute about W 190 billion ($317 million), in
current prices, which represents about 20% of the capital requirement for
the five-year development program. Financial forecasts indicate that KLDC
is expected to generate surpluses on its operations from 1982 onward, all of
which will be retained towards its ongoing program.
Korea National Housing Corporation (KNHC)
67.       KNHC was established under the direction of MOC as a
Government-owned corporation in 1962 to implement the country's public
housing programs. Between 1962 and 1979 KNHC built about 137,000 units, and
constructed about 30,100 units, in 1980, nearly 15% of new housing.
The principal target group for KNHC has been the middle-income populace in
large cities. Unit sizes in recent years have been mainly between 10 and 20
py (e.g., 92% in 1979) with the remainder larger than 20 py. KNHC also
constructs "rental" housing which it sells to the tenants within 1 to 3
years of occupancy, allowing the tenant time to save toward the down payment.
KNHC also manages housing units after sales for about 3 years on average,
before turning the units over for management by the residents.
68.       Financial Structure and Policies.  Sources of financing for KNHC
include government equity contributions, national housing loan funds, hous-
ing bonds, foreign borrowings, key money and down payments from purchasers.
As of December 1979, the Government had provided about 86% and KDB about 14%
as capital contributions, for a total paid-in capital of W 56.6 billion.
From 1978, KNHC has paid dividends at 1% of the contributed amount.
Retained earnings amounted to about W 62.5 billion at the end of 1979.
Long-term borrowings from KIIB's National Housing Fund are currently secured
at 17% for 20 years. Six foreign loans have been made to KNHC by USAID
at terms ranging between 8% and 9.5% over 25 years, and a further loan from
ADB ($25 million) at 7.6% for 20 years was approved in 1980.



- 18 -
69.        In 1979 KNIiC had total assets of W 399 billion of which fixed
assets comprised W 340 billion. Operating revenues are generated from the
sale of constructed units, rental of housing units and commercial space,
management of the housing estates and payments by mortgage holders.
70.       KNHC-s policy for mortgage lending under its National Housing Fund
projects has been to on-lend funds borrowed from KHB at exactly the same rate
and term as its borrowed funds, capitalizing interest payments during
construction and loan administration costs in the sale price of the unit.
More recently, under its foreign-financed projects, KNHC enjoys a spread on
its borrowing and on-lending terms but, due to the fact that the foreign
exchange risk has been passed on to KNHC, surpluses have been absorbed by
recent exchange losses. It has been the Government's position to reimburse
KNHC for foreign exchange losses above the profits earned due to the spread in
interest rates and recently for interest losses due to lags in sales.
However, the deficit in income resulting from these two factors is projected
to increase up to 11% of KNHC's total income in 1985. These questions will be
considered as part of the Government-s ongoing review of housing sector
policies with a view to giving it an adequate spread between its borrowing and
lending terms to fully cover costs (Section 4.04 of draft Loan Agreement).
71.       Future Program.  To meet the Government-s goal for housing
construction over the next five years as enunciated in its Master Plan, KNHC
plans to construct about 215,000 units, including 105,000 rental units which
will be converted to sale in 1-3 years. This represents an increase in
units constructed of between 10-20% per year and is considered to be within
KNHC-s ability to implement. The total capital requirements for this
program would be about W 2,230 billion (US$3.7 billion) in current prices.
About 13% of the funds required are projected to come from Covernment as
equity contributions which would be applied toward rental housing
construction. Down payments from house purchases and rental deposits (key
money) would provide about 35% of the capital requirements with an
additional 25%' being provided by National Hlousing Funds borrowed from the
KHB. Other sources of financing will include foreign loans.
Project Costs
72.       The total project cost is estimated to be W 156.0 billion
(US$240.0 million equivalent) of which the foreign exchange element is
estimated to be 37% or about US$90.0 million.  The tax element of total
project cost is estimated at US$7.7 million. Project costs were estimated
by KLDC staff and consultants for land development on the basis of now
complete detailed designs for Phase I sites and feasibility studies and
preliminary designs for Phase II sites. For housing construction KNHC
staff made estimates based on similar on-going programs.
73.       All cost estimates are based on August 1980 prices.  Design and
supervision costs are estimated at 5% of civil works for land development.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of applicable costs for land
development and 3% for housing constructing. Price contingencies are based
on expected increases in construction costs of 30% in 1980, 19% in 1981, 14%
in 1982 and 11% per annum thereafter. Per Bank guidelines, corresponding
rates for foreign costs are 12.5, 9.0, 8.5 and 7.5 percent respectively.



- 19 -
The overall price contingency amounts to about 33% for land development and
45% for housing construction.
Financing Arrangements
74.       The proposed Bank loan of $90.0 million will finance the project's
foreign exchange requirements. The loan will be made to the Republic of Korea
which will pass the funds on as loans to the project agencies (i.e., KLDC and
KNHC). The sources of counterpart funds will be as follows:
(a) KLDC would provide from its own resources/borrowing about 20.3%
of total costs (W 31.8 billion or $48.9 million) as its share
towards the land development projects;
(b) KNHC would contribute about 28.5% of the project (W 44.5 billion
or $68.5 million) towards housing construction; KNHC is
expected to borrow W 19.0 billion ($29.2 million) from the
National Housing Fund and raise the balance of W 25.5 billion,
($39.3 million) through down payments to be made by the bene-
ficiaries; and
(c) city governments will contribute W 0.5 billion ($0.7 million)
for their share of off-site infrastructure and the central
agencies and local governments are to contribute W 20.7 billion
($31.9 million) for public facilities.
75.       The Borrower will repay the Bank loan over a 15-year period,
including three years of grace, at the interest rate prevailing at the time
of loan approval. The Bank loan will be on-lent to the project agencies
through Subsidiary Loan Agreements at the same interest rate and terms as the
Bank loan plus an administrative fee of 0.05% per annum. KLDC will bear the
foreign exchange risk for its share of the loan. The Government will compen-
sate KNHC for foreign exchange losses over and above any surpluses gained by
KNHC from the interest spread on its borrowing and lending under this project.
Inflation and Interest Rates to Beneficiaries
76.        The interest rate to home buyers will be the same as that levied
by the Korea Housing Bank for low-income housing,/l presently set at 15.5%.
While this rate is subtantially below the more than 30% domestic rate of
inflation experienced in 1980, it is slightly above the 15% average rate of
inflation for the period 1970-79. In recent months the Government has taken
policy measures which it expects will reduce the rate of inflation to 19% in
1981, 14% in 1982 and 11% thereafter. The Government's overall objective in
interest rate policy is to move to positive real rates; in housing it is to
reduce the 3-5% gap which exists between housing mortgages and other interest
rates. The continuing appropriateness of the KHB rate for low-income home
buyers, and thus for subborrowers under the Bank loan will be examined as part
of the periodic review of performance on housing policies (see para. 45
above).
/1   Defined as units of less than 15 py (50 sq m).  A graduated mortgage plan
will be utilized in this project to ease the payment burden of low-income
families in the initial years.



- 20 -
Cost Recovery
77.       The project is designed to achieve full cost recovery.  The actual
cost of land acquisition/compensation, site preparation, on-site infrastruc-
ture, housing construction, management costs, interest during construction,
design and supervision and an appropriate portion of off-site infrastructure
will be recovered by KLDC and KNHC from the beneficiaries through land sales
and mortgage payments.  Sale of commercial and upper-income residential land
at market prices will generate profits which will be utilized to lower the
sale price of the low-income land. Housing, provided only for the target
group, would be sold at cost with long-term mortgages. Land for public
facilities will be sold at cost to the respective agencies.
Procurement
78.       Contracts will be awarded on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding to prequalified contractors in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. However, the local construction industry in Korea is well
advanced, and all contracts in this project are expected to be awarded to
local contractors. KLDC is expected to subdivide the civil works into about
10 contracts, each contract to cover land preparation and installation of
on-site and off-site infrastructure. In certain cases off-site infrastruc-
ture may be treated as a separate contract. KLDC contracts will range in
value from US$2-8 million. KNHC is likely to divide housing construction on
each site into a number of contracts (2-4) to encourage small contractors
and to permit phased construction of housing. The value of KNHC contracts
is likely to range from US$3-5 million.
Disbursements
79.       Disbursements under the proposed loan would be made at the rate
of 46X for civil works, and 100% of expenditures for technical assistance,
consultancy services, overseas training, and studies. Disbursements for all
items would be made against standard Bank documentation. It is expected
that Bank disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1984.
Project Justification
80.       The principal justification for the project is in terms of its
ability to ameliorate the housing shortage in the project cities, further the
Government's objective of decentralizing economic activities from Seoul and
Busan, reduce upward pressure on housing prices, provide employment oppor-
tunities in construction and strengthen policy formulation and institutions
in the housing sector. Renters, who are drawn heavily from the lowest
income group, would also benefit due to the rental space freed by home
purchasers in the project, the likelihood of rooms being made available for
rent in project houses and any changes in Government policy toward the
rental market resulting from the studies financed from this loan. The ratio
of dwelling units to households in project cities ranges from a low of 55.8%
in Pohang to 83.2% in Yeochan with a median among all project cities of
about 67%. Even in cities with a comparatively small housing shortage,
population increases projected over the decade have the potential to rapidly
create severe shortages. The proposed project will provide developed land



- 21 -
equivalent to between 5.4% (in Pohang) and 34.1% (in Cheonan) of the
developed land necessary to satisfy the housing shortage as of 1979 in
project cities.
81.       The imputed rental values of the dwellings to be constructed at
the various sites and estimated market values of the serviced commercial
and open market land were used to measure the benefits of the project.
Estimates of rental values were based on current rents charged by KNHC and
the private sector for similar housing units in the project cities. Estimates
of land values were based on market surveys conducted in 1980 by land
assessors of adjacent parcels of similar land to the sites. Land acquisition
and development, housing and recurrent costs were considered in the
analysis, with all taxes excluded. Shadow prices were used for unskilled
labor, but were found to have only a negligible impact on the rates of
return. The economic rates of return for the ten sites ranged from 13% to
28%. The weighted average rate of return for the total project (excluding
technical assistance) was found to be 16.5%. According to the sensitivity
analyses undertaken, a cost increase of 10% was found to result in a range
of IERR from 10% to 21%. Similarly a 20% decrease in benefits resulted in
a range of IERR from 10% to 20%.
Project Risks
82.       The project beneficiaries are expected to be 8,500 families
between the 25th and 50th percentile of the urban household income
distribution. A major risk affecting the project is that construction
prices may escalate faster than incomes of the target population. Sharp
increases in construction costs would mean that the housing units will not
be affordable by the families at the lower end of the target group. As an
example, if construction costs of houses increase by 20% greater than the
increase in incomes, then core houses which were affordable by households
at the 22nd percentile of the urban income distribution would then be
affordable by those at the 30th percentile.
83.       It is possible that some local governments may face difficulties
in providing their share of off-site infrastructure and other facilities.
KLDC is making special efforts to make the local governments aware of their
financial obligations before selecting the sites. Each of the city
governments participating in this project will sign an agreement with KLDC
which, inter alia, stipulates each city government's financial commitment to
the project (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
84.       For the first time in recent years, KNHC is facing difficulties
in selling some of its units. These difficulties are attributed to the
current economic situation in the country as well as in a number of cases
to site-specific conditions relating to location or low demand for the
particular type of housing. KLDC and KNHC have given special attention to
marketability in selecting project sites and scale. KNHC intends to phase
construction of housing on each site to effectively meet the demand.
Similarly, KLDC would also, if necessary, market open plots in phases.
Should such land sales fail to achieve the estimated prices, low-income



- 22 -
families would not correspondingly benefit from internal cross-
subsidization. Given that the land cost represents a small portion of
housing sale price (10-25%), this is not expected to have a significant
effect on affordability.
85.       KLDC's capacity to successfully implement this project is considered
to be a low risk. KLDC-s current overall program is considered to be within
its implementation capacity. Even though KLDC is a relatively new
organization, it has gathered an adequate number of qualified staff. With the
help of local consultants, KLDC managed to prepare this project in a very
short period of time. Preparation of contract documents and prequalification
of contractors for Phase I sites have been completed. KLDC is in the process
of hiring nearly 250 professionals next year, some of which will be assigned
to supervision of this project. Large-scale undertaking of LR projects is
likely to strain KLDC's administrative capacity. KLDC's senior management is
becoming aware of this and a reduced emphasis on LR projects is likely in the
near future.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Loan  Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the Korea Land
Development Corporation and the Korea National Housing Corporation and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the Loan and Project Agreement are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Execution of sub-
sidiary loan agreements between the Government and KLDC and KNHC would be
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan. An agreement on the
terms and conditions of the transfer of land between KLDC and KNHC,
satisfactory to the Bank would also be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



ANNEX I
-23-                                                         Page 1 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
TOTAL             98.5
AGRICULTURAL      22.7                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDI.E INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  180.0       420.0    1500.0                 1114.7                  1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      258.0       815.0    1359.0                  842.4                  1055.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      24.7        31.4       36.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7         40.7       52.1                  39.1                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       50.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         66.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       251.0       319.0     372.0                  376.1                    28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1154.0       1371.0    1612.0                 2350.4                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.9        41.0      35.9                   40.4                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                          53.8        55.7      60.3                   56.2                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.3         3.3       3.8                    3.4                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.4        1.9                   2.4                     2.7
URBAN                               5.9         6.5       5.2                    4.1                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      41.0        30.0       21.0                  28.7                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.0        10.0        8.0                   7.9                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1/c       2.6        1.4                   1.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       672.0     686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         42.0      43.9                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0        99.0     115.0                  116.9                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    94.0       110.0     119.0                  108.9                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           55.0        65.0      73.0                   60.3                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         7.0         8.0      15.0                   18.8                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.0         8.0        5.0                   5.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.0         59.0       63.0                  63.0                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            62.0        43.0      37.0                   52.8                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        58.0      62.0                   42.4                    65.9
URBAN                                ..        84.0      80.0                   62.1                    80.4
RURAL                                ..        38.0      36.0                   29.7                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        25.0       61.0                  52.8                    62.3
URBAN                                ..        59.0      68.0                   71.1                    79.4
RURAL                                ..          ..      50.0                   42.4                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3000.0      2110.0    1955.0                 4120.1                  1819.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3220.0/d    2170.0/d   510.0                 2213.6                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2482.0      1900.0    1569.0                  819.4                   480.3
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        14.9         ..                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.6         5.3       5.1
URBAN                               5.4         5.0       4.9
RURAL                               5.6         5.5       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.5         2.3       2.0
URBAN                               2.8         2.7       2.1
RURAL                               2.4         2.2       2.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              28.0        49.9         ..
URBAN                              67.3        92.4         ..
RURAL                              12.0        29.9      64.9



-24-                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER/AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 94.0        105.0      111.0                   98.6                     99.7
MALE                  99,0       106.0      111.0                   99.2                     101.0
FEMALE                89.0       105.0      111.0                   97.7                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 27.0         43.0       88.0                   55.5                     34.4
MALE                  38.0        52.0       96.0                   60.7                      33.5
FEMALE                14.0        34.0       78.0                   49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  14.0          16.0       16.0                   13.7                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            58.0         57.0       49.0                   34.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                          34.0         37.0       38.0                   28.5                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6        87.0       93.0                   85.8                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4          2.0        3.5                    9.0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         32.0        131.0      144.0                  118.9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.3         14.0       66.0                   39.4                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0        138.0      173.0                     ..                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0           5.0        2.2                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8237.0      10978.3   13767.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   25.8         32.7       33.0                   36.8                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              66.4         51.0       41.0                   51.9                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.3         20.1      37.0                    21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.4        35.0       36.6                   39.1                     31.5
MALE                                  49.5        46.8       48.8                   48.5                     48.9
FEMALE                                17.2        23.0       24.2                   29.6                     14.0
ECONOIIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.4       1.1                    1.1                       1.4
INCOHE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   151./e        17.1       16.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3Te        44.5       45.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77;         7.1        5.7
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.O/e        17.7       16.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     320.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      270.0                  192.1                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      270.0/f                   ,,                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ,       227.07f                182.5                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       18.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       11.0                   33.2
Not available
Noc applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are populationeighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estiaate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-55;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the country; /e 1965., /f Recent estimates are $370 and
$310 respectively.
Most recent estimate  of GNP per capita in for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
/R  For 1975 it is eBtimated that there were 2.5 persons per room
in urban areas.
/h  Recent estirate of total labor force (thousands) is 14206.0 of
which agriculture is 35.8% and industry 30.}X.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other
data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25 -                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are dross  from u-r..a g.eoeoaly judged the mos   othotitatve and relIable, it should also he noted that they may net be tent--
-uci-n1yvo.por.h.   heocuss..  of the  0.tk of  t-da-dtaed dafteitnion  and Annoet.pt used hy difflatet o-sthee. In coleotiog the date,  the date are,  s-
then1a    _nol1 to descr iba odrof  agLtoads, tidictet stands, and  -bru ateonci. major doff-renoe  her- ta                        ... O ttri..
Terfrnegroups are (1) the sein  coun.try groep of the s-bj.et onun.ty and (2) acoonan ty group etch s-neat high- enavrge incom   thee the  -nety great
nthet_oj-ot country )ecepn for "Cepitoalrla  Oi1 Eannpnrts" grop  hene "toddle tacoma North Aftric  end Middle last' Is chosen biensss nf etreogr
,oi-c,,Ica  off 1. InlnteO.  On the ref ereece group da.ta he avrgseapnpal.iat     weIghted aihei en  for each iedinstr sad shov  n.ly sl.m  as
isc:hofo  the on-ttrics Ins g roup haa data fan that tadocatc.  Since  the covrag  of coottes among9 thn todicasars dependsan the avalehility of
data an  "nct  Infom    catin   us be          Ieridt  celotiog  --eeg- of non todtcatnr on a-ther.  These  -vrg.. ens only aesflIt  cmpaniog the velus
of non iodicttr  t   tIne snan  the         -Iutr  sod reference gups.
I01 0101A (thousan d sq.k.)                                                                  to...Letto  peat PhysIcian- etapo.laso  divodeg by nua  na practicteg phy-
Totol - Tot.1 rac  urea comprising land area ad inland watens.                                etins. qoslifitd from, aReIc  school an  ni-rardy leve.
EgiorrO - itinao of agIcultural area us.d tempoo-ily an ra--oancy                  PopolatIIo per Narsng Peree..   ;Popultion divided by etbmIe  of niescoicta
for oropa, poncure.,  arlatg and ki-h-c gerdesa or to  Ie. fallow; 1977 datu.              maead female graduate  uss  peectiosl aces -sd ...sisatt gote..
CR _0 OIA(U10) - ifNP yen tapit. etietes an content market prInt, coo-                  orf,sdaea)  iie   yaaerepn eetna  h-epital beds
culated hrby n   onvni          t ehod at World Buei htlng  (1977-79 haste); 1960,            available In public and prtvate geocee1 aed specielisd h-spltd seA em-
107, oud  1979 dato.                                                                        hehilitanien cetes.toPitals are astahlOstmespst                 amalystffed
byat leas.t ns  physician    Rtbtgliahm-ts Pevidieg peaipAdy11  estsdial
tNttOY CONSOLflTION PtO  CAOIOTA - Anaol comaumPtion of  -om-acl1 eoergy (coal                  tare ore one inaded.  tors1 heepitels. h-.eeva.  nolode health sad edded1
and liolce.petralum.'ntu,eI gsa end hydra.  aulear end geotherml ale-                  astetres st peemetnly staffed by a physlinin (hot by a aedonal essietst,
tr-ity) Ic kilogrant of coal equivalent Pee capOte; 1960, 1900, and lot                        ane  mdrlfe, etc.) which often  im-pettet ....t.datls  med pesidde
dana.                                                                                         limited range at medical facili ties.  Par stanietiel Pes-apes   sefls leepO-
tale  J.noude WHt. principal gemanl gad  p9enielieed hlisatls. "Ad asssl
MPUFLATION AND0 VCTAL STATISTICS                                                                hospitals 1-1s or cral1 hospitals   d medical sad  taetenety c ss
TotalPorolnino.bid-our lillIoa) -A. of July 1; 1960. 1970. ead 1978               diensprtsta   e   TotaI namber of admissiom   t.oer dioshmngss
data,                                                                                       fromhsiasdvddb  the eathat of beds.
Orion PoultIon (orcea  of total) - Rntia of ucbec to Itota  poPulatIon;
difeet def.iit iate oftrho  otaa may affect cnp.r.biliry of data                     OSN
-omo .gontories; 1900, 1970, and l97N dota.                                              Avenag  Ote  ogughold(ernsprhahid-tol.ain.aAe]-
topulotlon Pe-n-iectltirns                                    b...d  o 180             A house hold oo         f ageanp ofidvdulshgh.na lotting qomoteas
Peclatonto  ear110 -Caren  poulaio  pelacloa ae has  on196           ad thie main meals.  A hbnd-r or  odS geema   r 3ma  not lie tec1uded On
total populationhy age and sen and thaei  meetalitY and fertility Itote.                  the hooehnld f or tstaitOn-lpaess
P     Proeto    aer aeesfar matity rat..es  oprise of thena lovlanean                  Averag  ounh   of  Peo ..am  roa  - tetel. arba.ennal-Ostga-
lag lOf 5 sapactoacy at htrth incre... g wish coantrys Pan caPita denme                  her at penn  pe  naa Ce al abeha, and nn1 ...cupind    -tmsaiaml
lr-o, and f-emle lif anp-ctan-    tbhilleleg at 77.1 yasra.  The pate-                   delig.rseciay                 wliago eaclade ne-peean-t stntarasd
fncoraf orRfe.rtlloy rate also hav  oheas.  ..sa  semo  decline In                        unoccpied parts.
Oath coutry Is than assiged onZ o   heasiecmnaas of mattatty                           AC..v. tiona  dweinygs stith enertt  In lovin  quan.tee  Ospmeaatga
an   atillty treads far proj-sutan paposes.                                           of tona, arbao  and natal daalllags r-p-cttaly.
Ocnicryonueon  - On a atatineay papalanion theta Is ag growth eiace
the hbrth rate Os aqualto the death eats, gad also thegestucur re I-    EDUCATION
man -otn.1   TIs Osahieve  oly atter fertilitoy rtsdeol1o  t0                     Adjusted Borolleat RatOog
the  elcmn  lee   fantn nproductiarte  oh-n each gonera,ion                                Omn  ahl-total, mlal and female - GIass toatl. male gd I semis
of nomn replten itelf eaotly.The statienay pePulnttosens                           nelmaao   llae  at the pal-may leve  as P-ane-tags ad ne-pesi-e
etmtd an the hase  f the Projected cha-aterisoic at. t7he pupulariac                    patmeyIshu-g    euoon;aeal   eldsetds   gd61
Ic the yanI 2000, and the Iton  of decIne~ of fantllitY rate to replete-                    years bat adjusted for diffarmat lengths of prImary eda...tisaf fan
eeoc lavel.                                                          coun~~~~~~~..tries nith univesa d- at1  d eent leat my sensed itt Pmeamt
Year ecatnoart ronlnoino toreanhad -The yoear when  tatin...y papulotOon           iOons .... papile nc hbl1w  or chaos the offinta  slehal 5gm
eiaa has heat ranahad.                                           oecnndarr arhool - total. sale sad fem,ale    Cpte         -s hv;seeay
Populoounteola                                                                                   idct.toceqatasatles  four yssof approvd PeIesr  imetntnOn;
Pe   o.h.-   Mid-yea  papolatino per squar  hilomtne  (lOt h--res) of                     provitdesgeen,nsaa,onr aheetrainig oastreti-a  f en papOk
tota  ara                                                                                   usualy at 12 to 17 ysaee af ego; cnepodasnone   ra gsasna1y
Per so. ha. agnOcolounI _load - Computad wa ahav  for agiclotl  ad                      .ealuded.
nab..                                                     Vocational seenllsant (neecest ~~~~~of....ndan.-   qacathime  imetit.tates
P.,olatonM   Otoanor  (pennant) - Childeon 10-14 pears), sanki 0 g-ag  (15-                     On-oa  ooatal  Odtea,nathate0 prgem   shah spnte tmdpsm
hi64   a,an   eio   (6   or   n   ver) as peerse..tage  of mid-year pepo-                     danly or as depsetmanteo at...codanyieittes
Latioc; 1960, 1970, otd 1978 data.                                                           ,ponl-tascer  ati   - prtmay, ad  eaoom..dav-,  Total  tnwdste  " enled I.
_oulti    rwhcn   eeen  - ntal - Annual grnrth rates of tota  mi-                            piay  n           :aodery  aval  divIde  bymhreotanneete
yerpopalanten  toe 1950-60.tlO-0  sd1970-7f.coryadglens
tpulootin Growth Rata (pan..)   urhan   A ..g.a  genwth rmona of urban popo-                 Adult litmeacy rate (rce)-Litanateadales (ehis so read sad -it.)
lotions for 1950-60, l9b0-70, and 1970-7d.                                                    os a percetage at ntal adult ppul.ti-o agd 10  eace sad aver.
Crud  tooth_asne_lan   tand)- A-nul live hoithe per thousand of add-year
PopulatIon; 1960, 1970, sad 1970 data.                                                 CtXSUglTIgON
Crude Death_cnsler thousanRd) - dAneal dentha per thaussod at aid-year.. Pssege -Car-  parh thousand  rels                                - Pseseege    -   comprise mane.-
pnpaIntOoa; 1960, 1970, aed t9ld data.                                                      cars seatog4 las  tha  sight yananna; uncldee sbmhtd..as. hea.ee. sad
Inass AprdctnOt- A-eraa   ocbhr of dashterna onaosllhart                                      ado Oiery rebdla.t
hen  .-Ie -reprductiv- ra-ld Of ahe  aei e  present age-ePaci  fita-r                     Iad   ttieels   hnadppltol-    All1 typ55tof ra..siosn.. tor neAt
tilItoy none;  s      yl fitv-ya-  averges eadtng On 1960, 1970, and 1977.                   tacsst   eea   ulcpeeueo  of  pepu iate; sanldes gall-
family  lannIng- Accarona. Anual (thusands)- A...a Iounber of -OttOpar           ce d receive-rs in conteiee and ha years sh..reis oafe ggnede sac
of bieth--et-1l dart. teadat a-.Pi.-. of nettona.  funily plansOn  PtOttOl                  naIO  a ffeoc; data  anr r.eent ysars may non he nemarable sies mast
PFnilv PlannIos-l1eara  leeaof nettld amo    P-rcontage of meacOed                            onnre   bolished lnea...
woman of child-.Iceg age. (5-44 years) who use htrth--t-1ro  devices to                   TV  ..caiva.e (par tho-and neulttee) - Tv Ies..Ovene foe   . esdc...t te
oIl metriedwoe  it  sn  one cra.                                                            goera  pahhtc poe thousand pepalasla; secludes  aedogmed TVesivs
FOOD  M   NUTRITION                                                     I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~O rant1ias and in, pants when  -gisereti-on  f TV sans was te affect.
ludan of Pond.Prodoctinoj pee Capita(1969-71100) - Ona   tpr tapOta a.-ual                    amneti~,K "dIy gegera  itneet newpapr,  e toad as a peIdice  pub-
PI footn  t  l  fooI      imadt'e.Poann                 lda  sed and feed and               lOcation devo.ted pele-ily to esnoedlng ge...ra,l aeve   In         -"nidmeed
in at-tle-dor yn, basin.  Cemoitsova    riaygoads (e.g.  togngnb oh   'daily' Of it appesre at least f u                                         .Oe  e mek.
lonndo  egr) ehbith are  dible no      taontrients  (e.g. oaffoe and               CInea  nna AtPiat.pa   eo  tee yss-fsad em tha natr of
tea art en ded)   Agregate peodactiwo of eac  country Is bae  on.                           tlat  solId durteg the yea, incldag admission  an delv-tm  tema
natio..ul averag  pendocr Prc  weights  1901I-65. 1 970. and l97f date                      andkawi II      ie
ea-ngy equialet of oat toed  opP1ie available he rontry par to.Pita                  LnAo PR ~Ot
per day.  AvoIlabl  su .pplie I can.prise de ncprodoItnin, ioPartses                    Total Laher Frant  (thaussds)  E- t       iaotclly arnive pecrame. iomladii
n_partn, and ohanga  In etork.  dat suppIes aonudn animal feed,  ed,                     amdfre.a  unmplydbtscuda e_cvssees.sc
quancitieaaae-d to food pr..ee.teg, nod I.ases it distribthuaee    neqora-                Oeefiftttioo  ind ran eo  ono ice eranonen is-ale    td0g t197  and
-ans were esIma-ted hy tAC based no phyeteloaOesl aseds ton annea  antI-                  1978 dos..
vin  nd health ono-idartag                                boionotltmnenr,hdy waighta, age  emal  (rnet) - 1Pael  lah   forte as p-eonntgs of natal labor fot.
andsa   ditributtoi fpplta.nd  loig1                    oc  foe aeste a            Agiulut(nnn)-Labo  farc Iar taing, IasRy, homaiig sod
household level  1961-h6l,' 1970,`oa  177I deofiehiag ae percen.tage o  total labine tae.; 19f0, 1972 ad 1970 deto.
Per rapta suppy of prtein (gsas pandsv) -Pe_nal  conotf POt ..Pit.            ente   pca)-Lahee farce Ln  iciag, entncim.mefaea-lg
oat supply of food pee day.  Nan supply of fond In dattoed n- ehv.  Rn-                    and elnanicity, water a d gas as p.rme-tag  of aotal lbhne fo..n.; 1960,
qut~teen fnrs do   all ..otntiee atablished hy USDA peavids f on atimom                   1970 end 1970 data.
aloanea  00 gree  of tetal protein Pen day sad 10 gram  at anfsa  aeId            Pacicinanti- Oats  eerc..at) - totel. male, and f-Aml      enciotna
poise   rtIs., of ohOch 10 gStas aheud he enies  protein.  Th...saad-                    natIvity aeteson  cepndasttl  male, agd femaleabnfres
ursar   oerte  those of 71 gr-  oftona  pratain and 23 gnom  of                   pet"ee   ftnl   aean   eaepplto    talag  nampenpalvely;
anoe1 pteceo am am   vnga f or the ...Id, propose.d by tAO On the Third                   1900, 1970, end 1975 dana.  These ace IL0's patticlpsatee tates eeflseaomg
World Fond Survy; 1961-65, l9PS and t9ll data..                                              --o   h   ---i,.dI.    i.I                                  .Af     .i
ta   aita ceataha surly from animal aud nalsa  - Proasie eopplp of food de-             aegaercaso   h   aaatn   a   ogae   re.Afcst
rived from  nalmea and pales to gomas mer day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dan.    Eeansai Penan-de,  taRtte -Raths of popalatOan  mdme 15 sod 65 -an  aver
Child (aaae 1-A) tonality Rate (tee ahoasged) ~~~~~~~~~~- A ..naI deaths per thousand he  to h: orlllattre
age gowoP 1-4 year, to ehildran in this ae. geoup; ton mast doveleping nu-
tries data d-i-vd from life tahlss; 1960,19170 end 1977 dana.                           INCOMEs  DISTRIBUTION
Pseeotns  f  onvts  mnoe  bath to cash and le)-Oel             i  ihm
HEALTH                                                                                                                                                _     d ..           .-
life Oo~eotsnoy an gieth (vanes)d- A-rage nab-t  f yoa-a of life remiatag             of he..sehalde.
nlanet  er;talOty R.ts leer tbaussad) - AnnualI deanha of intent  under one yea           POVEnTY TARGET GOUPtoS
I         _aepe   husn   Ine births                                                  Xtetfatd Abil.slta  oet  Inoelee 01                 re ..sit.a) - arls  s-d coel -
Arres noOaf  Watr IpenetTo "epaaiatn) - total. atlism  and rural - 0,                   Aslt   aveyOoe  bana  is  tha  Innat  leve  belec shah . Am4e
nwheb  of people (tonal, unhen. end meal1) stab erngable ato... to sate                     autnitiemly adeqasta diet plas esseata1 eo-fond naqelnsea . is mat
Peter aupply linoludes ntane  sefans  atare on ontscad list omnantninated                       afodale
Pure  eahlasthat fo  prateo~tod  hrhls prOogs  aud ..gaitey olia) a                       tedatetd Relativ  Poverty Oseelvl(SOpenot)-ess-s   ug
pfreocg-e of thehr rasper-ire popalaotioe..  On so aba  araaRpublan                          melrltv    ovryIam el    Osemsabe  a  avrag  pt napits
futtair or anondpusn loctetd eat ma.tsbha  200 inets. traa.h.... may ha                    retnnl taoma- tehetnun"ey.  Uebna leve  he daoivd fee  tha owne
cudadasbeigaahanooeseans  at that h....,  I raralag                                  level with adjoontest fan higer eas. sof living in teha   ess
reusanhe acesswood Imply that tha ha-oif a or members of the house.hold              nadae    euainSbeAele   oet  eeelvl(maml- ane
do oat hotnopsad R dOapeepoetit..ate pant of tha day in fetching the                         n   tonal -   eeIc tpplthn(eiaad Ire) whosn  "sisecas per"
raa  rabno  Peopl  (tonal,ahnad ru~ral  arvd hysec-ans
dtp"l spennae  af their resPective Papulstees.  Eacnata die-                                                     ft-esel  and Senia  Data Divoise-
P.se  ma  tonlods the I alecies sad disposal.  sltih o          bsihat nsnseoEa...oc AnalysIs. and  tasteeDepsenmaa
of h_,a aect,t end  ssawt by w-te-baras system   an the ems of                                                                             onnther 1980



-26-                                                            ANNEX I
Population:  38,197 (mid-1980, thousands)                                                                                           Page 4 of 5
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 1,549 (1980)
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                             Annual growth rates (1) at constant prices
current prices)                       Actual                                        Projected
Indicator                           1980/a           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Cross domestic product            59,177           13.5      9.7    10.6       6.4    -5.7        6.0      7.5     8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0
Agriculture                      9,754           10.7      2.1      9.6      6.7   -22.0      20.0      2.5      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Industry                        24,396           19.6    16.1    20.7       8.4    -0.4        4.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Services                        25,027           10.6      9.5    10.8      4.1    -3.2        2.2      7.6      7.9      7.9      7.9      7.9
Consumption                       42,215            8.8      7.1    11.0       7.4    -0.9        3.2     4.5      5.0      5.4      5.7      6.2
Gross investment                  17,889            8.0    24.0    35.9    17.5   -23.8          10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Exports of GNFS                   21,145           43.0    25.7    17.5    -3.6         9.6      11.6    12.0    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0
Imports of GNFS                   25,846           26.9    23.8    29.1        8.6    -6.8        7.7     8.0      9.0    10.0    11.0    12.0
Gross national savings            12,846           42.3    17.3    14.9        2.4   -19.5
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 = 100)                         116.3   135.8   164.6   197.4   250.3           -        -       -        -        -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                            484.0   484.0   4R4.0   484.0   607.6           -        -       -        -        -        -
Export price index (1975 = 100)                   112.8   120.2   137.2   161.2   168.7
Import price index (1975 = 100)                   103.0   103.9   108.4   137.3   175.2
Terms of trade index (1975 = 100)                 109.5   115.7   126.6   117.4    96.3
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                        Average annual increase (F)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              8.2        9.3         7.9        7.5        8.0
Agriculture                       36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.5    12.1              4.3        4.8       -1.2        6.1        3.0
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    43.8    47.7             15.9       15.0       12.6        8.8       10.0
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    40.7    40.2              8.6        8.3        7.9        6.7        7.9
Consumption                       85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    67.2    61.8              6.5        6.9        7.5        4.7        6.2
Gross investment                  11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.9    37.2             21.2       10.6       13.6       10.0       10.0
Exports of GNFS                    3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    45.0    56.3             25.7       22.6       15.0       13.1       13.0
Imports of GNFS                   12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    46.1         55.2        18.4       14.5       15.7        9.1       12.0
Gross national savings /b          8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7    24.5    27.8             17.2       14.6        9.7       10.8        10.0
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1980           Millions    (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                   4.7       32.2
Current revenues                           18.5       17.8       17.9        19.9           Industry                      3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                       14.3       13.1       15.4        15.6           Services                      5.1       35.5
Current surplus                             4.2        4.7        2.5         4.3           Unemployed                    0.7        5.2
Capital expenditure                         3.4        6.4        6.4         5.9
Foreign financing                           ...        1.0        1.3         1.0               Total Labor Force        14.5      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                   8.7               9.3               7.6              7.5               8.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                        5.9               6.9               5.2              5.6               6.3
Annual energy consumption growth rate (F)                   14.2               9.6              12.3/c
ICOR                                                         2.1               2.9              4.8               4.2               4.4
Marginal savings rate (%)                                   24.9              29.7              33.7             33.0              33.0
Import elasticity                                            2.2               1.6               2.0              1.2               1.5
/a  Preliminary.
/b Including net transfers.
/c 1975-79.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
March 1981



-27-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Population    : 38,197 (mid-1980 thousands)
GDP per capita:  US$ 1,549 (1980)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS at current prices)
Indicator                                                     Actual                                          Projected
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a    1981    1982    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         1,379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,487  21,630    24,139  27,036  39,010  71,873
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.          882   5,028   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,313    19,321  21,640  31,224  57,528
Imports of goods and services         2,180   7,991  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,163  27,510    29,628  31,999  42,587  75,052
Of which: aerchandise f.o.b.        1,804   6,670   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  22,178    23,886  25,797  34,332  60,505
Net transfers                           178     225      345      222      467     439      388        400     400      400      400
Current account balance                -623  -1,858    -307         8  -1,060  -_4236  -5,492    -5,089  -4,563  -3,177  -2,779
(% of GNP)                            (-7-2)  (-9.2)  (-1.1) (+0.02)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.5)    (-8.3)  (-6.9)  (-3.8)  (-2.3)
Direct investment                        66       53      75       73       61      16      ...        134      143     175      225
MLT loans (net)                         242   1,303   1,257   1,464   2,702   2,934         ...      6,193   5,209   3,902   4,204
Official                              147     486      663      594     663      853      ... .   2,193   2,288   2,159   1,935
Private                                95     817      594      870   2,039   2,081       ...     4,005   2,921   1,743   2,269
Other capital                           191   1,111      532       -1       -I   2,291      ...        100     100      100      100
Change in reserves                      -57    -376  -1,314  -1,372    -707    -898         ...    -1,343    -889  -1,000  -1,750
International reserves                  610     797   1,985  2,992   2,828   3,112   3,101          4,444   5, 333  10,647  18,763
Reserves as months imports              3.4      1.2     2.4      2.7      1.8     1.5      1.4        1.8     2.0      3.0      3.0
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                         -       -        -        -        -       -
Concessional loans                    123     123      238      163     184      193
DAC                                 122     108      226      132     167      173
OPEC                                  -       -        -       21      13       20
IDA                                   1      14       10        9       3        -
Other                                -3       1        2        I       -        -
Non-concessional loans                317   1,580   1,579   2,091   3 756   4 496
Official export credits              18     151      132      262     219      340
IBRD                                  7     189      286     190      321      476
Other multilateral                    5      88       85       86      88       91
Private                            287   1,151   1,078   1,553   3,127   3,639
External debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                        1,797   6,082   7,377   9,160  12,461  15,068
official                           613   2,780   3,482   4,244   5,139   5,790
Private                          1,184   3,302   3,896   4,916   7,322   9,278
Undisbursed                           902   1,628   3,459   4,793   4,295   5,342
Debt service
Total service payments                268     732      987   1,288   1,933   2,731
Interest                           70      332      427     498      695      976
Payments as % exports GNFS           20.5    12.6    10.6    10.1    11.6    14.3
Average interest rate on new loans (%)
Official                              4.5     7.9      7.1      7.9     7.4      7.6
Private                               7.1     9.3      8.3      8.4     9.7    11.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                             28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    17.1
Private                              10.9     5.7      8.7      8.8     9.3      8.9
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                          52.4
Maturities due within 10 years                          84.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                           7.2
/a Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
March 1981



ANNEX II
-28-                                      Pagc   of 12 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUI' OPERATIONS IN T!E rEPUBLIC OF KOREA
A.  Statement of Bank Loins and IDA Credits (as of February28, 1981)
Loan or                                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                  (less cancellations)
Number         Year         Borrower             Purpose                          Bank    TW    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty-eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed                            1,066.52  40.0  106.81
1096          1975    Republic of Korea        Education III                       22.5                         1.66
1203          1976    Republic of Korea        Highlways III                       90.0                         2.19
1319          1976    ADC                      Irrigation            ,             29.0                        20.47
1338          1976    KDB II                   Dev. Finance Co.                    75.0                         0.39
1364          1977    ADC                      Irrigation                          95.0                        57.35
1401          1977    Republic of Korea        Ports II                            67.0                        46.68
1466          1977    Republic of Korea        Heavy Machinery                     80.0                        23.95
1474          1977    Republic of Korea        Vocational Training                 23.0                         6.41
1503          1978    ADC                      Agriculture/Irrigation              36.0                        32.88
1507          1978    SMIB II                  Dev. Finance Co.                    55.0                         0.24
1530          1978    Republic of Korea        Rural Infrastructue II              95.0                        42.73
1542          1978    Republic of Korea        Railway VI                         120.0                         4.59
1574          1978    KDB III                  Dev. Finance Co.                   110.0                        15.32
1635          1978    KDFC VII                 Dev. Finance Co.                   100.0                         6.66
1640          1978    Republic of Korea        Highways IV                        143.0                       110.85
1666          1979    Republic of Korea        Chungju MIultipurpose              125.0                       103.57
1676          1979    Republic of Korea        Electronics Technology              29.0                        19.81
1749          1979    SMIB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                    60.0                        20.22
1758          1979    Republic of Korea        Second Gwangju Regional             65.0                        63.15
1774          1979    Republic of Korea        Population I                        30.0                        30.00
1778          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                 115.0                       115.00
1800          1980    Republic of Korea        Education V                        100.0                        99.50
1829          1980    CNB I                    Dev. Finance Co.                    30.0                        29.61
1836          1980    Republic of Korea        Railway VII                         94.0                        92.13
1851          1980    AFDC                     Agriculture II                   *  50.0                        48.94
1932/a        1980    KLTCB VIII               Div. Finance Co.                    90.0                        90.00
19337a        1980    KDB IV                   Div. Finance Co.                   100.0                       100.00
Total                                                            3,095.02  40.0  106.81   1,184.30
of which has been repaid                                          186.69   -        2.44
Total now outstanding                                             2,908.33  40.0  104.37
Amount sold                        8.83
of which has been repaid         5.19                               2.84   -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchlange adjustment)                                2,905.49  40.0  104.37
Total undisbursed                                                 1     O184.30   -   -       1,184.30
/a Effective March 19, 1981.



-29-                       ANNEX II
Pagce 2 of 12 pages
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of February 28, 1981)
Fiscal                                                           Amounit ($ million)
Year     Obligor                  Types of Business             Loan  Equity TOtal
1968   KDFC                        Development Financing            -     0.7    0.7
1969   tlonam Silk Co.             Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper                 Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -          0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                        Development Financing            -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -          0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.       Electronic Products           16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers                6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Mae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                         2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -          0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                             5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                             15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                        Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                 -     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                        Development Financing            -     0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                   -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market                 15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                        Development Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                 -     1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                        Capital Market                   -     0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                             -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                 -     1.5    1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                 -      1.8    1.8
1980   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital 14arket                  -      0.6    0 6
1980   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                             -      0.8    0.8
1980   KDFC                        Development Financing            -     2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal        Grain Port Terminal             7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
Total gross commitment                                   106.4   27.3  133.7
less cancelations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                     61.6    2.7   64.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                         44.8   24.6   69.4
TOTAL undisbursed                                          6.4    2.5    8.9
/a  Cancelled at the request of the Company.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. Con-
struction work is progressing on two of the originally scheduled six major
civil works contracts with the first contract nearly completed. The project
area has been reduced to 7,100 ha from 12,685 as a result of deleting 5,585
ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation of construction
costs due to inflation have become uneconomic.  The award of contracts for
the next two areas is scheduled in May. Due to the escalation of costs and
inadequate local project budget allocations to compensate for the increase,
the project is currently about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River.  Project works include an
estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of up-
lands. Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam
has been completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction, awarded
in December 1977, is on schedule and the dam will be completed in 1981.
Other parts of the project have fallen behind schedule due to a sharp esca-
lation of costs and insufficient budget allocations to meet the increases.
It is now expected that in addition to the estuary dam, eight of the ten
subprojects will be completed by the end of 1984.  Tidal reclamation is
scheduled to start in 1983 and would be completed in 1986, about 2-1/2 years
behind schedule; the Bank is discussing with the Government measures to
accelerate this schedule.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and drainage improvements
for 10,800 ha including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, and conversion of
1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land. Construction was to have been
carried out under seven civil works contracts and three were awarded in late
lq79. Award of the fourth contract is scheduled in May 1981. The project is
currently about two years behind schedule due to local budget allocations
which were insufficient to meet the sharply increased cost escalation.
Award of the remaining three constracts depends upon funding availability
and a review of their economic justification.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date:  June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 46 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The river training and rural telephones components were completed
on schedule in 1979 and the water supply component will be completed in
1980. Design work on the minor irrigation component is complete. The total
area of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,192 ha.  Contracts
have been awarded for all 36 subprojects but construction progress is slow
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project would support investments in Korea's agroprocessing
subsector. Enterprises engaged in freezing and cold storage, canning,
drying, pickling and other preservations of fruits, vegetables, meat and
fisheries products, oil and extraction, processing of grain based foods, raw
silk spinning, and production of fruit juice based beverages, dairy products,
and animal feeds would be the main subborrowers. The project will benefit
the farmers through widening their market opportunities, provide increased
supplies, better quality and larger variety of processed food throughout the
year to consumers, and create about 5,000 additional jobs. The project
would also contribute to the institutional strengthening of the Agriculture
and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC). Sublending is progressing well
and loan disbursements have commenced.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and
provide 460 MW of peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal
features of the project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han
River, a power plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated
transmission facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the
main dam; relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway,
protective works in the reservoir area including the raising of an existing
embankment of a cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation
of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families affected by the project;
and consulting services. The major civil works contract was awarded in
December 1979 and progress to date is good, and detailed planning is
underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million Loan,
of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial Leasing
Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: March 21,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make sub-
loans to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects; the remainder of
the loan, $7.5 million, was relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation (KILC) to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment
enterprises. Commitment of funds has been completed and final disbursement
will be made shortly.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased substantially for a number of reasons,
including the devaluation of the US dollar, and domestic inflation. The
market prospects for the project were affected by licensing of other power
plant equipment manufacturers in Korea. In order to deal with this problem



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
and to strengthen the financial viability of the project, the Government has
given the project company exclusive right to manufacture power plant
equipment for the domestic market, has arranged a major infusion of new
equity capital through government institutions and has given the President
of the Korean Power Company the responsibility for strengthening the
management of the company. Details are being worked out between the parties
involved and discussions have been pursued between the Korean authorities
and the Bank to assist in resolving the issues.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by SMIB to help cover
the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects. A portion of
the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist small-scale, labor-
intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross capital cost per job
not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed assets are not greater
than $250,000. Funds have been entirely committed and final dibursement
will be made shortly.
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB's subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Progress is good.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 mil-
lion was earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea
Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to
KDFC, by way of subloans. Progress is good and only about 8% of funds are
still to be disbursed.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After initial delays in completing final specifications and
bidding documents for engineering, support and research equipment, the
project is progressing. Bids have been received and are being evaluated for
a major proportion of the equipment. The training program is also under
way. Recently some shortage of counterpart funds has affected the project
and proposed institutional changes have given rise to concern; these
matters are under discussion with the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. Progress is
good.
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: Ausust 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government's policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure. Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB's project appraisal
capabilities. Sublending is progressing well and loan disbursements have
commenced.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will assist the Government to reduce fertility over the
next five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal mortality,



_ 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
particularly in rural areas   It is estimated that about 10 million people
would be provided primary health care services under the project. Progress
is being made on a number of fronts. Training to convert unipurpose into
multipurpose workers is going on, the development of curricula for midwifery
training is advancing, workshops have been conducted and coordinators
appointed. Designs for the civil works are being prepared. Although some
delays in training have occurred, this has been due to budget constraints
rather than to managerial problems   The budget allocations made by the
Government for 1980 and 1981 correspond to only about 10% of the amounts
required. This implies a delay of at least one year in project execution.
The Government has indicated that it plans to compensate for the shortfall in
1982. Project management is coping with this situation well and is trying to
make do with the funds available. Loan disbursements have not yet commenced.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation is satisfactory.
Physical facilities and the technical assistance program have been completed.
Training operations have commenced in five VTIs. However, equipment procure-
ment under the MOE component was delayed by almost one year because of a
temporary shortage of counterpart funds. This, in turn, caused a postpone-
ment of the Closing Date by one year. Now all equipment contracts have been
awarded and over 90% completed. Estimated total project costs are now
slightly higher (3%) than the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany. After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule. All
civil works contracts have been awarded. Six VTIs are now in operation.
About 80% of equipment has been awarded and about 60% delivered. All experts
are in post and the fellowship program has been completed. Management
performance has also improved.



_ 36 _
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank's first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed:  $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is about the same as planned.
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation on the Second Gwangju Regional Project is underway
satisfactorily. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects.
Civil works contracts for two subprojects (Mogpo Water Supply and Gwangju
Industrial Estate Access Road) were awarded in December 1979 and
construction works are on schedule. Contract awards for two subprojects
were made in October 1980 and another seven in December. Detailed designs
for the remaining subprojects have also been completed but bid award has
been postponed to 1981 primarily due to budgetary problems. Progress on
implementation of the aquaculture development program has been slow due to
staffing changes in the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
(NFFC). Preparation of Terms of Reference for various studies under the
Technical Assistance Program are underway. On the whole, project
implementation is satisfactory, though rapid escalation in construction
costs in Korea is expected to cause a cost overrun of about 37%.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants;
(b) paving and improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national



_ 37 _
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
highways totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All
contracts for construction and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants were completed in 1980 and a contract for
detailed engineering has been negotiated. Disbursements are nearing
completion. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35
million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container
berths being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m
expansion of the container stacking area provided under that project with
ancilliary works; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and
lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container
handling equipment, and tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. Contracts for the extension of
container berths and for rehabilitation of pier No. 4 and lighter wharf No.
5 were let in 1979, following delay in appointing the consultants for final
engineering. Estimated costs have increased to $161 million ($98 foreign
exchange) compared with the appraisal estimate of $112 ($70 foreign
exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial accounting from January 1,
1983.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
june 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of
a permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars
and freight cars. provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation
of additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of tech-
nical assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector
studies. Contracts for about 98% of the equipment to be financed under the
loan have been awarded and most of the equipment is under delivery. Studies
of the feasibility of major investments for 1980 and 1981 have been carried
out and the transport sector studies are under way.



_ 38 _
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. A contract for the
study was signed and work started in September 1979. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and the remaining roads in September 1979.
Costs have escalated sharply due to inflation, and due to budgetary
constraint, construction work is proceeding about one year behind the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project focuses on the goals set jointly with the Government
on the transport sector, namely to increase the capacity of the transport
system in the most economically efficient way and to develop and strengthen
the institutions dealing with the transport sector. The main component of
the project aims at: (a) initiating the institutional changes necessary to
gradually transform the Korean National Railroad (KNR) into a public
corporation; (b) providing KNR with the capacity required to meet forecast
traffic; and (c) reducing operating and maintenance costs. The loan will
finance rails, track maintenance equipment, breakdown cranes, passenger
cars, freight cars, workshop equipment, technical assistance and training.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1778    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project constitutes the next logical step in the development
program of the Korean Power Company (KECO) to meet the load growth up to
1986. The project would provide for the installation of two 500 MW



_ 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; coal handling and
storage facilities, fuel oil tanks, ash system and storage area, a fuel
unloading dock for ships up to 100,000 DWT displacement; a pumping station
and a 17 km steel pipe to transport fresh water to the station; and a 160 km
double circuit, 345 KV transmission line between the power station and
Seoul, and related terminal substations and management consulting services.
In September 1979, contracts for the main equipment which is not being
financed by the Bank were signed and call for bids for 12 equipment packages
will be made in mid-April. Power rates have been increased periodically and
KECO has been able to meet its 9% rate of return objective.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
KOREA
NATIONAL URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable for Key Events
(a) The project was prepared during 1980.
(b) Agency which prepared the project: KLDC, with assistance of local
consultants, and KNHC.
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: February 1980
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: September, 1980
(e) Negotiations completed: March 13, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1981.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special conditions
The following special conditions are incorporated in the project:
(a) The Bank and the Government agreed to continue to exchange views on
housing policies and to periodically review progress toward achieving
goals (para. 45).
(b)  For Land Readjustment projects, KLDC would (para. 56).
(i) progressively increase the proportion of retained land;
(ii) subdivide market sale land in minimum plots of 27 py; and
(iii) assure that at least 13% of gross area is available for low-
income housing.
(c) The Government will undertake a technical assistance program through
KLDC and KNHC including (para. 58).
(i) training for KLDC and KNHCC;



- 4i -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii) advisory services for KLDC;
(iii)  future project preparation for KLDC;
(iv)  monitoring and evaluation; and
(v) a housing sector study.
(d)  KLDC will enter into Agreements for Project Implementation with each
city (para. 60).
(e)  An agreement between KLDC and KNHC regarding the terms and conditions
under which land will be transferred under the project is a condition
of effectiveness (para. 86).
(f)  It was agreed that housing units for low-income families, built by
KNHC, would be of the following types: about 40% core houses, about
30% row houses and about 30% apartments (para. 57).






IBRD 15721
.  .    .          ''      s.     '   . , ,Rte\ .  t   2.APRIL 1981
CHINA
Y   NG                                                EchG WEO
< 6vs/ .z, 824 . ) . t\< gEu~~~~~~~~~~~ jeo gbuf   
YOI/Os' Chfe                                                                                                                                                            3876  I  <<   9
IheGnc hen G N                                                         O
TM~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5.0 >                                                                  E x       -5M                          7
-37'      rk'                                              >'           s    e     g>z 
t5.',eeoSPo .MSO,1.,,sft. kd)
jzz vff           -u
-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yom                                                  /        GiEr cteont
36'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
M=4 g N,@ <46hun9rSi dengswngun 
37-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7J             ~~Nsgdsn             Sig,,.'              NATIONAL URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT
<<                *ngeum                       ~~~~AND HOUSING PROJECT
.                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~* Phaswe It Sites
.   .                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primortr roods
\.   ,,                                        | | _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rsilwsys under construction
*3e                                  s                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+ Airports
_e_                             . .      Rivers
SSpeial cities
--Provntct boundories
J < ~    ~         ~        ~                 . _ . _ . ~~~~~~~~Irternotitbal boundories
J// \E JJ:                                        o   ,20   406                50     t     10     120,140 ,160
,;,Seogwipo                                                              MthLEo
tZ5'                             120-                                127-                              126'                             129-
,           ,                                  I                                 {                                I~~~~~~~B



