Report No. 1519a-IN                                                   FILE  COPY
India: Periyar Vaigai Irrigation
Project (Tamil Nadu)
May 19, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            Rupees (Rs) 9.00 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                               =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                          =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              3                   2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm )             =      810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC)             28.32 b
1 cubic foot per second (cusec)           =     0.028 m Is
1 ton                                     =     1,000 kilograms (kg)
2,205 pounds
11   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a 'basket'
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 9.00, which was the short-term average rate
prevailing at the time of Appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CCA      -    Cultivable Command Area
DA       -    Department of Agriculture
DDA      -   Deputy Director of Agriculture
DAO      -    District Agriculture Officer
DyAO     -    Deputy Agricultural Officer
ERR      -    Economic Rate of Return
GNP      -    Gross National Product
GOI      -    Government of India
GOTN     -    Government of Tamil Nadu
HYV      -    High Yielding Varieties
ICAR     -    India Council of Agricultural Research
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
M        -    Million
O&M      -    Operation and Maintenance
PWD      -    Public Works Department
RD & LA  -    Rural Development and Local Administration
SE       -    Superintending Engineer
SMS      -    Subject Matter Specialist
TNAU     -    Tamil Nadu Agricultural University
VLW      -    Village Level Worker
VEW      -    Village Extension Worker
GLOSSARY
Paddy    -    unhulled rice
Tank     -    small reservoir collecting run-off
from rainfall
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Tamil Nadu and Agencies  -   April 1 - March 31
ARDC, Cooperatives                      -   July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks                        -   January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............................ i - ii
I.     INTRODUCTION  .1...................................... 
II.   BACKGROUND ...........................   1
The Economy  .................1.................. 
Agriculture  in India  ..........           ..1.............. 
Irrigation  in  India   ........................ .                     2
Agriculture  and  Irrigation  in Tamil  Nadu                  .....    3
Project  Formulation  ......               .....................       4
III.     THE PERIYAR VAIGAI  PROJECT AREA  ....................    5
General  ...................................... .                      5
The Periyar Vaigai  Irrigation  System  ..                 ........    5
Climate  ...................................... .                      8
Topography  and  Soils  ........... .. ............ .                  8
Farm  Size  and Land  Tenure  .....................    9
Agricultural Production  .....                ..................    9
Agricultural  Supporting  Services  ...........                ...   10
IV.     THE PROJECT  ..........               ..............................   11
General  ................................................   11
Main  Project  Features  .....              ....................   11
Irrigation Modernization Works  .......                   .........   12
Extension  of  the Canal  System  .......                ..........   13
Other  Project  Components  ........ ..               ............   13
Water  Savings               .................................    14
Engineering Design  ......              ......................   14
Construction Methods  ......               ....................   15
Implementation  Schedule  .......................   15
Cost  Estimates  .......            .........................   15
Financing  ........           .............................    16
Procurement  ........            ...........................   16
Disbursements  .......             ..........................    17
Accounts  and Audits  ......              .....................   18
Environmental  Impact  ......              ....................   18
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
India in October/November 1976, comprising: Messrs. P. Ljung, S. Baker,
E. Hunting, W. van Tuijl and J. Lindt (Consultant).



Table of Contents
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....        ...................   18
Public Works Department ........... ............  18
Department of Agriculture .......... ...........   19
Cost Recovery ............      .....................   19
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES .....    21
Production                  ...   21
Market Prospects .......    .......................   22
Prices      ........................................   22
Farm Incomes      ..................................   23
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......       ...................   23
General .......... .............................   23
Economic Rate of Return .....       ..................  24
Income Distributional Effects .....      ............  24
Least Cost Solution ......       .....................  25
Project Risk .........     .........................   25
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....      .........  26
ANNEXES
1.   Climatic Data
2.   Water Supply and Demand
3.   Project Works
4.   Cost Estimates
5.   Schedues of Expenditures, Disbursements and Proposed
Credit Allocation
6.   Organization and Management
7.   Agricultural Supporting Services
8.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
9.   Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
10.   Economic Analysis
MAPS
Project Location    IBRD 12675
Project Area         IBRD 12676



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Irrigation is a corner stone in India's agricultural development.
However, the country's water resources are inadequate to meet future agri-
cultural requirements and nowhere is this constraint more serious than in
Tamil Nadu. The State has fully developed its surface water potential and
is rapidly reaching the limit of its groundwater resources. Consequently,
future expansion of irrigated agriculture in Tamil Nadu depends largely on
achieving greater efficiency of water use in existing projects.
ii.       The Periyar Vaigai irrigation system, built some 80 years ago,
diverts water from the Periyar River in Kerala through a tunnel to the Vaigai
Basin in Tamil Nadu, where it irrigates some 63,200 ha. The unlined convey-
ance system has high seepage and operational losses. Farm irrigation prac-
tices, on the other hand, are relatively advanced and the farmers achieve
some of the highest paddy yields in India. Therefore, the scope for re-
ducing water losses on the fields is limited and substantial savings can
only be achieved by improving the conveyance system.
iii.      The proposed project would rehabilitate and modernize the Periyar
Vaigai irrigation system to minimize water losses in conveyance and operation.
The existing canal system would be extended, and part of the water saved would
be utilized to bring some 9,000 ha of rainfed land under irrigation. Being the
first of its kind in India, the project would serve as a pilot operation to
establish the economic and technical parameters of different water saving
measures. A monitoring and evaluation program would be included. Also, a
reorganization of the agricultural extension services would form a part of
the project.
iv.       Project works would primarily include the lining of all canals and
the construction of additional control structures to properly regulate the
flows in the cinals. Through these works, conveyance losses would be reduced
by some 190 Mm . Irrespective of GOTN's future decision about water alloca-
tions (para viii), the project would increase annual paddy production by some
64,000 tons, provide about 12,000 additional full time jobs in agriculture
and generate about 8,000 jobs outside agriculture. The net foreign exchange
savings would amount to some US$9.6 M.
v.        Total  project costs are estimated at US$45.6 M.  The proposed credit
of US$23.0 M would finance 50% of the total project cost covering the foreign
exchange component of US$6.9 M and 42% of local costs. The Government of India
(GOI) would relend the proceeds of the loan to the Government of Tamil Nadu
(GOTN) in accordance with its standard arrangements for State development
projects.
vi.       Out of US$660,000 worth of vehicles and equipment to be procured
under the project, US$290,000 would be subject to international competitive
bidding (ICB). The remainder of US$370,000 would be purchased locally through



- ii -
the normal procedures of GOTN. Construction of a new link canal, estimated
at US$4.8 M would be subject to ICB, with a 7.5% preference for local con-
tractors. Other civil works, valued at US$21.6 M, would be labor-intensive
and would be scheduled intermittently in accordance with a flexible time plan
in order not to interrupt irrigation deliveries. These works would be ten-
dered on the basis of piece work contracts.
vii.      The Irrigation Branch of GOTN's Public Works Department would be
responsible for implementation of the civil works and the subsequent operation
of the system. The Depattment of Agriculture would be responsible for the
reorganization of agricultural extension services in the project area.
viii.     Part of the water saved through the project would be used for an
extension of the command area to bring 9,000 ha of rainfed land under irriga-
tion. After completion of the modernization works, when the exact water
savings would be known, the GOTN would decide whether to: (i) extend the
command area further, or (ii) provide a second irrigated crop in areas that
presently get irrigation for one crop per year, or (iii) combine these two
alternatives. Alternative (i) would be the most attractive from an income
distributional point of view. However, since this alternative would require
additional investments in a distribution network, the economic rate of return
(about 17%) would be lower than the economic rate of return for alternative
(ii) which is about 23%. The rate of return for alternative (iii) would be
between these extremes as it would depend on the allocation of water between
presently rainfed land and single irrigated land.
ix.       The project is suitable for a credit of US$23.0 M on standard IDA
terms. The Borrower would be the Government of India.



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested IDA assistance for
modernization of the Periyar Vaigai irrigation system -- built some 80 years
ago -- in the State of Tamil Nadu. The project would be the first attempt
in India to rehabilitate and modernize a major irrigation system to minimize
water losses in conveyance and operation. A reorganization of the agricul-
tural extension services and a detailed monitoring and evaluation program
would form part of the project.
1.02      The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) was assisted in project prep-
aration by a team from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (Report No.
23/76 IND 32). The present report is based on the findings of an Appraisal
Mission comprising Messrs. P. Ljung, S. Baker, E. Hunting, W. van Tuijl and
J. Lindt (Consultant) who visited Tamil Nadu in October/November 1976.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      India covers some 3.3 M km  of which 49% is arable and about 11%
is under some kind of irrigation. India's population of about 600 M is grow-
ing at an annual rate of 2.3%. This rapid population growth combined with
a relatively poor resource base and generally unfavorable terms of tr'ade
have imposed serious constraints on India's economic development. Neverthe-
less, since 1950, national income has grown at nearly 4% per annum and the
per capita GNP in 1975 reached US$150. However, a sustained high growth rate
will require fundamental improvements in foodgrain production (para 2.04) and
increased investments in the industrial sector.
2.02      Although national income has increased, in general, there has been
little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of urban and rural
poor, which -- conservatively measured -- consist of some 200 M people with
incomes below the poverty line of US$60 per capita per year. Thus, the Gov-
ernment's present development plans place great emphasis on alleviating poverty
and creating employment.
Agriculture in India
2.03      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and has
recently contributed an average of about 45% of GNP. It engages about 70% of
the labor force and provides the base for about 60% of India's exports. Be-
sides jute, cotton and leather goods, the most important export commodities
are tea and cashew nuts.



-2 -
2.04      Since 1965, India has shifted development emphasis from industry to
agriculture, giving priority to accelerating the spread of modern agricultural
technology by increasing the availability of seeds of high yielding varieties
and fertilizers, expanding irrigation and developing modern credit institu-
tions. Despite the impressive results of the green revolution in some areas --
primarily the wheat growing northwestern states -- since 1967, the annual over-
all growth rate in foodgrain production over the last 15 years was only about
2.3% or approximately equal to the population growth. This overall growth in
foodgrain production has concealed considerable variations between crops and
between regions. The introduction of high yielding varieties (HYV) of rice
has encountered difficulties arising from local climatic and ecological con-
ditions. However, in certain regions such as Tamil Nadu, HYV rice has been
successfully introduced in irrigated areas.
2.05      Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production,
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the vagaries of weather,
and foodgrain production can vary as much as 20% from one year to another.
Major factors in reducing this dependence would be the expansion of irriga-
tion and rehabilitation of existing irrigation facilities.
Irrigation in India
2.06      Up to 1964/65, GOI was able to increase the irrigated area at a
rate of only about 2.1% per year, of which approximately two-thirds was from
surface water resources and one-third from groundwater. Since then, GOI has
managed to roughly double this rate, mainly through an accelerated development
of groundwater resources. At present, the irrigated area is 42 M ha, about
three-fifths of which is surface irrigated and two-fifths is irrigated from
groundwater.
2.07      The pace of groundwater development has fallen off recently because
the limit of groundwater resources is being approached in the northwestern
States which possess a well-established credit structure. In the northeastern
States with excellent groundwater potential, the pace of development is cur-
rently hampered by institutional constraints.
2.08      The pace of surface water development has increased only slightly
over the past twenty-five years except, perhaps, for a moderate acceleration
in the last couple of years. Plan targets set by GOI for a more rapid de-
velopment of surface irrigation have never been fulfilled. Much of the prob-
lem appears to stem from the higher priority given in practice to starting
new projects rather than completing those already underway.
2.09      In most completed projects, there is a significant difference be-
tween the irrigation potential that has been created and the actual utiliza-
tion. Consequently, in the Fifth Plan (1974/75 to 1978/79) increasing empha-
sis is being given "command area development," which includes public invest-
ments to enable a better utilization of irrigation water (i.e., drainage,
roads, markets, agricultural extension and research) as well as private in-
vestments to improve water use efficiency at the farm level (i.e,, water
course lining, field channels and drains, land shaping and leveling).



-3-
However, little attention has been paid so far to the formulation of realistic
engineering design criteria.  In the planning, systems losses are generally
assumed to be much lower than what can be achieved at the present level of
irrigation technology.
2.10      In recent years, as evidenced by the conclusion of the 1976 report
of the National Commission on Agriculture, a greater awareness of these prob-
lems has evolved:
"In view of the complete inadequacy of water resources to
meet future agricultural and other requirements, it becomes
a matter of great national importance to conserve and utilize
them economically."
Thus, in states where the surface water potential already is fully developed,
attention is being focused on the improvement and upgrading of existing con-
veyance systems to enable an expansion of the irrigated area.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Tamil Nadu
2.11      The State of Tamil Nadu, with an area of 13.0 M has a population of
41.2 M (1971). With almost one-third of its population living in towns and
cities, it is, next to Maharashtra, the most urbanized of the Indian States.
However, in spite of a rapid development of industry in recent years, agricul-
ture continues to have a predominant influence on the State's economy. It
contributes about 40% to State income and employs about 60% of the labor
force. About half the area of the State is cultivated (6.4 M ha). Due to
high population density in the rural areas, farm holdings are small and about
half the agricultural labor force is landless.
2X12      Paddy is the dominant crop and Tamil Nadu is the second largest
rice producer in India. It accounts for 37% of the cropped area and about
80% of the State's foodgrain production. Due to an extensive irrigation
system and progressive farmers, paddy yields in Tamil Nadu are among the
highest in the country. The second most important crop is groundnuts (15%
of the cropped area), which is grown primarily under rainfed conditions.
2.13      Although both the southwest and northeast monsoons bring rain to
Tamil Nadu, its occurrence is irregular. Three quarters of the State lies
in the rain-shadow of the Western Ghats, and the precipitation in these semi-
arid areas ranges from 600 mm to 1,000 mm. The northern coastal districts
are somewhat more fortunate with an annual rainfall in the range of 1,000-
1,200 mm.
2.14      Because of unreliable rainfall, irrigation developed early in Tamil
Nadu. The Grand Anicut in the Cauvery Delta, built for irrigation purposes
during the second century AD is one of the great engineering feats of ancient
India. However, most of the Cauvery Delta System, which irrigates 0.3 M ha,
was built during the 1880s and the 1890s. At present, the State's largest
river, the Cauvery, is one of the-most utilized rivers in India, with more
than 90% of its water harnessed for irrigation. A number of other systems,



- 4 -
including the Periyar Vaigai irrigation system, was built during the same
period as the Cauvery Delta System. By the turn of the century, almost half
of the present canal irrigated area was developed.
2.15      Over the last 30 years, most attention in Tamil Nadu's irrigation
development has focused on groundwater, and presently there are one million
wells in operation.  The IDA has supported the State's groundwater develop-
ment through the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project (Credit No. 250,
1971, US$35.0 M). In this credit, about two-thirds of the funds were pro-
vided for filter points,.1/ tubewells and dug wells. This project has been
completed satisfactorily.
2.16      In 1971/72, the net irrigated area in the State was 2.71 M ha dis-
tributed according to source of supply as follows: canals, 0.93 M ha; tanks,
0.92 M ha; groundwater, 0.82 M ha, and other 0.04 M ha.
Project Formulation
2.17      Of all the States, Tamil Nadu has most fully developed its irriga-
tion potential. The Irrigation Commission of 1972 estimated the State's
irrigation potential at 3.69 M ha 2/ of which three quarters were utilized
as follows:
Irrigation    Net Irrigated        Percent
Potential     Area (1971/72)   Utilization
…__-------- M ha ----------          (%)
Surface Irrigation           2.37              1.89             80
Groundwater Irrigation        1.32             0.82             62
Total                   3.69              2.71             73
2.18      No large-scale surface water resources remain undeveloped and it
is becoming increasingly costly to develop the minor resources that remain.
The absence of effective legal control over the installation of wells has
already resulted in overexploitation in many areas. However, there still
is scope for further groundwater development in some areas but this would
require careful planning.
1/   Small diameter wells (about 100 mm) sunk to a depth of 10-20 m and
equipped with 3-5 hp pumps.
2/   Irrigation potential is a planning concept based on certain theoretical
assumptions about cropping patterns and about conveyance and field
efficiencies. Consequently, the potential depends on the chosen irriga-
tion technology. Typically, the assumed efficiencies are much higher
than what is found in existing Indian irrigation systems.



- 5 -
2.19      The State realizes these resource constraints and recognizes
the need for achieving greater efficiency of water use in existing projects.
Therefore, GOTN is directing its attention to the 80-year old Periyar Vaigai
system. Built to nineteenth century standards, the unlined Periyar Vaigai
conveyance system has high seepage and operational losses. Farm irrigation
practices, however, are relatively advanced. Farmers are organized in in-
formal water users' groups and achieve some of the highest paddy yields in
India. Fields are leveled and a fair number of field channels have been con-
structed. Consequently, the scope for reducing water losses on the fields
is limited and substantial savings can only be achieved by improving the
conveyance system.
2.20      The proposed project would rehabilitate and modernize the Periyar
Vaigai irrigation system to meet high technical standards in order to reduce
water losses in the conveyance system. Part of the water saved would be
utilized to bring some 9,000 ha of rainfed land under irrigation. A program
to monitor water savings would be included in the project and would provide a
basis for future decisions about water allocations and an eventual further
extension of the canal system.
III. THE PERIYAR VAIGAI PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area, covering parts of Madurai and Ramanathapuram dis-
tricts, is located on the plain between the Western Ghats and the Bay of
Bengal in southern-central Tamil Nadu (Location Map). The project would cover
a non-contiguous area of about 105,000 ha, of which 66,000 ha are cult4vable.
The total population in the area is about 390,000, of which 30,000 belong to
non-farm households. Madurai, Tamil Nadu's second largest town with a popu-
lation of 550,000 (1971), is located at the fringe of the project area.
Madurai is served by main road, rail and air links to Madras and other import-
ant centers.
The Periyar Vaigai Irrigation System
3.02      Infrastructure.  The natural flows in the Vaigai basin were already
fully utilized at the end of the nineteenth century and water shortage was
being experienced. This led to the construction of the Periyar transbasin
scheme (see diagram below) which made it possible to divert waters from the
Periyar basin in the State of Kerala to the Vaigai basin in Tamil Nadu. A
dam and reservoir were constructed on the Periyar River and a diversion tunnel
through the Western Ghats made it possible to convey water from the Periyar
reservoir into the Suruliyar, a tributary of the Vaigai.



-6-
Vaigai
Periyar          Power                Reservoir            Periv
Reservoir        Station
River       t-nS            River               River
Vaigai
Western Ghats  River             Peranai       Thirumangalam
Western Ghats        River              Regulator    Main Canal
3.03      The construction of the Peranai regulator and the Periyar main
canal, on the left bank of the Vaigai, formed part of the transbasin scheme,
which was completed in 1896.  A major addition to the earlier works was com-
pleted in 1958 with commissioning of the Vaigai Dam and reservoir about 30 km
upstream of the Peranai regulator. The primary purpose of this reservoir was
to re-regulate the release from a power station that was being constructed at
the end of the Periyar diversion tunnel. This additional storage made it
possible to extend irrigation from the Periyar main canal and, through con-
struction of the Thirumangalam main canal, to irrigate lands on the right
bank.
3.04      Command Area.  The total area irrigated at present under the Periyar
and Thirumangalam main canals Imounts to 63,200 ha.  The Periyar main canal
with a design capacity of 40 m Is and length of 58 km, commands a total area
of 57,900 ha. Two regulators at Kallandiri and Pulipatti control the flow
and water levels in the main canal. Twelve branch channels and 64 distri-
butaries convey water to3farm turnouts.  The Thirumangalam main canal with
a design capacity of 6 m Is and a length of 27 km commands a total area of
5,300 ha. The system is operated and maintained by the Public Works Depart-
ment (PWD).
3.05      Irrigation water in the project area is distributed between farm
turnouts which serve an average 30 ha. There are, however, farm turnouts
serving more than 100 ha. The fields are well levelled and there are a fair
number of field ditches although for paddy, field to field irrigation is also
widespread.
3.06      Water Demand (Annex 2).  Based on the present cropping pattern in
the Periyar Vaigai Sommand area, the gross field water requirements have been
estimated at 505 Mm . This estimate is based on crop water requirements cal-
culated with the Modified Penman Method, taking into account water require-
ments for land preparation and seepage losses, and assuming field irrigation
efficiencies of 85% for paddy and 65% for upland crops.
3.07      Water Supply (Annex 2).  Because of historic water rights, the
natural flows of the Vaigai River are not used for the project area but only
for irrigation of the Vaigai Old Ayacut (45,000 ha) located further down-
stream in the Vaigai basin. Water diverted for the project area at the



-7-
Peranai regulator has the Periyar reservoir as its source of supply. A part
of the water released from the Periyar reservoir is used for a number of
small irrigation schemes before it reaches the Vaigai reservoir.
3.08      Irrigation water to the project area is supplied from four sources:
(i) diversions at the Peranai regulator; (ii) rain water collected in and sup-
plied from tanks in the project area; (iii) return flows to the tanks from oper-
ational losses in the canals and on the fields, and (iv) groundwater.
3.09      About 490 Mm  are available for diversion to the Periyar and Thiru-
mangalam main canals. Only the area above Kallandiri regulator on the Periyar
main canal is provided with enough water to grow two crops of paddy; other
parts of the project area can only be single cropped. During dry years (about
4 years out of 10), only part of the project area can be irrigated due to
shortage of water.
3.10      About 1,200 tanks collect surface run-off from inside and outside
the project area, including operational wastes. Most of these tanks are inte-
grated with the canal distribution system.  It has been estimated that ths net
contribution of rainfall to the tank water sjpply amounts to about 135 Mm per
year and from operational wastes about 30 Mm per year.
3.11      Present groundwater withdrawals in the Periyar and Thirumangalam
main canals areas are estimated at 113 Mm and 12 Mm , respectively, and are
based on sample well inventories and pumping tests. The wells are generally
dug to a depth of 8 to 15 m to tap a shallow low yielding acquifer of weathersd
rock. The outflow of groundwater from the project area is estimated at 280 Mm .
3.12      Water Balance and Losses (Annex 2).  Several attempts, through cur-
rent meter measurements and ponding tests, have been made in the past to esti-
mate the seepage losses in the system.  Ths results of 3these investigations
give seepage losses ranging between 160 Mm  and 350 Mm . The3best estimate
is obSained from the overall water balance which gives 200 Mm as seepage and
75 Mm as operational losses in the conveyance system.



-8-
Water Balance
(Present lituation)
(Mm)
Supply                                  Demand
At Peranai Regulator          490         Gross Field Water
Requirements           505
Tanks
Rainfall contribution   135          Seepage from Canals   200
Return flows              30
Operational Losses
Groundwater                    125        in Canals                75
780                                780
3.13      Water Quality.  The water released from Vaigai reservoir is well
suited for irrigation and has been used in the project area for many years
without any detrimental effects. Chemical tests showed a specific conductiv-
ity varying between 200 and 300 micromohs per cm with a pH around 8.0.
Climate (Annex 1)
3.14      The project area has a tropical monsoon climate.  The average annual
rainfall is about 890 mm, of which 420 mm is received during the northeast
monsoon from October to January and 340 mm during the southwest monsoon from
June to September. January and February are cool and dry; while March, April
and May are hot and dry with maximum daily temperatures exceeding 400C.  Eva-
poration rates are highest from April through August. The annual pan evapora-
tion is about 2,100 mm.
Topography and Soils
3.15      The project area is characterized by a gently rolling topography and
slopes slightly (0.1-0.2% on the average) towards the Vaigai River. Although
the microtopography is rolling, paddy fields, which constitute the major form
of land use, have been leveled into small fields without slope.
3.16      No modern soil survey exists for the Periyar main canal area.  A
reconnaissance soil survey was recently undertaken for portions of it. Red
soils, derived in place from granite or gneiss, predominate in the area. They
consist mainly of sandy loams and sandy clay loams -- often mixed with fine
gravel -- and have a depth of 20 to 50 cm. They are underlain by a calcareous
pan, followed by weathered fractured granite resting, at a depth of two to
fifteen meters, on granitic bedrock. Darker heavier soils are found in low-
lying patches and alluvial soils cover part of the Periyar main canal area.
The soils are generally low in salt and exchangeable sodium; fertility defi-
ciencies, largely nitrogen and phosphorous, are readily corrected. Soil depth
and water holding capacity limit the production of irrigated upland crops in
some areas.



-9-
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.17      The project area has an estimated population of 390,000 distrib-
uted among 7,000 non-farm households, 21,000 households of landless agricul-
tural laborers and 52,000 farm households. The average family size is 4.9
persons. The area is densely populated (5.9 persons per cultivated ha compared
to 3.5 for India). Consequently, farm sizes are relatively small, averaging
roughly 1.3 ha. However, because of the availability of irrigation, the
average per capita income of the farm households (US$110) is only slightly
less than the national average. lIost of the landless families live on or
below the poverty line (US$60 per capita).
Number of          Area of Holdings
Farm Size        as % of Total          as % of Total
less than 0.5 ha         36                      7
0.5 to 1 ha              23                     12
1 to 2 ha                21                     21
2 to 5 ha                15                     32
over 5 ha                 5                     28
3.18      About 10% of the holdings are tenant operated.  A Fair Rent Act has
stipulated that owner and tenant must share the produce in the ratio of 40 to
60. However, in most cases tenuring is based on an oral agreemnt which at pre-
sent is usually on a 50 to 50 ratio. Tenants pay production costs including
labor, animal power, fertilizer and pesticides.
Agricultural Production (Annex 8)
3.19      In general, a commercial attitude toward farming prevails and,/in
irrigated areas, farmers utilize seed of improved varieties, fertilizers and
agricultural chemicals. However, production for home consumption is still
given priority which, because of the small size of farms, limits the pro-
duction available for marketing.
3.20      The present cultivable command area (CCA) of 65,900 ha is sown to
80,300 ha of crops representing a cropping intensity of 121%. Total pro-
duction is: Paddy, 233,000 tons; other foodgrains, 3,000 tons; groundnuts,
2,300 tons; and sugarcane, 94,000 tons.
3.21      Paddy accounts for 108% of the CCA.  In the double crop zone within
the Periyar main canal area (para 3.09), the first paddy crop is transplanted
from mid-June to mid-August and the second from mid-October to December. In
the single cropped areas, the transplanting date depends on the water delivery
schedules and upon the accumulation of rainfall in the tanks, but it typically
takes place in September. Paddy yields at 3.0 to 3.4 tons/ha are high.
Sugarcane, which yields about 75 tons/ha, accounts for about 2% of the CCA.
Since it is a year-round crop, canal water must be supplemented by well water
in the dry season.



- 10 -
3.22      Sorghum and millets are important food crops and occupy substantial
acreage in the non-irrigated areas. They also respond favorably to irriga-
tion and are planted when canal deliveries for paddy are late or uncertain.
Groundnuts, the most important cash crop grown under rainfed conditions, are
sold to local oil mills. The crop is sown from July to September depending
on the monsoon and harvested in November and December. About one quarter of
the groundnut area is irrigated. In the single irrigated areas, pulses --
utilizing residual soil moisture -- follow the paddy crop. Many other crops
of minor importance are planted in the project area.
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.23      Agricultural Extension.  There are two basic agricultural extension
systems in the area. One is represented by the multipurpose Village Level
Worker (VLW), who reports to the Block Development Officer, which is the
smallest unit in the State's administrative system. The VLW is intended to
spend 80% of his time on agricultural extension. However, many of the VLWs
spend as little as 20% on agricultural work and this is often of a reporting
nature. Because of the failure of this system, the Department of Agriculture
has built up its own system with one Deputy Agricultural Officer (DyAO) in
each block. The DyAOs (usually well trained agricultural graduates) are
responsible for direct farmer contacts. The DyAO works under the technical
supervision of the Department of Agriculture while he is under the adminis-
trative control of the Block Development Officer. There are also a number of
special extension programs for commercial crops, such as pest control. While
this mix of systems functions fairly well, as shown by the high yields in the
area, it could be made more efficient by: eliminating parallel management
control; strengthening the link between applied research and extension; es-
tablishing systematic schedules for staff training and increasing staff mobil-
ity for regular farm visits.
3.24      Agricultural Research.  The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has
campuses at Coimbatore and Madurai; the latter is located within the project
area. The Madurai campus has, among other departments, a Department of Agri-
cultural Extension, a Farmer Training Institute and a large variety of re-
search programs. In addition, an India Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR) coordinated scheme for research on water management and cropping pat-
terns in Periyar Vaigai command area was started in 1971.
3.25      Cash Inputs and Credit.  Fertilizers and pesticides are distributed
through a well developed system of private and cooperative dealers, and Block
Development Officers. The HYV seeds are distributed through the extension
service and private dealers. Short- and medium-term production credit is
primarily provided through a network of viable cooperative societies. About
80% of the cultivators are members of the societies. However, private money
lenders still play an important role.
3.26      Marketing.  Madurai, at the edge of the Periyar Vaigai command area,
is a major marketing and distribution center. In addition to uncontrolled
private channels, a regulated market under the supervision of a committee
comprising both growers and traders is available to farmers in the area.



- 11 -
Commercial trading centers exist for most cash crops including paddy and
groundnuts. The main surplus crop in the area is paddy, which is almost
invariably sold to private dealers in the villages. Groundnuts and sugarcane
are sold directly to mills in the vicinity of the project area.
3.27      Transport.  The main road system is well developed in the area.
However, a number of village roads need upgrading in order to ensure full
access during the rainy season.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The project is designed to substantially reduce the high water
losses in the existing Periyar Vaigai irrigation system. Through lining
of all canals and the provision 9f new structures to properly regulate all
canal flows, an estimated 190 Mm  of water would be saved (para 4.17). This
would enable a 35% increase in the irrigated area from 75,000 ha to between
100,000 ha and 105,000 ha.
Main Project Features
4.02      The main components of the project are as follows:
(a) lining of all irrigation canals down to the 10 ha outlets;
(b)  the construction of a lined "link" canal (length 32 km) to
convey the river waters from a new diversion weir just
downstream of the Vaigai Dam to the Peranai regulator;
(c) rehabilitation of existing structures and construction of
additional control structures;
(d) construction of additional outlets to provide water control
to unit blocks of 10 ha;
(e) improvement of existing tanks and their supply channels;
(f) extension of the canal system to irrigate an additional
9,000 ha of rainfed land;
(g) improvement of existing operation and maintenance roads
along main canals and construction of operation and main-
tenance roads along branch canals and larger distributaries;
(h) improvement of the communication system by the installation
of radio telephone links;



- 12 -
(i) improvements of village roads;
(j) procurement of hydrological, office and miscellaneous equipment;
(k) staff training;
(1) reorganization of the agricultural extension service; and
(m) monitoring program.
Irrigation Modernization Works (Annex 3)
4.03      Canal Lining.  The main feature of the project is the lining of all
irrigation canals in the project area down to the turnouts of 10 ha irrigation
unit blocks. The lining of the Thirumangalam canal, which is at present the
only lined canal in the project area, would be rehabilitated. The canals would
be lined with masonry and pre-cast concrete slabs. The lining program would
involve some 1,000 km of canals.
4.04      Link Canal.  Water for the Periyar Vaigai system is presently con-
veyed from Vaigai reservoir to Peranai regulator through the Vaigai River chan-
nel. Serious difficulties are being experienced with the operation of the re-
gulator because of siltation in front of the regulator and in the head reaches
of the main canals, which restricts the intake capacities of the canals. It
takes 24 hours before releases from the reservoir reach the regulator, which
makes it difficult to make optimal use of the available rainfall in the proj-
ect area. Therefore, a lined link canal from the Vaigai reservoir to the
Periyar main canal would be constructed. This canal would considerably
improve the operational efficiency of the project. Water would be diverted
into the link canal at a new pick-up anicut (diversion weir) that is presently
under construction approximately 1 km downstream of the reservoir. TMe lined
link canal would have a length of 32 km and a design capacity of 60 m /s. The
Thirumangalam canal would be supplied with water from the link canal through
a syphon under the Vaigai River just upstream of the Peranai regulator.
4.05      Rehabilitation of Structures.  Existing structures in the project
area are 80 years old and most are in need of repair. These structures would
be rehabilitated under the project.
4.06      Additional Control Structures.  To better control the water level in
the canals, three new cross regulators -- one on the Periyar main canal and
two on branch channels -- would be constructed. This would enable the full
design discharge to pass through head sluices and turnouts when the canals
are running at half capacity.
4.07      Additional Farm Turnouts.  Water distribution within the project
area would further be improved by reducing the size of the irrigation unit
blocks to a maximum of 10 ha from the present average of 30 ha. This would
require the construction of some 2,000 additional farm turnouts. These turn-
outs would be equipped with vertical sliding gates with a locking arrangement.



- 13 -
The relationships between gate openings and discharges would be carefully
calibrated for existing and new structures in order to improve accuracy of
water deliveries.
4.08      Improvements to Existing Tanks and Supply Channels.  At present,
several of the major tanks are connected with the canal system through other
tanks, which hampers timely deliveries. These tanks would be provided with
an independent supply channel. In addition, the tanks' control structures
would be rehabilitated and some embankments would be strengthened.
Extension of the Canal System
4.09      The canal system would be extended to serve an additional 9,000 ha.
The works would include the construction of about 92 km of main and branch
canals, about 300 km of distributaries, about 140 km of O&M roads, and asso-
ciated structures. All canals would be lined and farm turnouts would be
provided for each 10 ha block.
Other Project Components
4.10      Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Roads.  The O&M roads exist at pre-
sent only along the main canals and the larger branch channels. Moreover,
they are too narrow and not passable in the rainy season. These roads would
be widened and improved (145 km) and new roads would be constructed along all
branch channels and the larger distributaries (610 km).
4.11      Communication System. A radio telephone system would replace the out-
dated telephone system which presently is used for communication to the nine
section officers responsible for O&M of the irrigation system.
4.12      Village Roads.  To provide all weather access throughout the area,
about 625 km of village roads would be improved. About 250 km would be
widened to a formation width of 7.5 m and have a 3.0 m wide waterbound
macadam pavement. About 375 km of gravel roads would have a 2.5 m wide
pavement on a 5.5 m foundation.
4.13      O&M Buildings and Equipment.  The project would provide front-end
loaders for the maintenance of the main and branch canals, hydrological equip-
ment for the operation of the irrigation system, and quarters and offices for
additional O&M staff.
4.14      Staff Training.  The project would provide fellowships for staff
training abroad (about 90 man-months) in subjects such as water management,
reservoir operation, flood control, computer applications for collection and
storage of hydrological data, command area development, and administration.
4.15      Reorganization of the Agricultural Extension Service.  The agricul-
tural extension service in the Madurai District, where almost all of the proj-
ect is located, would be reorganized and its operating methods changed (paras
5.05-5.07) along the lines successfully adopted in a number of Bank Group fi-
nanced projects in India. The project would provide vehicles, staff quarters
and demonstration equipment.



- 14 -
4.16      Monitoring Project Performance.  The project would include a pro-
gram to: (i) monitor canal conveyance efficiencies; (ii) evaluate the cost-
effectiveness of the reorganized agricultural extension service; and (iii)
assess the agricultural and economic impact of the project (Annex 6, Appendix
1). Funds would be provided for: installation of 30 flow recording stations;
hydrological equipment; the service of one hydrologist for four months; and
agroeconomic surveys by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University at Madurai.
Water Savings
4.17 3    Seepage loss s after lining of the canals have been estimated at
0.6 m Is per million m of wetted pesimeter. Phus, the project would reduce
the total seepage losses from 200 Mm to 50 Mm (para 3.12). It is further
estimated that the project would improve the control over water deliveries,
which3would red ce the operational losses in the conveyance system from
75 Mm to 35 Mm . ConsequenSly, the gross water savings under the project
would amount to about 190 Mm . Under the project, the command area would be
extended to irrigate about 9,000 ha of presently rainfed land. However, in
addition to this extension, the projected water savings would make it possi-
ble to bring a further 15,800 ha of rainfed land under irrigation (alterna-
tive 1), or convert 18,800 ha of single irrigated land into double irrigated
land (alternative 2), or a combination of the two alternatives. In both cases,
the result would be somewhat higher seepage and operational losses than if the
irrigated area remains unchanged.  Thus, the increase in t e net availability
of water at the field turnouts would amount to some 160 Mm :
Present     Future
3
-_-----Mm -------
Delivered to Field Turnouts            505         665
Seepage from Canals                    200          65
Operational Losses in Canals            75          50
Total Supply                      780         780
Engineering Design
4.18      The design of canals and structures would follow standard design
practices in India, which are technically sound. The control structures
would be manually operated. The design of the link canal would be carried
out by PWD's office in Madras, under supervision of the Chief Engineer (Ir-
rigation). Field surveys for the link canal are almost completed, designs
are under preparation and contract documents are scheduled for completion
by June 1977. Designs for other project works would be carried out by the
Superintending Engineers Offices in Madurai.



- 15 -
Construction Methods
4.19      Labor-intensive construction methods would be used.  However, since
it is imperative that the canal banks are properly compacted before lining,
sheepfoot rollers would be used for this. Rollers would also be used for
construction of road foundations. Granite blocks for the rehabilitation of
structures would be obtained from quarries in the project area. Coarse
aggregate for reinforced concrete would be produced by manual labor from
excavated rock.   A number of concrete yards would be set up in the project
area to prefabricate, on a year-round basis, the concrete slabs for lining.
Vibration tables would be used to manufacture the slabs, and standard quality
control tests would be carried out.
Implementation Schedule
4.20      The project would be implemented in four years (Annex 6, Figure 2).
Construction of the link canal would not start until March 1978 after comple-
tion of contract tendering procedures, but construction of the other project
works would be initiated as soon as possible and not later than August 1977.
Canal lining and related earthwork would only be undertaken during the period
March through October when either the entire project area or part of it was not
being irrigated. The project is scheduled for completion by 1981.
Cost Estimates (Annex 4)
4.21      Total project costs are estimated at US$45.6 M including a foreign
exchange component of US$6.9 M or 15Z of the total.  Cost estimates are gen-
erally based on actual contract prices for other irrigation works awarded
recently, and have been updated for inflation to March 1977. Duties and taxes
are insignificant and therefore not included. The GOTN's costs for adminis-
tration, design and construction supervision are estimated at 15% of construc-
tion costs. An overall physical contingency factor of 15% was applied. Price
contingencies are estimated at about 27% of the base cost estimate in accord-
ance with inflation rates of 8% annually for civil works and of 7-1/2% for
equipment during the period 1977-79 and 7% thereafter. Project costs are
detailed in Annex 4 and summarized below:



- 16 -
% of
Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total /a  Cost
----(Rs Million)-…-   ----(US$ Million)----
Link Canal                40.0    7.0      47.0    4.44   0.78       5.22    16.0
Canal Lining              81.5   18.4      99.9    9.06   2.04    11.10    34.0
Control Structures        10.3    1.8      12.1    1.14   0.20       1.34      4.1
Tank Improvements         13.3    1.8      15.1    1.48   0.20       1.68      5.1
Canal Extension           28.4    4.8      33.2    3.16   0.53       3.69    11.3
O&M Roads                 10.4    1.6      12.0    1.15   0.18       1.33      4.1
O&M Buildings              1.2    0.2       1.4    0.13   0.02       0.15      0.5
O&M Equipment              0.5    2.6       3.1    0.06   0.29       0.35      1.1
Village Roads             19.7    3.4      23.1    2.19   0.38       2.57      7.9
Extension Program          3.2      -       3.2    0.36    -         0.36      1.1
Staff Training              -     1.6       1.6      -     0.18      0.18      0.6
Monitoring Program         0.2    0.6       0.8    0.02   0.07       0.09      0.3
Design, Management
and Administration    40.8    -          40.8    4.54    -         4.54    13.9
Base Cost                249.5   43.8    293.3   27.73   4.87    32.60   100.0
Physical
Contingencies           31.3    6.6      37.9    3.47   0.73       4.20    12.9
Expected Price
Increases              67.5   11.7       79.2    7.50   1.30       8.80    27.0
Total Project Cost       348.3   62.1    410.4   38.70   6.90    45.60   139.9
/a   Discrepancies in currency conversions due to rounding.
Financing
4.22      The proposed credit of US$23.0 M would finance 50% of the total
project cost covering the foreign exchange component of US$6.9 million and
42% of local costs. The credit would be made to GOI who would channel the
proceeds to GOTN on the standard terms and arrangements for development assis-
tance to the states. With this assistance, GOTN would finance all capital
investments from its development budget. Operation and maintenance costs
would be financed by GOTN from its regular budget.
4.23      Assurances were obtained from GOI and GOTN, that GOTN would promptly
provide the funds required for the construction of the project in accordance
with the implementation schedule.
Procurement
4.24      Vehicles and Equipment.  The estimated cost of vehicles and equip-
ment for project management, project monitoring, operation and maintenance,
and the extension services program is US$660,000, including spare parts and
contingencies. Procurement totaling an estimated US$290,000 would be subject
to international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 17 -
A preference, limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods or the prevail-
ing customs duty, if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. The remainder of the equipment (US$370,000) would consist
of small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$100,000 for each order and
of field vehicles which would depend upon existing servicing and spare parts
supplied locally. These items would not be suitable for ICB. Such equipment
would be procured through standard GOTN procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
4.25      Civil Works.  For tendering purposes, the civil works would be
grouped as follows:
(a)  Link Canal (US$4.8 M). 1/  Since this is a separate structure
and its construction would not interfere with the water supply
to existing areas, the link canal would be suitable for ICB.
To permit the participation of local contractors, tenderers
would be allowed to bid on one or more reaches of the canal
or on the total works. Local contractors participating in
the bidding would be entitled to a 7.5% preference. Tender
documents would specify this preference and the manner of
its application.
(b)  Other Civil Works (US$21.6 M). 1/  These works would be
highly labor-intensive, be spread out over the entire project
area and be scheduled intermittently in order not to interrupt
the irrigation. Most of the works would be undertaken during
the off-season when the irrigation system is closed down. They
would be tendered on the basis of well proven piece work type
contracts. These contracts, with their inbuilt flexibility,
would be the only appropriate method of constructing small
scattered works to ensure the minimum interruption of ir-
rigation service in this ongoing project.
Disbursements
4.26      Disbursements would be made for:  (i) 100% of the foreign expendi-
tures for directly imported equipment; (ii) 70% of local expenditures for
imported equipment procured locally; (iii) 100% of the exfactory price for
equipment manufactured locally; (iv) 55% of expenditures for civil works;
and (v) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance and staff training.
Disbursements for piece work contracts under (iv) would be made against a
certificate of expenditure from GOTN. The documentation for this would be
retained by GOTN and made available for inspection during project supervision.
An assurance was obtained from GOTN that the accounts for piece works would
be audited twice a year by the Accountant General of GOTN. The estimated
schedule of expenditures, the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the
credit, and an annual disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 5. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by March 1983, about one year
after completion of the project.
1/   The amounts shown are the basic costs, net of physical and price con-
tingencies and administration and engineering staff costs.



- 18 -
Accounts and Audits
4.27      The PWD and the Department of Agriculture (DA) would be subject to
normal Government control and auditing procedures which are considered to be
satisfactory. Assurances were obtained from GOTN that: (i) PWD and DA would
maintain separate project accounts on project expenditures; and (ii) audit
summaries would be submitted to IDA within nine months after the end of each
fiscal year. Complete accounts and financial statements would be available
for inspection during project supervision.
Environmental Impact
4.28      Some cases of malaria occur from time to time in the project area
as the large number of tanks makes it difficult to erradicate the disease
completely. The project as such would have no adverse impact on the health
situation. If any, its effects would be positive as all canals would be
lined and seepage from the canals would be practically eliminated.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Public Works Department (Annex 6)
5.01      Jurisdiction for the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Modernization Project
rests with the Public Works Department (PWD) of the State of Tamil Nadu. The
Chief Engineer of the Irrigation Branch of PWD has overall responsibility
for design, construction and operation and maintenance.
5.02      Planning and Implementation.  The Chief Engineer who has his head-
quarters in Madras would delegate day-to-day responsibility for project exe-
cution to two Superintending Engineers (SEs) stationed in Madurai. Each SE
would head a Construction Circle (Annex 6, Figure 1) comprising four divi-
sions. The construction organization is sound and PWD has competent and
experienced staff to fill key positions.
5.03      Operation and Maintenance (O&M).  O&M of the project would be con-
trolled by the Madurai Maintenance Circle under the direction of the Chief
Engineer (Annex 6, Figure 3). An Executive Engineer is in charge of the
Periyar Vaigai system while the operation and maintenance of the Periyar and
Thirumangalam irrigation systems has been entrusted to an Assistant Engineer,
who is assisted by an appropriate number of staff. An assurance was obtained
from the GOTN that sufficient funds would be made available at all times to
operate and maintain the project facilities in accordance with sound engineer-
ing standards. Operation and maintenance costs for the lined system are
estimated at Rs 50 per ha, which is approximately equal to the present budget
allocation.
5.04      Water Allocation.  At present, rainfall data and crop surveys form
the basis for water deliveries, and releases from the reservoir are reduced



- 19 -
during periods of rainfall. During periods with scarce water supply, rota-
tion between branch channels and distributaries is practiced. Because of
historic water rights in the existing command area, the future system would
have to be carefully operated in order to provide an adequate supply to the
extension area financed under the project. In order to ensure this, a con-
dition of disbursements for the extension works (para 4.09) would be that IDA
has received an acceptable system operation plan for the project. Further-
more, an assurance was obtained from GOTN that after meeting the water rights
of the existing areas, it would make water available in sufficient quantities
to meet the requirements of the projected cropping pattern in the extension
area.
Department of Agriculture (Annex 7)
5.05      The Department of Agriculture (DA) would be responsible for the re-
organization and strengthening of agricultural extension services in the proj-
ect area and for the construction of staff quarters and the procurement of
equipment, vehicles and supplies for the extension service. Motorcycles
and bicycles to be used by the extension personnel would be sold by GOTN to
the staff on terms and conditions that are acceptable to IDA, and a mileage
allowance would be provided to the staff. Coordination of the extension
activities in the project area would be the responsibility of the Project
Implementation Committee chaired by the Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA)
in Madurai and consisting of District Agricultural and Divisional Development
Officers. Changes in the program would be initiated in July 1977 and completed
in June 1978.
5.06      Under the project, 70% of the VLWs in the District would be assigned
to full time agricultural work. They would be merged with the existing field
staff of DA to create a new cadre of Village Extension Workers (VEWs) who would
work under the supervision of the PIC. All the existing special extension pro-
grams would be integrated into one single system working through the VEWs.
5.07      On the average, there would be one VEW for every 650 farmers.  This
would enable regular visits every two weeks by the VEW to each group 50 to
100 farmers. Within each group, 6 to 10 contact farmers would be selected.
At the block level, one to three Deputy Agricultural Officers (DyAOs) would
each supervise the work of about eight VEWs. They would report to a District
Agricultural Officer (DAO) who, in spite of his title, would be located at the
divisional level. The DAO would be supported by a small number of Subject
Matter Specialists (SMSs).
Cost Recovery
5.08      Tamil Nadu is making a strong tax effort.  Over the past few years,
its tax revenue per capita was 50% higher than the national average and as a
percentage of State income it was 30% above the national averge (fourth high-
est among Indian States). Although the State ranks sixth in India in per



- 20 -
capita income, its rural areas which contain 70% of the population are charac-
terized by small farms and low incomes (per capita income below the national
average for rural areas, and one of the highest incidences of rural poverty).
In 1976, the State revised its agricultural taxation with a 70% increase in
water rates and the introduction of a commercial crop assessment.
5.09      At present, owners of irrigated land pay annual water charges of
at most Rs 120 per ha and averaging about Rs 45 per ha. These charges are
levied as part of a composite land revenue tax. The land cess, a local tax,
is calculated as a percentage of the land revenue. The cess on the water
charge averages about Rs 30 per ha. Cultivators of commercial crops (such as
groundnuts, and sugarcane) pay additional taxes ranging from Rs 30 to Rs 50
per ha. These crops are grown primarily under irrigation, and, in practice,
the commercial crop assessment is a water-related charge. For the State, the
total water and water-related charges amount to about Rs 120 M or Rs 85 per ha.
In addition, all farmers are taxed 2% to 4% on sale of produce other than
foodgrains.
5.10      The provision of irrigation to a rainfed farm would increase the
net farm income by about Rs 1,500 per ha. The direct water related charges
in irrigation projects amount to about 5% of the net incremental farm income.
Thus, a substantial increase in the water charge is well within the farmers'
ability to pay. The farmers who operate their own well effectively pay at
least five times as much for their water as the farmers who are served by
canals.
5.11      The Periyar Vaigai Project is the first major attempt to modernize
an existing system in Tamil Nadu. The GOTN intends to subsequently modernize
the Cauvery Delta System and continue with modernization of most other canal
systems in the State. The investments required for a total modernization of
the State's canal systems are about Rs 4,000 M. This would place a heavy
burden on GOTN's investment budget. In addition, the annual cost for proper
O&M of the canal systems would amount to about Rs 60 M (Rs 40 to 50 per ha).
5.12      The water saved under the project would provide:  (i) a more assured
water supply to some existing irrigated areas; (ii) water for a second crop
in some presently single irrigated areas; and (iii) irrigation for some pre-
sently rainfed areas. Because of hydrological factors and historical water
rights in the existing system, the irrigated area and thus, the beneficiaries
of the project would vary from year to year. If the costs of the lining and
associated works were recovered only from the direct beneficiaries, the result
would be that these farmers would pay much higher charges than the non-
beneficiaries in the project area, even though they would be supplied with
water from the same canal system. Because of the need to treat all farmers in
the project area in an equitable manner, a uniform rate structure would have
to be applied. Consequently, if the water charges have to be increased to
recover the full cost of lining they have to be applied to all farmers in the
command of the system. However, this would be politically unfeasible at this
stage since the farmers in the old system, with certain justification, can
argue that "their" system is already paid off and that they would not benefit
directly from the modernization works.



- 21 -
5.13      Because of historical water rights, water deliveries from the canal
system would not be uniform throughout the command area. The benefits, how-
ever, would be approximately proportionate to the volume of water supplied to
each farmer. The project would make it feasible to measure the volume of
water supplied to each 10 ha outlet command, setting the stage for a future
volumetric water charge system.
5.14      As this is the sort of situation that GOTN will face in all future
irrigation modernization projects, the system of water charges would have to
be analyzed on a Statewide basis and within the framework of the State's
agricultural taxation system.
5.15      Given the heavy burden that the irrigation sector places on the
State's finances, an assurance was obtained from GOTN that it would review
the question of water charges and implement a system of water and water-related
charges in Tamil Nadu to ensure adequate recovery of annual O&M costs and to
the extent possible generate funds that could be used for subsequent rehabili-
tation and modernization works in the State; in the determination of the level
of charges, proper considerations would be given to the farmers' ability to pay
and to the overall budgetary requirements of the State. The review would be
submitted to IDA by March 31, 1979. The study would cover: (i) alternative
methods of collecting water charges with special emphasis given to volumetric
charges in irrigation projects that have been modernized; (ii) the farmers'
ability to pay water charges; and (iii) the effects of the irrigation sector
on the State's budget.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production (Annex 8)
6.01      The primary use of project generated water savings would be to ex-
pand the cropped area rather than to improve irrigated yields which are al-
ready fairly high. The expansion could basically take place in either of two
ways: (i) extension of the command area to provide a single irrigated crop in
what are now rainfed areas (alternative 1), and (ii) conversion of what are now
single irrigated areas into double irrigated areas (alternative 2) (para
4.17). A combination of these two alternatives is also possible. The actual
allocation of water would be decided upon after the project has been completed
and the amount of water savings is known. Based on crop calendars in Annex 8,
the future with and without project cropping patterns for the two alternatives
would be as follows:



- 22 -
Alternative 1           Alternative 2
Single      Single       Double
Rainfed   Irrigated   Irrigated   Irrigated
-----------% of cultivable area -----------
Paddy, rainfed                5          -            -
Paddy, irrigated              -         84            84          169
Sorghum and millets,
rainfed                    40         10            10          6
Pulses, rainfed               5         20            20           8
Groundnuts, rainfed          20          5             5           -
Groundnuts, irrigated         -          2             2           2
Minor crops, rainfed           -         3             3           -
Minor crops, irrigated        -          3             3           6
Fallow/Pasture               30          -             -           -
Cropping Intensity           70        127           127          191
Irrigation Intensity          0         89            89          177
6.02      Either alternative would result in an increase in the cropping in-
tensity of about 60%, with irrigated paddy constituting the major part of the
increase because of good yields and favorable prices.  Paddy production under
either alternative is estimated to increase at least 400 tons per Mm of water
suppliid to the field turnout. The net water savings would amount to about
160 Mm which would result in a production increase of about 64,000 tons of
paddy. Because current yields are high (para 3.21), no potential future yield
increases are taken into account in evaluating the production benefits of the
project.
Market Prospects
6.03      Tamil Nadu in recent years has been marginally deficit in foodgrain
production, although Madurai District and the project area have produced a
surplus. It is expected that the project-related increase in paddy production
would be readily absorbed into existing market channels serving other parts
of the State. The area also is a major supplier of groundnuts for domestic
oil millers and for export to neighboring Asian countries. Government con-
trolled sugar mills in the area compete with private jaggary mills for cane.
At present, they operate at less than half capacity and could handle additional
production from the area.
Prices (Annex 10, Appendix 1)
6.04      Price estimates for the economic analysis are based on the Bank's
world market projections. Financial prices used in this report are current
prices adjusted for seasonal variations. No major changes are anticipated
in Government policies or in supply/demand relationships which could sub-
stantially affect these prices. For paddy, the dominant crop, the economic
farm gate price is Rs 1,550 per ton (US$172 per ton) in 1977 terms. The
financial farm gate price for paddy is Rs 1,100 per ton (US$122 per ton).



- 23 -
Farm Incomes (Annex 9)
6.05      Under the project, the irrigation water savings would be supplied
to rainfed farms and/or to single irrigated farms (paras 4.17 and 6.01). The
effects of the project on farm incomes are illustrated below. The farm in-
comes are net of production costs and water charges (at their present low
level).
Size of Holding            Alternative 1              Alternative 2
(from rainfed crop to    (from single to double
single irrigated crop)       irrigated crop)
Present      Future        Present      Future
(Rs)         (Rs)          (Rs)         (Rs)
0.5 ha              400         1,400          1,400       2,100
1.3 ha            1,000        3,600          3,600        5,500
3.0 ha            2,300         7,500         7,500       10,900
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      The project would enable expansion of an irrigation system which
already fully utilizes available surface water supplies, in a State where
essentially no additional surface water supplies are available and only
limited groundwater resources remain. The project would be the first attempt
in India to modernize a major irrigation system and, consequently, it would
include a monitoring component that would provide valuable experience for the
planning of future modernization works.
7.02      The overall impact of the project can be summarized as follows:
Impact Pe5 Addi-
tional Mm of
Impact    Water Supplied
Net increase in water supply (Mm )        160             -
Increased paddy production (tons)    64,000              400
Net foreign exchange savings (US$)          9.6M      60,000
Value added to the local economy
(Rs)                                    115 M            0.7 M
Generated farm employment (jobs)       12,000             75
Generated non-farm employment
(jobs)                                8,000             50



- 24 -
Economic Rate of Return (Annex 10)
7.03      The economic 3value of water saved in the conveyance system would
be high (Rs 0.45 per m ) because of the high yields and the fairly competent
water management by the farmers. Pending GOTN's future decision about the
allocation of the water saved (para 2.20), the economic analysis has been
carried out for two extreme assumptions (para 4.17): (i) the canal system
would be extended -- at a cost of Rs 5,600 per ha -- to provide irrigation for
presently rainfed farms (alternative 1) and (ii) the water would be used within
the present command area to provide a second irrigated crop in areas that now
get water for only one crop (alternative 2). It is likely that the ultimate
use would be a combination of the two alternatives.
7.04      The project would reduce the recharge of the groundwater basin and 3
consequensly reduce the groundwater outflow from the project area from 280 Mm
to 185 Mm . This would result in a reduction of the groundwater level, esti-
mated at a maximum of about 2.0 m at the lower fringes of the project area.
This negative effect, which would likely extend to areas beyond the downstream
border of the project, would result in increased pumping costs for wells located
within and downstream of the command area. These costs (about Rs 0.5 M) have
been taken into account in the analysis.
7.05      Given the assumptions in Annex 10, the economic rate of return (ERR)
has been estimated at:
Alternative                   Use of Water                   ERR
1           Extension of canal system to pro-
vide one irrigated crop in presently
rainfed areas                               17%
2           Provision of a second irrigated
crop in areas presently getting
water for only one crop                     23%
Any combination of the two alternatives would give an ERR between these two
extremes.
Income Distributional Effects
7.06      Due to the low rainfall, unirrigated crop yields, farm incomes
in rainfed areas are low. Farmers in the irrigated areas are substantially
better off. The effects of the project on the net farm incomes under the
two alternative uses of water are illustrated below:



- 25 -
Percent of Farm Household with Net
Per Capita Farm Income Below
US$30     US$60      US$110
Present                          45%       65%        80%
Alternative 1                    35%       55%        75%
Alternative 2                    40%       60%        75%
7.07      Alternative 1 would have much more favorable impact on the rural
poor than alternative 2. Since the ERR would be higher for alternative 2
than for alternative 1, GOTN would face a clear trade-off between efficiency
and equity in its future water allocation decision.
Least Cost Solution
7.08      There is ample groundwater in the project area (para 3.11).  Thus,
a technically feasible alternative for providing additional irrigation would
be to increase the groundwater exploitation. Because of the rock substrata,
dugwells rather than tubewells would have to be used. Ths installation cost
for a typical dugwell with an annual capacity of 19,700 m would be absut
Rs 20,000. Economic pumping costs would amount to about Rs 0.02 per m .
At an interest rate of 10%, the capital cost for a well would amount to about
Rs 0.12 per m , and maintenance cost would be Rs 0.02 per m  which gives a
total cost for well water of Rs 0.16 per m . The corresponding econoiic cost
for the water saved through canal lining would be about Rs 0.13 per m . Taking
into account the difficulty of reaching small farmers through private ground-
water development, 1/ canal lining is clearly the more attractive alternative.
Project Risk
7.09      The risk associated with the project would stem from uncertainty
regarding:
(i)  Future increase in investment costs by 20% and a 20% decrease
in benefits would lower the estimated ERR from 17% to 13%
under alternative 1 and from 23% to 17% under alternative 2.
Consequently, the estimated ERRs are moderately sensitive to
changes in assumed future prices and yields.
(ii)  Water savings.  Due to the limited and to some extent con-
flicting data on the present losses and the inherent un-
certainty about future losses, and due to the limited
experience of this type of work in India, the water savings
cannot be accurately estimated. The likSly range of water
savings would be for a minimum of 100 Mm and a maximum of
200 Mm . The ERRs for the various combinations of water
savings and water use are estimated as follows:
1/   Since the geology rules out deep tubewells, public groundwater develop-
ment would not be feasible because of administrative difficulties.



- 26 -
Water Use                            Net Water Savings
100 Mm            160 Mm            200 Mm3
(minimum)     (best estimate)       (maximum)
Extension of the
Command Area            12%               17%                 20%
Double Irrigation
in the Present
Command Area            15%                23%                 29%
Consequently, the risk associated with the project is limited.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement has been reached with GOI and GOTN that GOTN would promptly
provide the funds required for construction of the project in accordance with
the implementation schedule (para 4.23).
8.02      Agreements have been reached with GOTN that:
(a) the accounts for piece works would be audited twice
a year by the Accountant General of GOTN (para 4.26);
(b) PWD and DA would maintain separate accounts on project
expenditures (para 4.27);
(c) audit summaries would be submitted to IDA within nine months
after the end of each fiscal year (para 4.27);
(d) sufficient funds would be made available at all times to
operate and maintain the project facilities in accordance
with sound engineering standards (para 5.03);
(e) after meeting the water rights of the existing areas, it
would make water available in sufficient quantities to meet
the requirements of the projected cropping pattern in the
extension area (para 5.04);
(f) it would review the question of water charges and implement
a system of water and water related charges in Tamil Nadu to
ensure recovery of annual O&M costs and, to the extent possi-
ble, generate funds that could be used for subsequent rehabili-
tation and modernization works in the State; in the determina-
tion of the level of charges, proper considerations would be
given to the farmers' ability to pay and to the overall budgetary
requirements of the State (para 5.15); and



- 27 -
(g) the review would be submitted to IDA by March 31, 1979
(para 5.15).
8.03      A condition of disbursement for the works in the extension area
would be that IDA has received an acceptable system operation plan for the
project (para 5.04).
8.04      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of US$23.0 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower would
be the Government of India.
May 19, 1977



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Climatic Data
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  May  June  July  Aug.  Sep.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.    Total
Average Rainfall (mm)!/            4     5    20    43    64    33    56   108   140   217   107    95            892
Air Temperatures (°C)-/
Mean of daily maximum           30.3  31.9  35.1  36.4  37.3  36.5  35.5  35.1  34.7  32.1  30.2  29.1
Mean of daily minimum          19.8  20.5  22.4  24.6  25.7  25.6  25.3  24.7  24.1  23.1  22.1  20.9
Relative Humidity
08.30 hours                    75    74    72    71    62    58    60    63    64    77    78    78
17.30 hours                    52    42    38    47    48    48    51    54    54    67    67    66
Monthly Pan Evaporation3/       154   171   172   199   246   282   205   205   140   120   114   136          2,144
Mean Wind Speed (km/hr)-/          7.3   6.6   5.8   5.1   6.3   9.6   9.3   7.0   6.4   4.9   5.2   6.9
Sunshine (% of daylight hr.)3/  69    71    75    64    59    58    49    48    54    53    63    51
1/  Averages based on rainfall measurements at Peranai Regulator, Andipatti, Mettupatti, Kallandiri Regulator,
Chittampatti, Edayapatti, Melur, Pulipatti Regulator, Thaniyamangalom and Madurai.
2/ Madurai Aerodrome (1962-1973).
3  Agricultural College and Research Institute, Madurai (1973-1975)
4/  India Meteorological Department, Climatological Tables of Observatories of India (for Madurai Station;
1931-1960).
co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Water Supply and Demand
Introduction
1.   The main feature of the project is lining of all irrigation canals down
to 10 ha outlets in order to reduce seepage and operational losses. The water
saved can be used to increase the irrigated area. A water balance has been
prepared for the project area to estimate the present project irrigation
efficiency and, in particular, the conveyance efficency of the present unlined
canal system. A range of likely water savings as a result of the lining
program has been established.
Present Overall Project Irrigation Efficiency
2.        Irrigation water to the project area is supplied from four sources:
(i) diversions from the Vaigai River into the Periyar and Thirumangalam Main
Canals at the Peranai Regulator; (ii) rain water collected in, and supplied
from numerous tanks in the project area; (iii) operational wastes collected
in the tanks, which are3being reused for irrigation; and, (iv) groundwater.
A total of about 490 Mm per annum is at present being diverted at the Per-
anai regulat3r. The net contribution of tanks to the irrigation water supply,
about 165 Mm , has been estimated on the basis of the experienced difference
between required water supplies for direct and indirect ayacuts 1/. Field
irrigation efficiencies for areas beyond the control of PWD operated turn-outs
were assumed to be 85% for areas under paddy and 65% for areas under other
crops. Assuming further that one-third of the on-farm losses would be col-
lected in the tanks and 3reused for irrigation, the return flows into the tanks
were estimated at 30 Mm .
3.        A detailed groundwater extraction survey in the Periyar canal area
has been underSaken by the Groundwater Branch of PWD. It was found that at
present 113 Mm of groundwater is being extracted. Total groundwater extrac-
tion ie the project area (including the Thirumangalam area) is estimated at
125 Mm
1/   Direct ayacut:  area supplied directly from the canal system
Indirect ayacut: area supplied indirectly from tanks.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        The water supply and demand situation under present conditions has
been summarized in Table 1, which, for the period 1962/63 through 1974/75,
compares the amounts of irrigation water supplied to the project area with
the estimated net field irrigation requirements (including crop consumptive
use, land preparation requirements for paddy and seepage losses in paddy
fields). The expected net water savings from canal lining are shown in
Table 2. The calculated net field irrigation requirements for each crop are
presented in Tables 3 to 14. It was estimated from Table 1 that the present
overall project irrigation efficiency is about 53% (including the use of tank
and groundwater). The dry years of 1962/63, 1965/66, 1969/70 and 1974/75
were excluded from the calculations as in these years only part of the proj-
ect area was irrigated due to lack of canal water.
Conveyance Efficiency of Unlined Canal Distribution System
5.        The net contribution of the tank and groundwater supply was deducted
from the total net field irrigation requirements to determine the net field
deliveries from the canal system. These net field deliveries compared with
the total amount supplied at Peranai regulator have resulted in an overall
efficiency for the area under direct command from the canal system of 40%.
The weighted field irrigation efficiency for the project area including the
reuse of operational wastes is 89% (only 6% of the water is used for other
crops than paddy). The conveyance efficiency of the canal distribution system
becomes thus 45%.
Estimation of Net Water Savings After Lining
6.        With a canal conveyance efficiency of 45%, the gross losses in
the system will amount to 55% of the gross supply (about 275 MI ). Of
these 200 Mm  have been assumed to be seepage losses and 71 Mm  operational2
losses. Losses after lining have been assumed to be 0.1 m /s per million m
of wetted perimeter, which gi"es losses of about 40 Mm , and net water
savings after lining of 160 Mm . Assuming further that about one-half of the
operational losses will be saved aster lining (40 Mm ), total net savings after
lining will amount to about 200 Mm . It is considered that this is the best
possible estimate of water savings in the canal system below Peranai regulator
as the measurements of the seepage losses that have been performed cannot be
considered reliable and/or representative enough for the overall irrigation
season (para 7). On the other hand, the estimated seepage losses derived
from calculations seem to be on the low side (para 8). However, all avail-
able information combined has made it possible to establish a range of water
savings that seems realistic and reasonable (see Table 2).
7.        Various attempts have been made by the PWD to determine the seepage
losses in the main canal, mainly by measuring the water flows at drop struc-
tures. Instantaneous water measurement with current meters were only under-
taken twice:  in January and December 1976.  All measurements indicated lss-
ses in the main canal during the irrigation season in the order of 150 Mm
Since the soil conditions along the branch channels and distributaries are
30



ANNEX 2
Page 3
similar9 this would imply a total seepage loss in the distribution system of
about 35 Mm3.  Including operational losses, the total loss would become
over 400 Mm . Given the overall water balance for the area, this estimate
can be regarded as unrealistically high. A total maximum reduction in seep-
age and operational losses through lining of main canals, branch channels
and distributaries was adopted of 250 Mm  in order to keep the conveyance
efficiency of the lined canal sytem to a realistic maximum of 85%.
8.        Present seepage losses in the diStribution system2have also been
calculated on the basis of a loss of 2.4 m /s per million m of wetted perimeter.
This loss rate corresponds well with three ponding tests that were undertaken
in the main canal and in branch channel No. 10 in December 1976. This leads
to an estimated loss in the main canal of 70 Mm per annum and in the branch
channels and d stributaries of 90 Mm . Losses after lining may in both cases
be abSut 20 Mm , resulting in savings after lining of respectively 70 and
50 Mm 0 The latter figures have been adopted to establish the lower ceiling
of the possible water savings. Two ponding tests carried out in September
1975 in two other channels showed much higher losses.
9.        Measurements undertaken by the PWD in the past seemed to indicate
that water losses in the Vaigai River between Vaigai Reservoir and Peranai
Regulator amounted to more than 50 MCM during the irrigation season. A
detailed current meter measurement undertaken in December 1976 showed a loss
of 52 cusecs out of flow of 783 cusec  released from Vaigai Reservoir.  This
would represent a loss of about 35 Mm when extrapolated over the irrigation
season.
100       The Groundwater Branch of PWD undertook in October and November 1976
an in-depth study 2/ regarding the groundwater flows in this river reach and
found that for the month of November 1976 the sotal addition to groundwater
storage was only 23.5 cusecs (equal to 14.5 Mm  when extrapolated over the
irrigation season), part of which is due to rainfall and lateral inflow.
Given these studies it is considered that the assumption of a high water loss
in the Vaigai River on the basis of the above mentioned measurements   is not
justified as no explanation can be found for such losses on the basis of the
geohydrological conditions along this reach of the river.
1110      It should further be considered that the total seepage losses from
the river as measured by PWD represent only a small percentage (7%) of the
total flow released from Vaigai Reservoir. The discharge measurements can
further not have been very accurate as water depths were less than 1.0 m, while
the width of the river is 50 m downstream of Vaigai Dam and 150 m upstream of
1/   A figure generally adopted in India to calculate seepage losses from
canals in alluvial soils (equivalent to 8 cfs per million sq ft).
2/   Groundwater Study in Vaigai Basin between Vaigai Dam and Peranai-
Madurai District (December 1976).
31



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Peranai Regulator. The possible error in the measurements may thus be of the
same order of magnitude as the measured losses. The measurements can there-
fore not be used as the basis for realistic assumptions regarding possible
present water losses. Considering the abSve, maximum possible seepage losses
from the river have been assumed at 10 Mm  during th5 irrigation season.
More realistic is to assume such losses only at 5 Mm , which equals the mag-
nitude of the groundwater extraction in the affected river reach.
Utilization of Net Water Savings
12.       Part of the water saved (about 58 Mm ) would be utilized to irri-
gate 9,000 ha of presently rainfed land. For the economic evaluation of the
project two alternative uses of the remainder of the water savings were
considered:
Alternative 1: to extend the area under single crop paddy in the
project area to the fullest extent, and provide
the surplus to a new extension area downstream
of the Pulipatti Regulator.
Alternative 2: to grow two crops of paddy in areas where at
present only one crop of paddy is cultivated.
13.       The following water requirements at the turn-outs were calculated,
taking into account that one third of the field losses will be reused (for
details see Annex 8, Table 7):
Water Requirement at
Alternative                        turn-out foS 100 ha
(in m )
1.  Single Crop Paddy                          644,000
2.  Double Crop Paddy                        1,186,000
(542,000 additional)
14.       The area would be extended under alternative I and the time period
over which water is supplied would increase under alternative 2. It has been
estimated that additional seepage and operati nal losses in the conveyance sys-
tem in both cases would amount So abouS 30 Mm 3  Available at the turn-outs
would thus be a total of 190 Mm -30 Mlm =160 Mm which would be sufficient to
bring 24,800 ha (9,000 ha + 15,8000 ha) of rainfed land under irrigation
(alternative 1), or to irrigate 9,000 ha of rainfed land and convert 18,800
ha of single irrigated land into double irrigated land (alternative 2).
Effects of Lining Program on the Groundwater Regime
15.       The groundwater table in the project area varies at present between
3.0 to 7.5 below field level. The thickness of the saturated zone below the
32



ANNEX 2
Page 5
water table is about 6.0 m. The lining of all irrigation canals will reduce
the recharge of the aquifer.  The outflow of g oundwater from the project
area wsuld be reduced from an estimated 280 Mm at present to approximately
185 Mm after completion of the project. This will result in a decrease in
groundwater levels, negligible near the Periyar main canal but reaching a
maximum of about 2.0 m at the lower fringe of the project area. Pumping
from wells will therefore be affected. The project area stretches over
nearly the whole width of the long stretched groundwater basin. It could
therefore be expected that also areas downstream of the project area will be
influenced.
Water Rights in the Periyar Vaigai System
16.       The water rights in the Periyar Vaigai irrigation system are based
on common law, with the oldest parts of the command area having priority in
the water allocation over the newer parts. In simple terms, the priorities
are:
1.   A first irrigated crop in the double irrigated zone;
2.   A second irrigated crop in the double irrigated zone;
3.   A single irrigated crop in the single irrigated zone;
4.   A single irrigated crop in the proposed extension area; and
5.   A single irrigated crop in any future extensions of the
command area.
17.       The farmers are free to choose whatever crop they want to grow, but
in practice almost only paddy is grown under irrigation. The maximum water
demand from the existing areas would occur if two crops of paddy were grown
in the double irrigated zone and one crop of paddy in the single irrigated
zone. In three years out of four, the total field water requirements under
maximue utilization under existing water rights, would be no more than about
616 Mm . In practice, existing areas use only about 85% of their water
right.
18.       If it is assumed that the existing areas would use their full en-
titlement, the water supply 1/ to the extension area would be as follows:
1.   Sufficient for one crop of paddy in 75 years out
of 100.
2.   Sufficient for one irrigated upland crop in 15 years
out of 100.
3.   No irrigation in 10 years out of 100.
1/   Based on rainfall and water supply data for the period 1940-1975.
33



ANNEX 2
Page 6
19.       However, it is more likely that the existing areas would use
less than their theoretical rights since even in years with ample supply,
the irrigation intensities in the single cropped and the double cropped
areas are only about 85% and 170%, respectively. Thus, realistically,
it can be assumed that the water supply to the extension area would be as
follows:
1.   Sufficient for one crop paddy in 85 years out of 100.
2.   Sufficient for one irrigated upland crop in 10 years
out of 100.
3.   No irrigation in 5 years out of 100.
20.       Even if the n5t water savings would amount to only 100 Mm  instead
of the estimated 160 Mm , sufficient water would be available for one crop
of paddy in 75% of all years (based on the assumptions in para. 19).
May 1977
34



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL'NADU)
Water Supply and Net Fields Irrigation Requirements
(in Mm3)
Water Year (June through May)
1962/63   1963/64   1964/65   1965/66   1966/67   1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72    1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   Average
Water Supply
Periyar Main Canal J                       317        555        492         274        483        413        404         371        418        534        550        543         469        448
Thirumangalam  Main Canal 1/                10         56          38         24         64         43         36          43         38         48         50          49         42         42
Subtotal                                327        611        530        298        547         456        440        414        456         582        600        592        511        490
Tanks 2/
(i) Rainfall Contribution                120        117        170        116         213        160        120         93        122         164        125        117         86         135
(ii) Return Flows                          30         30         30         30          30         30         30         30          30         30         30         30         30          30
Subtotal                                150        147        200        146         243        190        150        123         152        194        155        147        116         165
Groundwater 3/                             125        125         125        125        125        125        125         125        125        125        125         125        125        125
TOTAL                                   602        883        855        569         915        771        715        662         733        901        880        864         752        780
Net Field Irrigation Requirements-4/    475           500         431        476        353        521         508        522        394        388        473         481        607        470
Years when only part of the area
was irrigated.                               x                                x                                            x                                                       x
Overall Project Efficiency (Ep)                                                 Canal Project Area Efficiency (Epc); (for: 1970/71-1973/74)
1. 1970/71 - 1973/74:  Ep =    73-6                                             Net use of tank water:  85% x 648 = 550 Mm3
Net use of groundwater:  65% x 500 = 325 Mm3
2. 1962/63 - 1973/74:  Ep   4.049   560/5                                       Total gross supply of canal water:  2,230 Mm3
Net use of canal water: 2,230 x Epc Mm3
(excluding years with partial supply)                                        Total Net Field Irrigation Requirements: 1,736 Mm3
2,230 x Epc + 550 + 325 = 1,736
Epc = 40%
Canal Conveyance Efficiency
Weighted Field Efficiency (including reuse of losses): Ef = 89%
Canal Conveyance Efficiency: Ec =  Epc =   40  = 45%
Ef     0.69                                                                    X
1/  Source:  PWD, Madurai
2/  Source:  PWD, Madurai; total net supply from tanks in a year with  average rainfall equals 1.5 times the sum of the active storage capacities of the
larger tanks; in other than average rainfall years, rainfall contribution to tank supply was assumed to vary in proportion to rainfall.
3/  Groundwater extraction in Periyar Main Canal area 113 Mm1 (Source: Groundwater Department, PWD); Groundwater extraction in Thirumangalam area 12 Mm3 (extrapolated).
I    4/  Includes land preparation requirements and seepage losses in paddy fields, consumptive use of crops.
5/  Return flows into tanks excluded from supply.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Water Savings from Canal Lining
(Mm3)
Low         Best        High
Reduction in Seepage                      Estimate    Estimate   Estimate
Link Canal                               -15          -10        -5-/
Main Canals                               50           65-/      85
Branches & Distributaries                 70.-/        95       125
Reduction in Operational Losses               15          40         40
Total Gross Savings                120          190       245 -/
Available at the turn-outs               100          160       200
Irrigation Efficiencies after Lining (below Peranai Regulator)
Canal Conveyance System                   64           75        85
Canal Command Area (Overall) 7/           57           67        76
Overall Project Efficiency                70           77        84
1/  Calculated seepage losses from Link Canal (20Mm 3), minus gain from reduced
evapotranspiration (5Mm3)
2/  Calculated seepage losses from Link Canal (20Mm 3), minus reduced evapotranspiration
(5Mm3)and elimination of seepage losses from the river (5Mm3)
3/  Calculated seepage losses from Link Canal (20 Mm3), minus elimiqation of seepage
losses from river (10 Mm3) and reduced evapotranspiration (5Mm )
4/  Estimated on basis of seepage losses of 2.4 m3/s per M m2 before lining.
and 0.6 m3/s per Mm- after lining.
5/ Estimated from water balance (200 Mm3 in total minus seepage losses after
lining (40 Mm3)
6/ Total limited to keep canal conveyance efficiency at maximum 85%
7/ Based on weighted field efficiency of 89%, taking into account that one-
third of the field losses will be reused.
36



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADUJ)
First Crop Paddy Main Canal Area Water Requirements
By Month and Period (MM)
JAN          FEB           MAR          APR           MAY          JUN           JUL          AUG           SEP          OCT           NOV          DEC
1                   4     5      6      7      8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST RAIN              4.            5.          20.           43.          64.          33.           56.         109.          140.         217.          107.          95.
ETO               68.   72.   78.   83.   86.   87.   87.   88.   90.   95. 101. 103.  100.   96.   91.   88.   86.   80.   70.   64.   61.   60.  63.   65.
CROP FACT        0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00  M.O 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.26-0.53 0.82 1.12  1.16  1.18 1.13 0.83 0.53 0.24 0.00 0.00 0.00
CONS USr-           0.    0.    3.    0.    0.    0.    03.    0.    0.    0.    0.   27.   53.   78. 102. 102. 101.   90.   58.   34.   15.    0.    0.    0.
LAND,PQrP          0.         0.    0. '3       .    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   62.   62.   63.   63.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.
SEEPAC,F           0.    0.      3       .    0.    0.    3.    0.    0.    0.    4.   11.   18.   26.   30.   30.   30.   26.   18.   11.   40.    0.    0.    0.
GRCSS REO          0.    J.    0).    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   66.  100.  134.  167. 132.  132.  131. 116.   76.   45.   55.    0.    0.    0.
EFF RAINI           0.    D.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   16.   16.   20.   28.   38.   47.   53.   64.   76.   45.   54.    0.    0.    0.
NET PEQ            0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0           0.    0.    0.   50.   84.  1 14.  140.   94.   85.   78.   53.    0.    0 .    1.    0.    0.    0.
AT FIE-LD
IPR. REQ           0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   50.   84. 1 14.  140.   94.   85.   78.   53.    0.    0.    1.    0.    0.    0.
AT TURNICUT
FIELD EFF 
TOTALS (mm)                                                                                                                                                                       wr
CCNS  JSF =      659.                                 120 day variety.
EFF RAIN  =   456.                                     Transplanced 15 June to 15 August.
IRP REQ   =    697.
-JL



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMI1L NADU)
Single Crop Paddy Main Canal Area Water Require ments
by Month and Period (mm)
JAN         fi EE         M AR         APR          MAY          JUN          JUL          AUG          SEP          OCT           NOV          DEC
1     2      3     4     5      6      7     8      9    ].O   1.1   12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST PAIN              4.           5.         20.           43.          64.          3 3.         56.         109.         140.         217.         107.          95.
E TO             68.   72.   78.   83.   86.   8 7.   87.   EE.   90.  95.  101. 103. 100.   96.   91.   88.   86.   80.   70.   64.   61.   60.   63.   65.
CPOP FACT       0.63 0.29 01.00  0.00  0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.21 0.42 0.76 1.11 1.15 1.18 1.15 0.90
CONS USE         43.   21.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   18.   34.   53.   70.   70.   71.   72.   59.
LANOPPEP           3.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   01.    0.    0.   0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   50.   50.   75.   75.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.
SEEPA CrC          9.    3.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    3.    9.   16.   25.   30.   30.   30.   25.   16.
GROSS REO         52 .  24.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   53.   77.  125. 153. 100. 100. 101.   97.   75.
EFF PAIN          11.    2.    0.    0.   0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   47.   53.   64.   79.   76.   54.   42.   39.   29.
NET REQ          41 .   2 2.    0.    0.    o.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    6.  2 4.   61.   74.   25 .   46.  59.   58.  46.
AT FIFLO
IRR. PREQ        41.   2 2.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    6.  2 4.   61.   74.   25.   46.   59.   5 8.   46.
AT TURNOUT
FIELD EFF 
TCTALS (MM)
CONS USE =    510.                                 120 day variety.
EFF RAIN =    494.                                 TransplanLed 1 September to 31 October.
IRR REQ   =    462.4,



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Single Crop Paddy Main Canal Area (150 day variety)
Water Requirements by Month and Period (MM)
J 4 Ili     F-G         MAR         APP        NMAY        JUN         JUL          AUG         SEP         OCT         NOV         DEC
1    2     3    4      5    8       7    8    9   13   11   12   13   14   15    16   17    18   19    20   21   22    23    24
PST vA!"            4.          5.        2J.         43.         64.         33.         56.        139.        140.        217.        107.         95.
ETO             68.   7?.  7e.  83.   86.  87.  P7.  88.  90.  95. 101. 103. 100.  96.  91.   88.  86.   80.  70.  64.  61.  60.  63.  65.
CPOP FACT      0.68 0.32  ..0C  0.00 OeOu C.CO OOC 0.00 0.30 0.JO 0.30  .303 0.09 0.00 0.33 3.35 0.70 1.07 1.11 1.16 1.20 1.20 1.16 1.08
CCNS USE7       46.  73.    0.   3.   3.   3.          .   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   3.   0.    0.  31.  60.   85.  78.  74.  72.  73.  73.  70.
LANnPPEP         0.   3.   3.   3.   3.   3.   3.   0.   0.    3.   0.   0.   0.   0.  85.  83.  82.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.
SEEPAGE         15.   5.   3.   0.   3.   O.   D.   3.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   3.   5.  15.  25.  30.  30.  30.  30.  30.  30.  25.
GRCSS FFO       61.  28.   3.   0.   3.   3.    3.   3.    3.   3.   0.   0.    3.   3.  90. 129. 167. 115. 138. 104. 102. 103. 103.  95.
EFF RAIN        11,   2.   1.   0.   O.   0.    0.   0.   3.   3.   o.   0.   0.   0.  38.   47.  53.  64.  79.   76.  54.  42.  39.  29.
NET RFO         50.  26.    3.   0.   0.   0.    3.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.  52.   82. 114.  52.   29.   28.  49.  61.  64.  66.
AT FIELO
IRR. rEC        53.  26.    J.   3.   3.    0.   3.   J.   0.   J.   0.   0.    0.   0.  52.   82. 114.   52.  29.   28.  49.  61.  64.  66.
AT TUPNOUT
FIELD EFF  *
TOTALS (M)                                                                                                                                                       >
CONS USE =   684.                             150 day varieties.
EFF PAIN =   532.                             16 August to 30 September.                                                                                       p t
TRP REQ  =   672.                                                                                                                                             \J1
U3
'0



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL-NADU)
Second Crop Paddy, Main Canal Area Water Requirements
By M4onth and Period (MM)
JAN         FNBmAR                    APP          N,AY         JUN          JUL          AUG          SEP          OCT          NO1V         OL-C
1     2     3      4     5      6     1      8     91   10    11    1 2    1 3    i4    15    1 6    i T    18    19    20    21.   22    23    2:
EST                  40           5,          230.         '3.         64.          33.          5 6.        139,         i40.         217.         107.          950
F T)             ',6.  7 2.   78.  83.   86.   87.   e7.   88.  9.3.  95. 131.  103. 103.   96.  91.   88.  86.   800   70.   64,1   61.   60.   6 3,~ 6.
CROP F A C.     1.23  1.14  3.95  3.39 3,J))       )   )') 0.3330     .00 0.-03  3.30 0. 30 3.33  3.3J 3.03 J.00  0.00 0.03 0,00 0.00 0.21 0.63 1.08 ?.-2A I.o)
CONS L-Sc        '31 .  82.  66.  3 2.    00    3.    3.   .3.   3.   0,    3.    0.    3.   3).    0.    0.    0.    00    0.   13.  38,  6 5.   7-1,   77.,
L AMDP; ~P        0.    ) .    J3.    U .   J.   0-I.    J,    0 .    0.   0,    0 .    3 .    0 .    0 .    0 .    0 .    3.    0 .  30,  63,  60,    J.    0.    0.l
SEFPAGr          33.  ?4,  1?,    3,    0,    0.    3.    0.    3.    3  0.  0.            .    0.    3,    0.    0.    0.    0.    3.   12.  14,-  33 30 , 30. 3,
GRCSS QFQ       I 11. 136 .  738.  35.  .          J3,    3.    3.    0 .   0 .    0 .    0 .    0 .    0 .    0 .    0 .    0 .    0 .  33.   85 . 1 12.  95. 101, l0Y.
ErF ~AIN        I11.    2.    2.    4.    ).        .    3.    3.    0.   3.    0.    0.    0.   0.    0.    0.    0.    0.  33.   76.   54.  42.  3 9.  29.
…                                                                                                                - - - - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -            - - - - -
NET k;'3         133. 1 34.   76.  32.    3,       30     3     3,    '.   3.   0.    J.    3.    3,         0.    0.    0.    0 .    3.    9,.  58.  5 3.  62.  ?8.
AT CIFLn
IRD, P~0        133, 1 34.  76.  32         3.J 3                .    0.    3.   0).    3,    0.    3.    0.    3.    0,    0,    0.    9.  58.  53.  62.   ?8,
AT TUPN~')tT
CCtN's uiSF =    '~26 .                            120 day variety.                                                                                                          '
FFF Pe4r =    233,.                                Tranasplanted 15 Octobor to 30 November,



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADOJ)
Single Crop Paddy Old Extension Water Requirements
by Month and Period  ( MM)
JAN    ~  F EB         MAR           APR          Mla Y         JUN          JUL           AUG          SEP           OCT          NOV           DEC
1     2      3      4     5      6      7      8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST RAIN              4.            5.          20.          43.           64.          33.           56.         109.          140.         217.          107.          95.
ETO               68.   72 .   78.   83.   86.   8 7.   o 7.   88.   90.   95. 101. 103.  100.   96.   91.   88.   86.   80.   70.   64.   61.   60.   63.   65.
CROP  FACT       1.19  1.11  1.11 0.81  0.51 0.24 0.30 0.00 0.03 0.00 3.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.26 0.52 0.80 1.09 1.14 1.18
CONS USE-         81.   85.   87.   67.   44.   21.    D.    0.    0.    0.    0.    J.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   18.   33.   49.   66.   71.   77.
LANDPRFP            J.    0.    3 .    3 .    0.    0.    0.    0.    0 .    03.    0.    3 .    0.    0.    0 .    0 .    0.   62.   62.   63.   63.    0.    0.    0.
SEEPAGE           3U.   330.   26.   18.   11.    4 .    0.    0 .    0.    0.    0.    0 .    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    4.   11.   18.   26.   30.   30.   30.
…                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
GROSS PEO        111.  119.  113.   85.   55.   2 5.    3.    3 .    3.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   66.   91.  114.  138.   96.  101.  107.
EFF RAIN          11.    2.    2.    4.    7.   10.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0 .    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   64.   79.   76.   54.   42.   39.   29.
…                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
NET PEO          130 . 11 3.  1II.   82.   49.   15 .    0 .    0 .    0.    0 .    0.    3.         0.    0 .    0.    0 .    0.    2 .   12.   39.   84.   54.   62.   18.
AT FI ELF)
IRP. REO         1 ,) .  113.  111.   E2.   49.   15 .    0 .    0 .    0 .    0 .    0.    0 .    0.    0 .    J.    0 .    0 .    2 .   12.   39.   84.   54.   62.   78.
AT TUThSIJT
FIELn J-FF 8~
TOTALS (mm)
CONS LSF =       6 99.                                 150 day variety.                                                                                                            C
EFF PAIN=    417.                                      Transplanted  10 October to 31 November.
IRR PEO          BJ83.
4H



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADIJ)
Single Crop Paddy Thirumangalam Canal Water Requirements
By Month and Period (MM)
JAM         F' R        V            APR         MAY         JUN          JUL         AUG          SEP         OCT          NOV         DEC
1     2     3     4     5     6      7     8    9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST PAIN'           4.           5.         2C.         43.         64.          33.         56.        109.         140.        217.         107.         95.
ETTO             68.  72.  73.  83.  86.  87.  e7.  88.  90.  95. 131. 103. 100.  96.  91.  88.  86.  80.  70.  64.  61.  63.  63.  65.
CROP FtrT      1.16 1.08 0.69 0.32 0.03 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.30 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.34 0.70 1.07 1.11 1.16 1.20 1.20
CONS USE         79.  78.  54.  26.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   3.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.  27.  49.  68.  67.  70.  75.  79.
LANOPPFP          0.   3.   0.   0.   3.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.  O0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.  83.  85.  82.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.
SEEPAGE         30.  25.  15.   5.    0.   0.   3.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   5.  15.  25.  30.  30.  30.  30.  30.
GPOSS REQ       139. 133.  69.  31 .   0.   0.   3.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.  88. 127. 156.  98.  97. 100. 105. 109.
EFF RAIN         11.   2.   2.   4.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   U.   0.   0.  53.  64.  79.  76.  54.  42.  39.  29.
NET REC          98. 101.  67.  28.    3.   0.    3.   0.   0.   3.   0.   3.   0.   0.   0.   0.  35.  63.  77.  22.  44.  58.  66.  80.
AT FIFLO
IRP. RFO        98. 101.  67.  28.    D.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   U.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.  35.  63.  77.  22.  44.  58.  66.  80.
AT TUPNQjOJT
FIELD EFF r* '
TCTALS (mM)
CONS USE =   672.                          150 day variety.
EFF RAIN =   453.                             day variet e.
I RR DECQ      739.                        Transplanted 15 September to 31 Otctber..
40.



INDIA 
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Sugarcane (all areas) Planted 16 January to 15 March
JAN         FF8         MAR         APP         MAY         JUN          JUL         AUG         SEP         OCT          NOV         DEC
1    2      3     4     5    6      7    8    9    10    11    12    13    14   15    16   17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST  AI'N           4.          5.         20.         43.          64.         33.         56.        109.        140.         217.        107.         95.
ETO             68.  72.  78.  83.  86.  87.  87.  88.  90.  95. 101. 103. 100.  96.  91.  88.  86.  80.  70.  64.  61.  60.  63.  65.
CROP FACT    (j.48 0.43 0.42 0.44 0.61 0.66 0.70 0.74 0.78 0.82 0.86 J.89 0.92 0.95 0.97 0.98 0.97 0.95 0.92 0.88 0.84 0.79 0.73 0.67
CONS USE         32.  31.  33.  37.  53.  57.  61.  65.  70.  78.  86.  91.  92.  91.  88.  86.  83.  76.  64.  56.  51.  48.  46.  44.
…__     _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _
GROSS '8Q        32.   1 .  33.  37.  53.  57.  61.  65.  70.  78.  86.  91.  92.  91.  88.  86.  83.  76.  64.  56.  51.  48.  46.  44.
rFF RA1N          8.    1.   1.   3.   6.  10.  14.  18.  23.  22.  17.  17.  21.  28.  37.  44.  48.  54.  63.  56.  43.  34.  32.  23.
NET gED         24.  3.   32.  34.  47.  48.  47.  47.  48.  55.  70.  75.  71.  63.  51.  42.   35.  22.   2.   0.   8.  14.  14.  20.
AT FIELD
IPp. '3         24.  3).   4?.  -4.  47.  48.  47.  47.  48.  55.  70.  75.  71.  63.  51.  42.  35.  22.   2.   0.   8.  14.  14.  20.
AT TUPk!]UT
FIELD  -Fr ****'T
T8TALS (Mm)
CONS IJS' =  152J.
FFF pA1% =   621.
19R REQ  =   899.



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Groundnuts (all areas) Planted 15 January to 28 February)
JAN         Fh           MAR         ADP          MAY         JUN          JUL         AUG          SEP          OCT         NOV          DEC
1     2     3     4     5      6     7     8      9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST PAIN'J          4.           R.         23.          43.         64.          33.          56.        109.         140.        217.         107.         95.
ETO              6P.   72.   73.  £3.   26.   87.   Y7.   88.   93.   95.  101.  193.  100.   96.   91.   88.   86.   80.   70.   64.   61.  60.   63.   65.
CROP FACT       0.30 0.10 0.24 0.45 C.61 0.79 0.90 0.90 0.82 0.51 0.23 3.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
CCNS US'          0.    7.   19.  37.  53.   6S.   78.   80.   74.   48.   23.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    3.    3.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.
GROSS kFU         0.    7.   19.  37.   53.   69.   7E.   80.   74.  48.   23.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    3.    0.    0.    0.    0.
EFF RATM          0.    1.    1.    ?.    6.   10.   15.   19.   22.  20.   13.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    3.    0.    0.    0.   0.
NET REO           0.    7.   18.   34.   47.   59.   63.   61.   53.   28.   10.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   .O-           .    O.    O.
AT IELfn
IRR. %E0          0.    7.   18.   34.  47.   59.   6.3   61.   53.   28.   10.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.
AT TUQ,IOt.T
FIELD EFF -*"* 
TOTALS (MM)                                                                                                                                                           OX
CCNS USE =   490.                                                                                                                                                     °
EFF RAIN =   110.
IRR R.EQ  =   33.
4S



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Groundnuts (all areas) Planted 1 July to 31 August
JAN         Fa8          MAR          APR          MAY         JUN          JUL          AUG          SEP          OCT         NOV          DEC
1     2     3      4     5     6      7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST PATiN            4.           5.         20 .         43.          64.          3 3.        56.         109.         140.         217.        107.          95.
ETO              68.   72 .   78.  8 3.   86.  87.  87.   86.  S0.   95. 101. 103. 100.   96.  91.   88.   86.   80.  70.   64.  61.   60.  63.   65.
CPOP FACT       0.00 0.003 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.030 0.0 0 0.30 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.12 0.26 0.47 0.61 0.77 0.90 0.95 0.92 0.75 0.53 0.28
CCNS uSE          0.        0.    0.  0.     .   0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   0.    5.  12.  23.  41.  52.  61.  63.  60.  56.  45.  33.   18.
GROSS PRfl       10.   .0.    0.   0.   03.    0.   10.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    5.   12.  23.   41.   52.  61.  63.   60.   56.  45.   33.   18.
EFF PAIN           0.   0).    0.    0.   0.    0.    0.    0.   0.    0.    0.   0.    5.   12.  23.  36.  42.  51.  62.   59.  43.  33.  30.  18.
NET REO           0  0.        '0.   0.   0.   J.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    5.  1 0.  11 .    1.    1.  13.  12.    3.    0.
AT F-IELD
I RR. RE(         0.    O.       .    0.    0.   0.    0 .    0.    0.   0 .   0.   0.   0.    0 .    0.    5.  10.   11.    1.    1.  13.  12.    3.    0.
AT TURNOUT
FIELD EFF 
TOTALS OAM)
CCNS USE =   469.
EFF RAIN =   413-.                                                                                                                                                      i
IFP PED          56.                                                                                                                                                      Po~



-NDI A
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Millet and Sorghum (all areas) Planted 16 July to 15 SePtember
JA!         F,EP         M AR         APR         MAY          JUN          JUL         AUG          SEP          OCT          NOV         DEC
1     2     3     4      5     6      7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    1 7    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST PAIN             4.          5.          20.          43.         64.          33.         56.         109.         140.        217.         107.          95.
ETO              68.  77.  78.  87.  86.  87.  87.  88.  90.  95. 101. 103. 100.  96.  91.  88.  86.  80.  70.  64.  61.  60.  63.  65.
CROP FACT       0.ou 0.00 0.00 0.00 0. o.o   0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.16  0.35 0.63 0.85 0.97 0.98 0.88 0.67 0.42 0.17
CCNS USE          0.    3.    3.   0.   3.    0.   3.   0.   0.   0.    0.    0.    0.    5.  14.  30.  54.  67.  68.  62.  53.  41.  27.  11.
…__     _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _
GROSS REO         j.   J.   0.   0.   J.   0.    0.   0.   0.   0.   0.    0.    0.    5.  14.  30.  54.  67.  68.  62.  53.  41.  27.  11.
EFF RAINJ 0.    3.   3.   0.                      0.    3.   0.   0.   3.    0.    0.   0.    5.  14.  30.  42.  52.  63.  60.  43.  33.  27.   11.
NET  E            0.    0.                                                 0     0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.  12.  16.    5.    3.   11.    8.    0.    0.
AT FIELn
[PR. pEQ          0.   0.    0.   0.   0.   0.    3.   0.   0.   0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   0.    0.  12.   16.    5.    3.  11.    8.    0.   0.
AT TURNOUT
FIELD EFF  ;
TOTALS (MM)                                                                                                                                                             H
CONS USE -   432.                                                                                                                                                        (D
EFF RAIN =    379.                                                                                                                                                        1
IRR REQ   =      54.



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Cotton (all areas) Planted 16 July to 31 August
JAN         PrB        MAR         APR         MAY         JUN         JUL         AUG         SEP         OCT         NOV        DEC
1    2    3    4       5    6      7     8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15    16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23    24
EST RAIN            4.         5.         20.         43.         64.         33.         56.        109.        140.       217.        107.         95.
ETr             68.  72.  78.  83.  86.  37.  E7.   88.  90.  95. 101. 103. 100.  96.  91.   88.  86.  80.  70.  64.  61.  60.  63.  65.
CROP FAC-    0.04 O.30 3.0C 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.09 0.25 0.41 0.66 0.91 1.04 1.03 0.94 0.78 0.56 0.25
CCNS USE         3.   0.   0.   0.   0.   C.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   9.  23.  36.  56.  73.  72.  65.  57.  47.  35.  17.
GRCSS Pc0        3.   3.   0.   U.   0.   3.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   9.  23.  36.  56.   73.  72.  65.  57.  47.  35.  17.
EFF P t, 11      3 .   3.   J.   J.   3.   3.   J.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   9.  23.  36.  43.  52.  64.  61.  44.  33.  30.  17.
NFT -,O          J      .    ..          3.   0.    0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.    0.  13.  20.   9.   5.  13.  13.   5.   0.
AT FIFLC
IPP. PrQ         3.   3.   3,       .   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   U.   0.   3.   0.   0.   0.   0.  13.  20.    9.   5.  13.  13.    5.   U.
AT TUPNOU-
FIELD  fF F
TOTPALS  (kMM)                                                                                                                                               P 2
CCNS USE =   492.                                                                                                                                              t
EFF Q4I" =   414.                                                                                                                                             D x
IRR PFO  =    78.                                                                                                                                            w U



IN~DIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAI4IL NAD7J)
Vegetables and Miscellaneous (all areas) Planted 16 July to 15 September
J A?,,TF                 '1 A k       APR          MAY          JUtJN        JUJL         AUG          SEP          OCT          NOV          DEC
1     2     3      4     5      6     7      8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST RATN             4.           5.          20.          4 3.        64.          33.          56.         109.         140.         217.         107.          95.
ETO              68.   7 2.   7 8.   83.   86.   87.   87.   88.   90.   95 . 131. 103. 100.   96.  91.   88.   86.   80.   70.   64.   61.   60.   63.   65.
CROP FACT       0.30  0.30 :3.00 3.33   . 0.03 ..  3.30 0.00 3.00 0.00 0.00 0.30 0.00 0.08 0.20 0.43 0.70 3.88 0.97 0.94 0.67 0.41 0.19 0.00
CONS UISE          0.    3.    J.    0.    U.    .3.   03.    0.    0.    0.    0.    3.    0.    8.  19.  37.  60.   70.   68.   60.   40.   25.   12.    0.
GROSS PFn         3).    ).   ').   0.   o).    0.    J..   0.   0.   0.    0.    0.    0.    8.   19.   31.  60.   70.   68.   60.   40.   25.   12.    0.
EFF PAI'N         0.    J3.    0.    0.    U.    C.    0.    0.    0.    3.    0.    0.    0.    8.   19.   36.  43.   52.  63.   59.   40.  25.   12.    0.
NE    EQ        3.    J.   J.    0.    3.    3.    J.    0.    0.   0).    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    2.  1 7.  1 8.    5.    1.   0.    0.    0.    0.
AT FIELD
I PR. REQ         0.  .        0.   (J.    0 .    J.  .         0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    2 .  17.  18.    5.    1 .    0.    0.    0.    0.
AT TUPNDUT
FIELD EFF ***.*t
TOTALS (vm)
CONS USE  =   399.
EFF RAIN, =    356.
IRR  pcE         42.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Project Works
General
1.        The major works to be executed under the project comprise the con-
struction of a link canal, the lining of all irrigation canals, the rehabili-
tation of existing structures, the construction of new structures where
required, improvement and extension of the operation and maintenance road sys-
tem and improvement of the village road system. A detailed listing of the
works to be constructed is provided in Table 1.
The Link Canal
2.        The link canal will convey the irrigation waters released from the
Vaigai reservoir to the project area. Water from the reservoir is first
released in the river and then diverted into the link canal at the pick-up
anicut (diversion weir) that is presently under construction approximately
1 km downstream of the dam. This pick-up anicut will be completed in 1977.
The 32 km long link canal will be located on the left bank of river and will
connect the pick-up anicut with the existing Periyar Main Canal. The link
canal will supply the Thirumangalam Main Canal by means of a syphon under the
Vaigai River just upstre m of the Peranai Regulator.  The carrying capacity of
the link canal of 58.8 M /s was based on the following requirements:
(i)  Periyar Main Canal               49.4 M /s
(ii)  Thirumangalam Main Canal          5.9 M /s
(iii)  Thenkarai Channel 1/               1.1 M 3/s
(iv)  Madurai City Water Supply 2/    0.8 M 3/s
(v)  Link Canal ayacut 3/              1.6 M /s
3.        The selected alignment for the link canal provides that the full
water supply level in the canal follows more or less the field level; this will
provide a stable base for the concrete lining. The alignment has been fully
1/   The Thenkarai Channel is an irrigation channel diverting water from
the Vaigai River on the right bank; this channel will be linked up
with the Thirumanagalam Main Canal under the project.
2/   The requirements for the Madurai water supply are proposed to be
met by a pipeline taking off directly from the link canal.
3/   PWD intends to irrigate an area of some 1,600 ha that will come
under the command of the link canal.
49



ANNEX 3
Page 2
surveyed; field levels have been taken at 30 m intervals and test pits have
been dug at 200 m intervals. Most of the excavation work for the canal will
be in weathered rock. An examination of the ground water levels along the
alignment is being undertaken.
4.        For the purposes of arriving at the most economical design, cost
comparisons were prepared for various alternatives. The selected design has
a bed slope of 2 ft/mi, a bed width of 21 ft, side slopes of 1:1 and a water
depth of 11 ft. The coefficient of rugosity adopted was 0.016. The water
velocity will be 6.5 ft per second. In addition to the syphon for the
Thirumangalam Main Canal, major structures related to the construction of the
link canal include two aquaducts (across the Varaganathi and Manjalan drain-
age channels) and a number of drop structures and bridges. The link canal
will be lined with granite masonry of 25 cm thickness set in 1:2 cement mor-
tar, with overbreak filled with 1:12 cyclopean concrete. Adequate provisions
will be made to prevent uplift of the lining by means of filters and relief
valves. The design for the link canal appears to be technically sound.
Lining of Irrigation Canals
5.        All irrigation canals in the project area will be lined down to
the 10 ha irrigation units. Lining will be with concrete slabs of 50 x 25 x
10 cm. Concrete mix will be 1:2:4 using 20 mm broken stone. Lining thickness
will be 10 cm for the Periyar main canal 5.0-6.5 cm for branch channels, and
5.0 cm for distributaries. To ensure the water tightness of the lining and
prevent weed growth in the joints, the slabs will be properly jointed with
1:2 cement mortar. Side slopes will be 1:1 in rocky material and from 1.5:1
to 2:1 in earth embankments. Design standards and construction methods
will generally follow the Indian Standard Specifications (ISS) and the Indian
Standard Code of Practise (ISC).
6.        It is being considered to replace 20% of the cement (by weight) by
flyash that is available from the Thermal Power Station at Neyveli. This
has already successfully been done for a canal lining program in the Tambara
Project in the Tinnevelly District. Tests undertaken by the Central Building
Research Institute moreover showed that flyash increases the workability of
the concrete; the flyash may also increase the resistance to cracking of the
slabs.
7.        Adequate drainage arrangements will be made where required to pre-
vent uplift of the concrete lining. This will be accomplished by the provi-
sion of longitudinal and cross drains and relief valves. In addition, where
soils are clayey, a 7.5 cm thick layer of sand will be provided underneath
the lining.
Structures
8.        The existing structures in the project area have been built in
masonry of granite blocks, some 80 years ago. Most of these structures need
rehabilitation. Granite blocks are still available from quarries in the
50



ANNEX 3
Page 3
project area so that rehabilitation can be easily undertaken; this will also
include the provision of seals for slide gates to ensure water tightness when
the gates are closed. The structures are otherwise structurally and hydraul-
ically sound. Experience with the operation of the system has shown that
three new cross regulators are required in the Periyar canal system to main-
tain canal water levels at sufficiently high levels during periods with low
flows. One new regulator will be constructed in the Periyar Main Canal and
two regulators in the branch channels. The extension of the Thirumangalam
Main Canal and its branches will also include the construction of the neces-
sary structures such as head sluices, regulators, turnouts and bridges.
9.        Water distribution in the project area is at present to irrigation
unit blocks of approximately 30 ha on average, but sometimes larger than
100 ha. In order to improve the level of water control the average size of
the irrigation units will be reduced to 10 ha. This will require some 2,000
additional turnouts. Water flow through existing turnouts is regulated by
a vertical slide gate. Water deliveries are determined from the gate open-
ing and with the use of a discharge formulae. The PWD will calibrate the
discharges for typical turnouts for various gate openings. The additional
turnouts to be constructed will be of a similar type. It is considered that
after proper calibration of the turnouts, volumetric measurement of water
delivered to the irrigation units would be possible in the future.
Road Systems
(i) Operation and Maintenance Roads.
10.       Operation and maintenance (O&M) roads exist at present only along
the main canals and the larger branch channels. These roads are too narrow
and in disrepair and do therefore not serve much purpose. The existing O&M
roads (145 km) will be widened and improved under the project and additional
O&M roads (750 km) will be constructed along branch channels and larger dis-
tributaries. Minimum road width will be 4m of which 2.5m will be gravelled.
(ii) Panchayat roads
Existing Panchayat (village) roads in the Project area are in dis-
repair and will be improved. Improvement works to be undertaken may be sum-
marized as follows:
51



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Road Length (km)
Periyar     Thirumangalam
Main Canal  Main Canal        Extension
Type of Improvement    area          area             area
(a) Improvements to existing
gravel and earth roads         200          78                98
(b) Rehabilitation of exist-
ing water bound macadam
roads                          175           8                66
Total     375          86                164
The macadam roads (b) will be widened to 7.5 m and metalled with two
layers over a width of 3.0 m. Gravel roads (a) will be widened to 5.5 m and
metalled over a width of 2.5 m. Construction of cross drainage works will be
undertaken where necessary. The roads will be maintained by the Panchayats.
Adequate funds for this is available through the local cesses.
May 1977
52



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Project Infrastructural Works
Link Canal
Earthwork & Lining                                    32 Km
Structures
Head Sluices                                       3 Nos
Drop Structures.                                  17 Nos
Acquaducts                                          5 Nos
Minor Cross Drainage Works                         72 Nos
Syphon across Vaigai River                         1 Nos
Road Bridges                                      19 Nos
Foot Bridges                                      20 Nos
Escapes                                            2 Nos
Related Works
Earthwork for Thenkarai
and Thirumangalam Link Channels                    5 Km
Structures
Drop Structures                                     3 Nos
Culvert                                            1 Nos
Operation and Maintenance Roads                       32 Km
Left Bank Irrigation System
Peryiar Main Canal Lining                             58 Km
Branch Channels Lining                              102 Km
Distributa ries Lining                               765 Km
Structures
Repairs to Sluices at Peryiar Main Canal          57 Nos
Repairs to Sluices of Branch Channels and
Distributaries                                 372 Nos
Repairs to Regulators                              2 Nos
Additional Regulators                               3 Nos
Repairs to Drop Structures                          3 Nos
Repairs to Acquaducts                              3 Nos
Improvements to Minor Cross
Drainage Works                                  35 Nos
Repairs to Bridges                                24 Nos
Repairs to Foot Bridges                             4 Nos
Additional Escapes                                 10 Nos
Additional Off-takes (Turnouts)
and Tail Regulators                          2,000  Nos
53



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 2
Operation and Maintenance Roads                    680 Km
Improvements to Village Roads                      375 Km
Improvements to Tanks (including
Supply Channels)                                700 Nos
Right Bank Irrigation System
Rehabilitation of Thirumangalam
Canal (Lining)                                    27 Km
Extension of Thirumangalam
Canal (earthwork and lining)                      14 Km
Extension of Branch Channels
and Distributaries (earthwork and
lining)                                           44 Km
Operation and Maintenance Roads                     45 Km
Improvement to Village Roads                        86 Km
Structures
Repairs to Existing Structures                      L.S.
Additional Head Sluices                              4 Nos
Additional Off-takes (Turnouts and
Tail Regulators                                   22 Nos
Additional Regulators                                3 Nos
Additional Bridges                                   7 Nos
Others                                              L.S.
Extension Area (9,000 ha) System
Main canal                                                22 Km
Branch canal                                              70 Km
Distibutaries                                            300 Km 1/
Head sluices and escapes                                 190 Nos
Cross regulators                                           6 Nos
Cross drainage structures                                240 Nos 1/
Turnouts                                                 390 Nos 1/
O&M roads                                                140 Km
Improvement to village roads                             164 Km   60% gp (a)
40% gp (b)
Improvement to tanks and supply channels                 420 Nos
54
1/ Subject to final design.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIC-Al IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Cost Estimate
Allocation of Costs
Foreign                                                  Improved
LToca.   Forei7r   Totel      Losi  Foreign   Totel         Exchange   Rehabilitation   Lining Program    Roads   Operations   Canal Extension
-----  RS5000)…          ……--  ----(Us$1000) -----              7       -----------------          -       (IS$'000) ---------------
1. .ir'- LOnOl
Land Acquisition        3,650        -      3,650       405        -        405         0                                                          405
Canal: Earthwork      10,700      1,200  11,900      1,190        130   1,320         10                                                        1,320
Living         18,400     4,550  22,950       2,045       505   2,550          20                                                       2,550
Str,..-.ro:             6,780      1,170   7,950        755        130      885        15                                                          885
B,,ilds;,s                470         80      550        50         10       60        15                                                           60
SubLotal I          t:1,000     7,000  47,000      4,445        /75   5,220         15                                                       5,220
2. Loft 'oank Infra-
structure
Land Acquisition           500      -         500         55       -         55          0                                 10          45
C.sal.: Earthwork      13,900      1,600  15,500      1,545        175   1,720         10                               1,720
Lining         63,400    15,850  79,250       7,045     1,760   8,805          20                              8,805
Repair of Structures   3,520         580   4,100        390         65      455        15               455
Additional Structures  6,280       1,120   7,400        700        125      825         15                                                         825
Buildings               1,120        180   1,300        125         20      145        15                                                          145
Snpr-vc-ents to TInks
& SLgply Channcls   13,300       1,600  15,100      1,480        200   1,680         12              840                                        840
03-I Roads 1/           7,340      1,260   8,600        815        140      955         15                                            955
Villageo Reads         10 840    1,910  12,750        1,205        210   1,415          15                               _          1.415
Subtotal 7         120,200    24,300 144,500    13,360        2,695  1.6,055        17            1,295            10,535       2,415        1,810
3. Right Bansl 1.,fra-
structure
Land Aequsitien           B3j       -         850        95        -         95         0                                  10          85
Canals: Carthl,ork      1,230        220   1,450        135         25      160        15                                 160
Lining-         2,830       720   3,550         315         80     395         20                                395
Additional Strurtur-o   470           80      550         50        10       60         15                                                          60
066! Roads 1/             720        130      850         80        15       95         15                                             95
Village Roads           3,600        650   4.250        400         75      475         15                                 _          475
Subtotal 3           9,700      1,800  11,500      1,075        205   1,280         16                                 565        655           60
4. Extension Area Infra-
structure
Land Acquisition        1,800               1,800       200        -        200         0                                              20                          180
Canal-.: Earthuork      1,800        200   2,000        200         20      220        10                                                                          220
Lining          6,800     1,700   8,500         755        190     945         20                                                                         945
Structures              9,000      1,600  10,600      1,000        180   1,180         15                                                                        1,180
Buildings               1,100        200   1,300        120         20      140        15                                                                          140
Improvements to Tanks
& Supply Channels      8,100      1,100   9,200        900        120   1,020         12                                                                        1,020
O&31 l1oads 1/          1.440        260   1,700        160         30      190         15                                            190
Vill..,                 47bGs 4,760  140       5 600     530        95      625         15                                            625
Subtotal 4          34,800      5 900  40,700      3.865        655   4,520         14                                            835                        3.685
S,btotal 1-4      204,700    39,000 243,700    22,745        4,330  27,075         16            1,295            11,100       3,905        7,090           3,685
5. Ceatigenei  (152.)   30_100        5,850  36.550      3.410        650   4,060          16              195             1,665         585        1,065             550
:lx',total 1-5     735,400    44,850 280,250    26,155        4,980  31,135         16
6. Engincering, Super-
vision and Adminis-
tration (157)        _4_50         -     40,850      4,540        -     4,540          0               220             1             655       1,190              615
Total 1-6          276.250    44,850 321,100    30,695        4.980  35.675         14            1.710            14,625       5,145        9,345           4,850
7. oE1-I Equipmcnt 2/         630     3,040   3,670          70       340      410         83
8. Extunsion Program  2/   3,690       -       3,690        410       -        410          0
9. Staff Training 7/         -        1,000   1,800         -          20      200        100
10. :lositorins  Pgo:rac. 2/    230    _ 710 __  940          25        80      105        76
'tal 7-sO            __                                               1_125
280,800    50,400 331,200    31,200       5,600  36,800          15
11. Expected Price
Increases  3/         67.500    11,700  79,200       7,500      1.300  8_800          15
TOTAL PRLLECT COST       348,300    62,100 410,400    38,700        6,900  45,600          15
55
1/  011-I roads are constructed on canal e-bank-ents; see-third of the costs for the canal embankments was allocated to the 0114 roads.
2/ Including physical contingencies; for details see Annex 4, Tables 2 and 3.
3/ Annex 5, Table I.



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Equipment, Staff Training, Consultants
-------Cost Allocation--------
-----Cost Estimate-------…      Monitoring   Operation and   Staff
Local-'   Foreign   Total       Program       Maintenance      Training
--------(US$ 000)                               (US$ '000)  -
1. Radio Telephone Communication System        30.0        100.0   130.0                          130.0
2. Hydrological Equipment
Automatic Water Level Recorders (30)  41.8            19.6    61.4          40.0             21.4
Automatic Rain Gauge Recorders (12)    1.7             3.6     5.3                            5.3
Rain Gauge Recorders-Indigenous (12)   1.5              -      1.5                            1.5
Equipment for Meterological
Stations (6)                            4.5           -       4.5                           4.5
Evaporimeters (6)                         0.5          -       0.5                           0.5
Anemometers (6)                            -           0.8     0.8                            0.8
Current meters (6)                         -           1.0     1.0                             -
Subtotal 2         50.0         25.0    75.0
3. Office Equipment                              -          40.0    40.0                           40.0
4. Loaders (Crawler 100 hp 1.5 cu yd,
2 No's)                                       -         150.0   150.0                         150.0
5. Staff Training (85 mm)                        -         175.0   175.0                                        175.0
6. Consultants Services (4 mm)                   -          50.0    50.0
Subtotal 1-6       80.0        540.0   620.0           91.0           354.0         175.0
7. Contingencies (15%)                         15.0         80.0    95.0          14.0             56.0          25.0
Total 1-7 (US$'000)        95.0       620.0   715.0          105.0           410.0         200.0
Total 1-7 (Rs '000)    (860.0)   (5,580.0)(6440.0)          (950.0)       (3,690.0)     (1,800.0)
1/ Including costs for installation of equipment.
0l



ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Agricultural Extension Costs
Total  Cost/Unit    TOTAL
District   Division   Units       Rs          Rs
Equipment for Staff Training
Visual Aids (camera,
projector, screen, tape
recorder, blackboard,
miscellaneous, loud
speaker              ~~~1         4         4                    35,000
speaker
Office Equipment(miscellaneous)l             4         5       5,000        25,000
Vehicles
Cars                           3                     3     40,000       120,000
Jeeps 4 x 4                    3         11         14      50,000      700,000
Trucks                         1          5          6      80,000      480,000
M'otorcycles                                       112       8,000       896,000
Bicvcles                                           180         800        90,000
Houding
Duplex houses for DyAO                   10         10      85,000       850,000
Sub-total                                                3,196,000
Spares and Contingencies (15%)                              494,000
Total                                                    3,690,000
($ 410 ,0 00)
57



ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Schedule of Expenditures
Total                   Bank Fiscal Year
Cost    1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
…-----------------(US$ 000) --…_____________
Link Canal          5,220       250      1,470     1,980      1,520       -
Left Bank
Infrastructure   16,055      1,195      4,630     4,440      3,650     2,140
Right Bank
Infrastructure    1,280        100        370       340        340       130
Extension Area
Infrastructure    4,520        320      1,270     1,300      1,130       500
Subtotal    27,075      1,865     7,740      8,060     6,640      2,770
Physcial
Contingencies      4,060       280      1,160     1,210        995       415
Engineering,
Supervision and
Administration    4,540        310      1,300     1,350      1,110        470
Subtotal    35,675      2,455    10,200    10,620      8,745      3,655
Expected Price
Increases          8,670       145      1,480     2,500      2,930     1,615
Subtotal    44,345      2,600    11,680    13,120    11,675       5,270
Equipment,
Consultants and
Staff Training    1,125        530        420        95         80          -
Expected Price
Increases            130        30         55        20         25         _
Subtotal     1,255        560       475        115        105         -
TOTAL              45,600     3,160    12,155    13,235    11,780       5,270
58



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Proposed Allocation of the Credit
Proposed Allocation           % of Expenditure
Category                             of the Credit                 to be Financed
(US$ Million Equivalent)
(1) Civil Works
(a) Infrastructure in
extension area                        3.6                         55%
(b) Other                                17.7                         55%
(2) Equipment                                 0.6
(a) Directly improved goods                                    100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Locally manufactured goods                                 100% of ex-factory
cost
(c) Imported goods procured
locally                                                           70%
(3) Consulting and Staff
Training                                  0.2                        100%
(4) Unallocated                               0.9
Total                23.0
59



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year                                  Disbursements
and Semester                               US$ Million Equivalent
Semester        Cumulative
1977/78
2nd                                           0.4              0.4
1978/79
1st                                           1.2              1.6
2nd                                           2.4              4.0
1979/80
1st                                           3.3              7.3
2nd                                           3.5             10.8
1980/81
1st                                           3.8             14.6
2nd                                           3.5             18.1
1981/82
1st                                           2.0             20.1
2nd                                           1.5             21.6
1982/83
1st                                           1.0             22.6
2nd                                           0.4             23.0
60



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Organization and Management
Project Implementation
1.        Jurisdiction for the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Modernization Project
rests with the Public Works Department (PWD), with headquarters in Madras.
The Chief Engineer of the Irrigation Branch of PWD exercises control over de-
sign, construction, and operation of all irrigation projects in the State and
he would have the overall responsibility for the implementation of the Periyar
Vaigai Irrigation Modernization Project. PWD would undertake the surveys,
prepare the designs and specifications, construct the irrigation works, and
supervise construction of the link canal. The Department of Agriculture would
be responsible for the reorganization and strengthening of agricultural exten-
sion services in the project areas and for construction of staff quarters
and procurement of equipment, vehicles, and supplies for the extension service
(Annex 7).
2.        Construction Organization.  The Chief Engineer would delegate con-
struction responsibilities between two Superintending Engineers (SEs), each
in charge of a Project Circle (Figure 1). The two SEs would have their head-
quarters in Madurai. As is the practice in PWD for work primarily involving
a labor force employed over a large area, construction responsibilities would
be on a geographical rather than on a functional basis. In each Circle, the
work would be divided among four Divisions, each headed by an Executive
Engineer (EE). Each Division would have sub-divisions, each under the control
of an Assistant Engineer (AE). There would be a further subdivision into
sections to be under the control of Junior Engineers.
3.        The Chief Engineer's Office in Madras would be responsible for the
planning and design of the Link Canal, which would be a major hydraulic struc-
ture. This office, which is responsible for award of all contracts over
Rs 500,000. would tender and award the contract for the Link Canal. The Chief
Engineer would also approve award of any contracts exceeding the engineer's
estimate by between 5 and 10%. Approval by the Govenor of Tamil Nadu and the
PWD Secretary would be required for award of contracts exceeding the estimate
by more than 10%.
4.        Each Superintending Engineer would be responsible for survey, de-
sign, programming, procurement and allocation of staff and materials for the
work in his Circle. His staff would prepare the project designs, specific-
ations, tender documents, and overall construction programs and would ensure
that the works are executed accordingly. They would use modern planning
61



ANNEX 6
Page 2
techniques such as PERT and CPM in programming the work to expedite comple-
tion within the project implementation schedule. The SE office would main-
tain project financial accounts and administer personnel.
5.        The Executive Engineers would prepare the annual work programs and
would supervise the earthwork, lining, rehabilitation and construction of rew
structures in their respective Divisions. Junior engineers would be in charge
of the work for short reaches of the canal or branch channels.
6.        Construction of canal structures and lining, which would spread over
the entire command areas, would be scheduled primarily during the season when
the system is normally closed so as not to interrupt irrigation (Figure 2).
Most of this work would have to be carried out under small contracts tendered
intermittently by the EE on a piece-work basis, according to a schedule of
rates established annually through bidding procedures. Construction of the
link canal, which would be a separate structure, would not interfere with
supplying the irrigated areas. This could be constructed in a continuous
operation in one or more reaches or as a whole.
System Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
7.        Organization.  O&M of the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation System, as well
as other irrigation schemes in the vicinity, are under the responsibility of
the Superintending Engineer at the head of PWD's Madurai Maintenance Circle
(Figure 3). An Executive Engineer is in charge of O&M for the System, includ-
ing the Periyar and Vaigai dams and reservoir and the Periyar and Thirumangalam
irrigation networks.
8.        Nine Section Officers (Junior Engineers), under the direction of an
Assistant Engineer, operate and maintain the two irrigation networks under the
Periyar and Thirumangalam M4ain Canals. Each is responsible for a Section of
the main canals and the resective branch channels and distributaries (7,000 ha
on average) down to the farm turn-outs. Each Section employs two subordinate
officers (Irrigation Conservancy Subordinates) and about 15 laskars who operate
the outlet sluices (15 to 20 sluices per Lascar, an average of about 500 each).
It also employs a number of gauge readers and Telephone Gumasthas, who report
daily canal flows and weekly rainfall gauge readings to the Division Officer
of the EE.
9.        Below the farm turn-outs water distribution and construction and
maintenance of field channels is entirely the responsibility of the farmers.
At each outlet, water users traditionally have organized on their own into
farmer irrigation associations, by which water allocations are decided, dis-
putes are resolved, and maintenance work is allocated. These associations
generally comprise a strong element in vilage organization and have resulted
in a relatively high degree of farm water management.
10.       Maintenance.  Each section also employs inspectors to supervise
maintenance work and a small number of work assistants to carry out minor
repairs and routine maintenance. The bulk of the work is carried out by
62



ANNEX 6
Page 3
locally contracted labor. Full annual operation and maintenance costs for
the system, after lining and improvements, is estimated at Rs 80 per ha
(Table 1). The cost for project O&M of the existing system is estimated at
about the same level, but annual expenditures in recent years have been less
than half of this.
11.       Operation.  The irrigation season extends from June 1 to the end of
February. The Water Regulations give normal dates of water deliveries which
delineate historic water priorities in the command area as follows:
I.  Double Crop Zone,
Periyar Main Canal                 June 1 - February 28
II.  Single Crop Zone,
Thirumangalam Canal                June 1 - September 30 1/
III. Single Crop Zone,
Periyar Main Canal                 August 15 - February 15
IV.  Single Crop Zone,
Periyar Extension                  September 15 - February 15
12.       Actual supplies vary yearly, subject to availability as well as to
net cropping requirements.  The eligibility of particular branch channels and
distributaries is determined on the basis of daily assessments of localized
rainfall and cropping conditions. When water supply is adequate deliveries
to eligible channels and distributaries are usually made under a continuous
flow system. During periods of inadequate supply, a turn system is introduced.
Sluice outlets are gated and roughly calibrated and the existing canal system
has drop structures and regulators for maintaining reduced flows. The Execu-
tive Engineer and Assistant Engineer direct the Section Officers and sluice
laskars when to open and close particular reaches and what daily flow levels
to maintain at regulators and sluices.
13.       During the rainy season (usually August through December), the sys-
tem is operated with the objective to minimize releases from the Vaigai
reservoir. Rainfall data, tank water level readings and staff gauge readings
in canals are collected daily and when required more frequently. Cultivation
reports are compiled on a weekly basis. In a case of localized rainfall, the
supply in the relevant branch channels and distributaries is reduced and a
reduction in the release from Vaigai reservoir is ordered. Generally it takes
three days for the water to reach Pulipatti regulator from the Vaigai Dam.
Therefore, in case of sudden reduction in demand, the water is diverted into
the tanks. Only if the tanks are full the water has to be drained into the
Vaigai River.
1/   Although June 1 to September 30 is given in the Regulations normal
deliveries usually are from September to December 31.
63



ANNEX 6
Page 4
14.       During the dry seasons (usually June, July part of August, January
and February), the area is nearly entirely dependent on the canal water supply.
If the storage in Vaigai reservoir is adequate to last for the entire season,
a continuous flow of supply is maintained in the canal system. If available
storage is not sufficient, a turn system is introduced. For this purpose the
command area is divided into two reaches: one below and the other above the
Kallandiri regulator. Water for each reach is generally supplied in alternate
weeks. During periods with scarce water supply rotation of irrigation water
between branch channels and distributarties is also practiced.
May 1977
64



ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Operation and Maintenance Cost Estimates
Annual Cost
(Rs '000)
Operation and Maintenance Costs for Periyar Vaigai System
(incl. Periyar and Vaigai Dams and Cumbum Valley)
1.  Personnel                                                     1,310
2.  Labor                                                           195
3. Maintenance Contracts                                          2,480
4. Equipment                                                        170
5.  Telephone and Communications                                     80
6.  Lease paid to Kerala Government                                 300
7.  Overheads                                                       680
5,215
Cost per ha: Rs 80 (US$8.90)
65



INDIA
PERYIAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(TAMIL NADU)
Organization Chart: Operation and Maintenance
SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER
FOR MAINTENANCE
(HADURAI CIRCLE)
Exective Engineer  l
|(PERIYAR VAIGAI DIVISION)|
Assistant E,,gineer  
|(PERIYAR IRRIG ATIO  YTM 
Head Draftsman        Accountant
SECTION OFFICER     SECTION OFFICER     SECTION OFFICER      SECTION OFFICER     SECTION OFFICER      SECTION OFFICER     SECTION OFFICER       SECTION OFFICER    SECTION OFFICER
PERANAI             ANDIPATTI           METTUPATTI           MADURAI             KALLANDIRI           CHITTAMPATTI         EDAYAPATTI           MELUR              THANIAMANGALAM
TELEPHONE           TELEPHONE           TELEPHONE            TELEPHONE           TELEPHONE            TELEPHONE           TELEPHONE            TELEPHONE            TELEPHONE
GUMASTHA            GUMAStHA            GUMASTHA             GUMASTHA            GUMASTHA             GUMASTAH            GUMASTHA             GUMASTHA             GUMASTHA
GAUGE READERS       GAUGE READERS       GAUGE READERS        GAUGE READERS       GAUGE READERS        GAUGE READERS        GAUGE READERS       GAUGE READERS         GAUGE READERS
LASCARS             LASCARS             LASCARS              LASCARS             LASCARS              LASCARS             LASCARS              LASCARS              LASCARS
Worlf Ba-k-16985
0
a'n



INDIA
PERYIAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(TAMIL NADU)
Implementation Schedule
1977              1978              1979               1980              1981
ITEM                        QUARTER   1 st 2nd3rd I4th  st 2nd 3rd 4th  st 2nd 3rd  4th  1st             3rd4th  1st 2nd | 3rd  4th
Board Presentation                                V
Project Effective                                      v
Link Canal
I.C.B.                                            ********   I
Earthwork                                                              -
Lining-
Structures-
Left Bank Infrastructure
Lining of Main Canal & Branch Channels
Casting of Slabs                                         _
Earthwork & Laying of Slabs 
Canal Structures                                       uuuum,                       m     m   mum   urn.    si
Distributaries                                                                        m          a E      Li
Channels
Improvements to Tanks and Supplies                    s1 l111 suiu          i I s s  sU
O & M and Village Roads
Right Bank Infrastructure
Improvements to Thirumangalam Canal and               1555555 5       mii5   s s s s mls
Branch Channels
Extension of Thirumangalam Canal                                            _
O & M and Village Roads                                           _                                      -
Project Monitoring
Extension Service Program
World Bank-16984
a~Q



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(TAMIL NADU)
Organization Chart: Project Construction
|   CHIEF ENGINEER E
|(IRRIGATION)
ISUPERINTENDING                                                                                       |SUPERINTENDING
ENGINEER PERIYAR                                                                                       ENGINEER PERIYAR
PROJECT CIRCLE NO. 1                                                                                   PROJECT CIRCLE NO. 2
|  GDMINISTR ASTA N                                   E            NA A M;STANT                                                                               R   AL EARSONS LSTASNANT|
& GENERAL)               (ENGIN ,ELR                                         (ADIVII~~~~~~~~~~& GNERL                            (EGNEIG
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER       EXECUTIVE ENGINEER]       EXECUTIVE ENGINEER        EXECUTIVE ENGINEER        EXECUTIVE ENGINEER        EXECUTIVE ENGINEER        EXECUTIVE ENGINEER        EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
I                                                                     I I                                    I I                 I                          II
4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS    4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS     4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS    14 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS    4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS      4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS     4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS     4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS]
L1JUNIORJUNIOR ENGINEER             E                15NJUNIOR ENGINEERS       15JUNIOR ENGINEERS]    15LJUNIOR ENGINEERS          15 JUNIOR ENGINEERS        JUNIOR ENGINEERS    |15JUNIOR ENGINEERS
00
World Ba,k-16986
rD



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Objectives
1.        The project is the first major attempt in India to rehabilitate
and modernize a complete irrigation conveyance system. The project will
serve as a pilot operation to establish the economic and technical para-
meters of water saving measures, such as canal lining, additional control
structures and improved communications. The improvement of the agricultural
extension services program is another important component of the project;
its effects on the agricultural production will also be evaluated.
Scope
2.        The monitoring studies consist of:
(i) Measurement of flows in the distribution system before
and after lining;
(ii) Evaluation of the effects of canal lining on groundwater
levels;
(iii) Measurement of river flows at Vaigai Dam and Peranai
Regulator and related groundwater studies;
(iv) Keeping of accurate records on the costs for rehabili-
tation and modernization of the system;
An evaluation of the extension services program would be undertaken, including
the collection of data on agricultural production before and after implementa-
tion of the project.
Flow Measurements in Distribution System
3.        The PWD will carry out an extensive flow measuring program in order
to determine: (i) seepage and operational losses in the presently unlined canal
distribution system; and, (ii) water losses after canal lining; this would
involve a considerable intensification and extension of the present system of
flow measurement. The inflows into the Periyar Main Canal and into the four
major branch channels will be recorded on a continuous basis by means of
automatic water level recorders. All measuring stations will be carefully
calibrated. Complete records will be kept of the flows through other off-takes
in the main canal. These structures will be calibrated for various gate
69



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
openings. PWD has constructed concrete lined sections in the main canal at
internals of 5 km. The flows at these sections will be measured monthly with
current meter. The seepage losses in a number of selected branch channels will
be estimated by means of short-term flow measurements or ponding tests. These
tests will be carried out at the beginnng and end of the irrigation season.
4.        One representative area under the command of a branch channel will
be selected for determining, inter alia, seepage and operational losses in
distributaries, natural inflows, irrigation releases and return flows into
tanks, and outflows from the area in drainage channels. Automatic water level
recorders will be stationed at selected sites in the irrigation and drainage
system and at the major tanks. Records will be kept of flows through the
turn-outs of irrigation unit blocks. These turn-outs will be calibrated;
parshall flumes and/or other suitable water measuring devices would be util-
ized for this purpose. A meteorological station will be set up in this area
and data collected.
Observation of Groundwater Levels
5.        The Groundwater Branch of PWD will continue to measure water levels
in observation wells in the project area. Water level readings are being
made once a month.
Measurement of River Flows
6.        The PWD claims that considerable water losses occur at present in
the river reach between Vaigai Dam and Peranai Regulator. Monthly flow
measurements by current meter will therefore continue downstream of Vaigai
Dam and upstream of the Peranai regulator. The Groundwater Branch of PWD
will continue its study on the groundwater regime along this reach of the
river and submit a detailed and final report on the possibility and extent
of such seepage losses. 1/ The seepage losses in the link canal will also be
measured after its construction.
Records of Costs
7.        The PWD will keep detailed records of the costs involved in the
rehabilitation and modernization of the system. This is necesary to undertake
an economic evaluation of the project at a later stage.
Evaluation of Agricultural Extension
8.        Evaluations of agricultural extension services will:
(a) Determine the comparative effectiveness of utilizing VEWs
or DyAOs as the principal farmer contact agents (see Annex 7,
Appendix 1, paragraph 64).
1/   A preliminary report was submitted in December 1975.                   70



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 3
(b) Measure the progress made by farmers over a period of time
as evidenced by adoption of recommended practices, changes in
cropping patterns, and yields.
(c) Identify obstacles and collect the information needed to
modify extension strategies, management and provide guidance
to problem solving programs.
9.        A small Steering Committee will coordinate the evaluation and mon-
itoring programs. The membership will include:
Dean of Agriculture Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (Chairman)
Director of Agriculture
Executive Engineer, Periyar Vaigai System
Professor of Agricultural Extension, TNAU Madurai
Subject Matter for Evaluation, Department of Agriculture Madras
10.       Field studies will be undertaken primarily by staff and students of
TNAU under the guidance of the steering committee and the general control of
the Professor of Agricultural Extension, TNAU. While agriculture extension
must be concerned with and responsive to the results of these studies, the
field extension staff will not be directly involved in the collection and
compilation of data. The TNAU will be responsible for the field collection
of data and interpretation of the results. The studies will include:
(a) Benchmark or base surveys to delineate present farm prac-
tices, cropping patterns, yields, characteristics of farms
and households. The first survey should be made in 1977
with follow-up surveys at three year intervals.
(b) Yearly cropping pattern and yields. This data should be
collected by such agencies as the Revenue Department and
PWD as a part of their normal duties. It will be summarized
and analyzed by SMS for extension evaluation and reviewed
by the Steering Committee.
(c) Continuing informal interviews with farmers in the fields or
group meetings in which extension workers attempt to identify
factors limiting production, yields and/or net farm income.
This information will provide the basis for extension program
emphasis, strategies and for setting priorities for problem
solving research.
71



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 4
(d) Changes in farmer participation in organizations such as
credit and marketing cooperatives, farmer or block asso-
ciations or group activities.
(e) Changes in family and net farm income by participating
and non-participating groups or by farmers in various
locations.
11.       These evaluations and recommendations based upon them by the Steering
Committee will be made to the Deputy Director of Agriculture at Madurai for his
use in determining the extension program objectives and management for each
year or crop season. The evaluation for program planning by the Extension
Services should be continued even after the implementation of the project.
May 1977
72



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Agricultural Supporting Services
General
1.        Agricultural supporting services are well developed in the project
area. Private companies and cooperatives provide part of the marketing sys-
tem, inputs, processing, storage, transportation and production credit.
Private dealers provide some 60% of the outlets and 70% of the fertilizer
sales. With the expansion of irrigated acreage, and more stability in water
supplies, additional facilities are likely to develop.
2.        The provision of adequate marketing facilities is an important
facet of Government policy. Others are research, extension, irrigation and
roads. In addition, the Government regulates or serves as a moderating in-
fluence to private industry.
Agricultural Research
3.        Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Tamil Nadu Agri-
cultural University and Research Institute situated within the command area
12 km from Madurai. The program was started in 1971 and the university
presently has 73 ha for research and seed production. A total of 84 research
projects are in progress and the university has undertaken demonstration
trials and extension work in neighboring areas also.
4.        An India Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) scheme for research
on water management and cropping patterns in the Periyar Vaigai Command Area
was started in 1971 and is staffed by an agronomist, a soil physicist and an
agricultural engineer.
Agricultural Extension Service
6.        The development and early testing of new technology is the function
of the above mentioned research group. Obtaining farmer adoption of the locally
appropriate new technology is the function of the extension service.
7.        The Agricultural Extension Service will be reorganized under this
project to integrate the multitude of special agricultural programs into a
single line of command, intensified farmer contacts, and target farmer
training objectives.
73



ANNEX 7
Page 2
8.        Many farmers for many reasons are not utilizing the new varieties,
improved field management, or market potentials. Improved research-extension
teamwork is an essential part of this project.
9.        In agricultural extension, the new project will provide for:
(a) reorganization of the extension and special program activ-
ities in Madurai District into a single line of command
under the district level Project Implementation Committee,
chaired by the Deputy Director of Agriculture;
(b)  regular farm and village visits by village extension workers
(VEW) to ensure forthnightly contacts with more than 10% of the
farm families;
(c) intensified and regular in-service training for all extension
workers;
(d) more extensive links between research, extension, agribusiness
organizations and farmers to strengthen the research-adaptive
trials farmer application chain;
(e) staff and facilities for field trials;
(f) facilities and equipment for improved staff training and
extension;
(g) vehicles and travel allowances for greater mobility;
(h) housing in isolated areas; and
(i) coordination and evaluation of the extension programs.
The changes in the extension program will be initiated July 1977 and completed
in June 1978. Details are given in Appendix 1.
Credit
10.       Short- and medium-term credit is channelled to farmers through the
Cooperative Primary Agricultural Credit Societies. In each block, there are
12 to 15 large sized viable cooperative primary societies covering an area
within a radius of 5 to 10 km. The Madurai District Central Cooperative Bank
is the only financing agency to these primary societies and maintains a
branch in every block. About 70% of the farmers belong to the cooperatives.
Credit is mainly short-term production credit but medium-term credit up to
five years and amounting to about 10% of the total is given for dairy de-
velopment, sheep breeding, purchase of small items of equipment such as
sprayers and for land levelling. The collection rates for the cooperatives
are among the best in India. Long-term credit for 5 to 15 years is pro-
vided by the Land Development Banks (LDBs). The 14 Blocks included or partly
included in the command area are served by 12 Land Development Banks. Loans
are mainly for small-scale irrigation (77%), purchase of tractors and agri-
74



ANNEX 7
Page 3
cultural machinery, construction of farm buildings, establishment of orchards,
and for land improvement. These LDBs are well established, most of them
having been founded 30 to 40 years ago. Repayment of loans can be regarded
as satisfactory. At the end of 1973, of the 11 banks serving the command
area, two had no overdues, seven had less than 15% and two had from 15% to
25% overdues.
11.       Commercial banks have a negligible role in rural areas in the
Madurai region and are responsible for financing of only 1% to 2% of institu-
tional credit to agriculture.
Availability of Inputs
12.       Fertilizers and agricultural chemicals are available through Govern-
ment sources and the Block Development Officers (BDO) as well as from many
private dealers throughout the area. Interviews with several dealers in-
dicated their general competency and knowledge of current recommendations.
Agricultural chemicals and seed appeared to be fresh and in suitable con-
tainer sizes. Several manufacturers provide after sale services. Government
testing laboratories monitor the quality and labeling of fertilizers and
pesticides.
13.       Vegetable seed is available from private sources; high yielding
varieties of sorghum, millet and paddy through the Block Offices as well as
private suppliers. Sugarcane seed pieces are generally supplied by the sugar
mills.
14.       Some 1,300 tons of certified paddy seed is distributed each year.
Growers are registered with the Department of Agriculture and the Seed Cer-
tification Agency. Tamil Nadu is a party to the India Seed Testing Act.
15.       Tractors and tractor-drawn machinery are limited -- some custom
land preparation service is available but most is done by animal power.
Paddy threshing and winnowing is done by hand or animal power. Wells and
tubewells are powered by diesel or electric motors. Electrical power is
available in most villages.
Marketing
16.       The Periyar Vaigai command area is served by regulated markets at
Madurai and Theni. The main surplus commodity is paddy and this is almost
invariably sold direct to merchants in the villages. During 1974-75 which
was a year of shortage, the farm gate price of paddy was Rs 200 per 100 kg
compared with a wholesale price in the Madurai market of between Rs 220 and
Rs 240 per 100 kg so that farmers received between 83% and 90% of the whole-
sale price at the farm gate.
17.       Market demand for sorghum and pearl millet is high as evidenced by
prices equal to the price received for paddy (grade II). Good demand exists
for sugarcane, fruits and vegetables. Groundnuts are grown as a dryland crop
and are sold direct to the oil mills.
75



ANNEX 7
Page 4
18.       Fair competition exists among private buyers and processors of crops
such as sugarcane and groundnuts. There is competition between Government
and private buyers and supervision and regulation by Government which tends
to maintain market stability and price competition. Realistic cost/price
relationships are available in the area.
Drying and Storage
19.       Paddy is sundried, which is generally satisfactory (except for the
first crop in the double crop area) since the crop is harvested at the end of
the rainy season. Storage for home consumption and seed which represents 25%
of the paddy, sorghum, millets and pulse production is at home. The grain is
taken to small mechanical hullers and mills in the villages or is prepared at
home for use. Home storage is subjected to moisture, insect and rodent damage
and could undoubtedly be improved by good extension programs.
20.       Central public storage is provided by the Central Warehousing Corpo-
ration and Civil Supplies Corporation. Both operate in or near the project
area utilizing their own facilities to store about half of the paddy. They
have a building and expansion program. Private storage accounts for an addi-
tional 25% of the crop.
Transportation
21.       The main road net work is generally satisfactory and is gradually
being supplemented by improved roads to smaller villages. Rail transporta-
tion to other major markets is available. Trucks and bullock carts are
available in sufficcient number.
May 1977
76



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Agricultural Extension
A. Introduction
1.        The development of appropriate crop and farm technology and an
effective system for its delivery to the farmers are essential if agricultural
production is to be substantially increased within the next few years. Tech-
nology for increased production is already available, and some farmers have
adopted it. Many farmers, for various reasons, are not utilizing new varie-
ties, improved field management, or market potentials. Improved research-
extension teamwork, targeted training for extension workers and regular farm
visits will help to close the gap between research and farmer application.
The identification and overcoming of factors limiting production and farm
income is the role of adaptive research. Improvements in agricultural ex-
tension and adaptive research are crucial components of this project.
B. The Present Situation
Organization
2.        State.  The Tamil Nadu Department of Agriculture is headed by the
Director of Agriculture who is an Indian Administrative Service Officer. His
headquarters staff consists of several Joint Directors of Agriculture (JDA)
who, to a varying extent, supervise the specialist field staff for certain
specified functions or disciplines (see Figure 1).
3.        District.  The fifteen districts in the State are under the charge
of Deputy Directors of Agriculture (DDA); usually one for each district. The
Madurai District DDA is assisted by subject matter specialists (SMSs) for:
agronomy farm management and farm economics; information and training; and
plant protection. There is an SMS for compost and green manure production,
but he is getting increasingly involved in fertilizer delivery programming
for the public sector and in quality control, mainly of the blends, that are
often mixed by hand. There is a fertilizer and pesticide testing laboratory
in the district.
77



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 2
4.        Division.  The third level is at the Revenue Division where the
extension activities are coordinated by a District Agricultural Officer (DAO),
who reports directly to the DDA. He is assisted by various specialists at the
Divisional Headquarters and has technical control over the Deputy Agricul-
tural Officers (DyAO) who are based in the development blocks. However, the
Block Development Officer (BDO) has administrative control over the technical
officers including the DDA, in the block (Figure 1).
5.        Some 90% of the agricultural and technical officers (DDA, DAO, DyAO)
are graduates; most of them from the well-known and long established agricul-
tural universities at Coimbatore, and from Madurai. They are helped by Agri-
cultural Assistants and Demonstration Assistants Field Assistants Compost
Development Inspectors and some Village Level Workers (VLWs). The latter
have some training at special training institutes.
6.        Blocks.  The contact between farmers, villagers and the Government
is through the blocks. The Block Development Officer is in general charge.
He is assisted by a technical and administrative staff including about ten
VLW. Most VLW are employed as multi-purpose workers, unable to concentrate
only on one discipline.
7.        The VLW and the DyAO stationed at the blocks have several masters --
the BDO is in administrative charge and controls the pay check which may come
from the Department of Agriculture (DA), or Rural Development and Local Ad-
ministration (RD&LA) funds. Technical supervision, especially of the DyAO
is supposed to be with the DAO.   The lines of command, supervision, and tech-
nology flow are complex and diffuse (see Figure 1), and the staff cannot be
fully effective, resulting in diluted farmer contacts and activities with low
impact.
8.        Compounding these difficulties, which are primarily organizational,
is the problem of keeping the VLW knowledge and skills of agriculture up to
date so they can be effective in changing farmer attitude.
Farmer Contacts
9.        Farmer contacts, presently considered as meaningful by the Depart-
ment, are made by the DyAOs as regards to production planning, farm manage-
ment and the technical problems of cereal and pulse crop production. Commer-
cial crop production problems, (groundnuts, cotton, sugarcane), pest control
matters and advisory work on commercial, orchard and plantation crops are
dealt with by the JDAs concerned who have their own staff right down to
the block level.
10.       Although intended to spend 80% of their working time on agricultural
extension, some VLW, in fact, spend as little as 20%, and this usually on agri-
cultural work which is of a distributive or reporting nature. Consequently,
few farmers receive extension advice in their fields. The remainder of the
78



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 3
VLW's time is taken up by a large variety of duties such as public health,
family planning, small savings, school affairs, elections, and famine relief.
It is the local ward members who direct the VLW to particular families in
the village, and the priorities are probably not often based on factors
limiting agricultural production. The initial training of most VLWs, a two-
year course in a Community Development training center was probably sufficient.
Special Programs
lIe       In an attempt to remedy the situation, various types of special
schemes have been established by DA, usually at Government of India initia-
tive, in which additional DyAO and VLWs and less trained workers called De-
monstration Assistants were recruited and employed for particular crops and
in specific areas. Intensive Cotton Development Program, the Intensive Agri-
cultural Area Program and the Drought Prone Area Program are examples. Other
departments also have programs which closely touch upon agriculture, such as
the Small Farmers Development Agency and the Marginal Farmers Development
Agency.
12.       The existence of several department programs side by side without
a single line of command and full coordination has resulted in duplication and
program inefficiencies. This is a serious limitation of the present programs.
Present Working Methods
13.       The department's campaigns and progress are carefully planned. Jan-
uary is a slack time and the end of the growing season for most crops. This
is a period of strategic decisions in which the agricultural universities of
Coimbatore and Madurai are involved, along with the research stations that
are under the DA's control; practices to be followed, varieties to sponsor
and the field demonstrations and applied research program are decided. This
is followed by program planning for each district, in which not only produc-
tion plans, but input requirements are determined, their procurement or line
of credit arranged. Annual training and planning programs are conducted at
state, district and block levels and there is a seminar-type session for the
JDAs, DDAs and SMSs at Madurai or Coimbatore in January, followed by district
training courses, run by the DDAs and their staff for DAOs, who, in turn,
train the DyAOs. The DyAOs in their blocks, run refresher courses for the
field staff.
14e       In the field, the DyAOs organize:  a seeding program; supervise the
practices of a few farmers; lay out field trials and demonstrations, and
advocate the right practices through the mass media, leaflets and newspapers.
The field and demonstration assistants only provide support for the DyAO and
are not expected to have direct farmer contacts. The VLWs are only partly
involved in the Department's program; they nominally work on parallel lines
under the guidance of the block officers.
79



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 4
The Role of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU)
15.       The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has campuses at Madu-
rai and Coimbatore. The TNAU at Madurai has a Department of Agricultural
Extension and a Farmer Training Institute, under the charge of an Associate
Professor of Agricultural Extension. Their syllabus includes rural socio-
logy, extension application, psychology, the history of agricultural exten-
sion, and community development   They have field programs in nearby areas.
These include farmer training courses, meetings demonstrations and the eva-
luation of extension methods. For example, in a study of the spread of HYV,
the most effective method was direct contacts between extension workers and
farmers. Indirect methods, between neighbors and friends, or through the
media were less effective.
16.       The Farmer Training Center, headed by an Assistant Professor who
is a former DAO, conducts courses in the block centers, for farmers selected
by the BDO. The teachers are invited from the University or the Department
of Agriculture. The trainees then are expected to organize discussion groups
in their villages with other farmers. The VLWs only attend if specifically
invited.
17.       Other programs are one-day training courses that focus on one spe-
cific practice and are not linked with past or future similar courses. The
organizers are previous participants of the other program who are expected
to make all necessary arrangements. The speakers are from the university or
the Department of Agriculture and publicity for the session is given by the
press and radio. The VLWs and possibly the DyAOs also attend these meetings.
Limitations of the System
18.       Strategically, two impediments to full effectiveness would seem to
be the dual control of staff at district level (in that some of the functions
do not report to Madras through the DAA) and a degree of dual control at the
block level. In the judgement of the Department, the VLWs have so many non-
agricultural duties and effective control cannot be exercised to involve
them in agricultural extension. In any case, as far as the work of the
department is concerned, they are not fully utilized despite the fact that
in the area there are around 350 staff of this grade.
19.       There are limitations of staff mobility and the SMS establishment
would seem to be particularly inadequate. There are, in some blocks, inade-
quate or unsuitable staff and office accommodations, a chronic shortage of
vehicles and funds to operate the ones that are actually in place.
20.       The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University at Madurai and Coimbatore
makes important contributions to present research, extension programs and to
training. These efforts need to be intensified and especially, the coor-
dination between research and extension activities needs to be strengthened.
80



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 5
C. The New Extension System
21.       In agricultural extension, the project would provide for:
(a) reorganizatiion of the extension and special program activ-
ities in Madurai District into a single line of command under
the district level Project Implementation Committee (PIC),
chaired by the Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA);
(b) regular farm and village visits by village extension workers
(VEWS) to ensure regular fortnightly contacts with 10% of
the farm families;
(c) intensified and regular in-service training for all extension
workers;
(d) more extensive links between research, extension agribusiness
organizations and farmers to strengthen the research - adaptive
trials - farmer application chain;
(e) staff and facilities for field trials;
(f) facilities and equipment for improved staff training and extension;
(g) vehicles and travel allowances for greater mobility;
(h) housing in isolated areas; and
(i) coordination and evaluation of the extension farmer programs.
22.       Reorganization of the Department of Agriculture functions would be
a part of the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation MIodernization Project. The entire
Madurai District would be included.
Reorganization into a Single Line of Command
23.       A well-trained, highly motivated, and technically competent single
organization would be created, making optimal use of existing staff with a
few additions. The organization would be given the means to reach the major-
ity of farmers with relevant and practical technical guidance. The available
manpower, except for trained SMSs and VLWs (to be renamed Village Extension
Workers -- VEWs) is sufficient and of excellent potential to achieve results,
provided there is redeployment, a concentration on extension per se, and a
continuing and frequent training element. The new system would take over all
agricultural extension work and all "special schemes" (such as Compost Demon-
stration, Intensive Cotton Development and Intensive Agricultural Area
Programs) would be incorporated.
81



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 6
24.       State.  No changes would be made in the present organization at this
time. However, as additional Districts adopt the new system, an Additional
Director (Extension) should be appointed to aid the Director of Agriculture
in the supervision of the statewide extension activities.
25.       District.  The new agricultural program covering Madurai District
would be under the control of the Project Implementation Committee (PIC),
chaired by the Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA) and comprising, inter
alia, District Agricultural and Divisional Development Officers and a repre-
sentative of TNAU.  The PIC would have adequate powers and authority to direct
all extension personnel.  As at present, the DDA would report directly to the
DA.  All DA programs in the district will be under the direct control of PIC.
26.       In addition to the divisional DAOs, he would supervise a staff of
SMSs and the leaders of the remaining special programs such as seed multi-
plication and marketing.
27.       The District SMS would be generally DAO rank and represent the
locally needed disciplines among this list.
Crop Specialists for cereals and pulses, cotton, oil-
crops and plantation crops.
Plant Protection Officer(s)
Soils/Plant Nutrition/Fertilizers
Training/Evaluation
Information/Communications
Farm Management/Economics
Irrigation/Wiater Management
28.       The District SMS would depend upon other SMSs at the State level
and would be responsible for initiating joint applied research projects with
the agricultural college, other Government and private industries to identify
and eliminate factors limiting agricultural production. The leadership
and cooperative programs they undertake would contribute to their professional
competency and recognition. They would also be responsible for training and
supporting the divisional SMS.
29.       Divisions.  The DAOs would be based at the revenue divisional head-
quarters, of which there are four in Madurai. They would be supported by SMSs.
The desirable disciplines at this level would appear to be general agronomy,
pest control, water management, training and information, and, where condi-
tions warrant, a specialist in commercial or plantation crops. The SMSs
would be DyAO grade i.e., normally young men with 3-5 years field experience,
but with a good specialized academic background. The main function of the
SMS would be training, applied research and supporting the VEWs and the DyAOs
in farmer contacts.                                                          82



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 7
30.       Blocks.  Each of the 34 blocks would have one or more DyAO.  Each
DyAO in the blocks except for the Periyajulam Division 1/ would supervise the
work of 8 to 10 VEWs. The main contact between farmers and extension service
would be by VEW at the block level. The new VEWs would be drawn from VLW,
qualified Agricultural and Demonstration Assistants, and even the surplus of
DyAOs. Because of the relative skills of farmers, it appears desirable even-
tually to place professional agriculturists (DyAO) as the main contact with
farmers.
31.       Almost all VLWs would remain in their present locations, but 70%
would be assigned to full-time agricultural work and be under the direct
control of PIC, leaving 3 to 4 VLW per Block with the BDO to cover non-
agricultural work. All workers on DA special schemes, including Field
Demonstrators, or equivalent, would be made available for redeployment to
full-time agricultural extension work. There would be, on average, one VEW
for every 650 farm families.
32.       Each panchayat has a Compost Development Inspector, a post created
at the time when the cost and availability of fertilizer suddenly became
difficult. This situation has now passed, nevertheless the concept of
maximum utilization of natural and otherwise waste manurial resources is
sound.  However, they would become VEW.  Their absorption into the force
should be an easy and rapid process.
33.       This organizational structure would enable rational selection of
objectives and goals, concentrating efforts on high priority areas and
allocating human, physical and financial resources accordingly. Since all
special schemes and programs would be incorporated within the one system
the flow of technology and information would be streamlined.
Regular Farm Visits
34.       Under the new agricultural extension system, an intensive farm
visit program would be introduced. The farming areas and the estimated
350,000 farm families of the District would be divided into units of 400-800
families each, to which a VEW would be allocated. Each unit, in turn, would
be divided into eight more or less equal groups of 50-100 farm families.
Each of these groups would be visited by its VEW, on a fixed day of the week,
once every two weeks. Thus, the VEW would cover four groups in one week and
four groups the next. The day and location of visits for each VEW would be
well publicized and documented both among farmers and in the Block and Dis-
trict offices. The VEW would spend the full day with the scheduled farmers'
group; during the morning hours he would visit the farmers in their fields
and, in the afternoon, hold an open meeting in the village, at a predeter-
mined hour and location to be proposed by the group.
35.       It is not possible to attempt to reach all farmers in direct exten-
sion work in the field. Some are part-time farmers, others not accustomed to
contracts with outside agencies, and a few others are best influenced by
1/   A special extension methods experiment for the Periyakulam Division is
described in para 65.
83



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 8
neighbors or relatives. Under the guidance of their superiors and in con-
sultation with the panchayat and the farmers themselves, the VEW would select
6 to 10 contact farmers from each group. Contact farmers should be from all
levels of village society, including sharecroppers, and would be selected for
their potential influence and willingness to collaborate with the extension
service. Changes in contact farmers could be made, especially between seasons,
if shown to be ineffective or if they so desired. The VEW, in his field visits,
would make special efforts to reach at least all the contact farmers' fields,
and they, in turn, would share the responsibility of organizing and attending
the afternoon meetings. Their fields may be used as demonstration plots and
for carrying out some field trials. They would also have priority in farmer-
training programs.
36.       Each DyAO would supervise 6 to 10 VEWs and, at least once every two
weeks, would participate in the VEWs' programs of visits to farmers, following
a pattern that would enable him to reach every farmers' group at least twice
each season. He would check that the VEW visits and meetings were being car-
ried out on schedule and would assist both VEWs and farmers in technical
matters. He would also assist the VEWs in carrying out demonstrations and
simple adaptive research trials. This close ongoing relationship between
DyAO and VEW should relieve the latter of the need for any formal reporting.
He is expected, however, to keep a diary which would be scrutinized and signed
by any superior visiting him.
37.       The extension supervisors up to the highest level, having access
to the VEWs' and DyAOs' schedules, could quickly and easily, find out whether
visits are being made as planned, by making visits to the areas in which VEW
and DyAO are scheduled on particular days, and by questioning farmers about
the visit days in their villages, the messages learned, etc. Experience else-
where in India has shown that, once farmers become aware of the fixed visit
schedule, they themselves monitor through their complaints, if visits are not
maintained regularly and in a satisfactory manner.
In-service Training
38.       The success of the intensive farm visit program would be assured
by an equally intensive training program for the field staff. The VEWs would
receive training one full day every two weeks, learning in a practical and
applied manner, the messages which are to be delivered to the farmers in the
next round of visits. The advice given farmers must be that which can be
immediately used.
39.       Block.  Two two-weekly VEW training session would be given each
month at the Block level, by the DyAOs to their 8-25 VEWs as a group. This
training would be completely practice oriented, with time devoted to actually
carrying out field operations, such as sowing and spraying. The VEWs would be
free to raise and discuss any problems they had encountered during the preced-
ing field visits. Division SMSs would visit these meetings held by the DyAO
for VEWs on a rotational basis to assist in discussions.
84



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 9
40.       Division.  One monthly training session would be organized and led
by the DDA and Division SMSs for DyAOs and VEW. The Training Officer would
organize the plan for the entire Division. These sessions should, if possible,
be held at adaptive research experiments and demonstrations.
41.       District.  The training of the DyAO would be held once every four
weeks at District level, preferably for two days. The Training Officer and the
SMSs, together with researchers from TNAU would provide the training. It is at
these sessions that the details for all the ongoing training and programs of
work for the next four weeks are to be learned and carefully planned. For this
purpose, the staff of each Division would work separately during part of the
second day and come up with division-wide plans. Representatives of other
related organizations would be invited to participate in these sessions to
ensure coordination of activities.
42.       Twice a year, once before each crop season, the entire staff dis-
trict would gather for a three-day course to be given by TNAU Madurai and
District SMS staff. It is in this course that more basic and theoretical
knowledge would be taught, to give the field workers on overall view of the
major crops and innovations which would be recommended in the coming season.
These would be based upon the previous year's results which would be presented
and analyzed.
43.       In addition to these various training activities, special short
courses, for specific subjects, would be prepared for SMS, DAO and DyAO
as needed, to be decided upon by the DDA and his senior staff.
44.       The following table summarizes the in-service training proposed:
VEW would be trained:             -- Twice a year, pre-season course
at district for three days
-- twice a month at the Block for one
day, by DyAO
-- once a month at Division level for
one day by DAO and divisional SMS's
DyAOs would be trained:           -- Twice a year pre-season as above
-- once a month at the Division for
two days to prepare for coming
month.
85



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page  10
Division and District Head-
quarter staff would be
trained:                         -- Twice a year in pre-season as above
-- once a month for two days
-- in special courses to be held once
a year.
45.       In addition to participation in special courses, planned for the
senior technical staff, the SMSs would maintain close continuous relationships
with researchers at the universities and participate in adaptive research and
VEW field trials. This link is extremely important.
46.       The training officer would be responsible for advance planning and
monitoring of all training sessions in his division, for obtaining relevant
training publications, and for obtaining or producing leaflets which summarize
the subject matter and impact points of each session. He would ensure that
these materials were ready in good time and distributed to DyAO and VEWs at
each training session. The multiplicity of training activities in the dis-
trict, division and block requires careful and accurate planning, well in
advance, and ensuring that the equipment and facilities are available and
prepared in time.
47.       Provision is made in the project for 20 man-months a year of train-
ing outside Tamil Nadu especially to enable SMSs to specialize in particular
fields better developed in other States in India. Training Officers and DDA
may also visit other States to learn new methods.
Links with Research Organizations
48.       Agricultural research in Tamil Nadu is carried out by the two Uni-
versities at their farms and field stations as well as by the agricultural
department itself although there is no department-financed research station
in Madurai. "In-House" links are therefore established; contacts with the
universities can be strengthened by joint planning of adaptive research and
demonstration program and frequent personal contacts by the SMS.
Farmer Demonstrations and Field Trials
49.       The demonstration method has been widely used in India, with varying
results. Demonstrations are more effective if they involve the farmer as a
full partner, participating in the plans and evaluation as well as the field
work. It is therefore proposed to place emphasis on a group demonstration
program, to utilize the demonstration effect in fields of contact farmers,
where new practices would be employed, and in simple field trials which would
be carried farmers' fields. Every VEW or Dy AO will have an assigned number
(generally not more than eight) of demonstrations and field trials to perform.
86



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 11
50.       A preplanned series of field trials would be carried out in selected
farmers' fields and at the TMAU, Madurai Research Station. The three DA seed
farms in the District would be used for adaptive research. The District SMSs
would be directly responsible to the District DDA and, working closely with
the Division SMS and other technical field staff, form the important link
between research and extension. Recommendations would be tried out on a large
enough scale before being delivered to the farmers to ensure their validity
under local conditions and, at the same time, extension workers would receive
practical training and gain confidence in their recommendations through active
participation in field trial work. The researchers the University at Madurai
and Coimbatore research stations, by working with the adaptive research at
the seed farms and field trials, would be pulled into closer contact with
farmers' problems and with the extension service.
Equipment and Facilities Supporting Extension Work and Training
51.       Equipment and operating costs would be provided for publications,
preparation of audio-visual aids, duplicating machines and photographic ser-
vices needed for effective extension work with the farmers. Materials and
equipment such as flip charts and blackboards, needed by Dy AO and VEW in
their ongoing training and extension work, would also be provided.
52.       Since heavy emphasis is to be placed on the training of all field
staff, funds would be provided for incremental operating costs involved, such
as preparation of materials and aids for the training sessions, renting space,
honorarium for outside lecturers and transporting extension workers on field
visits.
Transportation and Mobility
53.       A key feature of the new extension methodology and its organiza-
tion is the requirement that the entire staff spend most of their time in the
field. The VEWs would spend four days on pre-planned visits and the fifth
and sixth days for training, field trials, demonstrations and special re-
quests each week. The Dy AOs would spend four days a week with VEW, the two
other days as above. The SMSs would be expected to devote two days to field
visits and two days to field trials each week. The DAO would be at least
three days a week in the field. The SMSs and DAO would have the remaining
time to help with special requests, planning and programs. Transportation
is thus crucial to the success of the program, and is a serious constraint
to extension today.
54.       The VEW would require bicycles, for which, if necessary, loans must
be available. The allowance at present given, Rs 5-7 per month, is insuffi-
cient to pay for, and maintain a bicycle and an increase would be required
(may be at least double the present figure).
87



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 12
55.       The DyAOs who cover an area of 3,000 to 4,000 ha, and possibly have
to travel some distance to reach their work area, require light motorcycles,
sturdy enough to negotiate rough and slippery roads. Experience in India and
elsewhere has shown that vehicles of this kind only remain operational if
owned by the user. Therefore, a condition of appointment must be that the
candidate is willing, able and licensed to operate a motorcycle; on the other
hand, the department must be prepared to loan him the necessary funds to pur-
chase one, secure priorities in delivery, and pay a reasonable operating al-
lowance that enables the user to maintain his vehicle as well as meet the
loan payments.
56.       At the Division the DAOs would require two 4-WD vehicles, and a
light truck for SMSs. While experience shows that 4-WD vehicles are usually
successfully operated by Government departments, there is ample evidence from
private enterprise sources that vehicle life is longer if privately owned.
Therefore, it would be advisable to provide both options: enabling the
entitled officials to purchase and operate their own vehicles or to provide
a Government owned one. The Divisional SMSs would each have a motorcycle.
57.       Allowances for using motorcycles, however, should be increased and
conditions changed in order to make it attractive for Dy AO to purchase them.
The DyAO mobility must be assured. The motor vehicles are incremental to
the existing, or replace such vehicles as should be (but without the project
probably would not be) taken out of service. About one-half the VEW own
bicycles already.
58.       The District DDA and the SMSs attached to his office would not or-
dinarily go to the field, visiting farmers, without Divisional staff, who
have suitable vehicles for the purpose (para 56). Therefore, the cheaper
(in real terms) and more economical motor car would be more suitable --
one for the DDA and three cars for four or five SMSs. Since similar vehicles
are in operation in Tamil Nadu and in DA, maintenance should not pose a serious
problem.
59.       Incremental vehicle operating and maintenance costs for the project
period (five years) are provided by the DA, based on 25,000/km/year. A
motorcyle allowance would be given    based on 10,000 km/year.  Basic travel
allowance for DyAO incremental staff is provided. However, it is felt that
greatly increased demands would be made of the entire staff, in terms of time
and distances of travel and length of stay away from home, justifying an addi-
tional travel allowance to all staff. This show of concern and appreciation
for hardship and effort to be made by the staff, otherwise relatively lowly
paid, would have important motivational and incentive effects and would con-
tribute to the effectiveness of the extension service.
60.       Housing for field staff should be located where they do their work.
Many of VEW and DyAO now occupy houses at Block headquarters. For the most
part housing is available for extension workers except in the Periyakulam
88



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 13
Division. It is proposed, therefore, to provide in Periyakulam Division ten
duplex-houses at selected locations. In homes of DyAO provision for office
space and equipment would be made.
Coordination, Program Planning and Evaluation
61.       Under the project, both agricultural extension and agricultural re-
search would be strengthened, the interdependence between the two increased,
and their commitment to the farming community made greater. There is need
for a systematic approach for the development delivery and ultimate use of
effective and beneficial technology. Program planning should continue to
take place twice each year, before the kharif and rabi seasons.
An Experiment in Extension Contacts
62.       The diversity of crops, relatively skillful farmers and generally
good yields in the Madurai District raises the question as to how much formal
education is needed by extension workers to provide the leadership to farmers.
The DA feels that the main point of contact with farmers should by DyAO who
are college trained. Experience in other locations in India has indicated
that satisfactory leadership can be provided by VEW with less education but
with good in-service training and SMS support. An experiment to compare the
two contact levels is a part of this extension improvement project. Farmer
contact in the Periyakulam Division will be by DyAO at the ratio of one Dy
AO to 1,200 farms. All other Divisions will utilize VEW as the main point
of contact at a ratio 1:650 farmers.
63.       As agriculture becomes more complex and farmers more knowledgeable
and skillful it is logical to expect that the extension workers will likewise
require more education and skills. If enough college graduates with the
needed skills and concern with farmers are available to perform the extension
work this would undoubtedly be best -- but when not enough Dy AOs are avail-
able or the farming is less complex then perhaps greater numbers of less
educated but well-trained workers (VEWs) can make equal accomplishment.
64.       In the experiment the same methods (regular group visits, intensive
training and mobility) will be used by both groups. The farmer groups in the
case of the DyAO in Periyajulam will be larger, but perhaps the great depth of
knowledge by the DyAO will permit them to be more efficient in obtaining farmer
change. Special measurements of the effectiveness of the two contact groups
will be required.
65.       Evaluation of the effectiveness of extension programs would be
based upon the number of farmers changing to recommended practices--increased
production and improved net farm income. Persons knowledgeable in these pro-
cedures should exist in the state and district extension staff in addition
to the capabilities at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Special
89



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 14
measurement will be required to compare the effectiveness of the two methods
of farmer contacts. The evaluation will be under the guidance of TNAU in
cooperation with the Director of Agriculture in Madras and the Deputy Director
in Madurai (see Annex 6 paragraph 8 to 11 for details).
May 1977
90



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
New Agricultural Extension Staff Positions and Area Data
Division                 Madurai      Usilampathi      Dindigul       Periyalculam       Kodaikanal                  Total
Sub-Division                                                            A       B
No. Blocks                  6             10               10            3      4            1                         34
Total Area               171,300        292,080         351,925           209,460          112,435               1,137,200
Total Irrigated Area      68,415         57,990           69,420           45,430            1,470                  242,725
% Area Irrigated          39.9           19.9            19.7              21.7              1.3                      21.3
Total Population         529,300        808,396         895,689           625,235           71,453                 2,930,013
No. Families              96,139        136,380         146,395           105,721           10,207                   494,842
No. Farms                 52,421        100,374           88,501           79,970            7,897                   329,145
Farms/VEW                    655             643             650            1,200(DyAO)        658
Agr. Ext. Staff
Div. and Blocks
DAO                       1              1               1            1       1             1                         6
SMS teams                 1              1               1            1       1             1                         6
(DyAO)                   (4)            (5)             (4)          (4)    (4)            (4)                      (25)
DyAO in charge                           2                2            3      4                                      11
DyAO                     10             20              17           28      38             2                       115
VEW                      80            156             136                                 12                       384
Assistants                                                             5      5                                      10
District
DDA                                                                                                                  1
SMS (DAO)                                                                                                            9
Other Programs (DAO)                                                                                                 7     sX3
Assistants                                                                                                           5
H                                                                                                                            S p(



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
INDIA                        Table 2
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Agricultural Extension Service Staff
Madurai District
Present         New Program
Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA)                     1                1
District Agricultural Officer (DAO)                                       6
Subject Matter Specialist (DAO rank)                    20                9
Specialist Programs (DAO rank)                                            5
Agricultural Officer (AO -new rank)                                      11
Subject Matter Specialist (DyAO rank)                                    25
Deputy Agricultural Officer (DyAO)                     223              115
Village Extension Worker (VEW - new title)                              384
Village Level Worker (VLW)
Agricultural Assistant                               385               15
Demonstration Assistant                        )
Compost Development Inspector                         34
92



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Organization of Agricultural  Programs and Advisory Services to Farmers
PRESENT                                                                                                            FUTURE
-                            FARMERS                                                       F AR ME R S                                        FARMERS
'                                        '        '                                                                                              VEW
FA    AF~ DA   CLL.  DvAO         FA           0 DA    Dy       DyAO           VLW                  B L O C K S                                        Dy AO
1'           *      *        AGR. EXTENSION                    3LOCKS.'
BDO                D I V I S I O  N                                    DAO        SMS
SPECIAL         SMS                     
PROGRAMS  |
- - - - : -'SFEC. __0SMS    DDO       VILLAGE                                            SPECIAL ST ICTPOASPIC s-SMS
SPEC.    ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ AICAIT                      DST I TPROGRAMS                                        "       '
FROG.
DISTEICT    PANCRAYAT                                                l
DD                                  COLLECTOR  UNION COUN.                                             III
JDDA   JDA   JDA    JDA   JDA                                                       .                                                  HI
t1                                                                                   I t  T          S      T A T E                   STATE
I                                  ~~~~~~~~~~SPECIAL- 4  DA '- STAT  SMS
DISTRICT                                           PROGRAMS
DEV. COUN.
D                                                                                                                        I
TAMIL NADUTAI  A   DP.O
DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE                                                                                                    TAMIL NADU DEFT. OF
AGRICULTURE
ABBREVIATIONS:
FA   =    Field Assistant
--- -- -- --- Advisory                           AA    -   Agricultural Assistant
* Special programs under direct                  DA    =   Demonstration Assistant
control of JDA in Madras eacn with             CDT   =   Compost Development Inspector
their own farmers contact agents               DyAO  =   Deputy Agricultural Officer
(FA, AA, DyAO, etc.)                           SMS   =   Subject Matter Specialists
VLW   =   Village Level Worker
BDO   =   Block Development Officer
DDO   =   District Development Officer
DAO   =   District Agricultural Officer
DA    =   Director of Agriculture
JDA   =   Joint Director of Agriculture
VEW       Village Extension Worker
DDA   =   Deputy Director of Agriculture
PIC   =   Project Implementation Committee, Chaired by DDA



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
Cropping Patterns
1.        Paddy is the preferred crop in the project area and occupies 107%
of the cultivable crop area. Sorghum, millets and pulses are also produced
for food; sugarcane, groundnuts, and a variety of vegetables, fruits and
other crops are produced on a smaller scale.
2.        Given enough water and a strong market outlet most farmers would
produce only paddy. Encouragement needs to be given to other crops to diver-
sify the diet and provide a wider economic base for the area. The market
system and transportation is generally adequate for this, but incentives
and the technical knowledge and skills for producing these crops need to
be intensified. With encouragement over a period of time, farmers will
diversify their cropping patterns. Because these changes are not essential
for the economic viability of project costs they are not emphasized in the
report.
3.        The present cropping pattern and calendars for the two Periyar
Vaigai Command Areas are shown in Tables 2 and 3 and Figures 1 and 2. Com-
parative cropping patterns representing the two development alternatives
(single or double crop paddy) versus a rainfed condition are presented in
Table 4 and in Figures 3 and 4.
Periyar Main Canal Area
4.        The Periyar Canal System consists of the Main Canal single and
double irrigated areas plus the Old Extension area. The Government has
decided to irrigate as single crop paddy 1,736 ha not presently irrigated
within the command area. In normal years, water is delivered to the Main
Canal double crop area 1 June to 1 March, single crop area 15 August to 15
February and the Old Extension 1 November to 28 February rather than 15
September as specified in the irrigation schedule.
5.        The transplanting of paddy in this area is almost a continuous
operation from the time the first canal water is available -- 1 June until 1
December. The nurseries may be established with well water or surface water
when available later in the season.
6.        Sugarcane is an important irrigated crop in the area.  It is irri-
gated from wells during the spring months. Small acreages of groundnuts,
sorghums, millets, vegetables, fruits and other crops are planted.
94



ANNEX 8
Page 2
7.        Pulses (green and black gram) are grown on resudual soil moisture
following the paddy crop. Pulses were reported to occupy 40 to 50% of this
acreage but examination of Revenue District crop records did not substantiate
this report. Instead there appeared to be only 5% of the paddy land planted
to pulses. With adequate incentive, pulses could offer more diversity of diet
as well as better utilization of resources.
Thirumangalam Main Canal Area
8.        Paddy occupies 75% of the total area.  Water is generally delivered
in early September rather than 1 June as specified in the irrigation schedule.
Sorghum, millets, groundnuts are more important in this area than the other
two commands.  In some areas shallow soils limit yields of upland crops.
9.        The additional water supplied by the project will be used to fill
tanks in the area for irrigation of 942 additional ha most of which will be
planted to single crop paddy.
Paddy
10.       Yields of paddy are generally good (3,400 kg/ha), fields are
quite weed free, fertilized quite well and the seed stocks are fair.
Improvements could be made in nursery management (transplant earlier and
reduce breakage of roots and tops); earlier date of planting, now delayed
because of late deliveries of water in canals. The crop suffers from
bacterial leaf blight and in some areas sheath and stem rots. Gall midge,
brown plant hopper and stemborers are the principal insects; they can be
controlled by locally available insecticides. Threshing, handling and
conserving paddy on the farms and in the village could be improved.
11.       The recommended varieties are HYV, in particular IR8, IR20.  These
and a number of locally improved varieties are grown. It was reported the
HYV occupy 85% of the total acreage however field inspection and revenue data
indicates much smaller acreage for 1976. Uncertainty as to irrigation suplies
in 1976 was perhaps responsible for the change in varieties. Better water
supplies will result in a return to more intensity in paddy farming.
12.       In double irrigated areas - i.e. areas receiving irrigation water
between June and February - the best results are obtained if an improved
local variety is followed by an HYV: the latter benefit more from the greater
sunshine intensity around the turn of the year.
13.       Sugarcane is grown for the two mills near the project area and is
always associated with wells for irrigation in the off-season. As the winters
are mild, yields are near 75 tons/ha with good sugar content. Red rot is a
problem, stemborers are under control. There is mill capacity for a greater
acreage.
95



ANNEX 8
Page 3
14.       Finger millet (Eleusine coracana) a Ragi is sometimes grown instead
of the first rice crop, especially in the indirect ayacut of the single
irrigated areas where water supplies resulting from local storms are deemed
insufficient or unreliable for paddy. Some impressive crops were seen, des-
pite the drought of 1976.
15.       Pearl millet (Pennisetum typhoides) a Cumbu, is an old established,
traditionally popular crop. Under irrigation, paddy has largely replaced it
but many farmers have planted it again in 1976 when it became clear that
water supplies in the areas at present irrigated will be short and late.
There, as well as in purely rain-fed or areas from well irrigated areas, some
very impressive crops of hybrid were seen. The downy mildew ("greenear")
disease which effects many hybrids on the heavier soils is absent on the light
soils of the project area. Planting times are June/July and again in September/
October; yields can be over 2.0 tons/ha. The crop is remarkably free of pests
and diseases.
16.       Sorghum (Sorghum vulgare) or Cholam, another traditional crop, is
gaining popularity with the successful introduction of hybrids. Yields in
excess of 3 tons/ha are common. Ratooning trials have been successful and
planting in June or early July and allowing a ratoon to grow up after harvest
is an increasingly common practice. Pest and diseases are, as with pearl
millet, not a problem, with the exception of occasional headsmut. Crops
planted out of season may be attacked by shoot fly.
17.       The minor millets, (Setaria and Panicum spp) are upland crops
rarely grown under supplementary irrigation but are common on the shallow
soils of the areas that might form the new extension areas. They are a
subsistence crop; yields are low but some exceptionally good crops were
seen where some supplementary water was applied.
18.       Cotton, (Gossypium sgp) both the arboreum and the hirsutum species,
is an important crop. Under irrigation, the species is almost exclusively
hirsutum. Planting may be in May/June or in September/October. The recently
introduced higher-yielding varieties, Varalakshmi and MCU5, give good yields
and suffer relatively little from pests. The main pests are the white and,
to a lesser extent, the pink bollworm. Thrips, mites and jassids are only
minor problems. Pest control is by blanket spraying, there is no survel-
liance. Yields under irrigation are about 1.5 tons/ha.
19.       Groundnuts (Arachis hypogaea) are a traditional crop on the
deeper soils of the area. They suffer from leaf-spot and are occasionally
attacked by the red hairy caterpillar. The latter is controlled by aerial
spraying as it may reach epidemic proportions. Yields, with supplementary
irrigation, are around 1.4 tons/ha but 2 tons/ha are not uncommon. Bunchy
types are TMV-2, TMV-78, TMV-9; spreading varieties TMV-10. Rainfed crop
is planted in June/July, the irrigated after paddy.
96



ANNEX 8
Page 4
20.       Pulses are the green (Phaseolus aureus), black (P. mungo), red
(Cajanus cajan) and horse gram (Dolichos biflorus) and lablab (D. lablab).
They are usually grown after paddy on residual moisture, or with the early
rains, before the main crop is planted. Red gram is interplanted with ground-
nuts. At present, yields are quite low, but the TNAU is doing intensive de-
velopment work under the all-India Coordinated Pulse Development Program.
21.       Other crops grown are chillies, tomatoes on a field scale, some
bananas, bettle nut leaves, and a flowering, small shrub, Vinea rosia, which
produces an alkaloid with properties similar to derris powder and is an
important constitutent of locally formulated pesticides.
Cropping Pattern with Water Savings
22.       As a result of project improvements including reduction of seepage
by lining of canals and better water regulation with new and improved struc-
tures more water will be available for crop use. The Government has decided
to first bring 2,678 ha of non-irrigated land in the existing command areas to
single crop paddy. Furthermore, the command area will be extended to bring an
additional 9,000 ha under irrigation. After this, the additional water may be
used to:
Alternative 1: Provide water for new single crop paddy probably downstream
of the Pulipatti regulator.
Alternative 2:   Utilize all additional water in the present command areas
to provide double crop paddy to as much area as possible.
23.       The alternatives are compared as three sample cropping patterns and
irrigation demands. For purposes of illustration (Figures 3 and 4, Table 6)
cropping units of 100 hectares each are presented to show: the crop acreage
of each crop, water requirements per ha at farm outlet for each crop allowing
field efficiencly of 85% for paddy and 65% for all other crops and the total
irrigation demand for each crop and cropping pattern.
May 1977
97



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Command Areas Irrigated
Periyar Canal            Thirumangalam
System                    Canal           Total
(Hectares)
Cultivable Area               59,624                    6,264          65,888
Presently Irrigated
Single Crop Area            39,670                    5,322          44,992
Double Crop Area            18,218                                   18,218
TOTAL                     57,888                    5,322          63,210
ProJect to add_/              10,736                      942          11,678
Future with Project
Single Crop Area            50,406                    6,264          56,670
Double Crop Area            18,218                                   18,218
TOTAL                     68,624                    6,264          74,888
Government has determined to bring some presently unirrigated areas
(2,678 ha) within the present command areas under irrigation before
the extension of the area (Alt. 1) or increasing double crop (Alt. 2).
98



ANNEX 8
INDIA                        Table 2
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Periyar Canal System
Cultivable Command Area = 59,624 ha.
Present
Irrigated Non-Irrigated
Crops                             (Hectares)
Paddy Single Crop         35,748
First Crop              18,243
Second Crop             12,161
Groundnuts                   480       1,080
Sorghum (Cholam)                          850
Finger Millet (Ragi)         460           75
Pearl Millet (Cumbu)                      345
Minor Millets
Pulses                                    760
Cotton                       473         125
Sugarcane                  1,172
Veg./Miscellaneous         1,080          240
Total Sown                69,817       3,475
Fallow                                    400
GRAND TOTAL                      73,692
Crop intensity (%)                  123
99



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Cropping Pattern Thirumangalam Canal
Cultivable Command Area: 6,264 ha.
Present
Irrigated      Non
Irrigated
(Hectares)
Crops
Paddy Single Crop           4,700
First Crop                  145
Second Crop                  65
Groundnuts                       160           650
Sorghum                           60           690
Finger millet
Pearl millet                                   200
Minor millets
Pulses                                          40
Cotton                            40
Sugarcane                         80
Other                            120
Total Sown                 5,370         1,580
Fallow                                      1,010
Grand Total                          7,960
Crop Intensity (%)                     110.9
100



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Comparative Cropping Patterns (100 hectares) and Irrigation Demands
Allowing Field Efficiencies of o0%  for Paddy and 65%  all Other Crops
Rainfed Farm                 Single Crop Paddy               Double Crop Paddy
Crop                        3               3               3               3               3               3
ha     m /ha    Total m3       ha      m /ha    Total m3 1/   ha       m /ha    Total mi
Paddy Single                   5                              84     7,635      641,41C
1st                                                                                         95     7,440      706,8oO
2nd                                                                                        74      6,410      474,380
Groundnuts dry                20                               5      Rm
Groundnuts irrigated                                           2       505        1,010        2       505        1,010
Sorghum                       15       R                       5       R                       3       R
Millets                       25        R                      5       Rm                      3       Rm
Pulses                         5                              20       Rm                      8       Rm
Others dry                                                     3       R
Others Irrigated                                               3       560        1,620        6       560        3,360
Fallow                        35
TOTAL                      100                            127                              19].
Crop intensity (%)            70                            127                              191
Irrigation Intensity (%)      0                              89                              177
Rm = Residual soil moisture after paddy.
1/  Takes into account that one-third of the field losses are reused.
(D
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



ANNEX 8
Table 5
INDIA
PERIYAR TAITAT ITRRTGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Crop Yields
(Kg/hectare)
Present                   Projected
Irrigated     Nonr-      Irrigated    Non-
Irrigated                Irrigated
Paddy (rough rice)
Single and  first crop          3,400        -          4,500         -
Second crop                     3,000                   4,000
Groundnuts in shells              1,400        800        2,250         900
Cotton (seed cotton)               1,500       550        1,800          600
Sorghum (Cholam)                  3,000      1,000        4,000       1,200
Sugarcane                       75 Ton/ha      -        95 Ton/ha        -
Pulses
Pigeon Peas (Redgram)              -       1,000          _         1,250
Blackgram                          -         800          -            900
Greengram                          -         900          -         1,050
Millets
Pearl (Cumbu)                    1,750       400        3,000          600
Finger (Raji)                   1,200        600       2,000          650
102



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Present Cropping Pattern anu Calendar Peri,yar 1ain Canal and Old Extension
Cultivable Command Area: 59,624 hectares
..n  July   August    September  October    Noeber    Deen$er    Janary  Februe  Mr  A  ma
~~Others Irrigated ~~
80%                                                                              - Other Crops
Irrigated
70h       /        Paddy                     a
/      ~~~First Crop /   /Second Crop /
Cdf    60 (                               /.                   _   
O      50%
'I)
h       l                         /          Paddya/
Single Crop
30%.
207.
071~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
June  July  Augu.t  September    October    Nouemuber    December    Je-nucy  Fe ru.ey  MeIch  AaprIl  ?*Ay
Ca)
Rainfall iWI    33.3  55.7  1o8.&  140.0 217.5 107.1  94.9  3.6   4.7  20.5   42.6 63.6
Water   in   canal    _ _,_-_-_--.--_._                                    t



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Present Cropping Pattern and Calendar Thirumangalam Ganai
Cultivable Command Area. 6,264 hectares
100%  Juna    .  July  AugRut  Sw.eDtber    October  November   t'ecerber    Ja.rury  F.br.?ry  Mr Aprl hS
-Sugarcane
/  orghum and Millets     /.
9< ,                   Rainfed         
so         &round& uts Rainfed 
4a. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Msc. Irrigate CroP-lx--- .
- ----='i;2ZEF f;rgt +   -   _   _ _ _ __           - Groundnuts Irrigated
701                                                                             -Paddy Second Crop
'+-4                              ~~~~~~~~~Paddy
o     501
Single Crop
401
301
201                        /
Rainfall mm        33.3  55. 7  108.8 140.o 217.5 107.1  914.9  3.6  14.7  20. 5   142.6  63.6
Water in Canal*
* Water is theOretically available 1 June to 1 October, actual water delivery dates are indicated above.



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Projected Single Crop Paddy
Cultivable Command Area: 100 hectares
100%  J..e  July   Auoust    S.pt-ber   October  Nove.ebr    frce.ber  J*nuory    PCbruary  Y1rch  April  MAy
_~~~u                                 ~sugar-cape..  
---Sorghum and. Millets 
sos   Bainreda-_____g.-                 _                           , _ 4 Others Irrigated
Other Dry   rops.-                               '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.C rops
roundnuts Irrigated
eal  /   Groundnus Rainfed                                                        i
Paddy
Single Crop
0
4.)
a) ~~~~0.L
7                /                                        Sorghum Millets Rm
11                   /                                /       /      Pulses Rm    /w
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~~~~~~~~0
s.n    JUy J  uusc  Septembr   October    Nov-ambr  Deceobtr    Jau-ry    Februsty  pAch  Apri1  MAy
t-n  Rainfall mm            33.3   55.7  108.8  14o.0 217.5 107.1  9h.9   3.6   4.7  20.5  42.6   63.6
Water in Canal



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Projected Double Crop Paddy
Cultivable Commrand Area: 100 hectares
100- Jue.   July   Augvet  September  October  Novembar  Deceember J.oenry  F.bru.ry   March   Aptil    May
V   slg'nrrant          '       t       2       $  ____l    _L _--~~tzarcRqe
9041
~~~~~~~~oer    1 rrig.
0 / / ,- gorghum ~~~~~Rm,-
70%~ ~                                      /        /Pulses Rm/
Paddy
I            /            First Crop
0         0
4-)
C)                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Paddy
0)      40_/                                                         Second Crop
30%
20%L
10%
07.
June   JMly    A.gust  S.pteber  October  November  December  January  Febrvary   March    April   May
CY%
Rainfall i.          33.3   55.7  138.0  140.0 217.5  107.1   94.,  3.6    4.7    20.5    42.6  63.6
Water in C2anal



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
Crop Inputs Requirements
1.        Present and projected farm inputs and labor requirements represen-
tative of farms in the project area are given in Table 1. Typical produc-
tion values and costs per crop ha are given in Table 2. The current levels
are derived from the data supplied by the Department of Agriculture (DA) and
from information obtained in interviews with local farmers. Future require-
ments (after development under the extension program) are based on the recom-
mendations of the DA and UNDP experts and on observations of the cultural
practices of the progressive farmers in the area. In the derivation of re-
presentative levels for individual crops, the following assumptions are taken:
(a) Purchased Inputs. Farmers are well acquainted with and
have fairly good access to supplies of fertilizer (nitro-
genous, phosphatic, and potassic) and pesticides (Annex 8).
Credit availability for their purchase, through Government
and commercial institutions is already good and being
further expanded. In some cases, particularly in rain-
fed areas, application rates are below recommended levels
for such conditions and somewhat unbalanced due to the
dominant availability of nitrogenous supplies. In the
future, under the extension program, the use of fertil-
izers is expected to increase generally and to be more
effectively applied (Table 2).
(b) Farm Labor. Future monthly labor requirements (including
both family and hired labor) are based on the assumption
that no substantial change in farming practices will take
place. They include crop preparation, cultivation, and
harvest requirements.
(c)  Power.  Bullocks used for land preparation, threshing and
hauling are owned by all large farmers and by most small
farmers. They are rented out only in a few cases. The
imputed overall cost to the owner of a bullock pair,
including upkeep, feed and depreciation is roughly equal
to the daily rental charge (Rs 15 per day per pair). The
107



ANNEX 9
Page 2
production cost for each crop has been uniformly estimated
at this rate. A few tractors are available for land prep-
arations, but their use is not reflected in these estimates.
(d) Seed. Farm owners generally use seed from their harvest and
purchase new seed only when necessary. Table 1 gives the
total annual seed requirements. The average cost given in
Table 2 is typically based on a value 25% over the farmgate
price for the crop, thus allowing a premium for selection
cleaning and storage.
Farm Budgets
2.        Representative Farm Size.  The size distribution of holdings in
the project area is derived from data for Madurai and Ramanathapuram
Districts in the 1971 Agricultural Census. Size distribution in the project
areas is estimated as follows:
Number of Holdings       Area of Holdings         Average
Size Category            as % of Total            as % of Total            Size
(ha)                       (%)                     (%)                 (ha)
0-0.5                       36                        7                  .26
0.5-1.0                       23                       12                  .72
1-2                         21                      21                  1.4
2-3                          8                      14                  2.4
3-4                          4                      10                  3.4
4-5                          2                        7                 4.3
5-10                         3                      17                  6.7
over 10                         3                       12                15.8
Total                    100                     100                  1.3
Individual farm budgets are prepared for three representative farm sizes:
small (0.5 ha), average (1.3 ha), and large (3.0) ha.
3.        Project Farm Alternatives.  New irrigation would be supplied to
existing farms which are now in a rainfed or single irrigated crop condition.
Farm sizes and technology would remain about the same. Farm cropping patterns,
however, would shift to either single irrigation or double irrigation under
Project Alternative 1 or 2, respectively (Annex 2, Para. 12).
Farm Budgets
4.        The cropping patterns,farm incomes, and likely family wage earnings
under the two alternatives are given in Table 3. The following major assump-
tions underlie the estimates:
108



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(a) Cropping Patterns and Intensity. The cropping patterns
and intensities for rainfed, single and double irriga-
tions are representative of the present cropping pat-
terns in the area. Possible changes and improvements
which might be anticipated under the extension program
are not taken into account for this analysis. Sugarcane
which usually is grown only on a few large farms is not
included in the patterns for the representative farms.
(b) Crop Yields and Input Requirements. Yields of irrigated
crops are presently high. Significant yield increases,
therefore, are anticipated only as a result of the proposed
intensive agricultural extension program for the existing
and new areas and improvements in genetic crop yield poten-
tial. For the purposes of this analysis no yield increase
is taken into account. Production costs are estimated based
on input requirements for individual crops discussed above
and given in Table 1.
(c) Family Farm Labor Availability. Allowing time for cooking
and home chores for women and children, the average number
of family farm workers is equivalent to about 2.5 adults.
This includes persons with limited working ability. The
estimated number of full working days per family on this
basis averages about 50 days per month.
(d) Hired Farm Labor. Hired labor requirements are estimated
as the difference between cropping requirement and family
labor availability on a month by month basis. The monthly
requirements per ha are given in Table 1. The need to hire
labor varies with the size of farm. Generally, small farms
do not hire any labor. Some labor is exchanged during peak
seasons.
(e) Prices. Crop production and inputs are valued using the
financial prices given in Annex 10, Appendix 1.
(f) Wage Rates. During the past year wage rates ranged between
Rs 3 and Rs 9 per day, depending on the season and whether
the worker was male or female. Average rates were about
Rs 7 for males and Rs 5 for females. Rs 6 per man day is
used in the analysis.
(g) Wage Income. The estimates include the value of potential
wage earnings, computed, month by month, as one half of
residual family labor (monthly supply less requirements)
109



ANNEX 9
Page 4
valued at the average wage of Rs 6 per day. With new
irrigation, additional labor is required for cultivation
and off-farm wage opportunities decline. Accordingly,
the net increase in farm income is reduced somewhat by
the loss in wage earnings.
(h) Irrigation. The present costs of irrigation are treated
as part of the land revenue (item i). Also, for the bud-
gets for farms with new irrigation the present level of
charges has been used.
(i) Taxation. Land revenue and water rates are combined in
a single charge. Rates vary from village to village
depending on soils, water resources, and infrastructure
(roads and markets). Typical rates in the project area
are as follows:
Under 2 ha       Over 2 ha
(Rs/ha)          (Rs/ha)
Rainfed                           0                5
Single Irrigation                20               30
Double Irrigation                35               50
Project Cost Recovery
5.        Annual charges for full recovery of project costs over 30 years at
10% interest would amount to about Rs 28 million per year. Of this amount,
86% (Rs 23.5 million per year) is associated directly with the cost of pro-
viding additional water by reducing seepage and operational losses; the
balance (Rs 4.5 million per year) is for rehabilitation of the existing sys-
tem. Annual operation and maintenance costs for the system are estimated at
Rs 80 per ha.
6.        Water savings (best estimate 160 Mm ) are expected to benefit
24,800 ha of farm land presently rainfed or 29,500 ha of farm land presently
under single irrigation or a combination of both (Annex 2). Capital recovery
charges under these circumstances would amount to Rs 950 or Rs 800 per ha per
year, respectively.
Farm Repayment Capacity
7.        The theoretical capacity of recipients of new irrigation supplies
for paying such charges is estimated in Table 4. This (Project Rent) is a
portion of their incremental income which would remain after aproviding ade-
quate production incentives (rewards for family labor, farm management and a
margin for cultivation risks). More than half the farms in the project area
are less than 1 ha and their households are dependent for one-half or more of
their income on off-farm wages.
110



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Water Charges Collection
8.        At present, project area land owners pay annual water charges
ranging only as high as Rs 120 per ha and averaging about Rs 45 ha as part
of a composite land revenue tax. The land cess, a local tax, is calculated
as a percentage of the land revenue. The cess on the water charge averages
about Rs 30 per ha for the State. Cultivators of commercial crops (such as
groundnuts, and sugarcane) pay additional taxes ranging from Rs 30 to Rs 50
per ha. These crops are grown primarily under irrigation, and, in practice,
the commercial crop assessment is a water-related charge. for the State, the
total water and water related charges amount to about Rs 85 per ha. In addi-
tion, all farmers are taxed 2 to 4% on sale of produce other than foodgrains.
9.        Tamil Nadu is making a strong tax effort.  Over the past few years,
its tax revenue per capita was 50% higher than the national average and
as a percentage of State income it was 30% above the national average (fourth
highest among Indian states). Although the State ranks sixth in India in
per capita income, its rural areas which contain 70% of the population are
characterized by small farms and low incomes (per capita income below the
national average). In 1976, the State revised its agricultural taxation
with a 70% increase in water rates and the introduction of a commercial crop
assessment.
10.       Within the Periyar Vaigai system, only farmers receiving new irriga-
tion supplies would benefit from the project. It is unlikely that GOTN would
be able to enforce a higher rate for these farmers than for other farmers in
neighboring areas who have first priority water rights and at present already
single or double crop their lands. It is also unlikely that GOTN would be
able to increase the water charges throughout the Periyar Vaigai system with-
out adjusting the charges in other projects elsewhere in the State. Thus,
future appropriate levels for water-related charges would have to be decided
within GOTN's statewide policy for agricultural taxation.
11.       For the State, the collection of water  charges in 1976/77 amounted
to:
Rupees
Irrigation charges                  34.1 M
Additional water charges            30.0 M
Local cess and cess surcharge
on irrigation charges            42.6 M
Commercial crop assessment          15.0 M
Total for the State              121.7 M
Total                         Rs 85/ha
The cost for proper O&M of the irrigation systems is estimated at Rs 40-50
per ha or about Rs 60-70 M for the State.
111i



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)                                                   ANNEX 9
Table 1
Crop Inputs and Farm _udgets
Yield and Production Requi_e_en_s Per Hectare
PADDY                                     GROUNDNUTS                  SORGHUM         PEARL MILLET       GREEN GRAM
Single Irrigated    1st Irrigated    2nd Irrigated            Rainfed        Irrigated          Rainfed            Rainfed            Rainfed
P        F            P        F         P         F       P       F       P       F         P       F          P      F          P        F
Yield Per Hectare (Ky/ha)                        3,400    4,500         3,200   4,200    3,00C   4.000         800  1,000  1,400  2,250    1.000  1,200            400   600         900    1.050
production Requirements Per Hectare
Materials (Ky/ha)
Seed                                               25        25          25       25        25       25      125    125    125    125           10      10         5      8         25        25
Nitrogen nutrient (N)                              60       120          60      100        60      100        5      20      15      30         5      20               10          5        10
Phosphate nutrient (P)                             30        50          30       40        30       30       15      40      40      50                10               10         15        20
potassium nutrient (K)                             10                    10                 10
Pesticides           (Rs/ha)                      125       200         125      200       125      200       15    100       20    150         15      25               15         10        30
Manure               (Tons/ha)                      3                      3                                   5       3       3                 5                 5      3          3
Power (bullock-pair days/ha)
January                                            10        10                                                               10                                                     2         2
February                                            5         5                             10        9                        4                                                     3         4
March                                                                                        4        4
April
May                                                                        8        7                                          5                                                     3          3
June                                                                     10       10                           6       6       2      10         2       2         1      1
July                                               10        10           5        6                           2       2               6         6       7         6      6
August                                             10        10            1        1                           1      1               1          1      2                2
September                                           1         1                              7        7
October                                                                  10       10         8        8        4       5               6         3       5         3      3
November                                                                  4         5                 1        2       2               2         1       1         1      1
December                                            2         2                                                                3
Preharvest                                       24        24          24       24        16       16       11      11      18      18         9      12         9   10            5          5
Harvest                                          14        14          14       15        13       13        4       5       6       7         4       5         2      3          3          4
Total                                            38        38          38       39        29       29       15      16      24      25        13      17         11    13          8         9
Labor (adult-days/ha)l/
January                                            18        16                               5       5                       16                                                     4          4
February                                            9         8                             30       27                       16                                                     5          5
March                                                                                         5       5                        2                                                      3         4
April                                                                                                                          2                                                     4          4
May                                                                        8       7                                          20                                                     7          8
June                                                                     40       40                            6      6      10      13         3       3          3     3
July                                               20        22          46       45                           4       4              17         9      10        11    11
August                                             40        42          30       26                          10      10               8        11      12         10    12
September                                          54        47           5         5        8        7         5      5               7         2       2         2      2
October                                            12        10          22       22        40       41       15      15              23        11      13        12    13
November                                            6         6          13       10        30       29         6       6              8         3       3          3     3
December                                           10        10           _                  5        5                        7                                                                        -'X
Preharvest                                      134       129         129      123        90       89       21      21      43      43        24      25        26    29          13        14
Harvest                                          35        32          35       32        33       30       25      25      30      33        15      18        15    15          10        11
Total                                           169       161         164      155       123      119       46      46      73      76        39      43        41    44          23        25
Note: P - Present
F - Future, after development by agricultural extension program.
1/ Men and women work in the fields.



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
Crop Values (Financial Prices)
(Rs per hectare)
Pearl       Green-
Paddy                                   Groundnuts           Sorghum      Millet       gram
Single Irrigated   1st Irrigated   2nd Irrigated    Rainfed    Irrigated    Rainfed             Rainfed    Rainfed
P               F   P             F   P            F    P      F    P         F    P      F     P      F    P      F
Gross Value
per Hectare    3,740        4,950   3,520   4,620   3,300   4,400  1,760 2,200 3,080 4,950 1,150 1,380  400   600 2,030 2,360
Production
Costs per
Hectare
Materials
Seed              41          41       41       41      41       41    340   340   340   340    14    14    4          7    70    70
Nitrogen         236         472      236      393     236      393      20    79    59   118    20    79    0    39    20    40
Phosphate        105         175      105      139     105      105      53   140   140   175    10    35    0    35    53    70
Potassium         15           0       15        0       15       0       0      0     0      0      0     0    0      0      0      0
Pesticides       125         200      125      200     125      200      15   100    20   150    15    25    0    15    10    30
Manure            15          25       15       25        0       0      25    15    15       0    25      0   25      0    15       0
Contingencies    53           87       53       77      53       76      42    66    56    82    11    12    6         9    17    25
Total        590      1,000      590      875      575      815    495   740   630   865    85   165   35   105   185   235
Power             570         570      570      585     435      435    225   240   360   375   195   255  165   195    45   135
Labor 1/            -           -        -                 -               -      -     -      -      -     -    -      -      -      -
Net Value per 2/
Hectare         2,580       3,380   2,360   3,160   2,290   3,150  1,040 1,220 2,090 3,710   870   960  200   300 1,800 1,990
NOTE: P - Present
F - Future, after development by agricultural extension program.
H        Values are based on crop yield and production requirements given in Annex 9, Table 1, and farmgate prices (financial)
given in Annex 10, Appendix 1, Table 3.
1/  Separate hired labor estimates are made for the different size farms.
2/  Before hired labor costs.
'-0



ANNEX 9
TABLE 3
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
Farm Budgets
Rainfed                 Single Irrigation           Double Irrigation
100 ha                     100 ha                        100 ha
(ha) (Rs/ha) (000 Rs)       (ha) (Rs/ha) (000 Rs)        (ha) (Rs/ha) (000 Rs)
Paddy,rainfed    5   1,200         6                            0                           0
Paddy,single                       0          84   2,580    217                             0
Paddy, first
double                            0                            0          95   2,360    224
Paddy, second
double                            0                            0          74   2,290    169
Groundnuts,
rainfed         20   1,040       21           8   1,040        8                           0
Groundnuts,
irrigated                                     5   2,090      10            8   2,090      17
Sorghum          15      870      13           5      870       4           3     870       3
Pearl Millets   25       200       5           5      200       1           3      200      1
Greengram         5   1,800        9          20   1,800       36           8   1,800      14
Total         70               54         127             276         191              428
(Rs)                        (Rs)                         (Rs)
0.5 ha, Crop Income              390 2/                    1,380                        2,140
Hired Labor Cost          0                            0                            0
Land & Water Tax          0                          -10                         -18
Net Farm Income         390                       1,370                        2,122
Wage Earnings 1/    1,720                         1,560                        1,418
Net Income            2,115                        2,930                       3-,52
Increment per ha                                  1,630                        1,140
1.3 ha, Crop Income            1,000 2/                    3,590                        5,560
Hired Labor Cost          0                            0                         -60
Land & Water Tax          0                         -26                          -46
Net Farm Income       1,000                       3,564                        5,454
Wage Earnings 1/    1,600                         1,166                          836
Net Income            2,600                       4730 =779U
Increment per ha                                  1,640                        1,120
3.0 ha, Crop Income           2,310 2/                     8,280                       12,840
Hired Labor Cost          0                        -670                       -1,820
Land & Water Tax        -15                         -90                         -150
Net Farm Income       2,295                        7,520                      10,870
Wage Earnings 1/    1,345                            670                         430
Net Income            3,640                       8190I                       TI 3=W
Increment per ha                                  1,520                          960
1/  One half of residual family labor valued at Rs 6 per adult-day.
2/  Assumes 100% cropping intensity on farms 3 ha or less.
114



ANNEX 9
TABLE 4
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
Project Rent
Single              Double
Rainfed        Irrigation           Irrigation
(Rs)             (Rs)                 (Rs)
0.5 ha Farm
Gross Crop Income           580              1,960               3,120
Certainty Equivalent        520              1,760               2,810
Material & Power Inputs   -190                -580                -980
Labor Inputs               -150               -480                -760
Management Fee              -20                -70                -110
Land Rent (net)             160                630                  960
Project Rent (increment)                       470                  330
Project Rent per
additional irrigated
ha                                          1,060                  750
1.3 ha Farm
Gross Crop Income         1,500              5,100               8,110
Certainty Equivalent      1,350              4,590               7,300
lIaterial & Power Inputs   -500             -1,510              -2,550
Labor Inputs               -400             -1,250              -1,920
Management Fee              -40               -180                -280
Land Rent (net)             410              1,650               2,550
Project Rent (increment)                     1,240                  900
Project Rent per
additional irrigated
ha                                          1,070                  790
3.0 ha Farm
Gross Crop Income         3,470             11,760              18,720
Certainty Equivalent      3,120             10,580              16,850
Material & Power Inputs -1,160              -3,480              -5,880
Labor Inputs               -910             -2,220              -2,740
Management Fee             -100               -490                -820
Land Rent (net)             950              4,390               7,410
Project Rent (increment)                     3,440               3,020
Project Rent per
additional irrigated
ha                                          1,290               1,140
115



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Economic Analysis
General
1.        The net water savings, the major quantifiable benefit of this
project, would result from the integrated function of all proposed investment
items, with the exception of the village roads.
2.        The investment in rehabilitation works, amounting to 5% of project
costs, while essential to the operation of the system would primarily prevent
a further deterioration of the system. Without these works the operational
efficiency would decline and annual O&M costs increase. It is impossible to
quantify these benefits in even an approximate way. However, with the present
high economic value of present production in the existing system even a small
(1-2%) gradual decline in the overall operational efficiency of the system
without the rehabilitation works would more than justify the costs for these
works. Similarly, it has not been possible to quantify the benefits of
improved village roads (7% of project costs) due to lack of traffic data.
Costs for rehabilitation works and O&M roads are included in the estimated
overall rate of return. The village road improvements have been excluded
from the economic analysis as the assumed agricultural benefits are based
on present yield levels.
3.        The economic analysis follows standard Bank methodology, however,
a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF), which is approximately the ratio of the
official exchange rate (OER) to the estimated shadow exchange rate (SER),
is used rather than the SER (Appendix 1). The SCF is applied to local prices
and costs while the OER is used to convert foreign prices and costs to local
currency. The SCF thus is applied to the local portion of investment costs,
wage rates, and local factors in the economic price derivations.
Basic Assumptions
4.        Standard Conversion Factor.  Due to the degree of protection pro-
vided by existing tariffs and trade restrictions, a shadow exchange rate more
closely than the official rate reflects the relationship between supply of
and demand for foreign exchange in India. Export/import data for the past
five years gives a SCF value of 0.75 which conforms with a recent study carried
out by GOI (Appendix 1). This is used for the base analysis; variation of 20%
in the estimate is tested in the sensitivity analysis.
5.        Construction Conversion Factor.  If the SCF is applied to the non-
traded component of construction cost (about 80%), the resulting Construction
Conversion Factor is 0.8, which has been used throughout the analysis.
116



ANNEX 10
Page 2
6.        Savings Premium.  Following Bank standard practice, no premium has
been put on either public or private savings.
7.        Agricultural Inputs and Outputs.  The economic prices for these
goods are estimated in Appendix 1.
8.        Farm Labor.  The average cultivated area per family (including
landless, tenant farmers, and farmers) is small and labor availability is
high. Because of the consequent incidence of relatively high underemployment,
wage levels reported in the area (Annex 9) overstate the economic opportunity
cost of farm labor. Estimated farm employment opportunities in the command
area, which at present are low (11.4 million man-days per year, or about 23%
of agricultural labor availability), under the project would increase by about
3 M to man-days, an increase of about 25%. Based on similarly low increments
in labor participation for projects in other densely settled areas in India,
the marginal economic opportunity rate for farm labor would be two-thirds or
less of the average reported wage (Rs 6 per day). As a conservatively high
estimate, Rs 4.5 per day (Rs 3.5 after applying the SCF for non-traded items)
is used in the evaluations.
9.        The basic project investments associated with the water savings
amount to 86% of project costs. As the savings would be used essentially in
either of two ways, two basic evaluations are made. Since the level of water
savings cannot be accurately estimated at this point, evaluations are also
made for the minimum and maximum likely savings as part of the sensitivity
analysis.
Economic Rate of Return
10.       Base Analysis.  The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is
estimatsd at 17 to 27% (Table 5) for the best estimate of net water savings
(160 Mm ). The value of the water savings (Table 2) is estimated on the basis
of incremental production to be about the same (Rs 0.45/m ) under one of
three alternative cropping changes:
Alternative 0: 29,500 ha from single to double irrigation;
Alternative 1: 24,800 ha from rainfed to single irrigation; or
Alternative 2: 9,000 ha from rainfed to single irrigation and
18,800 ha from single to double irrigation.
11.       Project costs would differ under the three alternatives.  Under
Alternatives I and 2, they would include the additional cost (Rs 5,600 per ha)
of a new conveyance network to, and land development in, rainfed areas outside
the command of the existing system. Under all alternatives, they would
include the directly related project costs for canal lining and operational
improvements of the existing system.
117



ANNEX 10
Page 3
12.       Project Effect on Groundwater.  The reduction of the groundwater
table as a result of more efficient use of the surface water supplies in the
command area would have a negative impact on farms in and downstream of the
project area (para 7.04). The effect of the reduction in the groundwater
table would be to increase the costs of pumping from the wells.  For this 3
analysis, it is estimated that the wells with a total extraction of 200 Mm
per year might suffer at most an average of 1.5 meters increase in pumping
head. Assuming 50% overall pumping efficiency, the cost of additional energy
requirements would amount to about Rs 480,000 per year. This has been de-
ducted from the benefits in the economic analyses.
13.       As an alternative to this project, additional groundwater pumping in
neighboring areas could conceivably be developed on a similar scale. The
same level of benefits by this method, however, would be achieved at greater
cost. Due to the rock substrata, dug wells rather than deep tubewells wouid
be required. Installation cost in a well with an average yield of 19,700 m
would be about Rs 20,000 (Rs 16,500 per well plus Rs 3,500 for pump and engine).
Pump and engine replacement would be required every 4 or 5 years. The equiva-
lent annual esonomic cost, amortized with interest at 10% would a9ount to
Rs 0.12 per m3.  Pumping costs, however, would be about Rs 0.02 m  for power
and Rs 0.02/m  for maintenance of pump, engine and well.  Thus, the innual
costs for groundwater devSlopment would amount in total to Rs 0.16 m , com-
pared with only Rs 0.13/m (including O&M costs) for this project. Since the
annual benefit streams would be identical, the least cost solution would give
the highest net present value.
14.       Other Assumptions.  The following additional major assumptions are
made in the analyses:
(a)  A 50-year period of analysis:
(b)  Construction period of 4 years (para 4.14);
(c)  Increase in cropping intensity but not in yields
(para 6.02);
(d)  Realization of full benefits within 3 years after new
irrigation supplies are delivered.
15.       Sensitivity Analyses.  Project rates of return are3also estimaSed
for the minimum and maximum likely net water savings (100 Mm and 200 Mm )
to test the economic viability within the assessed range of savings. Results
for these and other tests are given in Table 5.
118



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Indirect Employment Effects
16.       The project would offer scope for a substantial rise in agri-
cultural income and hence generate additional income and employment in
the non-farm sector. The lack of reliable data on non-farm employment
at the present situation and data on consumption patterns in the project
area makes it extremely difficult to project accurately the employment
effect in the future. However, experience from similar areas in Asia
indicates that an increase in agricultural production of Rs 15-20,000
would generate one man-year of employment in the local non-farm sector. 1/
As a result of the project, the gross value of agricultural production
would increase by some Rs 150 M, the increase in non-farm employment would
be on the order of 8,000 man-years.
May 1977
1/   Draft Report on Rural Non-Farm Employment and Earning Opportunities
in Rural Areas and Town, Development Economics Department.
119



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Economic Analysis
Crop Values (Economic Prices)
(Rs per hectare)
Pearl        Green-
Paddy                                    Groundnuts           Sorghum       Millet       gram
Single Irrigated  1st Irrigated   2nd Irrigated   Rainfed    Irrigated    Rainfed               Rainfed      Rainfed
P               F  P             F   P             F   P      F    P         F    P      F      P     F      P      F
Gross Value
per Hectare   5,270        6,975  4,960   6,510   4,650   6,200 1,580 1,970  2,770 4,450 1,590 1,910  570  850  1,180  1,380
Production
Costs per
Hectare
Materials
Seed             58          58      58       58       58       58   309   309    309   309    20    20    6   10            41    -41
Nitrogen        263         526    263       438      263      438    22    88        66   131    22    88    0   44         22      44
Phosphate        85         142      85      113       85       85    43   113    113   142         0    28    0   28        43     57
Potassium        15            0     15        0       15        0      0      0       0     0      0      0    0    0        0       0
Pesticides      125         200    125       200      125      200    15   100       20   150    15    25    0   15          10      30
Manure           11           19     11       19        0        0    19    11       11      0    19       0   19   11       11       0
Contingencies   53            95     53       82       54       79    42    64       51    73       9    14    5   12        13     18
Total        610       1,040    610       910      600      860   450   685    570   805    85   175   30120    140    190
Power            420         420    420       430      320      320   165   175    265   275   145   185  120  145            90    100
Labor            590         565    575       540      430      415   160   160    255   265   135   150  145  155            80      88
Net Value
per Hectare   3,650        4,950  3,355   4,630   3,300   4,605   805   950  1,680 3,105 1,225 1,400  275  430    870  1,002
NOTE: P - Present
F - Future, after development by agricultural extension program.
Values are based on crop yield and production requirements given in Annex 9, Table 1, and farmgate prices (economic)
given in Annex 10, Appendix 1, Table 3.
Values of non-traded items including power and labor are adjusted by the SCF = 0.75.
I- Im



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Economic Analysis
Incremental Economic Value Per M  Water
100 ha                        100 ha Single Crop                 100 ha Double Crop
Rainfed                            Irrigated                          Irrigated
Crop    Net  1/    Irrig.          Crop    Net  1/  Irrig.         Crop    Net  1/  Irrig.
Area    Value-/    Supply3         Area    Value-   Supply3        Area    Value-   Supply
(ha)    (000 Rs)   (000 m3)        (ha)   (000 Rs)  (000 m )    (ha)   (000 Rs)  (000 m )
Paddy, rainfed                  5        4.0         0              -        -        -           -         -
Paddy, irrigated                -         -          -             84    310.8       641          -         -         -
Paddy, Double, 1st              -         -          -              -        -        -            95    323.0       707
Paddy, Double, 2nd              -         -          -              -        -        -            74    244.2       474
Groundnuts, rainfed-/          20       16.0         0              8       6.4       -           -         -         -
2/
Groundnuts, irrigated-/         -         -          -              5       8.5         2           8     13.6         5
Sorghum, rainfed               15       18.4         0              5      6.0        -            3       3.6        -
Millets, rainfed               25        6.9         0              5       1.4       -             3        .8       -
Pulses, rainfed                 5        4.4         0             20     17.7        -             8      7.1        -
Total                     70      49.8         0            127    350.8        644         191    592.3    1,186
Incremental Irrigation Supply (m 000)                                                644                             542
Incremental Value (Rs 000)                                                           301                             241
Incremental Value (Rs/m )                                                              0.47                            0.44
1/ Based on net economic values per hectare given in Table 1.                                                                      F-.
2/ Includes areas under minor crops, rainfed and irrigated respectively.                                                            0



ANNEX 10
Table 3
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Economic Analysis
Net Benefit Streams Per M Water
Incremental
Economic    2/           Incidental 1/
Year                  Value                     Costs                  Benefits
…------------------…(Rs per m3)---------------------
Alternative 0 (Single to Double Irrigation)
1                         0                      0                       0
2                        0                       0                       0
3                        0                       0                       0
4                         0.18                   0                       0.18
J                         0.33                   0                       0.33
6-50                     0.44                    0                       0.44
Alternative 1 (Rainfed to Single Irrigation)
1                         0                     -0.20                   -0.20
2                        0                      -0.27                   -0.27
3                         0                     -0.23                   -0.23
4                         0.19                  -0.01                   -0.18
5                        0.35                   -0.01                   -0.34
6-50                     0.47                   -0.01                   -0.46
1/ Costs of new irrigation infrastructure.
2/ From Table 2.
122



ANNEX 10
Table 4
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Economic Analysis
Cost Streams
Additional
Investment 3/         O&M              Indirect 1/
Year                Costs       -         Costs             Costs    -       Total
----------------------------(Rs Million)------------------
A. Financial Cost Streams
1                    19.0                       0              0            19.0
2                    79.6                       0              0            79.6
3                    83.1                       0              0            83.1
4                    67.7                       0.6            0            67.3
5                    28.0                       1.3            0.5          29.8
6-50                  0                         1.3            0.5           1.8
B. Economic Cost Streams (SCF = 0.75, CCF = 0.80)-/
1                    15.2                       0              0            15.2
2                    63.7                       0              0            63.7
3                    66.5                       0              0            66.5
4                    54.2                       0.5            0            51.7
5                    22.4                       1.1            0.5          24.0
6-50                  0                         1.1            0.5           1.6
1/ Additional costs of pumping from wells.
2/ Non-traded components assumed to comprise 80% of investment costs and
50% of O&M costs.
3/ Annex 4, Table 4, rearranged to reflect crop years.
123



ANNEX 10
Table 5
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Economic Analysis
Economic Rates of Return
oStream -             Alternative Benefit Streams (160 Mm )
(Rs Million)            -------      (Rs Million)-------------
Alt. 0            Alt. 1          Alt. 2
1           15                      0                -32              -12
2            64                     0                -43              -16
3           67                      0                -37              -13
4            55                    28                  30              29
5            24                    52                  55              54
6-50          2                    70                  74              73
Economic Rate of Return             27%                 17%             23%
Sensitivity Tests:
(i)    200 Mm3 savings              34%                 20%             29%
(ii)   100 Mm3 savings              17%                12%              15%
(iii)  2-year construction delay  23%                  15%              20%
(iv)   20% increase in costs        23%                15%              20%
(v)    20% decrease in prices       22%                15%              19%
(vi)   20% change in SER
(SCF = 0.9)                20%                 14%             18%
(vii)  Combination of (iii)-(v)   18%                  12%              16%
(viii) Combination of (ii)-(vi)   10%                    7%              9%
1/ From Table 4 (rounded).
2/ From Table 3.
124



ANNEX 10
Table 6
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Economic Analysis
Alternative Economic Cost of Groundwater Extraction
Pump &
Well        Engine        Total
Well yield per year                                                           19,700 m
Life                                                30 years    5 years
Financial Investment Cost (Rs)                     16,500        3,500        20,000
Economic Cost (Rs)                                 13,2001/      3,500        16,700
1.  Annual Capital Cost at 10% (Rs)            1,400          920         2,320
2.  Annual Maintenance Cost    (Rs)              130          280           410
Subtotal             (Rs) 3                                   2,730
Subtotal             (Rs/m )                                      0.14
3.  Annual Operating Cost        (Rs/m )-/                                    0.02
Total                (Rs/m )                                      0.16
1/ Non-traded components assumed to comprise 80% of well costs (CCF = 0.8).
2/ Valued at an economic rate equivalent to Rs 0.3 per kilowatt-hour.
125



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Prices for Economic and Financial Analysis
General
1.        Estimated future prices for the economic and financial analyses
are based on the Bank's 1985 world market projections. The price estimates,
as well as the project costs, are expressed in constant 1977 currency values
(March 1977). The financial prices reflect mean relative price levels over
the past five to ten years adjusted according to the projected trends in the
world market. (No major change is anticipated in Government pricing policies
or in demand/supply relationships). Economic prices are derived from the
projected world market prices by adjusting for quality differences and by
deducting appropriate allowances for transport, handling, and processing costs
between the world market and farm.
Official Exchange Rate
2.        Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a
fixed Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a combina-
tion of several currencies. As all these currencies float relative to each
other, the equivalent US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate has varied from time to
time. During 1976 (to October), the average exchange rate was Rs 8.98 per
Dollar. The rate used in this report is US$1 = Rs 9.0.
Shadow Exchange Rate
3.        In the economic analyses, due to the level of protection provided
by the existing tariffs and trade restrictions, a standard conversion factor
(SCF) is applied to the local prices of items which are not traded on the
world market, while prices derived from world market prices are expressed
in rupees using the official exchange rate. The SCF can be determined
approximately from the formula 1/:
SCF =          X+M
X+S    T  + M + TM
Where X   =   fob value of exports at OER
M   =   cif value of imports at OER
S   =   value of all export subsidies
T   =   value of all export taxes
TM  =   value of all import duties
126



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 2
4.        Using this formula and data for the past five years, gives an
average SCF = 0.75. This estimate conforms with the result of a recent
study carried out by the Planning Commission, which recommends the use of
conversion factors for foreign exchange and for non-traded goods that
implicitly also give a SCF of about 0.75. The formula strictly applies
only in the absence of trade restrictions. However, in the presence of
existing trade restrictions without any economy-wide models it is very
difficult to estimate a more correct value of SCF. Consequently, in the
analyses a sensitivity test to this assumption is made assuming a 20%
error in the estimated SCF:
SCF
Base case               0.75
Sensitivity             0.90
Economic Prices for Non-Traded Goods
5.        Because of the relatively high degree of long-term substitut-
ability of one foodgrain for another, increased production of even minor
grain crops such as millet, sorghum and gram tends tosomewhat offset
imports of rice or wheat. Thus, the economic price for these items is
closely related to the world market price for rice. The economic price
for these crops, therefore, are computed in relation to the price for
rice by applying the ratios of the local wholesale prices (millet to rice,
sorghum to rice, etc.) to the estimated future economic farm gate prices
for rice.
Prices of Agricultural Inputs
6.        Fertilizers:  The GOI exercises statutory control over the prices
of fertilizer. The controlled prices are intended to reflect not only the
production costs of local industry, but also an equalization factor to
arrive at a common price for both local and imported supplies. At the peak
of international prices in 1974, Government subsidy on imported fertilizer
(i.e. urea) amounted to nearly Rs 2,000 per ton. During the past year,
after the world market prices of fertilizer had decreased, the subsidy was
essentially eliminated. The controlled prices are now about the same as the
prices derived from world market levels. Consequently, the same fertilizer
prices are used in the financial and economic analyses.
Agricultural Labor
7.        The financial wage rate for farm labor is Rs 5.0-6.0 per day in
the peak season and Rs 3.5-4.0 per day during slack season. The economic
cost of labor is based on a seasonally adjusted opportunity cost in terms
of output foregone in alternative employment.
127



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 3
Animal Power
8.        The hired rates for a pair of oxen is about Rs 8.0 - Rs 10.0 per
day. The economic cost of animal power is derived by applying the SCF to
the financial prices.
May    1977
128



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Table 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
World Market Prices
1976                 1985
(1976 current        (1977 constant
US$/M ton)            US$/M ton)
Rice - Thai 5% Brokens
(fob Bangkok)                                256                    390
Cotton Lint - Mexican SM 1 1/16 inch
(cif Liverpool)                            1,760                  1,540
Cotton Seed -
(cif Liverpool)                              170                    230
Groundnuts - Nigerian
(cif Europe)                                 419                    460
Sugar - Raw
(fob Caribbean)                              256                    356
Urea - 46% N, bagged
(fob Japan)                                  112                    184
TSP - 60% P205, bulk
(fob U.S. Gulf)                               94.0                  165
Muriate of Potash - 60% K, bulk
(fob Vancouver)                               55.0                   67.1
Source: IBRD Economic Analysis and Projections Department, November 23, 1976
129



INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
EconomicFarm Gate Price Estimates
(Constant US$/M ton, March 1977 price base)
Nitrogen   Phosphate   Potassium
l/    2/                  3/   Nutrient   Nutrient       Nutrient
Paddy  Sugarcane  Groundnuts  Gram   Sorghum   Millet         (Urea)      (TSP)         (M/P)
4/
Projected 1985 World Market Price                       382       349        451         -       -         -          181         132           65.8
Quality adjustment (%)                                70%      100%        90%        -       -         -           100%       100%         100%
International shipping and handling costs            +12         0        -33         -       -         -          +21         +37         +25
Madras price per finished unit, fob/cif                 279       349        373         -       -         -          202         169           90.8
Transport and handling costs per finished
unit between Madras and Madurai/mill                  6/       -35        -37         -       -         -          +20         +17          +9
Processing costs per finished unit                   -14 -     -35         -4         -       -         -           -           -             -
Processing ratios (%)                                 67%       10%        67%        -       -         -           46%         60%          60%
Wholesale price per harvest unit                        177        25        222        85%-    100%     90%/ -       483         310          166
Farmer's handling costs per harvest unit             -5        -1         -2         -       -         -           +4          +5          +4
Value of cuttings per harvest unit                    0       +1           0         -       +5        +3          -           -             -
Farmgate price per harvest unit                         172        25        220        146     177       158         487         315          170
(Rs/M ton at official rate US$1=Rs9.0)           (1,550)    (225)    (1,980)   (1,315) (1,590)  (1,420)        (4,380)    (2,835)      (1,530)
1/ Groundnuts: world market price for shelled nuts, farmgate price for nuts in shells.
2/ Green gram.                                                                                                                                  x >
3/ Pearl millet                                                                                                                                     z
4/ IBRD November 23, 1976.  See Table 1.                                                                                                        m 0 x
5/ Ratio to local wholesale price for paddy.                                                                                                    M x o
6/ Madurai district is surplus in grain production.  Retail distribution costs to deficit parts of the state would be about the same from  xC
Madras or from Madurai, so transport/handling cost differential would be negligible.
0  7/ Net paddy milling cost after crediting values of bran and reject brokens (which comprise 30% of milling outturn).



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Table 3
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT (TAMIL NADU)
Farm Gate Prices for the Economic and Financial Analyses
Financial       Economic-/
(Rs/M ton)       (Rs/M ton)
Paddy                                          1,100            1,550
Sorghum                                        1,150            1,590
Pearl Millet                                   1,000            1,420
Groundnuts (in shells)                         2,200            1,980
Green Gram                                     2,250            1,315
Sugarcane                                        100              225
Nitrogen Nutrient                              3,930            4,380
Phosphate Nutrient                             3,500            2,835
Potassium Nutrient                             1,550            1,530
Bullock pair                                      15 per day       11 per day-/
Labor,hired                                        6 per day       3.5 per day2/
Labor, family                                      0               3.5 per day-
1/ Derived from projected 1985 World Market prices (Table 2).
3.  Economic prices for exclusively local items are adjusted by the Standard
Conversion Factor (SCF = 0.75) Economic labor rates are seasonally adjusted
opportunity costs.
131






INDIA                                                                                                  R A
PERIYAR VAIGAI                                                                                 PI    D E S H
IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION
PROJECT
TAMIL NADU, PROJECT LOCATION MAP
~~~t.r,,                                                   1   t~~~~~~~~~~~<                   /   NO~~~~~R T H A RCO                    T            
(-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Li r.>                / A     R   N   A/
F  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                  c r u d   S@00
!f  3.E ishrr  kr/igoltd Aneosa,  tt                                                                                   ~         L 
D    REgdotohr Uoder Cornt nruor                                                                                                                                RCOT
t7Proposeo Link ConoI L   I R                                                                                 SA   L EM
-    rrigatoti n Canal, rob. ehabto,lteted                                         -I
Enistio;g Major Conols                                                            -                      f                Rnrnonothapurorn               Y_________________
I R.eserewsir ond Donrs Rgeror(s }l-                                                                               X7R                                                     wBBw fln
A    Power Ploet                                                                                      I                         R.CHC
P - ower Turmel rTIRUNE      <s. -.-.
Notional t4igb.oyo                                                                                                                                                                              -   . s^  
@    Sitoto3 or Ueonrrrtentne Cop.toi                                          )                    )                                                                                                A
0    Orstnrct Heodqootrtens                                                             oonktoii                  AIhD   A                                                                  b,7 
--Disrricr    Boondonren              |                                           -t   ..n
-ea -oThrtitory Boondorree           |                          Trv                      o        dm rr\ 
o  o20    3         40   50   003  70  00                                                                                                                                7 r  0  7
R.I.&   e.                    .                                                             pf
KllOMETES 1 KUsti  Wigotod                                           1.                                                                    01 A--  777  070
R ILES                                                                                                             4' 770 Oaa 7 7770d..                  S                             9
P-Ptd Li.k C  . I                                     R A             HAPUR
00                777                                    70*                                    70~~~                                               00N






IBRD 12676
7'*3A                                             75~~~O6,                                                                                      0    4      6    9      C    16        ,roo                         I 17APRIL 197'
24I           _ 5 ~
do                                                             i~~~~~~~~~~~~-J~~~~~~~~U(~~)IKOTrA  7   4   012   162  *                             74
INDIA               UA
C .                                                    4SLAA"
AUMANGALAM  ,'.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~   REGA,A706                                                                                              AREA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAk
N  A  -'-.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                   .--    Ž ~~~~~~~~~~~PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION
N2:   /  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~  PATTI    ~ ~ ~  ~           ~            ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~         ~         ~ ~ ~ --N~~~~~~~'~~~5   MODERNIZATION PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOENIATO  POJC
/l~~~~~~~~~~~~6  ,)                                                                                                                                    \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAMIL NADU,ETALED PROJECT
L.)  ~ ~ ~~ ~~             A     D U ~R    A            I                                                                                                           7         T A       LAIYURKOAIL,                                                             LCAIO
/    ~ ~ ~ ro~.adcArea
/           RogAlot-r Urde, Cor`str,ct,o,,
0                                                                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4Tv~f    E6isti,,g Rqqslatar
MLAGANUA U              "o1HUSANUR         OA   GONA
RARTISA~k~   Cri~CAIRAMAM                                            -6-N.Ae khotio Cac-ls to b.Rehablitated
P-ssble Proje,t Ertwrso,, Area
~~~~st.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UIA,ErItT6g DoA61e Crop Area
E.osn i,, Mgle Crap Are
EvIstrog rmgaled Area (Vo,gol Old Ayqw)E
1 -Reservoirs wit, Da.s
R    A  m  A    N          "            A      P    U      R    A    M                                                                                                               ........ Rower Žpsee
-AAAAA                                                                                                                                                                                               0     Towes     .
- 1.                      T     h      I    C     T                                                                                                                                     -    Mai. Roads
-'Railways `
I'o,oeo' A'S'.-                                                                                                      7966          -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State R3oooda-es



