FILE         COPY                     Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2045-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 19, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 16, 1977)
Rs 1.00                           Paise 100
US$1.00                           Rs 8.80
Rs 1.00                           US$0.1136
Rs 1 million        =             US$113,600
Since September 24, 1975 the Rupee has been officially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are
now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 to Rs 9.00).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI    - -    Government of India
GOTN    -     Government of Tamil Nadu
ICB     -     International Competitive Bidding
PWD       -   Public Works Department (of GOTN)
POL     -     Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants
VEW     -     Village Extension Worker



FOR OFFICIA tJSF nNI V
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   :    India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:              :    State of Tamil Nadu.
Amount:                     :    US$23 million.
Terms:                      :    Standard.
Relending Terms:                 As part of Central Assistance to the
States for development projects on terms
and conditions applicable at the time.
Project Description:        :    The purpose of the project is to mini-
mize water losses in conveyance and
operation by rehabilitation and modern-
ization of the existing Periyar Vaigai
irrigation system. Water savings would
be used to introduce double irrigation
in areas that presently grow only one
irrigated crop per year, and/or to bring
new areas, presently rainfed, under irri-
gation for the first time. The project
will alleviate food shortages and improve
farmer income in the project area.
The project consists of:
(a) lining of all irrigation canals down
to 10 ha outlets;
(b) construction of a 32 km lined link
canal;
(c) rehabilitation of existing struc-
tures and construction of addi-
tional control structures and
outlets;
This document has a mtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



(d) provision of irrigation infra-
structure for a 9,000 ha exten-
sion of the existing command;
(e) improvement of existing tanks and
their supply channels;
(f) improvement and construction of
operation and maintenance roads;
(g) improvement of the communication
system and of village roads;
(h) procurement of hydrological, office
and miscellaneous equipment;
(i) staff training;
(j) reorganization of the agricultural
extension service;
(k) a project monitoring program.
Estimated Cost:                                              (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign    Total
Canal Lining             9.06     2.04    11.10
Link Canal               4.44     0.78     5.22
Control Structures       1.14     0.20     1.34
Tank Improvements        1.48     0.20     1.68
Canal Extension          3.16     0.53     3.69
Road, Buildings and
Equipment for O&M      1.34     0.49     1.83
Village Roads            2.19     0.38     2.57
Extension Program        0.36      -       0.36
Staff Training           --       0.18     0.18
Monitoring Program       0.02     0.07     0.09
Design, Management
and Administration     4.54      --      4.54
Base Cost:         27.73     4.87    32.60
Physical Contingencies   3.47     0.73     4.20
Price Escalation         7.50     1.30     8.80
Total Project Cost:   38.70     6.90    45.60



Financing Plan:                                          (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                             16.10     6.90    23.00
GOTN                            22.60      --     22.60
TOTAL:            38.70      6.90    45.60
Estimated
Disbursements:                       FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Annual:             0.4    3.6    6.8    7.3    3.5    1.4
Cumulative:        0.4     4.0   10.8   18.1   21.6   23.0
Procurement
Arrangements:                       Out of US$0.66 worth of vehicles and
equipment, US$0.29 million would be sub-
ject to international competitive bid-
ding, and US$0.37 million, not suitable
for international tendering, would be
procured through normal procurement pro-
cedures of GOTN, which are satisfactory.
Civil works on the link canal (US$4.8
million base cost) would be procured
through international competitive bidding.
The remaining civil works would be contrac-
ted locally under GOTN procedures satis-
factory to the Association, as none of
the works could be grouped into contracts
large enough to be of interest to foreign
contractors.
Rate of Return:                       17% to 23%, depending on the use of
water saved.
Consulting Services:                  4 man-months of consultancy services
(hydrology).
Appraisal Report:                     No. 1519-IN, dated May 19, 1977.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMDNENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$23 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance rehabilitation, modernization and extension of the
Periyar Vaigai irrigation scheme in Tamil Nadu. The proceeds of the credit
would be channeled to the Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) in accordance with
the Government of India's (GOI's) standard terms and arrangement for the
financing of State development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 640 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is in part the result of the
low availability of investable resources: the net transfer of resources
from abroad has never been above 3% of GNP, and fell to as little as 0.8%
between 1969/70 and 1973/74; similarly, while India's domestic savings ef-
fort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
the rate has very rarely exceeded 17% of GNP. The investment rate puts India
in the lower third of all developing countries. More significant perhaps is
the fact that in spite of a marked rise in the investment rate from about 10%
in the early 1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen years, the trend in GNP
growth has remained about the same. This indicates a marked decline in the
efficiency of capital use, as a result of increasing capacity underutilization,
long project gestation, and increased emphasis on relatively capital intensive
projects and sectors.
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are identical to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Report No. P-2011-IN), dated May 2, 1977.



- 2 -
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in some,
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban poor,
conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes of US$70
per annum (converted at the official exchange rate) and US$250 on a purchasing
power parity basis.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. Undoubtedly, changes in economic policies
and emphasis will be formulated in the course of the next few months. The
state of the economy was not a prominent election issue; in fact the economy
was generally stronger than at any time in the last six years. Although the
growth of GDP in 1976/77 is not expected to have exceeded 2%, this was on top
of the very good growth of 8.8% in 1975/76. Agricultural production is ex-
pected to have fallen by about 3%, but only because of the return to a more
normal harvest of 110-114 million tons of foodgrains after the record 121
million tons of the previous year. Industrial growth was around 10% in 1976/77,
which is significantly above the rates achieved in the late 1960's and early
1970's. Exports continued their bright performance, rising by 18% in US dol-
lars and 12% in volume terms. The overall resource position, with record
foreign exchange and foodgrain reserves, is exceptionally strong, and gives
the Government considerable room for maneuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to
remarkably good weather conditions; the good crop in 1976/77 - a foodgrain
harvest in the region of 110 million tons would be the second largest on
record - was produced under generally normal weather. A conspicuous change
was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by more than 20% over 1975/76,
following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial production bene-
fited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of installed capacity
in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import policy, relatively
good power availability, and increased demand because of higher consumer
incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures. However, whole-
sale prices which had fallen 14% from September, 1974 through March 1976,



- 3 -
rose 11% from the end of March to December, 1976 and continued rising into
1977. It is not yet clear whether this upsurge indicates a new inflationary
trend or merely a correction of the previous sharp decline in the relative
prices of a range of agricultural commodities.
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases of currency from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign ex-
change reserves, to a level of US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the trade deficit
is estimated to have fallen by US$1,080 million, due to a rise of US$845
million in exports and also to a fall of US$235 million in imports, primarily
because of lower prices and volumes of foodgrains and fertilizer imports. The
decreased trade deficit, along with a further increase in the net inflow of
miscellaneous capital and invisibles from abroad of US$540 million, more than
offset the fall of US$350 million in net aid and the substantial repurchases
of currency from the IMF, and allowed a US$1.5 billion addition to reserves,
which reached a level of US$3.7 billion at the end of March 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the new Government the op-
portunity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task
is to raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%.
In the long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But
it will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptably low, at about 2.5% per
annum over the last seventeen years, and only 2% in the last ten. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to
cater to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has
been necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up
growth both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity
of existing capacity. Three promising developments in regard to the first
are the sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the Fifth Plan Period along
with a renewed determination to complete projects expeditiously; the indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slow-
down in the early 1970's; and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. WIith
regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is increased aware-
ness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects can be much
increased not only through command area development but also through more
efficient design and operation of major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Also, hopes have been generated for increasing productivity on both irrigated
and rainfed farms through a reorganized and improved extension and research
system, which has been recently introduced in several States in northern and
eastern India.



- 4 -
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for rapid growth, as the most serious
constraints on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation
with respect to power, coal and imported raw materials and components. There
has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77 Central
Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In many
cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected in their
markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the medium
term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine industrial
growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong pull on
production; this is true, for example, for iron and steel, certain chemicals,
some electrical equipment, processed agricultural products, and vehicles.
But the impact of increased exports on overall industrial demand will grow
only slowly given the current low share of exports in sales. If the higher
growth and productivity in agriculture discussed earlier were to materialize,
it would provide a significant stimulus to industry. It is difficult to
specify the linkages explicitly; but because of the large share that agri-
culture holds in GNP, the coefficients do not have to be large for agricul-
tural growth and the concomitant growth in demand for industrially produced
inputs and mass consumption goods to boost overall industrial demand signi-
ficantly. A higher public deficit and increased public investments are
the instruments most directly under Government control, and also those that
can increase demand for industrial products most immediately. The interim
budget of the new Government moves strongly in this direction with a 240%
increase in the planned budget deficit over 1976/77.
13.       Improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for India's
ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organization-
al and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been over-
come, production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable, and
the industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export demand.
Supply of electricity continues to be a concern, because of the vulnerability
of hydro power to variations in the monsoon and the continued existence of
local shortages, even when the overall power situation is satisfactory. But
the severe power supply constraints of the past have been relaxed for the
moment at least, and several institutional improvements promise to reduce
the future incidence of shortages: underutilization of capacity has been
virtually eliminated in well-established power stations; progress has been
made in the organized exchange of power between states thus relieving local-
ized power shortages; and the problems of slow implementation of power invest-
ment due to delayed delivery of materials and equipment have virtually dis-
appeared. In addition, the delays caused by the inability of State Electricity



Boards to finance projects expeditiously have been eased by their improved
financial position following tariff increases, and by increased Plan outlays
by the Central Government. The medium term prospects for the oil and gas
sector have been further improved by major new finds of oil and gas near the
large offshore Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High was brought to
shore for the first time in May 1976; production reached an annual rate of 2
million tons by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13 million tons by
1984/85. Although India will continue to import crude at or somewhat above
the current level, much of the foreign exchange burden of rapidly rising
imports will be avoided by the development of these resources. Prospects are
also bright for further discoveries offshore, given the current high level of
exploration activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.    Al-
though India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in com-
parison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. With a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate to 1.1% per
annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of India's
population by 2000 is 880 million. Many of the benefits of family planning
policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the decline in
fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure of the popu-
lation. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all after 1981
thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary education system.
The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate until the end
of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should continue to grow by 7% to 10% annually in the near
future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium term. Imports,
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
bright export prospects, and continuation of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long term growth.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 49 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,751 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$808 million has been
repaid, and US$1,524 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$12.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$31.5 million, US$25.0 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted



to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and acceler-
ate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agriculture,
education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make an
appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it is
important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
March 31, 1977, the loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$968 mil-
lion, of which US$512 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount
outstanding of US$456 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN INDIA
General
23.       Agriculture is the   most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 42% of national product
and accounts for a major share of exports. Consequently, investments in
agriculture have been given priority by GOI and the State Governments, espe-
cially since the mid-1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
24.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural produc-
tion has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth in the
agricultural sector obscures considerable variations over shorter periods of



- 8 -
time, between crops, and between regions. The overall rate has been very much
affected by the serious droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1974.
At the same time, the success of high yielding varieties of wheat led to in-
creases in wheat production of about 20% p.a. between 1967 and 1971. Other
foodgrain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything like the same success,
as the introduction of high yielding varieties has encountered difficulties
arising from local climatic and ecological conditions. The effects of the
green revolution, which primarily affected wheat, have been concentrated in
northwestern India, largely on account of the availability of irrigation in
that area.
25.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production,
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the weather. A major
factor in reducing this dependence will be the rehabilitation and expansion
of irrigation and the more effective use of existing investment in irriga-
tion facilities. The Government is also placing emphasis on the improved
supply of inputs such as seeds and fertilizer, agricultural credit, and
extension services.
Irrigation
26.       Over the first half of the twentieth century, the area under irri-
gation in India increased by only about 1% p.a. to reach slightly more than
20 million hectares in 1950/51, or about one-seventh of India's cultivated
land. About half of the irrigated area was served by major and medium
irrigation works.
27.       Irrigation has received increased attention since independence, and
substantial resources were devoted to it throughout the four Five-Year Plans.
The area covered by major and medium surface systems and by groundwater devel-
opment more than doubled to 19.6 million hectares and 16.0 million hectares,
respectively, compared with an estimated ultimate potential for irrigation
of 57 million hectares from major and medium schemes and 35 million hectares
from groundwater utilization. During the same period, minor surface irriga-
tion expanded more modestly from 6.4 million ha to 7.5 million ha, compared
with an estimated potential of 15 million ha. While the increase in area
brought under the command of new irrigation projects has been impressive,
the increase in area actually irrigated has been more modest than the figures
imply - particularly in the case of major and medium irrigation schemes. At
the same time, in areas actually receiving water, irrigation efficiencies
remain low.
28.       The Second Irrigation Commission of 1972 and the National Commis-
sion on Agriculture, which reported in 1973, found that the under-utilization
of irrigation potential was attributable to the lack of integrated develop-
ment in the irrigation areas, insufficient farmer training and extension ser-
vice, and lack of administrative coordination. It has been estimated that
the majority of recently completed irrigation projects require additional
investments of up to US$600 per ha before they can become fully productive.
Accordingly, for the Fifth Plan period (1974-79) various measures have been



- 9 -
designed to improve utilization, and a Command Area Development Department
has been set up in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to coordinate work
on a list of high priority projects.
29.       In view of the emergence of farm technologies dependent on effec-
tive water control - and given India's already substantial investment in major
irrigation - the economic return on improved water delivery systems is high.
Consequently, rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation infrastructure
as well as command area development has been given high priority under the
Fifth Plan proposals, and a relatively large proportion of public sector
investment in irrigation has been allocated for these purposes. Plan allo-
cations have been supplemented by the resources of agricultural and commer-
cial banks participating in financing command area development programs
through farm credit. In addition, major institutional changes have been
proposed affecting the coordination of services in command areas and the
administration of credit.
30.       While emphasizing the need to improve water utilization through
command area development, the Government is at the same time pursuing the
objective of increasing the area under irrigation, in particular where only
incremental investments are required. Thus, completion of on-going irri-
gation developments is given equally high priority as command area devel-
opment.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Tamil Nadu
31.       Pamil Nadu, the southernmost state of India, has an area of
130,000 km 2and a population of 41.2 million (1971). In population density
(317 per km ) it ranks fourth2among the states of India, whose national pop-
ulation density is 177 per km . About two-thirds of the State's population
lives in rural areas. In spite of rapid development of industry in recent
years, agriculture continues to have a predominant influence on Tamil Nadu's
economy. It contributes about 40% to State income and employs about 60% of the
labor force. Landless laborers account for about one half of the agricultural
labor force. About one half of the State is cultivated. Paddy, groundnuts,
sorghum, millets, sugarcane, and cotton are important crops grown in the State.
Paddy covers more than one third of the cropped area and accounts for about
80% of the State's foodgrain production, making Tamil Nadu the second largest
rice producer in India. Two-fifths of the cultivated area is under irrigation.
The rest depends upon rainfall, which ranges from about 600 mm in the rain-
shadow of the western mountain range to about 1,200 mm in the northeastern
coastal districts. Two districts, including one that forms part of the pro-
posed project area (Ramanathapuram), are classified as "drought-affected".
32.       Canals, tanks, and groundwater each account approximately for about
a third of the total irrigated area of the State. The predominant source for
canal irrigation has been the Cauvery river and its tributaries. There are
also several smaller rivers, including the Vaigai, which receives additional
water from the upper Periyar river in Kerala, as described below. Irrigation



- 10 -
developed early in Tamil Nadu. Of the Cauvery Delta System, which irrigates
about 300,000 ha, one part (Grand Anicut) originates from ancient times and
most of the rest was built in the 1880s and 1890s. The Cauvery is one of
the most utilized rivers in India, with more than 90% of its waters harnessed
for irrigation. A number of other irrigation systems, including the Periyar
Vaigai Scheme, were built simultaneously with the Cauvery Delta System.
33.       In the past 30 years, primary attention in Tamil Nadu's irrigation
development has focused on groundwater, and presently there are about one
million wells in operation. The Bank Group has supported the State's ground-
water development through the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project (US$35
million Credit of June 11, 1971, Cr. 250-IN). This project is proceeding
satisfactorily, and the credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1977.
34.       Of all the States in India, Tamil Nadu has most fully developed its
irrigation potential, estimated at 3.69 million ha, of which 2.71 million ha
(73%) is being utilized. There are no undeveloped large-scale surface water
resources and it is becoming increasingly costly to develop the remaining
surface water resources. There still is scope for groundwater development
in some areas. This, however, will require careful planning, since in many
areas the absence of effective legal control over the installation of wells
has already resulted in overexploitation. The Government of Tamil Nadu
(GOTN) realizes these resource constraints and recognizes that any extension
of irrigation would essentially have to come from greater efficiency of water
use in existing projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project would rehabilitate and modernize the eighty-
year old Periyar Vaigai Irrigation system to high technical standards in
order to reduce water losses in the conveyance system. Built to nineteenth
century standards, the unlined system has high seepage and operational losses.
As farm irrigation practices are relatively advanced (so much so that farmers
in the project area achieve some of the highest paddy yields in India), the
scope for reducing water losses on the fields is limited, and substantial
savings can only be achieved by improving the conveyance system. Part of the
water saved would be used to bring some 9,000 ha of rainfed land under irri-
gation. A program to monitor water savings would be included in the project
and would provide a basis for a future decision by GOTN about a possible
further extension of the command area or intensification of irrigation within
the existing area (see para 53).
36.       The project was prepared with assistance from the FAO/IBRD Coop-
erative Program and appraised by the Association in October/November 1976.
A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III. A report en-
titled "Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project", Report No. 1519-IN, dated May 19,
1977, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Credit
negotiations were held in Washington in April 1977. The Borrower and the



- 11 -
Government of Tamil Nadu were represented by a delegation headed by Mr. Vineet
Nayyar, Director, Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs, Govern-
ment of India.
The Project
37.       The proposed project has been designed to minimize water losses in
conveyance and operation by rehabilitation and modernization of the existing
Periyar Vaigai irrigation system, which would be expanded under the project.
Provision has also been made for a project monitoring and evaluation program
and for strengthening of the agricultural extension services in the project
area.
38.       The existing Periyar Vaigai System consists of:   the Periyar trans-
basin scheme, completed in 1896, with a dam and reservoir in Kerala to convey
water of the Periyar river into the Vaigai basin through a diversion tunnel
in the Western Ghats mountain range; the Vaigai dam and reservoir, commis-
sioned in 1958, to re-regulate the flow of the Vaigai river; and the Peranai
regulator across the Vaigai river about 30 km downstream of the Vaigai dam,
to feed irrigation water from the river into two main canals. The unlined
system commands a total of 63,200 ha, served by twelve branch and 64 distri-
butary channels. It is operated by the Public Works Department (PWD) of
GOTN. Under the project, the existing command would be extended by about
9,000 ha.
39.       About 390,000 people live in the project area, distributed in 52,000
farm households, 21,000 households of landless agricultural laborers and 7,000
non-agricultural households. The average family size is 4.9 members. The
area is densely populated, and farm sizes are relatively small, averaging
about 1.3 ha. Nevertheless, because of the availability of irrigation, the
average per capita income of farm households is about equal to the national
average of US$110. Most of the landless families, with per capita incomes
of less than US$60, live below the poverty line. About 90% of the holdings
are owner operated. Agricultural supporting services are generally well
developed. Short- and medium-term production credit is primarily provided
through a network of cooperative societies. Fertilizers and pesticides are
distributed through a well developed system of private and cooperative dealers
and Block Development Officers. High yielding variety seeds are distributed
through the extension service and private dealers. For produce sales, a reg-
ulated market under the supervision of a committee comprising both growers
and traders is available to farmers in the area, in addition to private mar-
keting channels. Agricultural extension is available through a variety of
programs and systems. While this mix of extension services functions fairly
well, it would become more efficient by eliminating parallel management
control, strengthening links between applied research and extension, and
improving staff training and farm visiting schedules. Streamlining and
upgrading the agricultural extension service in the area would, therefore,
be included in the proposed project.
40.       The present 65,900 ha Periyar Vaigai cultivable command area is
sown with a cropping intensity of 121%. Total production is: paddy 233,000
tons; other foodgrains 3,000 tons; groundnuts 2,300 tons; and sugarcane 94,000



- 12 -
tons. Yields of paddy, which accounts for most of the cultural command area,
are high, ranging from 3.0 to 3.4 tons/ha. In the non-irrigated areas, sorg-
hum and millets are important food crops and groundnuts are the most impor-
tant cash crop. In the areas that receive irrigation water for only one
paddy crop annually, some pulses are grown on residual soil moisture.
41.       The proposed project would comprise lining of all irrigation canals
down to the 10 ha outlets and construction of a 32 km lined "link" canal
to convey the river waters from a new diversion weir just downstream of the
Vaigai dam to the Peranai regulator. Existing structures would be rehabili-
tated and additional control structures and outlets would be constructed under
the project. The project would further provide irrigation infrastructure
(canals and control structures) for a 9,000 ha extension area adjacent to the
existing command. GOTN has agreed to make available sufficient water to meet
the requirements of the projected cropping pattern in the 9,000 ha extension
area (Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement). It would be a condition of dis-
bursement from the credit for irrigation infrastructure in the 9,000 ha ex-
tension area that the Association has received from GOTN a system operations
plan that meets the water requirements of the extension area (para 4(b) of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement). Tanks in the project area
and their supply channels, operation and maintenance roads and village roads,
and the communication system for canal maintenance and operation would be
improved. The project would also include procurement of hydrological, office
and miscellaneous equipment, staff training, strengthening of the agricultural
extension service, and a program to monitor and evaluate system efficiency.
Project Implementation
42.       Implementation of the project, except for the reorganization of
agricultural extension services, falls within the jurisdiction of the Public
Works Department (PWD) of the Government of Tamil Nadu. The chief engineer
of PWD's Irrigation Branch, stationed in Madras, has overall responsibility
for design and construction, as well as for operation and maintenance. Day-
to-day responsibility for project execution would rest with two Superintend-
ing Engineers stationed in the project area. Each Superintending Engineer
would head one Construction Circle with four divisions. Operation and main-
tenance of the project would be controlled by a Maintenance Circle under the
day-to-day direction of a Superintending Engineer, reporting to the Chief
Engineer in Madras.
43.       A district level Project Implementation Committee under the chair-
manship of the Deputy Director of Agriculture would be in charge of the re-
organization and strengthening of agricultural extension services, while the
Department of Agriculture would be responsible for the construction of staff
quarters, and for the procurement of equipment, vehicles and supplies for the
extension service. Coordination of the Department's activities in the project
area would be the responsibility of the Deputy Director of Agriculture in
Madurai, a major city and administrative center adjoining the project area.
Under the project, all the existing special extension programs would be inte-
grated into one single extension system working through Village Extension
Workers (VEWs), each of whom would provide services to about 650 farmers. The
new extension system would be in line with the methodology established in other



- 13 -
States of India with Bank Group assistance in the framework of previous com-
mand area development projects (Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh).
44.       Designs of canals and structures would follow standard design
practices in India, which are technically sound. The design of the link canal
would be carried out by PWD under the supervision of the Chief Engineer. Field
surveys for the link canal are almost completed, designs are under preparation
and contract documents are scheduled for completion by June 1977. Designs for
other project works would be carried out by the Construction Circles under the
Superintending Engineers.
45.       Labor-intensive construction methods would be used where feasible.
Granite blocks for the rehabilitation of structures would be obtained from
quarries in the project area. Coarse aggregate for reinforced concrete would
be produced by manual labor from excavated rock. Concrete yards would be set
up in the project area to prefabricate the concrete slabs for lining. Con-
struction of the link canal would not start until March 1978, when tendering
procedures are expected to be completed. But construction of the other proj-
ect works would commence as soon as possible and not later than August 1977.
Canal lining and related earthwork would only be undertaken between March and
October in each year, when either the entire project area or part of it is not
being irrigated. The project is scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Project Cost and Financing
46.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$45.6 million equivalent
(net of taxes and duties), including US$6.9 million (15%) in foreign exchange.
The principal cost components net of contingencies are: canal lining (US$11.1
million); link canal (US$5.2 million); canal extension (US$3.7 million); tank
improvements (US$1.7 million); control structures (US$1.3 million); roads,
buildings and equipment for operation and maintenance (US$1.8 million); and
village roads (US$2.6 million). The balance is made up by: extension program
(US$0.4 million); staff training (US$0.2 million); monitoring program (US$0.1);
design, management and administration (US$4.5 million); physical contingencies
for all items (US$4.2 million); and expected price increases (US$8.8 million).
47.       The proposed credit of US$23.0 million would cover about 50% of pro-
ject costs, including all foreign exchange costs and US$16.1 million of local
costs. Local cost financing is justified in India for projectssuch as this
for the reasons discussed in paragraph 20.. The Government of Tamil Nadu would
finance the remaining 50% of project costs. GOI would channel the proceeds of
the credit to GOTN on the standard terms and arrangements, on which development
funds are being provided to state governments by the Center.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used to finance:
Civil works (US$21.3 million), equipment and vehicles (US$0.6 million), and
consultants and staff training (US$0.2 million). The remaining US$0.9 million
would be left unallocated to meet physical and price contingencies.
49.       The estimated cost of vehicles and equipment for project management,
project monitoring, operation and maintenance, and the extension program is



- 14 -
US$660,000. Of this total, an estimated US$290,000 would be subject to inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the
prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. About US$370,000 worth of vehicles and equipment
are not suitable for ICB, either because they are to be procured in groups
of contracts costing less than US$100,000 each for which international ten-
dering would be quite inefficient, or because they consist of field vehicles
and trucks for which - because of existing servicing and spare part supply
facilities - there are considerable benefits to be derived from standardiza-
tion. They would therefore be purchased locally through normal procurement
procedures of GOTN which are acceptable to the Association.
50.       Civil works on the link canal (US$4.8 million net of contingencies)
would be procured under ICB. The tender would be divided in sub-contracts,
one for each of the ten reaches of the canal, to permit the participation of
local contractors, and tenderers would be allowed to bid on one or more
reaches of the canal or on the total works. Local contractors would be en-
titled to a 7-1/2% preference in bid evaluation. The remaining civil works
in the project (US$21.6 million net of contingencies) are highly labor-inten-
sive, individually small, scattered over the entire project area, and would
need to be carried out intermittently, as determined by seasonal weather
conditions and by the on-going agricultural activities in the project area.
In these circumstances it would not be feasible or economic to combine these
works into contracts sufficiently large to attract international competition.
It is therefore proposed that these works be carried out by local contractors
on the basis of well proven piece work type contracts to be let on the basis
of competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
51.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment or against the ex-factory price
of equipment manufactured locally. For imported items procured locally,
disbursements would be at the rate of 70%. Disbursements for civil works
would also be on a percentage basis (55%). Disbursements for piece work con-
tracts (see para 50) of less than Rs 50,000 and for equipment and materials
of less than Rs 20,000 would be made against certificates of expenditure
from GOTN. The documentation for these works would be retained by GOTN and
made available for inspection during project progress reviews. The credit
would be expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1983, about one and one-
quarter years after the completion of the project.
Benefits and Economic Justification
52.       The project would enable expansion of an irrigation system which
already fully utilizes available surface water supplies in an environment,
where no additional surface and only limited groundwater resources remain.
Groundwater development as an alternative source for additional irrigation
water would be technically feasible, but more costly than canal lining.
Taking into account the difficulty of reaching small farmers through ground-
water development, canal lining is clearly the more attractive alternat ve.
Water savings through the project would make an estimated 160 million m of
additional water available at the farm outlets. Under the project, the
command area would be extended to irrigate about 9,000 ha of rainfed land.



- 15 -
In addition -to this extension, the projected water savings would make it
possible to bring a further 15,800 ha of rainfed land under irrigation
(Alternative 1), or to convert 18,800 ha of single-irrigated land into
double-irrigated land (Alternative 2), or a combination of the two alter-
natives. As indicated in para 35 above, GOTN would decide on these alter-
natives at a later stage on the basis of data that would be provided by the
monitoring program included in the project.
53.       Under either alternative (or combination of alternatives) the proj-
ect would be economically sound. Using the water for further extending the
command area would achieve a wider income distribution and would, from this
point of view, be the most attractive choice. However, since this alternative
would require additional investments in a distribution network, the economic
rate of return, about 17%, would be lower than the economic rate of return
for the other alternative (double irrigation), which is about 23%. The rate
of return for any combination would be between these extremes. Since the eco-
nomic rate of return would be higher for Alternative 2 than for Alternative 1,
GOTN would face a clear trade-off between efficiency and equity in its future
water allocation decision. Irrespective of these alternatives, the project
would increase paddy production by about 60,000 tons resulting in Rs 115
million in value added to the local economy and in net foreign exchange
savings of US$9.6 million annually. On full development, the project would
generate about 20,000 man/years of incremental employment opportunities.
54.       Net farm incomes would rise substantially under the project.   In-
creases, depending on farm size, would range from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,200 in
presently rainfed areas and from Rs 700 to Rs 3,400 in areas presently re-
ceiving one irrigation, and would average Rs 1,500/ha. In Tamil Nadu, direct
water related charges in a new irrigation project amount to about Rs 80/ha or
about 5% of the net incremental farm income. Thus a substantial increase in
the water charge would be well within the farmers' ability to pay. 1/ Farmers,
who operate their own well effectively, pay at least five times as much for
their water as the farmers who are served by canals. Nevertheless, most of
Tamil Nadu's planned irrigation projects consist of modernizing and extending
old irrigation systems., and this specific situation combined with the lack of
volumetric water pricing in India makes it politically difficult for GOTN to
change water charges and related levies on a project by project basis for
purposes of recovering project investment costs from beneficiaries. If
the costs of lining and associated works were to be recovered only from the
direct beneficiaries, the result would be that these farmers would pay much
higher charges than the non-beneficiaries, even though they would be supplied
with water from the same canal system. Because of the need to treat all
farmers in the project area in an equitable manner, a uniform rate structure
1/ Annual payments between Rs 800/ha and Rs 950/ha, depending on the
alternatives mentioned in para 52, would be required to recover all
project costs within 30 years at 10% annual interest.



- 16 -
would have to be applied and the increased water charge would have to be
levied on all farmers in the command. However, this would result in double
charging the farmers in the old system, who could argue that their system is
already paid off and that they would not benefit directly from the moderniza-
tion works. As GOTN will face this situation in all future irrigation modern-
ization projects, the system of water charges needs to be analyzed on a state-
wide basis and within the framework of the State's agricultural taxation
system, rather than in patchwork fashion. GOTN has, therefore, agreed to
review by March 1979, the State's present system of water and water-related
charges, and to implement an appropriate system of such charges, based on
recommendations that may arise from the review, after paying due regard to
the Association's comments (Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement). Proper
consideration would be given to incentives for and payment capacity of far-
mers and to the objectives of ensuring full recovery of annual operation and
maintenance cost and, to the extent possible, of generating funds to be
used for subsequent irrigation rehabilitation and modernization works in
the State.
Project Risk
55.       The risk associated with the project is limited.   The economic rate
of return is moderately sensitive to changes in assumed future prices and
yields. Increases in investment costs by 20% and - depending on the alterna-
tives outlined in para 52 - a 20% decrease in benefits would lower the esti-
mated economic rate of return from 17% to 13% or from 23% to 17%, respectively.
Uncertainty about the precise amount of water savings effected by the project
introduces a further risk. Due to the limited and to some extent conflicting
data on the present losses and the inherent uncertainty about future losses,
and due to the limited experience of this type of work in India, water savings
under the project cannot be estimat5d precisely. The3likely range of water
savings would be3from 100 million m to 200 million m , with a best estimate 3
of 160 million m . If water savings should turn out to be only 100 million m
the economic rate of return would decrease from 17% to 12% or from 23% to 15%.
Thus, overall investment risks under the project are acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State
of Tamil Nadu, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the text of
a draft Resolution approving the proposed development credit are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 17 -
57.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A condition of withdrawals from the credit for irrigation infra-
structure in the 9,000 ha extension area would be that the Association has
received a system operations plan that meets the water requirements of the
extension area (paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 19, 1977






o  6~~~~~~~~~~~~~W 
4.4  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
-  our                           N     0                   CNN  -                               4IN  m
a   0.  6                       ou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w M a  !
o  .. U ~ ~ ~ ~ w OD a0                           o0 
U  0.644  -  NO  C..CU'6  N  46,  C  CV'             C   C4N      04  -       P.  N   4  44 V6n COO  W&
8466  ZMO 60                        ~  
46  06..   -   4             N           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao c V  .2  24               - 
06   26                                          46-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    6 
*D  I                                                                                                   S '   _l :zC -  
6.- S                                                                                                6~A l  C   4-  a
.42  6                                                                                               6~~~~~~___a a2n m w   0 wC  v.n O w  x _  aa  ,U
0*  6                                                                     *1                 6~~~~~~~~~~~~
26  -  I                      04a  3  "     4.4                  C1  0145.181       8



AIfOEX I
Page 2 of 4
Un les. otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent fatilnace between
1973 rad I1975.
55 Bracil has been aelecced a.a.e objectiv,e co-try beo..nse of its else and coparable problena of regional ineqoality.
171D1         1960    /c1951-hi.. avrage      lb   1951-60'   /o   Retia nf population ondar 15 and 65 and ever to labor farce age 1 and ever;
_____   ____    __  I~~d Registered applicants for work;   In  1962;     /f Registered, not all pecoticina in the coontry,     La  In-ladieg
niidwvee;    /b  1959;     /i  1960-62.
1970    I   Ratio of popolatfon cedar 15 and 65 and ovr to labor force age 15 and ever;      lb  1967-68;    it   Incloding nidneivee;
/d 1967.
MVOlT _RECERT iSTItATt-  /a   1971;    /b  Ratio of ppulattin o-der 11 and 65 and over to labor forte age IS and evr;       1t  1976;
-  d  Incloding nidolves:     /e  1969-71 avrage;     /f  Popolotien 10 years and o..er.
01NDONESIA    1970    I   1961-71,    /b  1971;    Ic   Inolodin  nidwivee;    Id  Total hoapits1 beds incomplete.
PHIL,IPPTh'ES  1970   I   Ac percen.tage of enploy.ten;    /b  Not including private vocationl erbools.
BRAZIL        1970    /a  Econtolelly active popolation,      /b  Hloapital personnel,   Ic   -inede only.
RIO. Apr11 19, 1977
DEFINITIONS OP S0CIAL INDICATORS
Loyd Area (thou ho 2                                                             Povolation per no  irui   perco  - Populati-o div-dnd by nooher of pract-
Total- Total -urfac-ue     c-priuieg lord   -v oud robed cat-r.                    clog nu~ a-d fenale graduate   --no, "trai-od" or `onrrtifled"
Acrto-   M   tc recet  Ietet  of agricobtural oroc aced1 teiporarlyl or           vIrno, and ...ultury pernoene    e~th trai-cg or -uportoec-
pornaantlyfec  cepo,pactrrn,  acho  h,rheog Lr.oert   lit           Popolacon- per honpttol bed - Pepufat-o dicidod by -ub- of h-opi-oI
fal i_u.                                                                        bed  avoioble Lo public ond peoato ieneral aod apotlalced honpitl.
-I..d. .cibl.at.ceee           enbdetourniog hones aug entuh.bj-hntt
PIP pe capita 1US$) -GNP Por- Cap tootcae       a   uret_ahlprr                    forCotoio      ood prectLccre
-uolao   y  Lr t1onycuc  mohdu World hoo    iro      (173-7  but)        e  ott     upyo      alrn     l frocoone           C-nputed from
1960. 1970 end 1975 data.                                                        --cgy pquiva loot Of vet food oopplt-   - aalablO . in.coutry Per tpo to
per day, octubonppicen       -pnyi-r do-ocic preduorco,     oporte See
P""La"" and ootalnttt                                                            ep-rtt, o-d chacig- ii stocb; ot cupplor     roelode animal feed,noe
Pupulation fo-d-c.nl   Ic)-A      ofJS    rce Ifoltucf       IcC] ,ourici- co                  -nd cc food preo-aic   cod -oeoi      ierbre;rqur--
ace8  f twc o-d-yoar -ntiaCc  , lOhf, 19/P ae  19/7 dote,                   mets cor   eto-tod by FAO booe.d cc phyontloicoal need    for verna
aCttcCty aud h-oltb .C..ot e-vr-rocta" t-anportur, bcdy -etghtt,
errr  IS  h,Ctrc  o  totL" arty                                               at hoanohold loon.,
Pouaind_net,   pcr uIcur  to Of a0r-cc. fed - Ci-putod on ab-    Pot       Porcaoitan oQplc P pocot-     gan    e   dcc) -Proc ti   -toetet cf Per
ugriiltra   -1Yc ony,cpita                                                        ..t  . ppyp Of toe  pcr "y  otoppy cf rod in        ftea
oboe0    " , r "c-oeetc fo oIl  crc  iotaL-   IZbilnked y 115Db tEt-c,cc
Octal                                                                              R-ecotteIc chc Soccr_  Pro..cde for auCoComaI.o.a.t of 60 graIn of
Crude birth roc   rrt hoeu.     crc-deA.. Ilice bi-the p-or        -   ii tlicnoee  tur   pruot  Po  doy, aid 20 cr000 Of a_tno  aed p`i n prot-ic, of
cf nid-pear     l p tyioie, ten-pr arcthi- tic ave a--  -edc-gi  1960 and        cAtch 10Ifoo   Iheuld hourna    pr-ce, rbo--oaedard       or, .. aer
1971.- -d f-ey-po     -rgcl  -od-og l iOl (ci retccc-ri,a                         too__L __i.-  7f/  __r ci Ltta  p-or-i und 23 g-do   f   -coa  poti
fidedeaih ca_. -c taauod     -ai        A-oI0o1 deat..  per rboctOd f ca-        on an ue-rg    for th, -eild, pi-pan.. i by FAO ie the, lucid World Food
yea   oolto,      e-or     orithoetfo  --rg-e -edluf fe 1960 end 1970 und        lorcy.
ii coyear icar. eding to 1975 Par -otre-t cuioe                            e   aiaprtIne- I00/fo         acu        pain- - PrLCt nupplp of food
blut vrtlct  rtc 0 hea)    A- One  d-atbu of inf-nt u-dei eIe Year            doricd fron acloafo -rd puT0- iO gPmu poc day.
P fe por thou-n"o Ihoc bi/t,lah rate (Ithue) ac- 1-4 - Ano..af d-atho Poe Lhonand i-i                                                           groop
tiP eco-c   -yo at birth (Y-n)   --,Octf  ocmbc rf y-ar  oP 1 ifernor              1-4 pearn, L" chtd roe- ie-tc, ag  groa..p 00cce-td Oua    nie     Orf
ic6 uc hictl., ccI[ P-U   ficc-pa  --,-o 'od,ier  InI6.   9/0 and                nfcIti
175 for d-ceftptnfcun...   a
C.cnecordCturaLo A- Ocr0      etche  of lIcedagitr     conaill              iducation
tpci  e  oco  erdriepco           fab   cpceonp         ctao            Adiotdcclcc          atupcaciel              - b   1-flce  of oi Ifna
19/0~~~~~y ac  9S(rdunopOtiutca6i                                                 om    h   idjontd Per diffce  Itcth      uP prinary ouarin
Peo    --co IIot rote 1.) - Ltcta  -  opoucd acaa -Lceh ca- ic ofmd-         fo r _teoc _n cc th aIiralodcaco, -o-11-1o may _ur_d1I00/.1
porpcpuiatIu fur 1950-60, 1960-70C cod (AP-OP.__uoa_ puptln or                                       Alaw- or obooc rho Iffic-l -ohi-1 ce..
PoCulaC1ic ocath ecco (7.     ilnConc pd P'Ile grout,h cute of cocoS             Ad,ocred  urollect rati     --ue ..udary -c/ioo  - Con,ctod an uhbe
ycpalatboo, dufforou  deficitiuni oP urlce arco c uac affvcceoporo-  ercendory  data rico cnqiic_cnat.loant-Pour,pram ff iipp...cddyrt,e-r
lIcc  uIfaa Iocgoo.c                                                            inccot-ier, p...cid-u for-   ,vcaioa -L    c traLie    ctCe
Uraeciiatu       (%. ef tatl) - RaL1 ti  f or bact- oa L  uof.in                   i-to..tcene for po pel  Of Id to1 prar    of oge, oorrcOodoec_
dtff-oct def-tnt-o Of Orb .. a..oc oa a.ffvr      -cop-biliCy of dote            ca    i   arc _nrc ally oocldod.
oieogic--t-cc         - lidroI-l                eb.-ae..hAyani,                Pa, of -hbol-oc c,cidrd (fit and crood 1cotl) - Total praruc
AAg   p2~2:                              pcoic.1, (-4~- )  ,k,n-~  56  ,r,)ecolcg              t Iecundory locl,: v...attona.l ion.trtocio  Ioa ho pe-
7W tTTJ_Td      7    n    oct  .  ccoa     Osf c(-cu      oulte.              Iclyoro,pir-ey -ec         Ioded
ego depend-    raoctio - iacto o  poitirecdo      I cod hI ondenc- to            Peainlceoieti of             -noodarYi - Vo.-t,oaliOcto,10
tLIooo of aget II rbr..ib 64.                                                    coouder  iootel, codnorfo      Io otorpo h   unoto       ri
fEo-cc   dependeny ratfc - Ra n   of ptpalotio  under 15 cod 65 and Ic--           todepedotlIy or an,~ dopotiteoo     ecoa     in ittcc
to ch  abor forc  iu 080 group of 15-64 pe--                                 Adult licteracy rato ('. - Lit-- ada1to (oblo to road and o-to)a
Fao-    p  nec  - ac-ptLre (ocrufatic, Lhoo) - Ca-cot-lc ecb-o cf                  p-roLotai  of Ltota  odolt popuILaion aid IA cparu and coec.
utcrpnre  Of bi-th-ocotral d--co  -ed-  -apico   f na trocaI Pan lp
planie   progr_n utoce  eet. 1_0oct01
Focil p1locin-c- unr- (% of carid a-ne) - PorCetaig- OP narecdPeco                       per coon fucbon) - Aoc-gr oab-o of p--rc       -Io..co
o0c  f child-br .. ig age (15-144pram) -h. -e  hrb-thcn.tcoI doc_no          occpied -ononti.eol dwebi"gn               ....naea  . o]liiuOuclodo
ccaI  utcd     . aoO  non  af  gr...pP.nonj-pr--eete~tuct_ro                                            oo   0  cpd    pacts.
koclocroot                                                    dwollkuga Inorban and raral oroac ci tbuut too id ccc tots ide_ ytprd~,b.   -d  r.,I--, 1111I   -d  I I'I" i~
Total lober forc  (th-ocod) - koe---11yi acI... p--non, ic       digwter fooclitre                  on pr-c-ntoge Of all oI_op_d duloe
aro ,uocad anpor      u   oldn     bo  Iai,n   utudectoL, etc.,        A-c-. to eleotri-ttc (% of oIl d-oe-fio)      C.-Coictiiial dociligs
dof iniL-on  n _earec Ionri e    or. nOtILoiporb l_.                              ct  el-tt   itcy i- lico-g qo,rt-r a, p-e-et of tcta I    iicooi
Labor foc    eorolu        (7.) -Agrctolirur1 Iabur fOrto (-r fa...oog,urban acd cral. aec...
fI...t p    -n-cg and ftshinf  ac per-eecge Of turoal .bobr feroe             Rural dwellings c--eetd toLercI-.ccctc' (7,)-pfytoo a- obo          far
foolyc  7  f Iohor force  U- fepieyd ace u...aly definedonrrcoI doolliogI -nly.
-eno  h  r  able andwilo   to take a job, ou  uf a jobon 
gcovo day,  --eci-d .outoajb, and      _ek_o aor    e      P-cofi-d            Ceopto
--7iPinu   . prcd -n,eodtog _nowek; nap nor bcco-pa...hlo hot.en.do.eccr                        pe   hnc      - All typonI of rotocc-r for  adic li ye-d
coarcocda  to dcffo-nct def_inirkoeI of -urpbopod aed _ur O of              canto to Reorda puiblic Per thoon-ed ef P.Polo-tCui, o-lud-t
daa"    ,L"  pa-otof     cceotcien-, comle nor-yc        coopolce-y            anliconnd  Ieetoe     noutrnad iu ...... whrii            ..e.....ti.o
radIo notea    ir efet,1 da to for_ro   tprm     O     vL hrb opaalv
.niec  coct cotrion! obolished ic    lc
Doon  lcntbhtcn    P rc tg     f pruvo e    oo (both iu tth cod              Ponconoer ton(per thot pop) - Pa..roger ca-cpteoter corn
hInd) .n... -d by -ihb-t 57, richest 20%f, pcc-vt 20., and poores aLatfog lone th-o eight pn-coI(                  olodre ..Oehilac-, hoocoo. o-d
cd4 U   onho,ld.                                                                 oil,tory cobles-
rlectecocty (bob/cr ee, coo) - Annoal1 cen-upccov of Cdnno,co
P -P   onntafc- Of land ownd by -e1th-Lt              ,rrfl    publ ic ard prIvatee _etrCit      kin  I      _eot  rIPer C.opit.,
0.   oweern.                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~generaly hbn-d cv pe-do-ti- dnto, with out a11lew..co for Tucso  in
grd .btoluing, for koport. or  nut    frotr"ifty.
Ocolib and 80 rron,ioe                                   ilnooneter (kR/cr per cop) - Per coyctoonnuol ooonnnptloo iv kilogracicP L1I   - k~lnr
PPupofarc- Per phynictue   Pipu1otie- dtcded bp ...bc- of prottLolog               entlooted ftoc donentio p-odotti- plo.n.et kvnp-rt  of newprcet.
yl, yici-tu  qoolifi_d feoc a cdcr-I ehool otavi--eitp level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
I!CONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1975 -  USS 150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76 /                                                 ANNtlAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant orices)
SS Bin.                                               1960/61-1964165    1965/66-1969/70     1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices            82.8       100.0                                         3.8                 5.7                2.6
Gross Domestic Investment      46.7         20.1
Gross National Saving           16.0        19.3
Current Account Balance        -0.7         -0.8
Resource Gap                    -1.5        -1.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor oost)          Labor Force            V.A. Per Worker
usS Bin.                              N ilR                   USS   % of National Average
Agriculture                     24.5            46.6               130.0    72.1           188            64
Industry                        11.8            22.3                20.2    11.2           582           199
Services                        16.3            31.1                10.2    16.7           542           186
Total/average                   52.6           100.0               180.4   100.0           292           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government _                                   Central Government
(RB. Bln)        9 of GDP(                             n)
1975/76       1975/76  19737/4-1975/7                1975/76       1975/76 197/74-1975/76
Current Receipts                 133.34        18.5         16.7                      79.11          11.0         9.8
Current Expenditures             118.77        16.5          19.5                        0                        8.8
Current Surplus/Deficit           14.57         2.0          1.4                       9.o6           1.3         1.0
Capital Expenditures  a/          54-27         7.5          6.2                      40.75           5.6         4.6
External Assistance (net)         13.89         1.9           1.3                      13.89          1.9         1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES               1965/66    1971/72    1972/73   1973/74    1974/75   1975/76     September 1975   September 1976
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                    61.4      122.4      142.2     169.1      187.2     213.6          199.0            238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector             40.8       69.0      82.5       92.9      102.6     108.5         112.8             112.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector            28.1       64.4      76.0       90.1      109.5     134.2          106.0            143.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                    January 1976     January 1977
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        24.0       26.4       27.9      27.1       26.2      27.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                      131.6      188.4      207.1     254.2     313.0      302.8          290.0            320.5
Annual peroentage changes in:
Wholesale Prioe Index                     7.7        4.0       9.9       22.7       23.1                                      10.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector             12.9       21.3      19.6       12.6      10.4        5.7                             4.67 g
Bank Credit to Private Sector            12.8       13.6      18.0       18.5       21.5      22.5                            24.6
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at market pricee, calculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates.
e/ Computed from trend line of SNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
N Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
a/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
fj' Net bank credit to Government Sector.
Si/ Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



ECONOMIC DEVE_LOMENT DATA                                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1973/74      1974/75      197576       1976/77             MRCHANDISE gXORTS (AUERAUg   1973/74-1975/76)
TusS Million                                                      US Yln.
Exports of Goods                   3,239        4,174        4,555        5,400              Sugar                      342         9
Imports of Goods                  -3,971       -5,794       -6,085      -5,850               Jute Manufactures          317         8
Trade Balanoe                     - 732        -1,620       -1,530         -450              Tea                        249         6
NFS (net)  i/                       n.a.         n.a.         U.aE.      n.-.                Cotton Textiles            413         10
Iron Ore                   206          5
Resource Gap                        n.a.         n.a.         n.ea.      n.a.                Engineering Goods          391        10
Others                   2.071        52
Interest Paymente (net)           -  233        - 260       - 250        - 280               Total                   3,989        100
Other Factor Payments (net)         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       n.a.
Net Transfers i/                    n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       n.a.
Balanoe on Current Accounts         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       n.a.                ExTEBNAL DEBT. MARCE 31. 1976
US$ Billion
Official Aid
Disbursements                  1,249        1,766        2,326      2.050                Repayable in foreign currency         12.3
Amortization                   - 459        - 519        - 516      - 560                Repayable through oxport of goode     0.7
Transactions with IDF                 75          515          205      - 365                Total Outstanding and Disbursed       13.0
All Other Items                      205           80          559      1,100                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77        15.5  percent
Increase in Reserves (-)            -105           38       - 794      -1.495
Gross Reserves (end year)          1,416        1,378        2,172       3,667               IRRD/IDA LENDIBG, December 31, 1976   (UDS MLn.)
Net Reserves (end year)            1,341          783        1,332      3,202
IBRD       IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Outstanding and Disbursed          452.7     3208.4
Imports                              720        1,451        1,417      1,625                Undiebureed                        510.3     1140.5
of which: Petroleum               719        1,451        1,417      1,625                Outstanding including
Exports                               20           26           41        n.a.               Undisbursed                        963.0     4348.9
of which: Petroleum                16           17           22        n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE -/
Prior to mid-Deoember 1971       us$1.00  =  Rs 7.5                                          After end June 1972    t   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00  = USSO.133333                                      Spot Rate March 31, 1976
Mid-December 1971 to             US$1.00  = Rs 7.27927                                                  approx. US$1.00 = Rs.  8.80475
end June 1972                  Rs 1.00  = USSO.137376                                                 approx. Rs 1.00 = USS  0.113575
EV Zstimated.
i/ Included with 'All other Items'.
,/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
j&/ Including garments.
I/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transactions) as a peroentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BAN( GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                                  US$ Million-l
Credit No.     Year    Borrower         Purpose                      (Net of Cancellation)
BANK    IDA     Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                      1,032.5
42 Credits fully disbursed                                              2,271.9
614-IN         1969    India      Tarai Seeds                     13.0     -           3.8
203-IN         1970    India      Punjab Agricultural Credit       -       27.5        8.1
226-IN         1971   India       Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -        24.4        2.0
242-IN         1971    India      Power Transmission II            -       75.0        7.9
250-IN         1971    India      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit   -       35.0        5.3
264-IN         1971    India      Cochin II Fertilizer             -       20.0        0.9
267-IN         1971    India      Wheat Storage                    -        5.0        3.7
789-IN         1971   ICICI       Industry DFC IX                 59.0     -           2.3
278-IN         1972   India       Mysore Agricultural Credit       -       40.0        1.9
294-IN         1972    India      Bihar Agricultural Markets       -       14.0       11.3
312-IN         1972    India      Population                       -       21.2        9.1
342-IN         1972    India      Education                        -       12.0       11.3
356-IN         1972   India       IDBI                                     25.0       15.4
377-IN         1973    India      Power Transmission III           -       85.0       35.0
378-IN         1973   India       Mysore Agricultural Markets      -        8.0        7.3
902-IN         1973    ICICI      Industry DPC X                  70.0     -           9.6
390-IN         1973   India       Bombay Water Supply              -       55.0       40.3
392-IN         1973   India       Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Cr.   -       38.0       13.5
403-IN         1973    India      Telecommunications V             -       80.0       19.2
427-IN         1973    India      Calcutta Urban Development       -       35.0       15.8
440-IN         1973   India       Bihar Agricultural Credit        -       32.0       18.5
456-IN         1974    India      HP Apple Processing & Marketing -        13.0       11.7
481-IN         1974    India      Trombay IV                       -       50.0       24.6
1011-IN         1974    India      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD         52.0     -          41.9
482-IN         1974    India      Karnataka Dairy                  -       30.0       29.8
502-IN         1974   India       Rajasthan Canal CAD              -       83.0       58.2
520-IN         1974   India       Sindri Fertilizer                -       91.0       37.5
521-IN         1974   India       Rajasthan Dairy                  -       27.7       27.4
522-IN         1974    India      Madhya Pradesh Dairy             -       16.4       16.1
526-IN         1975   India       Drought Prone Areas              -       35.0       30.2
1079-IN         1975    India      IFFCO Fertilizer               109.0     -          90.4
1097-IN         1975    India      Industry DFC XI                100.0     -          67.3
532-IN         1975   India       Godavari Barrage Irrigation      -       45.0       35.1
540-IN         1975    India      ARC Credit                       -       75.0       37.6
541-IN         1975    India      West Bengal Agrc. Dev.           -       34.0       32.0
562-IN         1975   India       Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD     -       24.0       21.5
572-IN         1975   India       Rural Electrification            -       57.0       55.9
582-IN         1975   India       Railways XIII                    -      110.0       50.0
585-IN         1975   India       Uttar Pradesh Water Supply       -       40.0       40.0
598-IN         1975   India       Fertilizer Industry              -      105.0       98.0
604-IN         1975   India       Power Transmission IV            -      150.0      150.0
609-IN         1975   India       Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.     -        4.0        4.0
610-IN         1976   India       Integrated Cotton Development    -       18.0       18.0
616-IN         1976    India      Industrial Imports XI            -      200.0         8.0
1251-IN(TW)     1976   India       Andhra Pradesh Irrigation      145.0     -         145.0
1260-IN         1976   India       IDBI I1                         40.0     -          40.0
1273-IN         1976   India       National Seed                   25.0     -          25.0
1313-IN         1976   India       Telecommunications VI           80.0     -          61.8
1335-IN         1976   India       Bombay Urban Transport          25.0     -          25.0
Total                                                        1,750,5  4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                     782.6     25.9
Total now outstanding                                          967.9  4,086.2
Amount Sold                              111.5
of which has been repaid             111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                 967.9  4,086.2
Total undisbursed                                              512.1  1,012.2    1,524.3
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                               Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                              Loan     Equity    Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.               1.5       -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                0.9       -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                    1.4       -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2        -        0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.             0.7      0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.              0.8      0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8      1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0      0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0      0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                    8.6      2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1      3.8       18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                           6.6       -         6.6
TOTAL                            49.6      8.8       58.4
Less:   Sold                             6.0       1.6       7.6
Repaid                           12.4       -        12.4
Cancelled                         6.2      0.7        6.9
Now Held                         25.0      6.5       31.5
Undisbursed                       5.6       -         5.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION"-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,524 million as of March 31, 1977, corresponds roughly to com-
mitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097    Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN. Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. A proposal for a twelfth
loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440     Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor



ANNEX 1i
Page 5 of 12
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pleted. Silo construction has begun and staff training is in progress.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems, however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found a satisfactory
improvement in the prospects for successful project implementation.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
All equipment for Power Transmission III has been ordered; there
will be a substantial cost overrun due to international price increases, part
of which is being met from Power Transmission IV. For power Transmission IV,
bids for most of the equipment have been invited.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 264     Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date:   December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date:   April 28, 1975; Closing Date:   March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is being commisssioned, about 31
months behind the appraisal estimate. Progress on the Trombay IV project has
been good although project completion may be delayed by about four months
because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment. Under
the Sindri project plant construction and erection is proceeding generally
according to schedule except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays
in receipt of some materials. Commencement of commercial production is ex-
pected by March 1978. The anticipated cost to complete the project is pre-
sently running within budget. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year
as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in
completion of engineering contracts. The project is now progressing satis-
factorily based on naphtha as feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and
time-critical equipment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under
way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-
project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. The Central Govern-
ment has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are
likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be
delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294     Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date:   September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government.   The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. Technical services investments are being made. Contracts
have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing
well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress has been made
in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village
level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is to start soon. KDDC
decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructures, drainage, and land shaping are



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress varies among components but overall is satisfactory.
Expenditure to date is less than anticipated but is reasonable because
price inflation has been much less than expected. Disbursement perform-
ance is poor and the Borrower has been requested to expedite claims.
Greater attention is now being paid to data collection to measure project
performance. This is essential since several components are innovative.
The Systems Research Institute of Poona has been contracted to design an
information system to facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Twelve states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal]
and three more have applied for participation. The project got off to a slow
start, due principally to the need to adapt specifications and tender documents
to international competitive bidding procedures, but these problems have been
overcome. As of March 31, 1977, contracts with a total value of US$45.6
million had been or were about to be awarded.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. For the feasibility study, proj-
ect authorities have prepared a short list of three foreign consulting firms,
who are now being asked to prepare detailed proposals. On the basis of these
proposals, the final selection will be made shortly.
Cr. No. 610     Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Good progress has been made since negotiations. The National
Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds production as planned, hav-
ing handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC). Detailed production pro-
grams, by variety and responsible institution, have been prepared for breeder,
foundation and certified generations. GOI and State Governments have made
equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financing of major project activity.
Orders will shortly be placed for processing machinery to provide bridging
capacity pending the construction of new processing plants. Tender documents
for the first purchases of farm machinery have been finalized.
Ln. No. 1313   Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Disbursements have commenced and the project is progressing satis-
factorily.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement work is well in hand. Contracts for 275 single and
175 double deck bus chassis have been awarded and bidding for corresponding
bus bodies is in progress. Civil works for bus facilities have been partly
commissioned and bidding for 18 of 31 traffic engineering schemes is in
progress. Preparations for technical assistance envisaged under the project
are under way.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of 1st April     ; Effective Date:  July 1, 1977
(expected) Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: July 1, 1977
(expected); Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 22, 1977 (expected); Closing Date:   June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977 (expected)
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
2 years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Tamil Nadu, Public Works Department
Irrigation Branch; IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
October 1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 5, 1976.
(e) Date of completion of negotiation
May 2, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1, 1977
Section II     Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III    Special Conditions
(a) GOTN to review, by March 1979, the State's present
system of water and water-related charges, and to
implement an appropriate system of such charges,
based on recommendations that may arise from the
review, after paying due regard to the Association's
comments (paragraph 54).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) GOTN, after meeting the requirements under existing
water rights in the Project Area, to make available
sufficient water to meet the requirements of the
projected cropping pattern in the 9,000 ha extension
area. The submission to IDA of a satisfactory sys-
tem operating plan would be a condition of disburse-
ment for extension infrastructure (para 41).



IBRD 12676
.,aG ,' 77-30'                       /                                            r 73-00'  7E'30j  0   3  0  7  12  iS                  i ,  ,       APRIL 1Q77
\.    /                      rO~~~~' LES -
)?UDUKKOTr~           GMTP    2     -      ~       /      ~      W
'' > N rNt' i ; t d ,/ ,L,,Z, ~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                             p
w~~~-
INDIA
g   8  A {7FAII  -                  \   .'    '    ,' _            \>> _-.     ; ,        /A                                     PERIYAR VAIGAI IRRIGATION
1 4 - A -- <\                                                                                                                                              MODERNIZATION PROJECT
,/ / 4 ( 0 ; I, \ <ATTARASANK~~~~~~~~~~~~~oTTI 7-                                                                                      TAMIL NADU ,DETAILED  PROJECT
/                                        /'        N S A P   \  \      N NATTRASAKOTA I  LOCATiON
<                                                                                                                    0 UUAi   t M A <                       xn ru    t XuOdAt 
< < R A ~M     A  N  A TAPU  R  A  I                                               A.       r              .AUKLAYHU9  MAJR \Poe un L
3 1 \ \ ytotX 14 > D_ t 5 X g ; < AgasS \ Dstr t BezundaI\u              7                              le                                   8. 
}     \ \>  <      ;v>  >    <    <    c   k      1    1                      Xu LuoPurr  _- St MOERuNIZTONROEC
- 30  0  n/proect A re a
AMADURAI                             '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Con-l
a Regulator  Under Contr-to-
PARTH  NUR                         ~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 E-itmng Regulatars
--Y          PARTIBA  REGUL R     OSALAIGRAMAM ~~~~~~- Rr  r~(6    --L   Irrigoro Con-lt to lbe Rekbhobil-ld
1:-  . : -  E ot-nio   A,ea
RUDUNAI                                                                     f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -   -- I-I- Crop Area
L   \  W   E-b\ astn  rgtegl Crop Ar-
PA                                    E~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .mEit,na lrriaated Area (Varg.i Old Ay-tu)
"I"                                                               tAnuMuOLDI                        -       iLzzzJ- Reservoirs w.thDarns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ree,i-I,hD
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJ KOTTA                                                                                                  Powe St.tron
RA    M  A   N  A     /   A    PU     0   A  M                                                                 .........uP..,Tu-
Ru,~o.Ae                                                                                                  State Boudarie



