RESTR ICT E D
R e p o r t N o. P-24Z
This report was prepared for use within the Bank. It may not be published
nor may it be quoted as representing the Bank's views. The Bank accepts no
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the contents of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
IN THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
January 27, 1961



INTERhNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOIVMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE INSTITU1O CO STAARICFiSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
IN THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
1.    I submit the following report and recommendations on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $8.8
million to the Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad (ICE), an
autonomous entity of the Government, to help finance the foreign
exchange cost of a project for expanding power generating and trans-
mission facilities in Costa Rica.
PART I - HISTORICAL
20    In 1957, ICE informally inquired about Bank financing
for a hydroelectric project on the Rio Macho. A project study
was submitted in July 1959 with a request for Bank financing.
A Bank mission visited Costa Rica in September 1959 to appraise
the project and found that under certain conditions - the most
important of them being an upward revision in ICE's rates - it
would be suitable for Bank financing.
3.    Negotiations began in Washington on May 31, 1960.   After
draft loan documente were worked out, they were referred to
San Jose for consideration by the Government. New proposals
by ICE and the Government regarding rate adjustments were put
forward and were discussed by Bank representatives in Costa
Rica in November 1960. Negotiatians were completed early in
January 1961.
4.    The proposed Loan would increase the Bank's lending in
Costa Rica from $8.5 million to $17.3 million.   The Bank has
already made the following loans in Costa Ricag



Year      Borrower                    Purpose            Amounts*
($ million equiv.)
1956    Banco Central        Agricultural development    $3.0
de Costa Rica         and light industry
1959    Banco Central        Agricultural development      3.5
de Costa Rica         and light industry
1960    Banco Central        Industrial equipment          200
de Costa Rica
Total:                                            $8.5
of which repaid                                  1.6
Total now outstanding                            $6.9**
Amount sold      $2.0
of which repaid    .6                            1.
Net amount held by Bank on December 31, 1960     $5.5
* Net of cancellations.
*-* Includes $1.9 million undisbursed as of December 31, 1960.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
5.    The proposed Loan would have the follovring characteristics:
Borrower:            Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad,
an autonomous entity of the Government.
Guarantor:           Republic of Costa Rica.
Amount:              The equivalent, in various currencies,
of $8.8 million.
Purpose:             To finance the foreign exchange cost of
a 30 MW hydroelectric plant on the Rio
Macho, transmission facilities, and 9 1W
additional diesel generating facilities
at Colima and Limon.



-3
Amortization:         44 semi-annual installments,
beginning May 1, 1964 and ending
November 1, 1985.
Interest Rate:        5-3/4 per cent per annum, including
commission.
Commitment Charge:    3/4 of 1 per cent per annum0
Payment Dates:        May 1 and November 1.
PART III - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND LEGAL AUTHORITY
6o    Attached are a draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and
ICE (No.. 1), and a draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
Costa Rica and the B mk (No. 2). These Agreements are substantially
in the form currently used by the Bank.
7.    The following provisions of the Loan Agreement are of
special interest:
(a)  In Section 5.08 the Borrower agrees not to incur debt
other than for the Project until the Project is com-
missioned and thereafter not to incur debt unless its
net revenue is not less than 1.5 times future maximum
annual debt service, including that on the debt to be
incurred.
(b)  Section 5.09 (and Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agree-
ment) contains the usual rate covenants. These would
be supplemented by letters from the Borrower, the
Servicio Nacional de Electricidad (the national rate
regulating agency) and the Guarantor confirming that
rates would be adjusted in accordance with a specific
schedule in order to produce, during each fiscal year
beginning January 1, 1964, a return on ICE's invest-
ment of not less than 7.5% (see letter from Borrower,
No. 3).
(c) Article 6 provides that the Borrower would give the
Bank a first mortgage on certain parts of the Project
(described in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Schedule
II of the Loan Agreement). The mortgage is being
taken because other properties of ICE are being
mortgaged to another creditor (the Caja Costarricense
de Seguro Social) which is participating in the financing
of the Project.



(d) Section 8.01 provides as additional conditions of
effectiveness that the original mortgage shall have
been duly given in accordance wqith the laws of the
Guarantor, that ICE shall have been duly authorized
to adjust its rates in order to fulfill the require-
ments of Section 5,09, and that arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank for a loan of about ¢ 8.8 million
(equivalent to about $1.5 million) from the Banco
Nacional de Costa Rica, needed to cover temporary
cash requirements in 1961 and 1962 shall have been
completed.
80    Legislation has been passed authorizing the Government to
negotiate the Guarantee Agreement. This Agreement would later
be rati Mied by the Costa Rioan Legislature.
9.    The report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4, (iii), of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank is
attached (No. 4).
PART IV - APPRAISAL OF DiE PROPOSED LOAN
Justification of the Project
10.   A detailed appraisal of the Project (TO 238a) is attached
(No. 5).
11.   ICE now owns and operates generating plants whose capacity
of 49.4 MW represents 52% of total installed capacity in Costa Rica.
It also owns and operates a central transmission network which is
being developed to interconnect all electric utilities in the
Central Zone of Costa Rica. Of its total sales, 78% in 1959 were
at wholesale to one large private and two small municipally-owned
utilities serving the Central Zone in which 63% of the total
population lives. It also sells at retail in areas not served
by the foregoing utilities.
12.   It is estimated that needs for energy to be supplied by ICE
will increase at an average rate of almost 11% per annum from 1960
through 1969. At this rate, the capacity of ICE's existing
facilities will be absorbed by the end of 1961 and new capacity is
needed if Costa Rica is to continue to develop her economy.
13.   The Project is the most efficient way of providing the
new capacity needed. The addition of 8 MW of diesel generating
capacity in the existing plant at Colima will take care of the



-5-
increasing load in the Central Zone until the Rio Macho plant
is commissioned in early 1963. A 1 Ml diesel plant will be added
to existing facilities at Limon - a port on the Atlantic Coast -
to meet local needs. The new transmission facilities will enlarge
the central transmission network to connect with the Rio Macho
plant and also with a small network on the Pacific Coast.
14.   Estimates indicate that further additions to ICEVs
generating capacity will be needed in 1965 and 1968 mainly to serve
the Central Zone. The hydroelectric plant in the Project is the
first stage of the development of three sites on the Rio Macho.
The design features of the first stage will permit installation
of additional units to a final capacity of 90 MW. Waters from the
Rio Macho site will flow into the Rio Reventazon and could be
utilized again in downstream developments.
15.   In earlier years, through 1957, ICE operated at a deficit
principally due to inadequate retail rates. However, with increas-
ing and more profitable sales at wholesale and recent increases in
retail rates, its financial position has been improving. With the
increases in average wjholesale rates of 34% and in average retail
rates of 22%, which will be put into effect in the period 1961-
1963, ICE's financial position should become satisfactory. With
these increases, ICE -s expected to be able to meet around 50%
of the funds necessary for its expansion program after completion
of the Project.
Execution of the Project
16.   The Project has been planned and is being designed by ICE,
which will also be responsible for its construction. The management
of ICE is experienced and its technical staff is capable of
designing and constructing the Project in an efficient manner.
To assist it in carrying out the Project, ICE has agreed to employ
consulting engineers acceptable to the Bank, upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All major goods and services
for the Project will be obtained on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Civil works are being carried out by
contractors or by ICE using departmental labor,
Arrangements for Financing Local Currency Cost
17.   Of the local currency requirements of $9.7 million equivalent,
$4.6 million equivalent will be covered by a long term loan to ICE
from the Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social, and the remainder
from ICEts earnings and from annual government contributions. In
1961 and 1962,. pending increases in earnings and the receipt of



*                                -~~~~~~~~~~~6-
government contributions, ICE would be short of funds and would
therefore borrow $105 million equivalent in local currency at
short t erm to cover this temporary deficiency.
4Economic Position
18.   A report (lWH93a) appraising the economic position and
prospects of Costa Rica was distributed on March 11, 1960 (R60-34).
19.   Export earnings and national income grew rapidly until 1955
and more slowly in succeeding years as prices for principal exports
declined. Developments in production in the past year have been gen-
erally favorable. Production of staple food crops, meat and other
pastoral products has risen; the coffee crop has been very good;
and new plantations of bananas have been established which should
increase exports of bananas substantially in 1961 and after.
Manufacturing industry has continued to expand, partly with the
help of credits financed by Bank loans.
20,   In 1959, a decline in export earnings, a fiscal deficit
and an expansion of bank credit to the private sector caused the
net foreign exchange reserves to fall by almost 30%. In 1960,
notwithstanding an improved balance of trade and drawings on
foreign loans, there was a further loss and at the seasonal high,
reserves were equivalent to only two months imports.
21. While these levels of international reserves are low,
prospects in general for the future appear favorable. Costa Rica
has good land resources capable of development and an industrious
and literate population living under stable economic and political
conditions. Export earnings are expected to grow by about 4-5%
a year in the next few years.
22,   In the past, the country has made the internal adjustments
needed to deal with her balance of payments problems without re-
sorting to direct import controls, and the external value of the
colon has remained virtually unchanged since before the war.
23.   As of June 30, 1960 the external public debt of Costa Rica
was $57.4 million of which $7.6 million were suppliers' credits.
Annual service on the existing debt reaches a peak of *9.4 million
in 1962, about 9% of expected foreign exchange earnings, and falls
rapidly thereafter.



-7-
Prospects for Fulfillment of Obli;gations
24.   ICE should be able to execute the Project efficiently and
it should have adequate resources to cover the cost oft he Project.
The market prospects for the power to be produced by the Project
together with the rate and other financial covenants contained in
the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, afford assurances that ICE
would be able to service the proposed Loan and to generate resources
for further expansion.
25.   In view of Costa Rica's present and prospective economic
position, the country should be able to provide the foreign exchange
required to meet the service of the proposed Loan in addition to its
other external obligatioao.
PART V - COMPLIANCE 'WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
26,   I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the BankQ
PART VI - RECCMMaEDATIONS
27.   I recommend that the Bank make a loan to the Instituto
Costarricense de Electricidad with the guarantee of the Republic
of Costa Rica in an amount, in various currencies, equivalent to
$8,80oo,ooo with interest (including commission) at 5-3/4% per annum
for a term of 25 years and on such terms as are specified in the
attached draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements and that the Executive
Directors adopt a resolution to that effect in t he form attached
(No, 6).
J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
for
Eugene R. Black
President
January 27, 1961
Washington, D. C.
w9



