LOAN NUMBER 276 CR
Guarantee Agreement
(Rio Macho Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLICA DE COSTA RICA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 3, 1961


﻿LOAN NUMBER 276 CR
Guarantee Agreement
(Rio Macho Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLICA DE COSTA RICA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 3, 1961


﻿AGREEMENT, dated February 3, 1961, between REPUB-
LICA DE COSTA RICA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad (here-
inafter called the Borrower), which agreement and the
schedules therein referred to are hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to make to the Bor-
rower a loan in various currencies equivalent to eight mil-
lion, eight hundred thousand dollars ($8,800,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement
accept all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the
Bank dated June 15, 1956, subject, however, to the modi-
fications thereof set forth in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agree-
ment (said Loan Regulations No. 4 as so modified being
hereinafter called the Loan Regulations), with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Loan Agreement shall have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
SECTION 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of the other covenants on its part in this Agreement con-
tained, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees,
as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and
punctual payment of the principal of, and the interest and
other charges on, the Loan, the principal of and interest
on the Bonds, the premium, if any, on the prepayment of
the Loan or the redemption of the Bonds, and the punctual
performance of all the covenants and agreements of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement and in
the Bonds.
SECTION 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guar-
antor specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower
will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures re-
quired for carrying out the Project, to make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower
or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
SECTION 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any
priority over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental
assets. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be cre-
ated on any assets of the Guarantor as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing pro'-
sions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created


﻿5
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
The term "assets of the Guarantor" as used in this Sec-
tion includes assets of the Guarantor or of any of its politi-
cal subdivisions or of any agency of the Guarantor or of
any such political subdivision, including the Banco Central
de Costa Rica.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish
to the other all such information as it shall reasonably re-
quest with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the
part of the Guarantor, such information shall include in-
formation with respect to financial and economic conditions
in the territories of the Guarantor and the international
balance of payments position of the Guarantor.
(b) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes
with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the serv-
ice thereof.
(c) The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part
of the territories of the Guarantor for purposes related to
the Loan.
SECTION 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without


﻿6
deduction for, and free from, any taxes or fees imposed
under the law% s of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its
territories; provided, however, that the provisions of this
Section shalA not apply to taxation of, or fees upon, pay-
ments under any Bond to a holder thereof other than the
Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned by an individ-
ual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 3.04. This Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the
Mortgage and the Bonds shall be free from any taxes or
fees that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 3.05. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid free from
all restrictions imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 3.06. The Guarantor shall take all such action
within its power as will be necessary to enable the Bor-
rower to obtain, and shall not take any action which would
prevent the Borrower from obtaining, from time to time
such adjustments in its rates as will provide revenues suffi-
cient: (a) to cover operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance and depreciation, taxes and interest; (b) to
meet repayments on Long-term Indebtedness but only to the
extent that such repayments shall exceed provision for de-
preciation; and (c) to create a surplus for financing a rea-
sonable portion of planned expansion of its power facilities.
ARTICLE IV
SECTION 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accordance
with the provisions of the Loan Regulations, its guarantee
on the Bonds to be executed and delivered by the Borrower.
The Ministro de Economia y Hacienda of the Guarantor


﻿7
and such person or persons as he shall designate in writing
are designated as the authorized represenatives of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 6.12 (b) of the Loan
Regulations.
ARTICLE V
SECTION 5.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Guarantor:
Ministro de Economia y Hacienda
San Jose
Costa Rica
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Mineconomia
San Jose
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 5.02. The Ministro de Economia y Hacienda of
the Guarantor is designated for the purposes of Section
8.03 of the Loan Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿8
caused this Guarantee Agreement to be signed in their re-
spective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLICA DE COSTA RICA
By M. G. ESCALANTE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


