Documt of
The World Bank
FOR oMricL USE ONLY
c //6 ,/CA? 
Rlet No. P-4243-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 108 MILLION (t120.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
February 25, 1986
d etd sta ha   a rmsfided dItrbSie. ad my he ad by ecpems ony in the pednaomcef
tLeffid dud. lb ceuteu  my ne othrwise he discoed witbes Wodd Ran atbhoato..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1985     January 1986
$1.00  =  Y 2.80        Y 3.20
Y 1.00  =  $ 0.36       $ 0.31
(Project cost estimates are based on the January 1986 exchange rate
of Y 3.20 per $1.00.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONiMS
AAPRC -  Audit Administration of the People's Republic of China
CNTIC -  China National Technical Import Corporation
CRC   -  Chinese Review Commission
FILO  -  Foreign Investment and Loan Office
IAP   -  International Advisory Panel
ITC   -  International Tendering Company
PHEB  -  Provincial Higher Education Bureau.  (Throughout the report
the terms "provincial" and "provinces" are used to refer to
provinces, autonomous regions, and the three municipalities of
Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin which are considered equivalent
to provinces.)
SEdC   - State Education Commission
SOE   -  Statement of Expenditure
SPC   -  State Planning Commission



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
CHINA
PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Suumnar-
Borrower:             People's Republic of China
Amount:               SDR 108 milLion (US$120 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Project Description:  The project objective is to assist provincial universi-
ties and the State Education Commission (SEdC) to expand
enrollment as well as improve the quality and management
of higher education programs. The project will have two
components: (a) Assistance to Provincial Universities;
and (b) Assistance to Higher Education Development. The
first component will assist 60 universities by providing
for civil works, equipment for teaching and research,
curricula reorganization and staff development oppor-
tunities such as fellowships, study tours and specialist
services. Emphasis will be given to teacher education
programs. The second component will assist SEdC and the
Provincial Higher Education Bureaux to strengthen their
planning and management capacities mainly through
provision of technical assistance. Two planning
activities to be executed by SEdC with the assistance of
the provinces will be supported. The higher education
masterplan will: assess the requirements of industry,
agriculture, comerce and government; set enrollment
targets; and locate areas where new institutions are
needed to meet requirements for educated manpower.
Teacher demand and supply plans will examine enrollment
at each level of education, assess size and quality of
the existing teacher stock and set targets accordingly
for pre- and in-service teacher training. As in
previous education projects, an International Advisory
Panel (IAP) has been established for the purpose of the
project, and will be maintained to advise the Government
on project implementation.
The principal risk of the project would lie in the
variation of implementation ability among the 28 pro-
vinces. This risk is reduced by: (a) excellent perfor-
mance in SEdC's project implementation in previous
projects; (b) active involvement of the SEdC Planning
Bureau in the two planning activities; (c) strong
comfitment shown during appraisal by the provinces to
meet criteria for inclusion in the project; and (d) the
contribution of the IAP.
Thi docmenth   restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  I
of thoir officil duties Its contents may not otherwe be disclosed without World lank authozmtion.



Estimated Costs                                     Local   Foreign      Total
-    miiiionT
A. Assistance to Provincial Universities
Normal universities                         78.1     96.9       175.0
Comprehensive universities                  49.6     67.2       116.8
Technical universities                      24.9     24.6        49.5
Medical universities                         7.3      13.2       20.5
Agricultural universities                    4.0      6.4        10.4
Subtotal                               163.9    208.3       372.2
B. Assistance to Sigher Education
Development                                  3.6       1.7        5.3
Base Cost                                     167.5    210.0       377.5
Physical contingencies                            16.8      21.0       37.8
Price contingencies                               17.6      44.1       61.7
Total Cost /a                                 201.9    275.1       477.0
/a   Imported equipment, books and journals will be exempt from duties.
Financing Plan:                                     Local       Foreign     Total
($ million)
Government                                         202         155         357
IDA                                                  0         120          120
Total                                         202         275         477
Estimated Disbursements:
Association Fiscal Year       1987    1988   1989    1990    1991    1992
$ million  --__-____
Annual                         6.0    26.0   49.0    25.0    11.0        3.0
Cumulative                     6.0    32.0   81.0   106.0   117.0   120.0
Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5673-CHA, dated February 25, 1986
Map: IBRD 19054



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and reco,uendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Provincial
Universities Project. The credit, for an amount of SDR 108 million
($120 million equivalent), would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOHY
2.        A country economic report entitled "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Government implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
systen". By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of
management and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms have not yet proceed-
ed as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes in
enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years. Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more recently
through opening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped stimulate rapid development of the whole
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 1OX p.a.
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more than 50S in urban
areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and commerce) rising
at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8S p.a. (reaching
over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over 10% p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12Z p.a. vs. 9% p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value grew at
close to 12% p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary
commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984). Manufactured exports growth at 8% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 5Z of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1% in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2% p.a., and change China's
external position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly
$4 billion during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in 1983) and
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over
7 months' imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment spending and some recentralization of
investment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly during the course of 1984 and
early 1985. Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking and the
lack of effective indirect levers, there was a rapid acceleration of invest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the
economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 14% during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20% and domestic credit grew by 36%. The
retail price index rose by only 3% in 1984, but preliminary figures show an
inflation rate of 9% for 1985. Imports of capital goods increased from
$4 billion in 1983 to over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase
occurring in the second half of the year. There was also a rapid expansion in
consumer goods imports. These trends continued during early 1985. As a
result, foreign exchange reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about
$10 billion by July 1985 (equivalent to 3.1 months of imports), and the



- 3 -
current account deficit for the year is likely to be in the range of
$10 billion. The Government has responded quickly by launching a strict
stabilization program that includes further increases in interest rates as
well as a series of administrative directives governing bank credit and
project approval. As a result, aggregate credit and demand as well as new
import orders have begun to slow, though total imports will continue to rise
as past orders are filled.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance with the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term
guidance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by
reducing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of
"floating" and free market prices; and td) the tax system should be improved,
finance and banking should be reformed and a larger role should be given to
indirect macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and
pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typicalLy had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement
agencies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement
price. Thus a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be
produced for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other



- 4 -
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the
application of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset
the impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems
have resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on
the fixed capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they
have hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed
investment. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains weak, in
spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more
strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20Z above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in ma-y cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent years. Gradually over time, and only partly as a result
of conscious policy, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and lower-level and specialized banks were given
significant redeposit requirements. Interest rates (including deposit rates)
were also raised in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and
development of a term structure resembling that in other countries. Technical
transformation loans with a maturity less than one year and loans for working
capital now carry the same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity



carry higher rates, up to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on
budgetary capital construction loans (formerly grants) remain low and there
are a variety of directed credit schemes. On the external side greater use is
now being made of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was
abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between January and end-October 1985
the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over 13%. Despite these changes
progress in developing new indirect levers of control has been slow. Recent
difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance highlight the need to
strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management tools (including
monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a decentralized and more
market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In September 1985 a national party conference adopted a proposal
which will be the basis for drafting a new Seventh Five Year Plan covering the
period 1986-90. The proposal reaffirms a political commitment to economic
reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development. One of the
main objectives of the plan will be to create a favorable environment for
reform which, in turn, will set the stage for future development. Target
growth rates (7% p.a. for industry, 6Z for agriculture, a little over 7% for
CNP) are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five Year Plan, invest-
ment is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed
upon quality rather than quantity of output. It is felt that slower growth
will facilitate reform.
15.       The plan proposal identifies three main areas of reform.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises
greater autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition, increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, some small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extended
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and labor will gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed admin-
istrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic policy.
To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the planning, pricing,
fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during t.ie plan
period.
16.       Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to imple-
ment. Many of the reforms required will be difficult, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. Fcr example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter
financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises



-6-
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs. The plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by commercializing housing.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6%
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. The plan proposal recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
medium sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commercial infrastructure.  Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also ore crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology rust be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes. Management of a reformed economy with
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the
Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as Tell as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appropriate
level of social services will become a major challenge as enterprise and rural



-7-
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,
backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50% over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
commercial borrowing.  If exports grow at 8X p.a. between 1984 and 1990 and
imports grow at 9% p.a., China would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. (except in 1985) during the remainder of
this decade, equivalent to about 1X of GNP. This implies that the present
debt service ratio would increase only moderately by 1990. If China's exports
grow more slowly imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher
borrowing target, though feasible in terms of debt service indicators, would
probably run into supply constraints as China would become one of the largest
developing country borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export
growth in order to meet other plan objectives and service greater commercial
borrowing. The plan proposal recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and
pricing policies will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the decade.
Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at 8Z p.a.
and imports at 9Z p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit would be
over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be about
$6.5 billion. If export growth fell to 6Z p.a. during this period and imports
continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach $14 bil-
lion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing at
commercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important role
in sustaining China's growth. China also has a claim to concessionary lending
t-cause it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But China's
access to concessionary capital to finance development and modernization is
limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of concessionary
capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and
will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a. during the rest of
the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in proposals for the
Seventh Five-Year Plan, to increase efficiency and innovation, and to maintain
equity in distribution, China will need continuing and fundamental reforms.
Large investment will be required and China will need to import more technol-
ogy and increase trade. In the next few years, therefore, the Bank can best
assist China by increasing its access to foreign technology and practices and
supporting the development and implementation of reforms that will help to
increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.



- 8 -
24.       To address China's objective to update technology, the Bank will
play the role of intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and the social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology
transfer by bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and by
helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through international
competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts.  There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved as well as the overall process of plan-
ning and management. Second, financial sector reform, primarily development
of financial institutions that can serve as intermediaries between the
suppliers and users of resources, has become a focus of reform and is an area
where Bank assistance can play a useful role. Third, improving planning and
project analysis will be critical to reform in sectors such as agriculture and
industry, where decisions are now being made by households and independent
enterprises, as well as in infrastructure where direct government involvement
will be required. The Bank will therefore continue its emphasis on introduc-
ing appraisal methods and will include sector investment and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Government will make institutional and policy changes to further
improve the quality of social programs. The Bank will thus support reforms in
health, education and other social services and measures in particular, to
address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       Our economic and sector work in China aims to develop the Bank's
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and to
introduce to the Government new perspectives on economic management. This
work builds a foundation for lending and for the dialogue with Government on
issues of reform and development options and policies in the various
sectors. Past work has included two major economic reports, studies on
sectoral investment analysis and planning, and collaborative research with
Chinese institutions. We have also organized seminars on macroeconomic and
sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
studies to follow up on issues identified in the most recent economic report
and analyze policy options. In this program, we will examine alternatives for
developing the financial system and foreign trade and investment. We will
also analyze issues of intersectoral and interregional planning and develop-
ment of resource-poor regions. One such study is already underway in Gansu
province to review and formulate programs to increase interregional resource
flows, improve the spatial efficiency of development and reduce poverty.
Research on urban development and transport planning and finance at the
provincial level will also be initiated, and we will undertake studies of



- 9 -
regional industrial subsectors to form the basis for project preparation.
Collaborative studies with Chinese research institutions will continue. An
ongoing study of management and guidance of state-owned industrial enterprises
will be followed by a study of collective enterprises, which are expected to
become increasingly important industrial organizations in the reformed system.
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 31 projects involving lending of $3,049.9 million to China have been
approved. Of the projects, eleven have been in the agriculture sector, seven
in energy, four in transport, three in industry, three in education and one
each in health, water supply and technical cooperation. In FY85, IFC made its
first investment in China of US$17.02 million in automobile manufacturing.
Annex 1I contains a suinmary statement of these loans, credits and IFC invest-
ment as of October 31, 1985.
29.       In addition to the already approved rural credit project and the
proposed project we expect to present projects to the Board this year for
industrial credit, technical cooperation, port and railway development,
aquaculture, power, gas and health. For FY87 and beyond, we expect the China
lending program to continue to grow from current levels. Infrastructure
projects in energy and transport will remain priorities. Technical renovation
of enterprises, particularly in industry, will be given greater attention and
support as will the regional approach to project development, now being used
to assess the needs of Gansu province.
30.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at reducing
energy consumption and expanding energy production. For esample, in the coal
subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and operations of exist-
ing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines under construction
or in operation. In power, we will assist China in technology transfer, staff
training and institution building. Through a power tariff study, we will seek
to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost and the need for a nation-
wide power system development program. In the gas subsector, the rationale
for project involvement will lie in the identification, packaging and transfer
of specialized technologies as well as in the strengthening of investment
plAnning and management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and
strengthen institutions. In roads, major changes in organization and
financing will be required as a result of administrative decentralization and
introduction of the production responsibility system in rural areas. In rail-
ways, we wilL focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway
equipment and materials in addition to our work on line construction and
electrification. We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to
include coastal shipping and inland water transport. For all transport
subsectors, we will support efforts to improve financial analysis and
investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace



- 10 -
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will be major aspects
of change that will be supported through rural credit projects. We will
continue to assist with the training, research, extension, and other service
activities of the ministries concerned with agriculture. In addition, we
expect to finance programs for specialized agricultural deveLopment such as
livestock and fisheries, and for irrigation and area development.
33.       Bank lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional
projects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects
concerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.
34.       Bank lending in education will gradually be broadened beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For example, we will finance
vocational and technical education which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Government's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be to assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power and rural water supply and will remain a
feature of our assistance program. We will explore options for cofinancing
with export credit agencies. Commercial bank cofinancing and the use of
B-loans also appear viable, particularLy as China increases the overall volume
of its foreign borrowing. In technicaL assistance, we will continue to incor-
porate into projects components for training, overseas study, and access to
foreign expertise. In addition, we will be a cooperating agency for a second
UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities rpmain an important element of
the Bank's program and in coming years will provide an extensive program of
policy seminars for senior Chinese officials, and economic and financial
management courses and sector-specific training for officials from core and
line agencies.
Implementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning



- 11 -
Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been established for 22 of the 31 approved projects and have helped to speed
disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in Beijing
to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project prepa-
ration, improve project implementation and further economic and sector work.
PART III - OVERVIEW OF EDUCATION IN CHINA
Prospects
38.       During the remainder of this century China's educational system will
adjust in several ways: (a) a declining population will lead to a decrease in
enrollment at the primary and lower secondary levels; (b) a new grade struc-
ture will add grade 6 to all primary schools and extend the secondary level to
include grade 12; (c) there will be higher enrollment ratios and increased
numbers of pupils per teacher at the secondary and post-secondary levels; and
(d) more emphasis will be placed on vocational programs at secondary and post-
secondary levels. Primary enrollment will be affected by a remarkable 30Z
reduction in the age group population caused by the success of the nation's
family planning program. Offsetting this decline will be the Government's
drive to attain full enrollment in remote and poorer regions and to extend
primary education to six grades. Lower secondary schools offering grades 7-9
will move toward universal access. The Government target for the upper
secondary level is to simultaneously increase the enrollment ratio and provide
the opportunity for vocational education for students who are not college-
bound. Special problems in the primary and secondary school systems are the
large number of small schools and a high proportion of unqualified teachers.
Higher Education
39.       A widely used classification system for higher education categorizes
institutions according to their controlling authorities and the general type
of curricula offered. At pre ent national authorities control 301 of the 902
"conventional" institutions.-   The remaining 601 institutions are controlled
by provincial and municipal authorities and are referred to as provincial
institutions. The emerging system of 28 provincial television universities
are not included in this total because they use less conventional delivery
means.
40.       Courses of study are relatively uniform across all universities
because the State Education Commission (SEdC) controls content of curricula.
Higher education curricula are generally divided into political, general and
1/   "Conventional" refers to the delivery mode of the institution.  Conven-
tional instruction generally involves structured teaching to a group of
students in a classroom setting and tends to be full-time. Television
university, correspondence school, and worker and spare-time universities
are considered non-conventional institutions.



- 12 -
subject majors. Electives, about 10% of total hours, are confined to the
student's major subject field.
41.       For admission to higher education institutions, all students are
required to take a very challenging national university entrance e-amina-
tion. Nationally controlled institutions draw new students from all parts of
the country, but provincial, municipal and county institutions draw only from
their areas of jurisdiction. Although it is the Government's long standing
policy to assign national university graduates on a national basis, many
graduating students prefer to obtain employment in their home provinces.
Increasingly, applicants seek to avoid distant assignments by electing to go
to provincial universities or municipal polytechnics.
National Universities
42.       These institutions enroll an average of 5,000 undergraduate
students. Graduate programs are rapidly being initiated in this type of
institution, with over 441 doctoral programs in place by 1982. National
universities controlled by ministries other than SEdC number over 200 and are
usually more specialized with curricula directed to the technical needs of the
controlling ministry. On average a technical ministry can meet only about 40%
of its manpower needs through graduates of its own institutions.
Provincial Universities
43.       The major types of provincial universities are comprehensive, normal
(teacher education), technical, agricultural and medical. Comprehensive
provincial universities vary. In the larger provinces they are nearly the
equivalent of a national comprehensive university. Their curricula include
most standard disciplines with undergraduate and, to some extent, graduate
programs. Normal universities and colleges are the largest category of pro-
vincial institutions. "Major" normal universities (a total of about 70) offer
a four-year bachelor's degree program and usually a few graduate programs as
well. These institutions devote most of their resources to training upper
secondary school teachers and play a central role in pre-service teacher
training. About 160 "minor" normal colleges offer two- or three-year, non-
degree programs to train lower secondary school teachers. Because they offer
only a non-degree program, minor colleges suffer from low prestige and are
generally neglected. Provincial technical universities provide programs in
selected fields in science and engineering. They are akin to the technical
universities under national ministries other than SEdC and are important to
provincial development since curricula and program are determined by the needs
of provincial economies. Provincial medical and agricultural colleges are
limited in curricula, but not in distinction nor in their contribution to
provincial development. The nationally controlled medical and agricultural
colleges are unevenly distributed among provinces and the national system of
graduate assignment is far from perfect. As a result, provinces may well have
an unmet demand in these two important sectors. Moreover, in both medicine
and agriculture there are needs for new professional staff beyond what the
national institutions can provide. Also, in both sectors provincial
conditions var, and specialized training is needed.



- 13 -
Finance of Higher Education
44.       Higher education institutions are financed largely by SEdC, the
technical ministries, or the provinces. The Bank Group estimates that on a
national level about 22Z of recurrent expenditure on education is allocated to
higher education. Unit recurrent expenditure in higher education averaged
about Y 2,000 in 1983. China estimates that its GNP will triple before the
end of the century. Bank Group staff estimate that this anticipated economic
growth -- together with favorable demographic trends and possibilities for
improving internal efficiency - offers China the opportunity to both meet the
financial needs of planned educational development and achieve quality
improvements, without sharp increases in its allocation to higher education as
a share of GNP.
45.       Despite this largely favorable trend, resources for expansion and
improvement of education are insufficient and Chinese authorities are explor-
ing options to improve resource allocations among educational levels and
increase resource mobilization. The Government has announced plans for
gradual application of tuition fees for university students, including charges
of full cost for students sponsored by their work units, combined with an
increase in the proportion of non-boarding students, in those urban locations
where reasonable alternatives exist. However, in consideration of poverty
Nareas, the Government plans to eliminate primary and lower secondary tuition
and school fees for rural families in poor and remote areas.
Government Objectives and Strate
46.       The Government has adopted three principal objectives for higher
education: (a) enrollment expansion, especially in graduate programs;
(b) improvement of teaching and research programs; and (c) management reform.
47.       Enrollment Expansion.  The Government is keenly aware of the
substantial waste inherent in providing less than 5% of the nation's youth
with opportunity for education beyond secondary school. Three targets for
higher education enrollment ratios (percentage of the undergraduate age cohort
- 19-22 - which is enrolled in higher education) by the year 2000 are
suggested for China - high 15%, medium 12.5% and low 10%. A second rationale
for expansion of higher education enrollment derives from the skewed
educational pyramid. Largely because of the Cultural Revolution, which
stopped or hampered higher, upper secondary and technical education for
10 years, the proportion of persons with advanced educational qualifications
is low (less than 1%) in relation to the high proportion possessing primary
education (over 652). In addition, China's many years of isolation and
corresponding disregard of higher education have contributed to the smallness
of the stock of manpower equipped to apply or to teach the skills essential
for modernization. Only 1.4Z of staff across key sectors in 1982 had
university level or higher qualifications. These percentages are between one
quarter and one tenth of the corresponding levels in a set of comparator
countries. To reach the medium target of 12.5% undergraduate enrollment rates
in 2000, the higher education system enrollment would need to triple in about
15 years. This would require expansion of enrollment in existing institu-
tions, establishment of new institutions, and further development of non-



- 14 -
conventional approaches such as television universities, correspondence
programs and spare-time universities. An equally important national objective
is to expand post-graduate education.
48.       Improvement of TeachinB and Research Programs.  This objective has
many dimensions, including: (a) broader and more relevant curricula;
(b) improved competence and qualification of faculty to teach and carry out
research; (c) provision of adequate equipment to conduct all experiments
required under the curriculum; and (d) improved facilities design in relation
to the objectives of educational programs. Improvements in faculty remunera-
tion and promotion policy are being considered, and the International Advisory
Panel (IAP) and Chinese Review Commission (CRC) under the First University
Development Project are developing policy recommendations for improvements in
research.
49.       Management Reform.  The Government and the universities recognize
that higher education is suffering from many management deficiencies. The
basis of such self-appraisal is the student-staff ratio of generally less than
4 students to 1 staff while foreign observers advocate higher ratios
(approximately 8 to 1). The objectives agreed under the First and Second
University Development Projects will continue to be pursued in order to
improve the ratio. Space, equipment, time utilization and higher education
financial management issues are also recognized. Depreciation allowances and
performance auditing are being proposed. A significant move was the
repLacement of nearly all college and university presidents over 60 years of
age. New presidents have been appointed in over 60% of the institutions in
the last two years.
50.       In May, 1985 the Government announced a wide-ranging package of
policy changes for China's educational system. A newly created State
Education Commission has replaced the Ministry of Education. Increased
operating autonomy at all levels of education is to reform the current
centralized system. In the short run, the main targets are: (i) to
universalize basic education (up to grade nine) throughout China, (ii) to
increase enrollment in secondary vocational/technical schools, and (iii) to
privatize higher education institutions. In the long run, however, the
success of these reforms depends on China's ability to develop education at
all levels and to update both instructional materials and teaching methods.
Bank Group Strategy
51.       Through its sector work program and dialogue with the Government,
the Bank Group has formulated an education sector lending strategy which
entails three lines of action: (a) develop technical and vocational education
to increase the supply of technicians and skilled workers; (b) in basic
education strengthen the education of teachers and administrators and improve
the quality of teaching materials and management services; and (c) expand
higher education and improve its quality and management to provide more high
level manpower.   To date the largest share of Bank Group assistance has been
directed to higher education. However, balanced and equitable development
requires upgrading and expansion of education at other levels. Accordingly,
the current lending strategy has three themes: (a) increased emphasis on



- 15 -
technical and vocational education taking into account the needs of other
sectors; (b) support for the basic education needs of provinces which are less
developed or have other special needs; and (c) continued support for higher
education at a more moderate level compared to the past five years.
Experience with Past Lending
52.       The first Bank-assisted education project in China was approved in
1981 to assist 28 major national universities in the fields of science and
technology (Loan 2021/Credit 1167-CHA, $200 million). The Bank Group also
eztended two loan/credits totalling $144 million for the development of
professional agricultural manpower in 1982 and 1984 (Credit 1297-CiA, Loan
2444/Credit 1500-CHA). A $85 million credit in 1983 for the development of
polytechnics and television education (Credit 1411-CHA) is helping China
establish a new system of two to three-year technical education to produce
technicians and strengthen the television education system to reach a greater
number of youths. Both systems have the advantage of accommodating enrollment
expansion at a lower cost than conventional universities. A Rural Health and
Medical Education Project (Credit 1472-CHA, $85 million, of which $43 million
is for medical education) in 1984 provided assistance for improved education
and research in core medical colleges and research institutions. A second
University Development Project (Credit 1551-CiA, $145 million), approved in
February 1985, will contribute to strengthening education in engineering,
economics and finance in approximately 35 higher education institutions.
Sector specific and project-related training is also included in or planned
under Bank projects in agriculture, energy and transportation.
53.       The progress of ongoing projects has exceeded expectations.
Disbursements are running over 50Z above appraisal estimates. Enrollment
growth targets are being exceeded in most cases. Qualitative measures of
teaching programs are being reached or exceeded. Even more impressive is the
major reform of higher education policy which is emerging. The reform
includes decentralization of decision-making to the provincial and institu-
tional levels on such issues as student admission, curriculum content, degree
requirements, faculty promotions and departmental budgets. However, much
improvement is still needed in civil works planning, design and execution and
in procedures for equipment selection and justification.
Project Rationale
54.       The proposed project is the first to address specifically the needs
of conventional higher education in provincial institutions. It would include
assistance to the subsector in the poorer provinces and provinces previously
not assisted by the Bank Group. This could lead to a more direct Bank Group
contribution to specific regions and provinces in China, as the process of
decentralization proceeds. The Bank Group's influence on higher education
policy development gained through the previous six projects would be extended
to conventional provincial higher education institutions and to provincial
higher education planning authorities. The project will contribute directly
to improving the quality and quantity of educated manpower in each province
since the output of these provincial universities will remain in the respec-
tive province. The contribution to teacher education should assist further



- 16 -
development of secondary and primary education, particularly in provinces that
are behind national averages in enrollment and quality of education.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Scope
55.       The project was identified in February 1984 and prepared by SEdC.
It was appraised in November/December 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington from February 18-20, 1986, with a Chinese delegation headed by
hr. Chen Zhenyao, Ministry of Finance. A staff appraisal report (No.
5673-CHA, dated February 25, 1986) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
56.       The project will consist of:  (a) direct assistance to 60 provincial
universities in 28 provinces; and (b) planning assistance for the higher
education subsector. Under part (a) the project will provide civil works,
equipment and staff development to expand enrollment, improve educational
programs and strengthen university management. Under part (b) technical
assistance will be provided to SEdC and the provincial higher education
bureaux (PHEBs) to strengthen their planning and management capabilities and
improve efficiency in the higher education subsector. There will be two
comprehensive provincial planning activities on higher education master-
planning and teacher education.
57.       The universities proposed for assistance were selected jointly by
SEdC and the provincial governments using the following criteria: (a) the
university contributes to the supply of provincial high level manpower needs
for qualified secondary school teachers or other high priority development
fields; (b) the university offers four-year undergraduate degree programs and
will either provide for 10% of the total provincial university undergraduate
intake or have a minimum enrollment of 100 in each of its departments;
(c) each university has a development plan approved by the provincial
government and has submitted institutional requirements for civil works,
equipment and staff development; and (d) for each institution the provincial
government agrees to provide an adequate counterpart budget for capital
investment in civil works and locally procured equipment and a recurrent
budget for meeting the planned expansion of enrollment, adequate teaching
materials, maintenance of buildings and equipment and depreciation allowances.
58.       The project universitieJ are classified into normal (28), comprehen-
sive (18), technical (7), medical (5), and agricultural (2). Provinces have
selected imiversities for inclusion in the project on the basis of manpower
priorities and the numbers of national and regional universities located in
the province. All provinces are represented by a regional or provincial
normal university. The selected universities are leading institutions in the
provinces and through participation in the project will become models for
other provincial universities.



- 17 -
Project Components
Assistance to Provincial Universities ($372 million, excluding
contingencies)
59.       Enrollment Expansion.  As an outcome of the project, total enroll-
ment (including enrollment in short-term and evening courses) in the 60
universities would grow from about 320,000 in 1984 to over 500,000 in 1990
including about 220,000 students enrolled in special curricula, short courses
or evening courses, an increase about 58% over the period. Growth in under-
graduate enrollment would be from 200,000 to over 260,000, an increase of
30Z. Graduate enrollment would expand from about 5,200 in 1984 to about
25,000 in 1990, or an increase of over 380Z. The average enrollment per
institution would increase from 5,500 to 8,400, thereby contributing to
economies of scale.
60.       Educational Program I rovement.  The project will raise the quality
of instruction by supporting: (a) staff development for faculty; (b) improved
curricula and teaching methods through provision of equipment to conduct
experiments required under the curriculum and the introduction of alternative
teaching methods such as audiovisual and computer assisted instruction; (c)
the pursuit of a more flexible and relevant curricula through the advisory
programs of the Chinese and international panels (para. 69); and (d) the
improvement of academic support services (libraries, computer centers and
audio-visual programs) through the fellowship program and the contribution of
the panels. Specific outcomes over the project period will include: (i)
increase in the percentage of faculty with master's and doctorate degrees
including those with equivalent educational levels, with an appropriate mix of
local and foreign degree holders; (ii) lowering of the average faculty age;
(iii) ability to offer over 95% required experiments performed in basic
undergraduate courses and 80X in specialized undergraduate courses; (iv) lower
percentage of compulsory courses and higher percentage of optional courses;
(v) increased use of discussion method and audio-visual material; and (vi)
postponement of a final decision on undergraduate major until the second
academic year. Special attention will be given to teacher education program
improvement in normal universities where the project will result in increased
number of weeks of teaching practice, and increased number of teaching hours
for pedagogy and psychology courses.
61.       Management Reform.  The project will result in improved utilization
of existing staff, space, equipment and facilities, and more efficient
university management and administration, substantially reducing duplication
and waste. Efforts toward management reform will complement those for
enrollment expansion and program improvement. Outcomes of the reform will
include the following: (a) an improved student:faculty ratio; (b) more inten-
sive use of classrooms and laboratories; (c) more hours of library operation;
(d) increased percentage of commuting students; (e) introduction of a student
credit-hour system; (f) more efficiency in the management of student and
personnel records and inventories of equipment and facilities; and (g) provi-
sion of maintenance and depreciation allowances for equipment.



- 18 -
Assistance to Higher Education Development ($5 million, excluding
contingencies)
62.       Through the practical experienced gained in the execution of two
planning activities, the central and provincial higher education authorities
will strengthen their capacities to design and implement similar comprehensive
plans. Furthermore, the results will serve as a basis to plan quantitative
and qualitative improvements, taking into account the manpower requirements
and the financial and staffing implications. While the provincial governments
will be involved, responsibility for coordinating and implementing these
activities will rest with SEdC.
63.       Provincial Higher Education Hasterplans will be prepared under the
project to assist each province in considering its future needs in light of
the three broad national objectives. Baseline data would be assembled to
determine present (1986) status on number and locations of higher education
and post-secondary education institutions. Enrollment expansion will be
addressed through projected numbers, types and locations of higher and post-
secondary institutions in detail for 2000 and enrollment levels by specializa-
tion, including new specialization options not presently offered. Program
development will be interwoven with the enrollment expansion section above,
but should include inter alia the following: (i) numbers of faculty members
needed by specialization, rank and degrees; (ii) new specializations or
combinations of specializations to be added and specializations to be
eliminated; (iii) new policies on electives, inter-disciplinary study, inter-
institutional programs, etc.; and (iv) research programs to assist provincial
development. Organization plans for each institution will be assembled
showing procedures for management and qualifications of managers. Plans will
include estimates of approximate expenditure per year on recurrent costs,
expected investment and sources and approximate levels of finance.
64.       Provincial Teacher Education Plan.  Since the size and structure of
the primary and secondary education systems will experience major changes in
the 1980s and 1990., particular attention needs to be given at national and
provincial levels to both the size and quality of the teaching force. At the
secondary level, rising enrollment ratios and demographic changes will result
in first an increasing and then falling demand for teachers. Even more impor-
tantly, in-service training must receive attention to upgrade unqualified
teachers at all levels. The planning activity will assemble an inventory of
the existing teacher stock by school and field(s) of study taught.
Projections of school enrollment will be essential to predict demand in
2000. The activity will employ simulation techniques to analyze the variation
resulting from different policy alternatives.
65.       The project will provide funds for civil works, equipment, and tech-
nical assistance, in order to attain the project objectives listed above.
66.       Civil Works.  Through the provision of civil works an estimated
total area of 1.4 million sq m at 60 sites will be constructed. Construction
costs have been calculated at about Y 425 million. In anticipation of the
project many universities have been provided special budgets by the provinces
to construct new buildings and remodel existing ones, and work in both



- 19 -
categories is expected to be completed by end-1987. The additional and
remodelled space will accommodate the larger student body through provision of
more classrooms and laboratories. Furthermore it will enable new equipment
for teaching and administrative use to be installed and maintained property in
space of adequate size and environmental control thus contributing also to
program improvement and management reform. Early in the project four institu-
tional space utilization surveys will be undertaken to help establish models
for space standards for future construction. The Association will review
plans and offer advice for improvement for buildings not yet designed. In the
future the Government and the universities are expected to adopt a more
rigorous approach to facilities planning to achieve greater effectiveneas when
universitites will have to bear the full costs of civil works instead of
receiving completed buildings as a subsidy from the Government.
67.       Equipment procured under the project will contribute to improved
quality of instruction through enabling more experiments to be performed, and
expansion and upg-ading of libraries through provision of more library equip-
ment and books. Audio-visual equipment and computers will also be provided
for instruction. The equipment will accommodate expanded enrollment without
compromising the quality of education, and also be used for better management
of university affairs. Guidelines will specify that teaching equipment has
priority over research equipment.
68.       Technical Assistance will be addressed through fellowships, study
tours, seminars and specialist services programs. Overseas and local
fellowships will be provided from domestic sources as well as credit
proceeds. Fellowships will principally support study at the masterts and
doctoral levels. A target will be for the 638 departments with about 28,000
faculty to each have six graduate degree-holders or scholars with equivalent
educational levels at the end of the project, significantly improving the
quality of academic staff. The Government has agreed during negotiations that
fellowships will be awarded in accordance with selection procedures and
criteria agreed with the Association. A second form of staff development will
consist of study tours and seminars led by specialists on selected mAnagerial
and curricular topics.
69.       Spzcialist Services and International Advisory Panel.  Overall
efficiency of the higher education authorities will increase as a result of
technical assistance provided through an International Advisory Panel (IAP).
The IAP will provide expertise in general higher education management, higher
education planning and teacher education planning. The IAP, in collaboration
with a Chinese Review Commission (CRC) consisting of local higher education
experts, will advise SEdC on the best strategies for project implementation.
It will identify the locations abroad from which the most suitable resources
can be drawn for the specialist services and fellowship programs and assist
SEdC in designing and ezecuting the two planning activities. Two hundred
forty man-months of specialist services will be provided through visits by
high level specialists to individual institutions and participation in
national or regional seminars introducing techniques and procedures for
curricula and management reforms.



- 20 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
70.       Progress toward project objectives will be monitored through:  (a) a
set of measurable indicators (such as enrollment, Dcudent:staff ratio and
space utilization targets) agreed upon with the Government during nego-
tiations; (b) reports and recommendations prepared by specialists selected
with the assistance of the CRC and IAP, subject to approval by SEdC, which
:ll be synthesized as part of project evaluation; and (c) additional measures
for evaluation developed by the CRC and IAP. The Government has agreed during
negotiations that project progress will be monitored and evaluated through
such performance indicators agreed with the Association. Annual progress
reports covering calendar years would be submitted each year in February
starting in 1988. While these reports will also include the status of
physical executions, special emphasis will be placed on reviewing progress
toward meeting project objectives. The annual progress report to be submitted
in February 1989 would become the basis for an especially intensive mid-
project review articulated with the evaluation activities of the CRC and IAP.
Progress on the performance indicators will also be reviewed at this time.
Costs
71.       Summary of Costs.  The total project cost is estimated at Y 1,526
million or $477 million equivalent. Base costs refer to April 1986 prices.
Civil works costs for new buildings were estimated on the basis of unit costs
per m in recent building contracts awarded by the related provincial govern-
ments. The cost of furniture is estimated as 8% of the civil works costs due
to its relatively low price in China. The cost of equipment is based on
recent bid prices under ongoing Bank Group-assisted education projects. The
foreign exchange components are estimated as follows: civil works including
furniture - 11%; equipment - 90%; specialist services and fellowships - 50%;
planning activities - 50%; and assistance to higher education development -
33%. The low foreign exchange component estimate for civil works is
consistent with estimates in the Second University Development Project
approved in February 1985. Other estimates are consistent with previous Bank-
financed education projects, but with minor adjustments. The contingency
allowances of $100 million include: (a) physical contingencies estimated at
10% of the base coats of civil works, furniture, equipment, specialist
services, fellowships and assistance to higher education development; and
(b) price contingencies averaging 16% of the base cost plus physical contin-
gencies. Annual price escalation rates were applied to the domestic and
foreign cots as follows: 7.0% in 1986 and 1987, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7% in 1989,
7.6Z in 1990, and 4.5% in 1991 and 1992.
72.       Utilization factor and unit cost.  Utilization factors for class-
rooms, laboratories and workshops are not available due to the Lack of micro-
analysis. Unit costs per student place are reasonable, as the average of
$4,600 compares favorably with the median for Bank education projects of
$16,500 per student place at university level, both figures excluding contin-
gencies. The significant gap is because additional capacities are created as
extensions to existing places instead of totally new places.



- 21 -
Financing
73.       Out of the total project cost of $477 million, the Covernment will
finance $357 million equivalent (75%) and the Association, $120 million (25Z),
representing 44X of the estimated foreign ezchange costs. The project when in
full operation with an additional enrollment of about 80,000 undergraduate and
graduate students will generate an estimated recurrent expenditure of about
$45 million p.a. at 1985 prices which consists of: (a) estimated average unit
recurrent cost per student of $400 which is based on recent higher education
cost studies; (b) an increase of 10% for an improved supply of teaching
materials and better maintenance and repair; and (c) a 5% depreciation
allowance on equipment. This represents less than 7% of the present annual
recurrent expenditure budget in higher education, while the planned enrollment
increase exceeds 7Z of the present enrollment in existing universities. There
should be no budgetary constraint to the Government caused by the project, and
there is some likelihood of a reduced financial burden to the Government, when
some costs, e.g., dormitory and boarding, will be partially recovered by fees,
as a result of the Government's changing policies.
Implementation
74.       Responsibility for implementing the project rests with SEdC.  The
Vice Chairman for Planning and Development, SEdC, will carry overall respon-
sibility for directing the project. At the higher level is a Steering
Committee which has as its members the Vice Chairman and senior officials from
SEdC bureaux concerned, viz, the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO),
the Planning Department and the External Affairs Bureau responsible for
impiementation, planning and relations with provinces respectively. It is
chaired by the Vice Chairman. FILO will be assisted in implementation by
experts and administrative staff from the project universities. FILO consists
of a secretariat and four divisions, namely Project Coordination, Equipment
Procurement, Specialists and Fellowship Affairs, and Accounting. At the
provincial level, a project office has been established within PHEB in some
provinces and an existing division within PHEB has been assigned to take
responsibility for implementating the project in other provinces. It is
headed by a Deputy Director of the PHEB and will guide project implementation,
and coordinate with the universities and the related technical ministries on
matters involving the provincial government and the technical ministries. He
reports to the Implementation Committee, transmits university requirements on
equipment and technical assistance to FILO and obtains data as required by
FILO. At the institutional level a loan office has been established in each
project university headed by a vice-president. It has a managing director and
will report to the PHEB Deputy Director. The Government has agreed during
negotiations that these project implementation units will be maintained with
staff, responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Association.
75.       Aside from these units, a Chinese Review Commission (CRC) and an
International Advisory Panel (IAP) have been established for the purpose of
the project. The CRC will be active in applying the agreed criteria for
equipment procurement and fellowships and determining the requirement for
specialist services and fellowships during project implementation. It will
have regular joint meetings with the IAP to guide and monitor project



- 22 -
implementation. The IAP will consist of three persons, a chairman and two
vice chairmen, assisted by a secretariat. The Government has agreed during
negotiations that the CRC and ZAP will be maintained with staff responsi-
bilities and functions acceptable to the Association.
76.       Status of Project Preparation.  The project is in an advanced stage
of preparation. Construction of most civil works has been started and will be
completed by end-1987. Equipment lists and specifications winll have been
reviewed by the CRC, IAP and the Association by end FY86. Comercial terms of
the bid documents will be substantially the same as those used for previous
education projects. The final bid documents will be printed by about April
1986, and submission of bids will be invited by about May 1986. The IAP has
commenced work before credit signing on specialist selection and appointment,
discussions on curriculum improvement and providing advice on equipment and
university administration. Fellowship selection will be completed for the
first group of scholars to be placed in overseas universities in September
1986.
77.       Procurement.  Procurement arrangements will be largely the same as
those used in previous education projects in China and are simmnrized in the
table on page 23.
78.       Civil works and furniture, all financed by the Government, gill be
contracted through established local procedures. The credit will finance
about $100 million equivalent of instructionaL equipment including books and
journals and about $20 million equivalent of technical assistance. About 83Z
of the equipment from credit proceeds will be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) and the remainder through direct purchase or limited
international bidding. Equipment financed from Government funds will be
procured through local competitive bidding under local procedures which are
acceptable to the Association.
79.       The International Tendering Company (ITC) of CNTIC will continue to
be the procurement agency responsible for inviting bids, participating in bid
evaluation and signing and enforcing contracts as under previous education
projects. Equipment items for the project will be grouped, to the extent
possible, into packages for bulk procurement. Contracts estimated to cost
$200,000 or more will be awarded through ICR in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines.  Local manufacturers will be eligible to participate and will be
extended a 15% preference margin, or the prevailing custom duties, whichever
is lower, in bid evaluation. Items or groups of items estimated to cost less
than $200,000 in each contract and not exceeding an aggregate amount of $5
million may be procured through limited international bidding whereby
contracts will be awarded on the basis of comparison and evaluation of quota-
tions obtained from at least 3 suppliers. Proprietary items or where justi-
fied by the need for standardization, up to an aggregate of $7 million, may be
purchased directly. Books and journals estimated to cost about $5 million
will be procured directly from suppliers after negotiations for the best
discount. Based on experience gained with good performance on equipment pro-
curement implementation in China, awards on contracts valued at $500,000 or
more will be subject to the Association's prior review instead of the $200,000
threshold as set in the Second University Development Project. It is expected



- 23 -
that such review of equipment awards would cover about 3Z of the number of
contracts and about 34Z of the total value of all contracts awarded through
ICB. All specialists will be selected and appointed in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ mln)
Procurement method              Total
ICB      LCB     Other        N.A.    cost
Civil works and furniture          -         -      181/a         -      181
Equipment, instructional /b       83       147       177T         -      247
(83)              (17T               (100)
Technical assistance
Specialist services              -         -        4          -         4
(4)                 (4)
Fellowships /d                   -         -       13         25        38
(13)                (13)
Assistance to higher             -         -        3           4        7
education development                              (3)                  (3)
Subtotal for TA                                 20         29        49
(20)                (20)
Total                        83      147       218         29       477
(83)              7%7                 (120)
/a   Through assigned contracts.
7i  Includes buoks and journals.
Tc   Direct purchase for proprietary items, or where justified by need for
standardization and limited international bidding.
/d   Includes overseas and local.
Note: Figures in parentheses denote the amount of the Association's financing.
80.       Disbursement.  The credit of $120 million equivalent will be
disbursed over a period of 5-1/2 years. Disbursements will be made on the
basis of: (a) 100Z of the foreign expenditures on imported equipment, books
and journals, or the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; (b)
75% of local expenditures for other equipment procured locally; and (c) 100%
of the expenditures for specialist services, exchange programs, overseas
fellowships and overseas study tours. Disbursement profiles of previous
education projects in China indicate a faster pace than both the regional
average of all projects and the Bank Group average of all education
projects. The project's Completion Date will be December 31, 1990, and the
Closing Date will be December 31, 1991.



- 24 -
81.       In order to facilitate the the Association's processing of
disbursement applications, a minimum level for withdrawal application will be
$200,000. Disbursement applications for contracts valued at $200,000 or more
will be submitted to the Association with two copies of the contracts together
with other appropriate supporting documents. For overseas fellowships, study
tours and expenditures incurred under contracts below $200,000, statements of
expenditure (SoEs) certified by authorized government officials will be
used. In this case, contracts and supporting documents will be retained by
the Foreign Investment and Loan Office, SEdC, Beijing, and, upon request, will
be made available for review by visiting missions from the Association.
Disbursements against SOEs will be made on the basis of a consolidated
summary, each not less than $200,000. Disbursements for other project
expenditures will be made against full documentation. For the proposed
project, a special account will be established and maintained in US dollars in
a bank acceptable to the Association to facilitate disbursments for eligible
projects expenditures. An initial deposit of the US dollar equivalent of SDR
5,000,000 representing four months' average project expenditure to be covered
through the Special Account will be made. Applications for replenishment of
the Special Account will be submitted quarterly, or more frequently if
necessary, with certified SOEs as supporting documentation for disbursements
against consultant's services, exchange programs, fellowships, study tours and
expenditures against contracts below $200,000 and full documentation for all
other expenditures.
Accounts and Audits
82.       Project accounts will be maintained by the FILO.  Accounts related
to the universities will be maintained at the PHEB Project Offices. The Audit
Administration of the People's Republic of China (AAPRC) will audit these
accounts. Annual audit reports will be submitted to the Association within
eight months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. Six months after the
Closing Date, the Government will submit a project completion report to the
Association.
Benefits
83.       The provincial universities assistance component would assist
leading provincial institutions to: (a) increase undergraduate enrollment by
30% and increase graduate enrollment almcst five-fold; (b) improve educational
programs in all to: (i) enable departments to offer over 95Z of required
experiments in science fields; (ii) improve faculty qualifications through
local and foreign fellowship programs aiming toward a target of 6 graduate
degree holders in each department (including those with equivalent educational
levels) compared to a current average of 2% for masters and less than 1% for
doctorates; (iii) provide special assistance to the further development of the
education/psychology departments of normal universities which are at present
in need of improvement; and (c) improve management efficiency by means of
policies for more economical use of resources. Through these and many other
measures, the beneficial effects of the two previous higher education projects
will be extended to the provincial segment of conventional higher education
which enrolls 60% of the total enrollment and comprises two-thirds of the
total number of institutions.



- 25 -
84.       The assistance to higher education development will have a long-
range impact in guiding higher education development. The higher education
masterplan will set enrollment targets, Locate areas where new institutions
are needed, identify priority fields of study in relation to the manpower
needs of industry, agriculture and government, more clearly define
institutional roles to avoid unprofitable duplication, facilitate more
rational faculty and staff deployment, contribute to improved civil works
policy, design and utilization and support a more rational policy for
equipment allocation, procurement, utilization, maintenance and replacement.
The teacher education plans will assist the provinces to address the nation's
unprecedented problems of matching teacher supply and demand in a period of
sharp demographic change and educational reform.
Risks and Justification
85.       The principal risk of the project would lie in the variation of
ability among the 28 provinces to implement both components. This risk is
reduced by: (a) excellent performance in project implementation exhibited by
SEdC in the First University Development Project and the Polytechnic/Tele-
vision University Project where in the latter case the project beneficiaries
are also provincial institutions; (b) active involvement of the SEdC Planning
Bureau in overall coordination of the two planning activities; (c) strong
comitment shown during appraisal by the provinces to meet criteria for
inclusion in the project in such matters as counterpart funds, maintenance and
depreciation budgets and early and ample financial commitments for civil
works; and (d) the contributions the IAP would make.
PART V - RECOHMENDATIONS
86.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 25, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 26-                                                      Annex I
TASIL 3L                                              Page  1 of  7
014. POPLES REP. OF -   M.I         A     
=       UPLr8 UP. or                EuiiCE I06N0   (WIIUW DRES) p_&
mS                       (Cast 3CS ntS 
LW HUMCO                                S3U  -a
inGotb     19701b usnnt              "An A innCXC          an a nAcxvX
mia  (TAnM SQ. no)
TOTAL                             9561.0     9561.0      9561.0
ARICULTUUAL                      3257.6      36U2.0      3U65.9
CG  PM CAPITA (59)                      ..         ..        300.0             276.3                   1011.1
CE1LORAE Or OIL SqIALET           202.0       259.0       641.9             285.7                    566.8
vAcm A maL mDanm
IOPOULAION.MC-EAR CTOSAD) 651000.0   315160.0  1019102.0
QURAN POPULATION C OF TOTAL)        16.4 t      ..         21.0              22.3                      U.
POPULATON PKOJECIIoHS
PoPULATIOs IN TEAR 2000 CHILL)                         1242.3
STAnTOART POPULATION CHILL)                            1571.0
POPULATION IU11Hh                                         1.6
POPULATION macn33
PER SQ. MH.                      68.1        65.3       106.2             1736                     366.9
PuM SQ. MI. ARI. LAN             199.6      210.0       260.3             353.3                   1591.2
rOeuLmnOm AZ STYCIU  (Z)
0-14 US                          38.9       37.6        32.0              36.3                     36.2
15-64 Is                         56.2        57.2       63.1               59.4                     57.7
65  nID SlOY                      4.7         5.0         5.0               4.3                      3.5
voULAfION GROVS RATE CZ)
rTaL                               1.1        2.2         1.7               2.0                      2.3
URBAN                             ..          ..          ..                 .1                      4.1
CDe BIRTH RACE (PR TOlS)           39.2 Id    35.7        1.6               27.5                     30.1
Cum  O54LT RATE (P  tRIlS)         23.5 7T      6.6         7.1              10.2                      9.4
CROSS W      ZRAUICTO  RATE         2.8J        2.3         1.0               1.7                      1.9
FAMILY PLAWING
As ORS. ML   CUES) (Tows)
USERS (S or NrD3  OEN)             ..         ..         71                49.4                     56.5
-o -m marmns
USE  or FOOD rOD. PEA CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       ..        100.0       123.0             116.6                    124.4
PUR CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES C or REIUIRITS)          94.6 Id   101.6       119.8             106.3                    115.7
PRLTINS (CAMS ER DAY)            53.0  d    56.2        69.7               60.1                     60.3
OF UNIOC SAHUL SA  PUS           12.5 7d    13.3        15.9              14.4                     14.1
CHILD CAGES 1-4) DELAT RATE         13.5        8.5        2.0                7.3                      7.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT SlEN (ClUS)        41.0 /a    60.9        67.1               60.5                     60.6
INFANT NDTR. AT (PEa TrUS)         165.0 7'   69.0        36.0               69.2                     64.9
ACCESS TO SAEt WATER (POP)
TOTAL                              ..         ..         50.0              44.2                     46.0
URA                               ..          ..         65.0              77.2                     57.6
RMUAL                              ..         ..        40.0               34.6                     37.1
ACCESS TO EECREA KSPOSAL
( OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..          ..                7.8                     50.1
UR                                ..          ..          ..               26.6                     52.9
L                                  ..         ..          ..                5.5                     44.7
POPULATI  PER FIISICIAN          7940.0 If  3690.0 If  1740.0 /f           3316.0                   7751.7
FOP. Pu SRI    PEtRSO11          3830.0      2760.0      1710.0-            690.7                   2464.8
POP. PR  OSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1040.0      760.0       440.0            1039.2                   1112.1
URBA                             210.0        ..        160.0             299.1                    651.4
RURAL                          10140.0        ..       1020.0            6026.2                   2596.9
ADMISSIONS P  HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..          ..               52.3                     41.1
AVERAGE SIZ  OF HOUSEWOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..          5.1
URN                                ..         ..          4.1
RURAL                              ..         ..          5.4
AVERAGE NO. o0 PERSONSIRoo0
TOTAL                              ..         ..
UREAN                             ..          ..
tnaL                              ..          ..          .                  ..
PEUBTKAGZ OF WUINCS WXRT ELECT.
TornL                              ..         ..          .                  ..
UA                                 ..         ..          .                  ..
TURAL                              ..         ..



- 27 -                                                      Annex I
,T L    LC 3A,                                      Page 2 of 7
Ift             9 - r         m                    rmoaw    *sotnw lbs)l
not?                      CPoOTslow 3 31? I 1?ZAfl)
I1OL        1970!k                       LWu 11001 *              U?i.3&*=X
ma&,   Ism     I tIunaU            MIA4 PA IFA IC        ASIA. & PACVIC
PIDM       TOTL                    109.0       110.0        110.0               92.6                       100.7
HALS                      *-          *.        123.0               105.3                      104.4
NEW"                      ..          ..         97.0                79.3                       97.2
SZOWATYs TOTAL                      21.0        23.0        35.0                31.3                       470.
IaLX                      ..          ..         46.0                40.3                       50.6
Z                         ..          ..         23.0                21.9                       44.1
VOCATIONA  CZ        ND )              ..           ..          2.2                3.2                        18.4
FaiDWIT                              .          33.0         23.0               36.0                       30.4
COWD                                 ..         22.0         16.0               17.4                       22.2
PAUUUUG  CARIUSAND POP                 ..           ..          0.2  b             0.                        10.1
RUDO ammars/hOuS             po        ..          1 .7       210.1               129.J                      172.9
TV BZ-IY3kg/TIUDo                       ..         0.6         35.3                19.8                       58.5
MISIXIT) CIOAUTIOU
PU THOUSAID POPUT                     ..           ..         334                23.7                       63.3
C Dm  AIAL AT DANCR/CAjTA              ..           ..          ..                 6.0                         3.4
TOTL XANI YOM  CTUS)              321646.0    310555.0    470692.0
1zNALK  t133T)                      36.3        38.0         37.3               33.2                       33.6
A CULTnU CZC*)                        -          *           6.9                69.6                       52.2
IFD       C    T)                    ..          ..          1.7                15.                        17.9
PARTICIPATI   RA   (PUCET)
TOTAL                               46.U        45.0        46.1                41.9                       38.9
VALE                                53.9        54.5         55.4               53.6                       50.
Fmws                                37.0        35.0         35.1               29.1                       24.8
zcoUrc  DEZ C=  RO                     0.9          1.0         0.8                1.0                         1.1
PUBCcT OWP PRIVATE ZECONA
PUCim  aPnvna
RU:CID 3!
HIUS  0s      1 or unDs              ..          ..         12.5 A
GsT 201 0F             V             ..          ..         39.33                ..                        4UA0
Lamm  20 O   ousos                   ..          ..          6.8                 ..                         6.4
LoUnS? 40   1 3      S1              ..          ..          16.4                ..                        15.5
-          I   0ins
HAMM AMoT POVUT I==
LoL CUM  PE  CITA)
URIAN                               1..          ..           ..                33.9
NODAl.  ..  ..          ..                111.6                      151.9
ESTDIAT roAT211 POVIEST
LV=L CUSS cP prIA)
URBAN                                ..           ..          .                  ..                       177.9
..                                               ..          ..                61.7                      164.7
E5TDIAT   POP. BELOW ABSOU
PW93!  icON  LEVEL CZ)
URBAN  ..  ..  ..             43.8                       23.5
tURAL                                ..          ..           ..                51.7                       37.8
NOT AVAIL&BLX
Nr  APICABLE
NOTES
fr 7 TM group avorages  for each IlAicator are popamtloetlghted *ditletic menow. Coveem  og ceunt?eg
am"  the ladicatr  depndo Oa eaviasbil3ity of dt ad im sot ugore.
Ab   gal1  othermUm notod. "Dtam for 1960' refer to ra  yeer betwen 1959 and 1961  "Data for 1970" bet
1969 ed 1971; and data for wnlbt Reet gStlata  bsietwe  191 sad 1983.
/o   1964;  d 1955-f5 average;       1955-6  avergep   /1 Soor doctor of  etere edicin; JA  Distribution
of peopl  ra-nd by howshos per capits ame,9    data;  ^  W980.
JU, 1965



-28-                                                Annex I
Page 3 of 7
DDIIdrnob O_ SOCLAL INDIWA1O
Notemb.v lbdiessis . ihonmu            lb J_ ()b M wouambrheiw ed .iab. k ibul lm bo moud lb  hy  y W t 1We CIinuet_cy
nistawaW bigiamg of inkod Nindmtd dsom aid mospi mmd by dama contimes a calkwag de den, The dela ma momdbim. usdw so
mg Nbee op~ u (I) she tains a y pow of dom suljim  cismy MA d  a2) couy wmaw WMb mmewbs NOW avap' dam hm sWM cuntry
powaofsbmeominu_    m    '(fHriIl Imo_mOll ExpemlUs -     -ines  fIddle _ nnes Mouh Am end Middin enr imd-e bmmm of or
__d.mIw  mdu). IOmlw  Maw dmd nv a_an psp m'S. u                 itineWe mom br au .aib.r md dhe.omy wb. m_jonty
ofbi.aw~ dm fo heuanIbmi_ sh aiwaofml.ma lb himmdepamib onsellmhiy odda md mu mafm
lbfampmdr          u
AREA (umad sq.k.)                                            CG _ *        fn_ R   (p.rsh nd)-Number oftiv binhs in the yer
Tr6--Toudl nfieas  m conprng land am md inlad waterq         pr tdoumd of mid-year population 1960.1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1963 data                                     Crude Dmh Et (p. t1)-o *)Number of dead. in the year
haft-d  Ei    of agc-1ral ans ued tempomrily or             per tboumd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1963 data.
permanently for crops. paturee. morkat and kitcen padm or to  GCm Rdprod   Ae-Aversge number of daughten a woma
he faw. 1960. 1970 and 1962 data.                            will beer in her normal reproductive period if she
peea age-Wpcflc fatiliqty a; usually fie-year avemcs ending
GNP PM CAPT  (US)-GNP p. capita esana   at cunun             in 1960.1970. and 1963.
m e pnor. Iculatksm by arne conveio  method em World
Bash Ada, (196143 bakal; 19613 data                          ber of accpton of birth-contr devie un   ausi  of nuana
EDIGY  CONSUMPTlON PU  CAPITA-AnnZul. appant                 fai mlypamg   mwum
conumpto  of commercrl prmar ,mey (ca and ibpit.             ?mip    a-Uisr (psua .1  wrkd inn)-The peen-
peurola. nuaul ps and hydra-. nucler and pothermal eec-      tap ofmared den oftcild-ering au who ae practg or
tricity) in kilogma of oil equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970. and  whoe humbands ar practcing any form ofcoouceptoc Women
1982 data.                                                   of childbearing age am ep mfly  oem agd 15-49. alhogh for
roa  countrine, conincepave  uam  isnmem d for other age
PO- IlATION AND VYEAL STATISTCS                              P0313.
TatdPI        MiYe  (t _ _)-As of July 1; 1960. 170.         FOOD AND NUTRON
and 1963 data
Ur&    hp        (_   f 1 1 of  S)-Ratio of urban to al      1mkz if FedP w    Per Copka (1969-71 - 17  )-index of per
ppulton. dii mardeitmon of urb an=my afihet  cma-           apta annual production of all tood commodities. Production
--ty of; datiL among countriem 19    IM  and 199 data.      cxucsi animal feed an sed for agriculture. Food com de
abity of datamong coutrea 196. 1970. and 1933 d.             ind ude pr y commoditie  (e.g. sugrcae instd of sugr)
Ppmb. he eba                                                 which are edible uad contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Pop*lon in yaw 20W -The projeton of population for 2000      excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pules. oil seeds.
made for eah economy seprately. Stang with infornation on    vegtabl. fruits. nute. sug_aae and sugr bes livestock. and
otl populton by age and m  fertility mt. mortlity  te. and   linvstock products Agpegte production of ech country ts bed
untatol migaion n the bme year 1980. theme pameters          on natonal average producer prce weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
we= projeted at ie-year intervab on the bas of genealimd     1982 data.
_mptos until the popution became statonay. r-r Cq*a SW& efCalrle (pereer Df)reg entm)-Comput-
Sm y popuIaMme-ls one m whih age- and sl-speci mor-    ed from calorie equiwvant of net tood supplies available in country
tiity rate. have not changd over a ln peiod, whi agepecific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rtres have smultuaeously remaied at relcemet levd  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net rproduction rte- 1). In such a popuation, the birth rate is    exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death amm. the age structure is also  food processing. and loaes in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was esimated on the basis of the projected characterstic of  and health considering environmental temperture. body weights.
the populton in the year 2000. and the rate of dline of fertlity  age and ma distnbution of population. and allowing 10 percet for
rae to replaement levd.                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pbpufatimn Manwaam-Is the tendency for population growth to  Pff Cap&i Skp*  of PrtmW (grin pe dA-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replwcment-lvel fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved that is. even after the net reproduction late hS macbed  as above. Requirenents for all countries established by USDA
unity. lbe momentum of a populion in the year t is measurd as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate statonary population to the population in  day and 2C prma of animal and pule protein. of wbicb 10 granms
the yer s. given the aumption that fertity remains at replac-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
meat klvel from year i onward. 1985 data                     75 grams of total protein and 23 gramns of animal protein as an
_p I  Deally                                                aveage for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per squae kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tare.) of total aea; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.   Ar Capit Awem Supply Fom- Anima ad PkLe-Protemn supply
Per sqJam. agrkuuraa laid-Computed as above ror agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                        1970 and 1977 data.
Pepulade. Age S5rnetm'e (prwar)-Children (0-14 year). work-  CMd (ageD14) Death Rat (per trA-usad)-Number of deaths of
ing ae (15-6 yeas), ad retired (65 yea and over) as percentage  cbildren aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year popula; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countrics data derived
PepuiCm GrowtA Rawe (perceAt)-tal-Annual growth rtes or      from life table; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083.  HEAETH
hpa Cdm Gwth Rate (cwct)   bm -Annual growth rates           1* Expectancy at Bfr (yenws)-Number of yes  a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.  infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 29 -                                          Annex I
Page 4 of 7
at the tie of of its birth weo to stay the -  thou0out its lite:;    A4isMuher JRatio- p_,wy. aNd aeord,pp-Totol students en-
1960. 1970 .d 1913 data.                                     rolled in pimasEy and secondary leve  dridd by numbers of
1    MWAp ReaW (pa  lsm)- lube oroi,wod                     t wchets,hb   con t ponding lavl.
bets incing oue yr orap pe thowuad lI  birt  in a gie
;19d I%%  I  an 1963 dsta.                                  corvW INo
A r   SO  W     (_              )       WIM            P        Coo (pw        d A I       b   sIr_ corn con-m
wind-Nubew of popl (totaL                      A  and   a  wi m   prbe mown cm mtin   m tbe eight psm   ecudes amubu
~-     to oh wowe supply (cdmi. asrn  usAc. Warns or          a    bn.   .w stifitary VeNcdh
untrate but uanoontandoad wau r mh    that fiom P rnmsdI      ed  Rem tw(p  thsinppamii -AMm-mf
bombOIIO    aspI   mitdry UUI)upescie w    odmr              for rad  boadcat to  el pubLic per dtusad  otpopulrle
dt      p        uint 1k *am a_ a public fotaoi or _apdct            we                 ai countrasie me in year when
located nor -     ta   mou ha a hon may be o  sd I            emstraio, of rado setsu w o dc  dat for aint yam, may
u bein withi reaonabe  -cm  of that house In rura aimm             ecmoWimm              mi  bM             iass
riuohacorns muld imply tha the hauawife or mmbe of t         n     be otm eli.vemostbootatcasaol            g.
bwdboiud do ot have to nd a dipoortit pat of dth day           r          ( wF                1    tcre _  br
in fetchin the f_ilys wae seds                               to pusel pubic per _     i po      eiclud.       md TV
Acem   Ewsma D&p.seI (perea  .IpepaIatk.)-.sud,  ~   raver i counies an in y._ whe          iof ctTV am w
Acsa to^ *_mf Dko   t_wcm  of            *#n                 ined
ad rlm-Number cpeopie (totl. urban, and naal) senred by        e
excrt disal a peroatagu of the r             pqau t          Akw        Ch m   . ts thie ayo
Excr  diposl  may include the colecio am  dispoaL with or                  Ofdaily  uald inist  _wpr," ded as a
without tmtmrt. of human xcrsta and was_-watar by water-    peodcl publication devoted pmarly to rcdig g.sa me
bone system or the use of pit privie and simile injtafladuL  I is consed to be -daiUy Wit appea1 at l.st ct    a ws 
M   _ -8-h pm Pkysk -P_pWation dividod by number of pmc-     C21sasain b_  J   A  a- - I   pw Coplo pw 14mr-41bad on the
tisingpsaiqualifiale fm  a ndlschool*t         "ty kvd   nnumber of dck   sold dorng the year incldn  adminiom to
M  p      Plam-I*pulation divided by number of      dnv    Cmi_ and mobile unt
practicing msale ad (male grdut nurs, wastnt nurss           LBR FORMu
p_cau nure and nursng auzahane..R
__ m              g   _           * ,_ , _Ed L_ Fe (it_ -hoonomically acte pesoa. in-
(total urban. and raQ divided by dtr respetve  mbe or        cluding armed forcean dmo  but eaclud   hewi
bospatai b,eris av0ailbeO iliaii adre, isnrs a    s ~ -~stdenspoiXi. etc., covrn  populton ofal ags Definitin i
htspal. an itabie in  cand  p         ilsad stablizedua                            comparsbWa 1960.1970 ad 1983 data.
pemamady stf  by at eant one physiciab Estabmeen prov-    _           (  )   F  el labor fo re as pe topeof total lbor
idig pnimpafy cuoa cae are not icluded. Rur  hospa,          fo-
hot,  include M  and a     ceitts no permanently staffed     *jds'e (pr).-4lAr tor e fom  rnfing foun", baunn
by a phya (but by a mdical         nt nursej midwik  tcr)    and fishing as pcentage of ta lbor foem  1960IV70 and 1910
which ofrer npet mmnodation and provide a limited rag        datL
or medial facilite                                           Adnwj (jirceMD-Labor fora in mini  constructon. man-
Addadeau -  H.s_pd 3d-Total number of admissons to or        factuing and dectricity. water and as as percentae of otal labor
dischar  from hospita dividdo by the nub  of beds.           rOm 1960.1970 and 1980 dat
P         A   (pffcss-rik-,        fsse-Apk
HOUSING                                                      or auivity re are computed a tota mle uad fle labor force
Awf  SW  of H_4h    (Pffi p.r                     mr,        as perent   of total, mr Nd femal popul           of aln aw
_'.ia--A hbouwbold constn of a group of individual who share  rpevely,. 1960.1970. ad 1993 data Thbee ae baud on ILOs
living quarters and their mn mca& A boarder or kbdir may or  participation ratn rlect  ag-se sucr ofthe populadon, and
may not be induded in the houshold for statistical purpoa.   long time tre   A few estmte are from national soume
Averwqe N..gr of Parsons per Reeim-qoai  harm, md m-         Ecemdc Dependeucy Ri-Rtatio of population under 15. and
Average number of permons per room  in all urba  and rural   65 and over. to the working ag population (thos aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwldling  respectivdy. Dwelingp cldude
non-permanent structurs and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISMMlDUTION
Pacetqe of D1EAgr wh Eidip-ossal wham, and n_al-             P_ceam    of Tod Divmkle,w (brot in cash ut kbW  -
Conventional dwellinp with elecricaty in living quarte as permn-  Adccring to percentile groups of household ranked by otal hous-
lage of totaL urban, and rural dwelling respecively.         hold income
EDUCAT1ION                                                   POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4 msd Ewehl.e Rnio                                          The following estinates an very approximate mssums of poverty
Fbmary sxhoe - toal. mak and fanaL-Gross totaL mak a         levels and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
feme earotmen of al age at the prinmry levd as preng  or     Esidm dA&eba Pwmny (acuw Le&e ((S53,. capita -srtm
respective prmay chool-e populat . Whie mny countries        ad wrd-Absolute poverty income levd is that incoe leved
consider pimay sdhool age to be 6-l1 yeas others do noL The  bdow which a minimal nutsitionally adequae diet plus rsential
differencs in country practces in the ages and duration of scbool  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflcted in the ratios given. For some countries with unversal  Esm& 1 Relbdre Pobrj' lam,. Lewd (I5f pr 3capit)-wbm
educato  gross  rollment may exceed 100 percet sic some   |        rerl-Rural relative poverty income level is onethird of
pupils are below or above the country's standard pmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                         derived from the rural level with adjustmet for higher cost of
Secidwy shool - toal. mak andfaema-Corputed as abo:          living in urban areas
secondaryedato requires at lt foLr yeass of appmoved psi-    Es     sd Popalhim B.    AkWl   b,e  -yw:_ bnome Laed (per-
mary inn;ucb   provids gemeral vocational or techer trammg   cent)-whar sd wed- Prcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 year of age: conespond-  who are absolute poor.'
ence coun are generally excluded.
VocadK a E       i (percen of secondivJ-Vocational insttu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
ons includeh tech     indusL  or othr programs wbich operae         Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indepedently or as departments of scond   ionstuons.                                June 1985



- 30 -
ANNEX I
niaUtiom    i  1.019 Billion (md-1963)                                                                         Page  5  of  7
ON1, pew aapitat 8300 (1983)
CHINA - UC1oSIIC ZNDICASTO
_ouS t   ~19S4                             Annual erowth rate. (X)
(mAlll.n US at                 Actual                                        froiectad
Zadicator                        nt pricae)Ab 'MD0  1981   1912  1983   l9U 1    1985         916     1957      1966     1959     1990
NATONAL ACCON.u21T26
Creeu dOemtiC produet           261,260       6.6    4.9    7.6    9.6   14.0      10.4      6.6      6.8        6.8     6.8      6.8
A4rlculturW                   100,430      -1.7    6.4   11.2    9.0   13.9       6.0      4.9      4.9       4.9      4.9      4.9
Industry                      125.010      12.3    2.3    7.3   11.4   16.6      14.0      7.7      7.7       7.7      7.7      7.7
Service.                       55,620       8.2    8.9    3.3    6.5    7.7      10.0      7.9      7.9        7.9     7.9      7.9
Cbou _ptioe                     19S,190       9.1    5.2    5.9    9.0   12.5      12.5      8.9      7.4        7.4     7.4      7.1
Crams lavestmnt                  S3,100       1.3  -1.8   10.9   15.2   20.7       11.0      2.3      4.8        4.6     5.1      5.7
Ztport. of G1M1 /a               26,720      17.5   16.7    0.6    9.5   13.0       3.0      6.9      6.8        8.8     6.8      *.6
Imports of Gu?S H                26,750      16.1  -6.7   -5.7   25.1   25.9       43.1      0.0      5.8        5.9     6.0      6.2
CrcG   mtional avain.            85,870      -0.2    3.6   17.0   12.0   17.0       5.0      2.4      5.1        5.1     5.6      6.2
PRICKS
CD deflator (1960 - 100)                    100.0  101.6  101.7  102.9  107.6    113.1    116.7    124.7    131.0    137.5    144.4
xehange rate (7uan/USg)                      1.50   1.70   1.69   1.96   2.32      2.64     2.84     2.54      2.64     2.84     2.84
Share of COP at market prIcee (Z)                  Average annual lncrease (X)
*-0 97~ t current ;rlc..j                         (-eA~     conutant 1981 prce e)
1960   197 1t975   1 60 M    955   1990       1960-701700-75  197a-60  16g0-84  19644-9  1939-9
Cross doestnic product l        100.0  100.0  lOO.G  100.0  100.0  100.0         6.1      3.2      6.6      9.0       7.3      6.6
Agriculture                   23.0  35.0   32.8   32.0   34.2   31.3           6.7      3.4      3.3     10.1       5.0      4.8
Induetry                      46.0  41.0   45.B  48.0  47.9   49.9             7.8      7.5      9.9      9.4      6.6       7.4
Servlce.                      29.0  24.0   21.4   20.0   17.9   18.1           3.4      4.5      5.4      6.6       8.2      7.5
Consumption                     62.4  70.6   69.1   71.3  66.7   69.3            6.1      4.7      6.4      8.1       8.4      6.8
Crn i invetuact                  37.8  29.2   31.1   30.0  34.4   30.9           9.5      6.9      9.7     11.3       5.1      6.1
xportes of 0161                  4.8    2.8    5.3    7.1    7.7    8.5        -1.5      10.6      5.7     12.3       8.0      7.7
Imparts of GCUS                  5.0    2.7    5.5    8.4    8.8    8.6          1.2     13.9     13.0     12.2      8.4       7.4
Croci nattoenl caving.          37.7  29.2   30.9   28.9   33.6   30.7           9.1      6.7      7.2     14.0       4.8      6.2
as Z of CDP
197            1970           1980            1983           1984
PUDLIC FENANCH
Current revenues                                    26.7           29.6            30.6           27.8            26.7
Current  xpednItures                                15.1           15.7            23.1           21.6           20.1
Surplus (4) or deficit (-)                         +13.6          413.9           +7.5            +6.2           +6.6
Capital expenditure                                 13.7           13.3            11.0            7.8             8.2
Forelgu fIna-nig                                     0.7            n.S.            0.5            0.2             0.3
1960-70     1970-75     1975-80      1980-64     1984-89     1989-94
OTIER nIDICATlOS
1W  growth r    (Z)                                 6.1         5.1          6.4          9.2        7.2          6.6
CGP per capita growth rote (Z)                      3.5         2.9          5.2          7.9        6.1          5.5
Enery conetmptlon growth rate (Z)                  -0.3         9.2          5.8          4.1        5.3          4.8
CR01                                                3.3         4.7         5.1           3.8        4.0         4.6
)krginal savingp rate                               0.4         0.4         0.3           0.3        0.2          0.3
rnport elasticity                                   0.2         2.7         2.0           1.4        1.1          1.2
/s Data for 1981 end 1982 are from different sources; data for 1982 exclude re-exports.
2eet Asia and Pacific Regional Office
february 7, 1985



-31-                                                    AMNEX I
Population    :  1,019 million (mid-1983)                                                                            Page  6  of  7
CNP per capita:  $300 (1983)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount - 1984                  Annual growth rates (Z) (at constant prices)
(million US$ at                           Actual                           Prolected
current prices)         1980      1981      1982     1953      1984      1985     1990
EXTERNAL TRADE /a
Merchandise exports                         25,020              14.8      17.3      5.5      10.1      10.4      2.8       8.7
Primary                                  11.410                1.5     -1.4       3.9      14.6      9.6       3.3       6.8
Manufactures                             13,610               32.2     3'.2       6.6       7.0     11.1       2.4      10.4
Marchandise imports                        26.740                6.8       7.2      0.2      29.7      22.3     47.1       6.2
Food                                      2.330                9.1     68.3      42.9    -30.9    -24.9       14.4       7.1
Petroleum                                    130              52.6    -65.5    130.0    -43.5       30.8       0.0      35.5
Machinery and equipment                   8,420               16.4      19.0    -41.7      34.7     82.3      58.2       5.1
Others                                   15.860                0.9    -13.5       7.1      71.7     16.8      19.9       6.3
PRICES
Export price index (1980-100)                                  100.0    102.7      98.7      88.8     90.5      88.0    126.0
Import price index (1980-100)                                  100.0    104.5      89.2      76.7     78.4      77.3    112.0
Terms of trade index (1980-100)                                100.0     98.3    110.7    115.8    115.4    113.8    112.5
Composition of merchandise trade (2)                    Average annual increase (')
(at current prices)                                (at constsnt prices)
1978        1981         1984        1990       1980-84            1984-89             1989-94
Exports                          100.0        100.0        100.0      100.0        10.8                 7.9                 7.6
Primary                         53.4        46.6         45.6        42.1         6.7                6.4                  6.1
Manufactures                    46.6         53.4        54.4        57.9        15.2                9.4                  8.2
Imports                          100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0        14.9                8.5                  7.5
Food                            12.8         17.4         8.7         9.7        13.9                8.9                  8.5
Petrolet=                        0.5         0.4          0.5         0.9        13.0               17.2                 16.1
Machinery and equipment         18.9         29.2        31.5        33.3        23.6               12.0                  6.8
Others                          67.9        53.0         59.3        56.1        20.5                6.7                  7.5
Share of trade with          Share of trade with         Share of trade with
industrial                  developing                  the USSR and
countries (2)               countries (2)             Eastern Europe (7)
1977     1980      1983     1977      1980      1983     1977      1980      1983
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                      36.4     44.7      42.1      46.8     48.7      53.2     16.8       6.6       4.7
Iwports                                     63.1      73.6      69.0     20.7      19.7     24.5      16.2       6.7       6.5
/a  Based on customs statistics.  Exports, f.o.b.. imports, c.i.f.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
November 22, 1985



- 32-                                               ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
Population      11,o019 mlion (mld-1983)
CNP per capitat  $300 (1983)
CRINA - BALANCE 0f PAYHENTSS ECTERNAL CAPITAL AND DIRT
(Millions of U9$ at current prlc,s)
Ac-tualPrjce
Indic tor                                      1978    1979    1980    1981        1982       1983       1984          Priet;
DALANCE OF PAY2BE0TS
Exporcm of goodr and nonfactor services  10,370  14.983  20.324  24,423    23,637    23,116    26,716            26,840   58,590
Of whicht  Mzrchandie f.o.b. /a          9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027    21,125    20,707    23,905          23,900   52.130
Imports of gcods and nonfactor *ervices  11,668  17,759  24,058  23,446    18,900    20,711    26,748            38,290   63.180
Of vhich:  lFrchandiae f.o.b. /a         10,745  16,212  22,049  21,047    16,876    18,717    23,890          35,150   56,950
Not factor inoame from abroad                   -8     -77    -117    -200         452      1,253      1,620       1,140     -850
Nat tranrfera                                  597     656      640     464        530        436        304         300      300
Current account balance                      -709  -2,197  -3,211   1,241        5,719      4,164      1,892    -10,010   -5,140
Prlvate direct inveutunnt (not)                  -       -       57     265        430        636      1,100       1,650    1.950
Offlceial grant ald (net)                        -       -       21      156       -44         75        137         140      140
MLT loana (net)                                549   3,815   1,069       310       301        927       -145           0    4,450
Disburse   nts                              549   3,895   1,670   1,659        2,481      1,600       718         950    6,390
Amortization                                   -      80      601   1,348      2,180        673       863         950    1,940
Other capital /b                              -628  -1,021   2,455      -47       -115    -1,672    -2,889         2.330        -
Change In reserves
c"-" Indicating increase)                   788    -597    -391  -1,925    -6,291    -4,130           -95       5,890   -1,400
International reserves                      6,677   7.274   7,665   9,590    15,881    20i011    20,106          14,220   23,500
Of which:  Cold /c                        5,120   5,120   5,120   5,120        5,120      5,120      5,120      5,120    5,120
-a-ervee as months of imports                  6.2     4.5      3.5     4.8       10.1       11.7       9.1         4.5       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /d
Cross disbursement                                       .                                     ..
Offtical grants
Concesslonal loans                            .       .        .                  ..
DAC                                        ..       ..       ..      ..
IDA                                        .         .                .
Other                                           . .                  ..
Nonconcessional loan.                         .
official export credits                     .
tURD                                                                 ,
Other multllateral                              ..       .
Private                                      
External debt
Debt outstanding snd disbursed               549   4,364   5,433   5,261       5.562      6,397     6,340
Official l                                             
Prlvate
Undisbursed debt                              ..      ..       .       ..
Debt service
Total service payments                                                  .
Interest                                   .
Payments as S of exports                    0.4      2.7      6.3     9.0       11.4        s 9       5.0
Average lnterest rate of nev loans (X)           -
Average maturity of new loans (years)            -       -        -        -         -          -          -
/a  Data for 1978-81 are not comparable vith those of 1982-85 because of a difference in their sources.  The latter exclude
re-exports.
/b  Includes net use of IW  credlt and net flov of short-term capital.
7T Valued at US$402/troy ounce.
7d- Excludes short-term bo&tz (one year or less).
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
November 22, 1985



-  33                                              Ann XI
STATUSP aRANK 001RF OPIRTIOR  IN Tll P0tL2'8 U2RLIC OP CRINA
A. STATENT 01 UK LOrE AND IDA CUDITS
(CA of septum-er 30. 1965)
Loan or                                                                              UN million
Credit                                                                      _nt (loee cencell.tiom
NImber   Year Borrower                     Purpobe                           Rk              Undiaburee
2021/1167    1981 People'. Republic of China  Univereity Denelopent             100.0   100.0        24.6
1261    1932 People'. Republic of China North Ouina Plain Agricultue          -      60.0       16J.
2207    1982 People's Republic of China  Three Ports                        69.0       -        4.0
1297    1982 People'. RopubiLc of Odne  Agric. Education & Reaearch           -      75.4       18.1
2126/1313    1982 People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                  40.6    30.0        37.8
2231    1983 Pfople'. Republic of Chiim  DaqinS Petroleum                  162.4       -        91.6
2252   1983  People'. Republic of Chin. flinUun-%nliU Petrolema            100.8       -        79.1
2261/1347   1983 People's Repubic of China 'illoogjiang Land Reclaution          25.3    45.0        30.8
1411    1963 People's Republic of China Polyt ehnic/TV  miversity             -      83.0       76.9
1412   1983 People'. Republic of Cina  Thchical Cooperation                   -      10.0        7.5
1417   1964 People's Republic of China Rbber Dvelopuent                       -     100.0       52.8
2382    1984 People'. RApubiLc of ailiD  tabu.e Rydroelectric              145.4       -       139.4
2394    1984 People'. RepubiLc of China lailway                            220.0       -       126.1
1462   1984  People'. RepubiLc of Chini  1wal Crodit                          -      50.0       34.2
1472   1984  People's Republic of Chine llrel Healhb 4 Nadicl Educ.           -      65.0       67.1
2426   1984  People'. Republic of Ctm. llra y Pacroleim                     99.5       -        94.6
2434/1491    1964  People'e Republic of China Secoad Industrial Credit          103.0    70.0       158.7
2444/1500    1964 People'. Republic of China Second Agricultural Iducation       45.3    23.5        54.6
1516    1964  People'. Republic of Cbina  Second Agricultural Ieeberbc        -      25.0       19.2
1551    1985 People'e Republic of Chtie  Second Undveraity Developmnt         -     145.0      140.3
2493    1985 People's Republic of China  Second Paer                       117.0       -       117.0
2501/a  1985 People'. Republic of China  Chengcun (Luau) Coal IainL6       126.0       -       126.0
i577if  1985  People's Republic of China  Seds                                -      40.0       40.0
155S/c  1985 People's Republic of China  Rral Rkter Supply                    -      80.0       60.0
2539/10947Z  1965 People'e Republic of Chini  igbhway                            42.6    30.0        72.6
M5407   1985 People' Republic of China  Second Railway                     235.0       -       235.0
25417f 1985  People'. Republic of China  Fertilizer Rehabilitttion and      97.0       -        97.0
Enrgy Seaing
1605/  1985 People'. Republie of Chinm  Foreatry Development                  -      47.3       47.3
2579/16067h  1985 People's Republic of Chtna  Piebihang-Chaohu Area Development  17.0    75.0        92.0
25807f 19S5  People'. Republic of China Weiyuan Gee Field Technical         25.0       -        25.0
Aseietance
Total                                                                         1.772.9  1.176.2   2.246.3
Total now bald by Bank and IDA                                                1.772.9  1,176.2
Total Undiabursed                                                             1,452.3   794.0
B. STATEHENT OF IFC INVES23KNTS
Ca. of September 30. 1965)
mount tn US$ million
Year   Obligor                                   Type of buineee              Loan     Equity     Total
1985/i  Oagthou and Peugeot Automobile Co.       Automobile                      15.0      2.0       17.0
Total Croes Comutmmte                                                            15.0      2.0       17.0
Lee. cancellaciona. terdinatione,
repayment and sales
Total Coaitcments nov held by IFC                                                15.0      2.0       17.0
Total Undiebursed                                                                15.0      2.0       17.0
/a  Pacae effective on October 31. 1985.
7i  Became effective on October 24, 1985.
7   ll-cae, effective on November 13. 1985.
7- Became effective on Dbcmber 4. 1985.
77  Rzcae effective on Noveber 22. 1985.
7   Becae effective on December 18. 1985.
7    ecme effective on Novmber 26. 1985.
7W Not yet effective.
71  Signed on October 16. 1985.
Note.: (1)  Subeequent to the above date of Parr A, a credit of SDR 84.0 million (590 million equivelent)
for the Second Rbral Credit Project wse approved December 17. 1985 and ailgned January 3. 1986.
(2) The statu  of the projecte listed in Pert A is described In a separate report on all Bank/IDA
finanel projecte in execution. uhich is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and Octoter 31.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
CHINA
PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project. 11/83-02/86
(b) Agency which prepared the project. Government (SEdC)
(c) First presentation Association. 02/84
(d) First Association mission to consider the project. 02/84
(e) Date of departure of appraisal mission. 11/84
(f) Date of completion of negotiations.  02/86
(g) Planned date of effectiveness. 07/86
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Project-financed fellowships will be selected and organized in
accordance with agreed guidelines (para. 68);
(b) Impact of the project will be measured by an agreed set of
indicators; (para. 70);
(c) Project implementation units will be maintained with staff
responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Association;
(para. 74);
(d) The IAP and the CRC will be maintained with staff responsibilities
and functions acceptable to the Association (para. 75).



SOVIET         UNION                                                                                   1 
r            <t                     ~~~~~~~~             ~           ~~MONGOLIA  -' GOLIA                                              zr,
,,,.u r- r m}S
_TIAIS64Npisi/lb          .L                                                                                                                   0, \0                                                       JAPAN  hNX%<( S OG91tw O
T/IUllblU/901s*ff      OIIIGHAI               @; },             0      J    S i; 4   \    5    d        25  g            r~~~~~~r                                        m
E51 d Tlme llbGI | ' JGS NSU x J g 5 / v GA NSU x ,j L / *@ Zh_Vh;ffi.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEPU
_    _     b                                                                                                                                                                  OFR3 NA,Nlt HEA     "AX      ENN ,  JA Ue-
F d The SR* <0 < '-\ _/d- -)_ 'i; &- < < N5.1Z                                                                                                         KO_Et
PROVINCIAL UN IVERSITIES PROJECT                                            g  ;                 UNO ,9                      AliNNOJNG/
PR-UCTU-IE.RSIIE                                                           17   UZNUS '       ,    G/NU11,5  UIN
* Neal ~+ N<l-6    Uq-       . 
rp+esveOvsutua x w   ,rX; 00     r      WA
@ TvhnicEI (21 NuplSnindiGl2RhenHnberof rUNNAN ~~s  ,t, GAoN 
P;nN oPlvJs    on1z2univi - in ep Nin E ~'%   '  UANGXI   J  GUAN   c!    GUANGXIINES






