Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
Rqot No. 13146
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1671-CHA)
JUNE 14, 1994
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II (China and Mongolia)
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banko authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Exchange Rates During Project Years (Y/US$)
Yearly Avg.        End of Year
1984 (Project Appraisal)               2.0615              2.8027
1985 (Project Approved)                2.9513              3.2095
1986                                   3.4626              3.7314
1987                                   3.7314              3.7314
1988                                   3.7314              3.7314
1989                                   3.7314              3.7314
1990                                   4.8596              5.2352
1991                                   5.3603              5.4478
1992 (Project Closed)                  5.4874              5.7245
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CRC   Chinese Review Commission
FILO Foreign Investment and Loan Office
IAP   International Advisory Panel
MOF   Ministry of Finance
PEdC Provincial Education Commission
PUP   Provincial University Project
SEdC State Education Commission
SPC   State Planning Commission



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Dlr.ctor4eneral
Operations Eveluon
June 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on China
Provincial Universities Project (Credit 1671-CHA!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on China-Provincial
Universities Project (Credit 1671-CHA) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office; it gives a satisfactory assessment of the project experience. Part II was prepared
by the Borrower. It confirms the information given in Parts I and m  and notes with
regret the disruptive influence of staff turnover following the Bank's 1987 reorganization.
This project assisted in the development of 60 provincial universities
through civil works, equipment and staff development with the aim of expanding enroll-
ments, improve the education process and strengthen managemenL It also provided
planning assistance for the university subsector at large.
Borrower compliance with covenants was good. After a one-year extension,
the Credit was fully disbursed. The expansion of the overseas fellowship program to twice
its targeted size is noteworthy.
Project outcomes are rated as satisfactory, and institutional achievements as
substantial. Project sustainability is likely, assuming that the devolution of fiscal respon-
sibilities from the national to provincial and local levels succeeds.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted disibution and may be usd by recipients only In the performance ot thei officil
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
(Credit 1671-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface   .      .    .     .     .     .    .     .     .    .     .    .     .     .    .    .     .     .    .     .     .    .     .
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ii
PART I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . .   1
A.   Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.   Project Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
C.   Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
D.   Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
E.   Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
F.   Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
G.   Factors Contributing to Project Success  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
H.   Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
I.   Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
J.  Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
K.   Consulting Services:  the IAP and CRC   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
L.   Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
M.  Lessons Learned    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
PART II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . .  14
A.   Comments on the Analysis in Part I   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
B.  Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual  Information in Part III   . . . . .  14
C.   Evaluation of Bank's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
D.   Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1.   Related Bank/IDA Loans and/or Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
TABLE 2.   Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
TABLE 3.   Credit Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
TABLE 4.   Implementation Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
TABLE 5.   Project Cost  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
TABLE 6.   Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
TABLE 7.   Status of Covenants for the Provincial Universities Project  .  24
TABLE 8.   Project Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
TABLE 9.   Staff Input  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
TABLE 10.  IDA Missions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.   |






-i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
(Credit 1671-CHA)
Preface
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Provincial
University Project in China (Credit 1671-CHA). The total project cost was
US$255.0 million, with an IDA credit of US$150.0 million. The Credit was
approved on July 1, 1986 and closed on December 31, 1992 after it had been
extended for an additional year to complete equipment procurement. The last
disbursement was made on December 23, 1992 and the total disbursements were
100- of the credit amount.
2.          The PCR was prepared by EA2HR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, and
Parts I and III) except for Part II which was prepared by the Borrower,
represented by the State Education Commission.
3.          Initial work on the PCR started in early 1992 by obtaining
qualitative and quantitative information from the Borrower during the
Effective Teaching Services Project preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions. The PCR preparation is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, Credit Document, IDA supervision reports, the Borrower's progress and
audit reports, the International Advisory Panel and the Chinese Review
Committee evaluation reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
(Credit 1671-CHA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.          The Bank's education lending strategy at time of the project
appraisal consisted of three lines of action: (a) develop technical and
vocational education to increase the supply of technicians and skilled
workers; (b) strengthen the education of teachers and administrators and
improve the quality of teaching materials and management in basic education;
and (c) expand higher education and improve its quality and management to
provide more high level manpower. At the same time, growing shortages of
qualified and skilled manpower, especially in science and engineering,
promoted a strategy of strengthening higher education. These shortages
resulted mainly from the disruption of post-secondary education during the
Cultural Revolution (1967-1976). The education reform policies adapted by the
Chinese Government had accentuated these shortages and increased the need for
quality and management improvements. The project therefore included support
programs for provincial universities to expand higher education enrollment,
curricula development, and staff and management development. It also assisted
the State Education Commission (SEdC) and the provincial higher education
commissions to strengthen their planning and management capacities and improve
efficiency in the higher education subsector.
Project Obiectives and Content
2.          The principal objectives of the project were to provide:  (a)
direct assistance to 60 provincial universities in 28 provinces; and (b)
planning assistance for the higher education subsector. Towards the first
objective, the project provided civil works, equipment and staff development
to expand enrollment, improve educational programs and strengthen university
management. The project universities were selected on the basis of provincial
manpower priorities and numbers of national and regional universities. The
selected universities were leading institutions in the provinces and through
participation in the project are becoming models for other provincial
universities.
3.          Under its second objective, the project provided technical
assistance to the SEdC and provincial higher education commissions to
strengthen their planning and management capabilities, and to improve
efficiency in the higher education subsector. Two planning activities were
funded to be carried out by SEdC and the provincial education commissions: (a)
preparation of provincial higher education master plans to assist each
province in considering its future education needs in light of the national



- iv -
objectives; and (b) preparation of a provincial teacher education plan to
assess the national and provincial requirements on the number and type of
teachers.
Implementation Experience
4.          Project implementation period was without serious problems.
Equipment procurement started and continued ahead of the SAR projections.
During the early years of implementation, the IDA supervision team was
concerned that some universities would opt for overly sophisticated equipment
and urged the universities to put more emphasis on equipment used by
undergraduate programs in curricula development and on improved teaching
methodologies. The team also urged SEdC and the provincial universities to
prepare an annual budget for equipment maintenance and provide foreign
exchange to purchase spare parts not available locally.
5.          Civil works were implemented during the early years of the project
and covered construction of new buildings and remodeling of others in all
project universities. Books procurement fell behind the implementation pace
of the other components as the libraries' orders and requests slowed down
because: (a) the universities did not have adequate catalogs or book reviews
from which to select the books; and (b) in some cases, the requests were
denied by the State Book Acquisition Fund Department at Beijing University.
6.          The scale of fellowship program implementation was consistently
ahead of projections. The number of fellows sent overseas at the end of the
project period reached almost double the target. That was mainly because of
cost savings due to changes in the exchange rate and to sending visiting
scholars rather than degree seekers. In addition, there was a substantial
number of local and foreign expert visits to the project universities. An
International Advisory Panel (IAP) and Chinese Review Commission (CRC)
established under the project fulfilled their technical assistance role
extremely well, particularly in selecting appropriate foreign experts and in
conducting workshops and seminars in the needed subjects.
Results
7.          The major project objectives of expanding higher education
enrollment, improving the quality of teaching methods, and improving
management and staff development at the national and provincial levels have
been fulfilled. Implementation indicators show that the project met most of
its quantitative targets and, in many instances, surpassed them. The quality
of instruction has improved through better teaching methods and the provision
of equipment for faculty and students. The scope of instruction offered has
broadened through development of many study fields and courses in sciences and
engineering as well as the social sciences. Faculty and staff development has
been achieved successfully due to the technical assistance program of
intensive and wide-spread workshops, seminars and meetings by local and
foreign specialists and due to the extensive number of overseas fellowships.
Both at the national and provincial levels new concepts and methods of



- v -
developing education master planning have been introduced and have been used
to prepare some current provincial education master plans.
Sustainablilitv
8.          The project was designed and implemented during the take off stage
of the reforms in China. The pressing needs of the higher education subsector
were addressed appropriately and at the right time by the project objectives.
The project impact was substantial on the provincial universities by
increasing the small proportion of high level manpower and by improving the
poor quality of teaching materials and equipment that were pervasive
characteristics of higher education. However, a key question in the future
development of the provincial universities is to what extent national policies
and available resources can be used effectively to support and guide
development of these institutions, especially if the burden of financing is
increasingly passed on to localities. The intensive economic reforms in the
country are expected to accelerate the demand for appropriately trained medium
and high level manpower and put pressure on higher education institutions to
increase their resources, or face a trade off between their graduates' quality
and quantity. The problem could become serious when the financial burden
continues to be passed to the universities and more foreign currency is needed
to buy spare parts and other accessories for equipment maintenance.
9.          The extensive technical assistance rendered by the project will
have a long range impact on guiding higher education development. However,
staff and management development must become a continuous process in order to
cope with the accelerating reform policies in the country. Planning
capacities need to be further improved and planning exercises carried out on a
national and provincial level.
Lessons Learned
10.         The main lessons learned from the generally positive project
experiences in design, preparation, implementation, and evaluation are
summarized below.
(a)   As was done under the project, it is important to identify and
address the individual project institutions' needs and priorities
within overall sector policies.
(b)   Project objectives, as under this project, should be clear and
reasonable, and preparation should include detailed guidelines for
component implementation as well a comprehensive monitoring and
supervision system for implementation.
(c)   Open channels and continuous communication between Bank staff and
the borrower's officials during project design and preparation
lead to effective cooperation and coordination in project
implementation.
(d)   Project institutions in provinces should be selected from the
leading institutions which usually have more high level and



- vi -
qualified staff. This comparative advantage increases the
potential to solve problems efficiently, and to accelerate
implementation processes, thereby increasing the potential for
project sustainability.
(e)   The role of the IAP and CRC in preparing, implementing and
evaluating education projects in China has been pivotal. This has
been recognized by both the Bank and the Chinese Government. In
this project, IAP and CRC members were high level, experienced and
specialized experts, most being retired professors who dedicated
much of their time to project operations, and this has contributed
immensely to successful implementation of the project.
(f)   Lack of funds available to allow uninterrupted operation of
equipment is still a concern. Present financial budgeting
practices in the educational institutions do not make proper
allocations for equipment operation and maintenance, a point which
should be addressed in future projects.
(g)   Continuing efforts must be made to strengthen the SEdC and
provincial commission's capacity to carry out education master
planning and teaching supply and demand activities at both the
national and provincial levels.
(h)   Rigorous scrutiny by outside expert panels of equipment requests
before the equipment lists reach the procurement stage is
beneficial in assuring that institutions purchase instrumentation
appropriate and adequate for their teaching and/or research
activities.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
(Credit 1671-CHA)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identitv
Project Name:        Provincial Universities Project
Credit No.:          1671-CHA
RVP Unit:            East Asia and Pacific Region
Country:             China
Sector:              Education
Subsector:           Higher Education
B. Prolect Background
1.1.       Sector Development Objectives:  Based on its sector work and its
dialogue with the Chinese Government, the Bank at the time of appraisal
adopted an education lending strategy which consisted of three lines of
action: (a) develop technical and vocational education to increase the supply
of technicians and skilled workers; (b) strengthen the education of teachers
and administrators and improve the quality of teaching materials and
management in basic education; and (c) expand higher education and improve its
quality and management to provide more high level manpower.
1.2.       At the same time, growing shortages of qualified and skilled
manpower, especially in science and engineering, promoted a strategy of
strengthening higher education. These shortages resulted mainly from the
disruption of post-secondary education during the Cultural Revolution (1967-
1976). Only 1.4% of the key sectoral personnel in 1982 had university level
or higher qualifications. These percentages are between 10% to 25% of the
corresponding levels in a set of comparator countries. On the other hand, the
education reform policies adapted by the Chinese Government had accentuated
these shortages and increased the need for quality and management
improvements. In higher education, Bank assistance was in line with the
Government policies of expanding opportunities and access to higher education.
Government objectives included expanding conventional universities,
establishing a system of short-term vocational colleges, and expanding the
television university system.
1.3.       Policy Context:  Within the objectives of expanding access to
higher education and improving higher education quality, the Government had
adapted three principal policies; (a) to expand enrollment especially in
graduate programs; (b) to improve teaching and research programs including
curricula reforms and teacher training; and (c) to improve the system's
management. Projections showed that to increase the enrollment ratio from its
1985 level (5%) to 12.51 by 2000, enrollment in higher education institutions
would need to triple. The Government and the universities also recognized
that higher education was suffering from many management deficiencies.



- 2 -
For example, the student-staff ratio of less than 4:1 was almost
half the level recommended by foreign experts. The objectives agreed under
the previous IDA-supported First and Second University Development Projects
(Ln. 2021/ Cr. 1167 and Cr.1551-CHA)were to be pursued under this project in
order to improve this ratio. The need for financial management reforms is
also recognized by the Government. Depreciation allowances and performance
auditing were being proposed. In addition, in 1985 the Government announced a
wide-ranging package of policy changes for China's education system. A newly
created State Education Commission (SEdC) replaced the Ministry of Education.
Increased operating autonomy at all education levels was needed to reform the
centralized system; therefore more autonomy was to be given to provincial
education commissions and universities. This in turn required the
strengthening of these institutions to carry out their new responsibilities.
1.4.       Linkages Between the Project and Policy Obiectives:  The project
included support programs in line with the Bank's sector strategy and
Government reform policies of expanding higher education enrollment, curricula
development, and staff and management development. The project, therefore
provided direct assistance to provincial universities to expand enrollment,
improve educational programs and strengthen university management. In
addition, the project sought to render assistance to SEdC and the provincial
higher education commissions to strengthen their planning and management
capacities and improve efficiency in the higher education subsector. The
project addressed the conventional higher education needs in provincial
institutions and included assistance to universities in poor provinces and
provinces previously not assisted by the Bank Group. It also contributed
directly to improving the quality and quantity of educated manpower in each
province since the output of these provincial universities will be employed in
the respective provinces.
C. Prolect Oblectives and Description
1.5.       Project Objectives and Scope:  The project objectives were to
provide: (a) direct assistance to 60 provincial universities in 28 provinces;
and (b) planning assistance for the higher education subsector. Under the
first objective the project provided civil works, equipment and staff
development to expand enrollment, improve educational programs and strengthen
university management. The project universities were selected jointly by SEdC
and the provincial governments and included 28 normal, 18 comprehensive, 7
technical, 5 medical, and 2 agricultural institutions. The universities were
selected on the basis of provincial manpower priorities and numbers of
national and regional universities. The selected universities were leading
institutions in the provinces and through participation in the project were
expected to become models for other provincial universities.
1.6.       Under its second objective, the project provided technical
assistance to the SEdC and provincial higher education commissions to
strengthen their planning and management capabilities, and to improve
efficiency in the higher education subsector. The technical assistance
includes two planning activities to be carried out by SEdC and the provincial
education commissions during the project period: (a) preparation of provincial
higher education master plans to assist each province in considering its
future education needs in light of the national objectives; and (b) a



- 3 -
provincial teacher education plan to assess national and provincial
requirements for numbers and types of teachers. Through the experience gained
in carrying out the two planning activities, the central and provincial
administrations were expected to strengthen their capabilities to design and
implement similar comprehensive plans. In addition, the results would serve as
a basis for planning quantitative and qualitative improvements, taking into
account manpower requirements and financial and staffing implications.
1.7.       Proiect Components:  The project was designed to include two
components in line with the objectives mentioned above (para. 1.5).
Assistance to the 60 provincial universities made up the major part of the
project (US$372 million equivalent excluding contingencies) and technical
assistance to SEdC and the provincial education commissions was the other
component (US$5 million excluding contingencies). The project was to provide
funds for civil works, equipment, technical assistance, and specialist
services, as follows:
(a) Civil Works: An estimated total area of 1.4 million sq m at 60
sites (US$133 million) was to be constructed with project funds and
completed by the end of second project year (1987). The additional
space was to accommodate a larger student body through provision of
more classrooms and laboratories. Furthermore, it would enable new
equipment for teaching and administrative use to be installed and
maintained properly in space of adequate size and environmental
control, thus also contributing to program improvement and
management reform.
(b)  Eauioment provided under the project (US$195 million) was to
include mainly laboratory equipment, library equipment, books,
audio-visual equipment, and computers. The equipment was to
contribute to improved quality of instruction through enabling more
experiments to be performed, and expansion and upgrading of
libraries. The equipment was to accommodate expanded enrollment
without compromising the quality of education and also to be used
for better management of university affairs.
(c) Technical Assistance was to be provided through fellowships, study
tours and specialist services programs (US$35 million). Overseas
and local fellowships were to support primarily master and doctoral
studies and were to be financed from domestic sources and credit
proceeds. A target was for the 638 departments with 28,000 faculty
to each have six graduate degree-holders or scholarships with
equivalent educational levels at the end of the project,
significantly improving the quality of academic staff. A second
form of staff development was to consist of study tours and
seminars led by specialists on selected managerial and curricula
topics.
(d) Specialist Services and International Advisory Panel: The project
included technical assistance services provided by the
International Advisory Panel (IAP). The IAP was to provide
expertise in general higher education management, higher education
planning and teacher education planning. The IAP, in collaboration
with the Chinese Review Commission (CRC) consisting of local higher
education experts, was-to advise on the best strategies for project



implementation. It was expected to identify the locations abroad
from which the most suitable resources could be drawn for the
specialist services and fellowship programs and assist SEdC in
designing and executing the two planning activities. Specialist
services were to be provided for 240 man-months (US$4 million)
through visits by high level specialists to individual institutions
and participation in national or regional seminars introducing
techniques and procedures for curricula and management reforms.
D. Prolect Design and Oraanization
1.8.       The project design was based on intensive studies and dialogue
between the Bank and the Chinese Government (SEdC, State Planning Commission
(SPC), and Ministry of Finance (MOF)) during 1984-86. Studies included the
Bank's extensive sector study and SEdC's joint feasibility and case studies.
Members of the IAP and CRC contributed since the project's early preparation
stage by providing consultation and advice based on their experience with the
Bank's previous education development projects.
1.9.       The SEdC had thoroughly studied the project details and conducted
intensive preparation. During the last stage of preparation, the SEdC
requested to delay negotiations for six months to: (a) carry out direct
consultations with each proposed university; (b) allow additional time for
Chinese expert review of equipment and staff development plans; (c) meet new
requirements of SPC for detailed review prior to negotiations; and (d)
incorporate higher education reform measures, which were to be announced in
the spring of 1985, and which were to provide greater autonomy to individual
universities.
1.10.      Direct contacts with individual universities by the Bank team
through SEdC and the provincial governments assisted in identifying pressing
needs and assessing required support. This also enabled the team to
understand and consider the regional and provincial institutional variations
and differences. This led to a fairly accurate assessment of the
institutions' requirements for equipment, civil works, and technical
assistance.
1.11.      The project covered 60 universities and extended to almost all of
the provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities (28) in China. The
universities were selected by SEdC and the provinciall1 governments on the
basis of clearly defined criteria. These criteria were discussed with SEdC,
provincial governments, and representatives of some of the universities. The
project universities were chosen to cover a wide range of specialties, i.e.,
normal (28), comprehensive (18), technical (7), medical (5), and agricultural
(2). The provincial governments played an active role in the selection
process. They chose the universities on the basis of manpower priorities and
the numbers of national and regional universities located in their provinces.
Furthermore, all participating provinces had to be represented by a regional
The terms "provinces" and "provincial" are used in this report to refer
to provinces, autonomous regions, and the municipalities of Beijing,
Tianjin and Shanghai.



or provincial normal university, and the chosen university had to be a leading
institution in the province and, through participation in the project, to
become a model for other provincial universities.
1.12.      Technical assistance (about 10% of the project cost) was provided
under the project through fellowships, study tours and seminars and specialist
services. The project included a substantial number of overseas and local
fellowships (8,700 fellowship-years) to support graduate programs in the
universities. Detailed guidelines for the fellowship program included in the
project helped the staff selection process and the overall implementation of
this component. The number of staff that went on overseas fellowships during
the project period (1,233) was almost double the targeted number because of
exchange rate savings.
E. Prolect Implementation
1.13.      During the six-year project implementation period (1986-91), the
Bank's supervision missions consistently reported smooth and successful
implementation without serious problems. In general, disbursement profiles of
previous education projects in China indicate a faster pace than both the
regional average of all projects and the Bank Group average of all education
projects.
1.14.      Equipment procurement started and continued ahead of the SAR
projections. The IDA team was concerned during the second year of
implementation that some universities would opt for too sophisticated
equipment in the second phase of procurement and requested a policy position
from the IAP and CRC which urged the universities to put more emphasis on
equipment used by undergraduate programs in curricula development and on
improved teaching methodologies. The supervision team in the second year
(1987) was pleased to see that equipment was being used by selected faculty
for research and by students, and commended the initiative of some
universities to place equipment used by multiple departments in a central
building facilitating easy access by those from different departments.
1.15.      During the third year of implementation (1988), the IDA team
emphasized establishment of an annual budget for equipment maintenance in both
local and foreign currencies, as required by the Credit Agreement. In the
fourth year of implementation, the team reviewed the program worked out by the
SEdC and the provincial universities to obtain spare parts and training for
the project equipment and urged foreign exchange provision to the universities
to purchase spare parts not available locally.
1.16.      Spare parts for a few pieces of equipment were supplied with
different specifications than required, creating problems in their
utilization. The SEdC contacted the manufacturer to bring the equipment up to
acceptance standards or to repair the equipment still under warranty. During
the last supervision mission (late 1991), the Bank team's attention was drawn
to certain equipment not fully operational even after visits from the
manufacturers' technicians. The institutions, although attempting to fully
utilize their equipment, still need assistance in dealing with the
manufacturers.



- 6 -
1.17.      The Bank supervision mission in late 1990 identified two areas
which had been subject to criticism at a Joint Policy Meeting of IAP, CRC, and
SEdC: (a) purchasing equipment too sophisticated for widespread teaching
purposes, particularly for undergraduate programs; and (b) not giving enough
emphasis to improvement of teaching methodologies through the fellowship and
visiting scholar programs. Previous Bank-supported higher education projects
had identified the problem of purchasing overly sophisticated equipment and
therefore before the start of the equipment procurement in this project, the
Bank recruited a team of experts to examine the items in the equipment list
proposed for procurement. The team rejected a number of equipment items as
being too sophisticated for teaching purposes and offered alternative
recommendations, many but not all of which were accepted.
1.18.      The project was extended for an additional year (December 31, 1992)
to complete equipment procurement. Appreciation in the dollar value of the
SDR during the implementation of the project allowed for increases in the
budget allocations in all project categories. Plans were prepared to complete
the final phase of equipment purchases by the end of the sixth year of the
project. These purchases included computer equipment and special accessories
and spare parts for about US$15 million.
1.19.      Civil works were implemented during the early years of the project
and covered construction of new buildings and remodeling of existing buildings
in all project universities. The new and remodeled space was used to
accommodate the expected expansion in enrollment and equipment. In
anticipation of the project, many provinces provided special budgets to the
universities for civil works. The civil works were financed primarily with
local currency, implemented by the universities and supervised by the
provincial education commissions and SEdC.
1.20.      Books procurement fell behind the implementation pace of the other
components during the first two years of project implementation. The
libraries, orders and requests slowed down for two reasons: (a) the
universities did not have adequate catalogs or book reviews from which to
select the books; and (b) in some cases, the requests were denied by the State
Book Acquisition Fund Department at Beijing University. The last Bank
supervision mission in late 1991 found out that all funds provided for books
has not been spent on books. The mission requested SEdC to urge the
universities to give further attention to the procurement of books.
1.21.      Technical Assistance: In the early years of implementation, SEdC
shifted the emphasis of the overseas fellowship program from long-term degree
to short-term non-degree studies. This policy change was an effort to
strengthen the teaching and research capabilities of mid-career academics who
had been inadequately trained in China due to the Cultural Revolution and to
minimize the problem of brain drain associated worldwide with long term,
advanced degree focused study abroad. The Bank team was concerned that a
short-term non-degree fellowship, unless carefully planned and monitored,
would easily slip into an overseas visit with little serious studies. The
team urged SEdC to take measures to maintain the effectiveness of the overseas
fellowship program. The SEdC followed rigorous selection processes of the
fellows, and with the assistance of IAP and CRC managed to identify
appropriate programs and countries for them to study in.



- 7 -
1.22.      The overall fellowship program implementation has been consistently
ahead of projections. The number of fellows sent overseas at the end of the
project period (1,233 staff) reached almost double the target (700 staff).
That was mainly because of cost savings due to the changes in the exchange
rate and to sending short term visiting scholars rather than loan term degree
seekers.
1.23.      During the project period there have been 230 expert visits to the
project universities, including 192 foreign specialists, as part of the
technical assistance component. In addition, there have been 12 workshops and
seminars held by experts in relevant subjects. The IAP and CRC have played a
vital role in selecting the appropriate foreign experts and in conducting
workshops and seminars in the needed subjects. In addition, the IAP
consultants conducted a thorough review based on two visits to the project
institutions and produced eight reports. The Bank has urged SEdC to use the
IAP/CRC reports on the project evaluation visits and to make every effort to
support the findings and disseminate the information to provincial education
commissions and all project institutions.
1.24.      The technical assistance component included two planning
activities: (a) preparation of a higher education master plan to be developed
by both the SEdC and the Provincial Education Commissions (PEdCs); and (b)
analysis of teacher supply and demand to be carried out on a provincial level
by the PEdCs. It was later decided that the teacher study would be confined
to secondary teachers and incorporated into the higher education master plan.
During project implementation the scale and scope of the planning activities
were both reduced to two national level training seminars and a study tour.
The SEdC reports that the training seminars have been helpful in exposing
planners at the provincial level of new concepts and methods of educational
master planning and that many of the new ideas presented in the seminars have
been utilized in the preparation of provincial level Eighth Five Year
educational plans.
F. Prolect Results
1.25.      The major objectives of the project - expanding higher education
enrollment, improving the quality of teaching methods, and improving
management and staff development at the national and provincial levels - have
been fulfilled. Implementation Indicators show that the project met most of
its targets and, in many instances, surpassed them. For example,
undergraduate enrollment has grown significantly during the project period to
a level that surpassed the projected target by 5%. The student-teacher ratio
and library opening hours have met the target and utilization of classrooms
has passed the planned levels. Nevertheless, enrollment in graduate programs,
while increasing four times, has not yet reached the target level.
1.26.       The quality of instruction has improved through better teaching
methods and increased amounts and relevance of equipment used by the faculty
and students. The scope of instruction offered has broadened through
development of many study fields and courses in sciences and engineering as
well as the social sciences. Faculty and staff development has been achieved
successfully due to the technical assistance program of intensive and wide-



spread workshops, seminars and meetings by local and foreign specialists and
due to the extensive number of overseas fellowships.
G. Factors Contributing to Proiect Success
1.27.      Factors contributing to the project's smooth and successful
implementation are summarized below.
(a) The project addressed pressing needs of the universities in
equipment and staff development and was sensitive to the different
requirements of individual provinces and institutions. Equipment
funds allocated to the universities were based on their individual
requirements and their capacities to use the equipment. Out-dated
equipment was replaced and badly needed equipment was provided.
Needed technical assistance was efficiently delivered through
overseas and local fellowships, study tours and seminars, and
foreign expert visits. Meanwhile, the institutions' requirements
and priorities were addressed.
(b) Project design was based on clear and reasonable objectives. It was
a result of extensive studies and the experiences of previous Bank
education projects in China. Project design also included clear
and detailed guidelines for component implementation and monitoring
such as equipment procurement and technical assistance.
(c) An effective monitoring and supervision system for implementation
was established. This included: (i) six annual reviews (during
1986-1991) and the mid-term review (in 1989) carried out by the
inspection review teams in SEdC; (ii) a final review carried out by
SEdC with experts from the universities; and (iii) the Bank's eight
supervision missions. The purpose of the intensive follow up was
to monitor overall implementation progress and to guide and press
the universities to adhere to the implementation schedule.
(d) There was continuous communication, cooperation and coordination
between SEdC, PEdCs, universities, and the Bank during
implementation.
(e) An effective mechanism for project management functioned at three
different levels: Ci) on a central level where SEdC supervised the
overall implementation; (ii) at the provincial level where the
provincial education commissions were responsible for equipment
purchase, distribution, and utilization; and (iii) at the
institutional level where the universities supervised and regulated
the laboratory and library equipment.
(f) Most of the selected institutions were leading universities at the
provincial level with good academic standards and high level
teaching and administrative staff with experience in foreign aid
utilization. This comparative advantage accelerated equipment
procurement and overseas fellowships and increased the benefits
from the foreign experts visits.



9-
(g) The IAP/CRC played an important role during project preparation and
implementation. The group participated effectively during the
preparation process by providing advice and consultations in joint
workshops to the SEdC, PEdCs, and universities. They also
monitored, supervised, and evaluated progress of implementation
through the IAP experts' visits to China and the policy meetings
they held with the concerned parties. The IAP worked in harmony
with the CRC members and communicated well with the SEdC and PEdC
staff and with university professors.
H. Project Sustainability
1.28.      The project was designed and implemented during the take off stage
of the reforms in China. The pressing needs of the higher education subsector
were addressed appropriately and at the right time by the project objectives.
The small proportion of high level manpower and the poor quality of teaching
materials and equipment were pervasive characteristics of higher education.
With China's efforts to modernize, there will be an increasing demand for the
kind of post-secondary education that the project institutions now provide.
1.29.      The project was designed in a way such that the beneficial effects
of the two previous Bank Group higher education projects would be extended to
the provincial segment of conventional higher education, which was 0G of the
total enrollment and comprised two-thirds of the total number of institutions.
The complementary services provided by the project increased its
sustainability potential as it provided a wider range of needed services
expected to grow with overall country development.
1.30.      A key question in the future development of the provincial
universities is to what extent national policies and available resources can
be used effectively to support and guide development of these institutions,
especially if the burden of financing is increasingly passed on to localities.
The intensive economic reforms in the country are expected to accelerate the
demand for appropriately trained medium and high level manpower and put
pressure on higher education institutions to increase their resources, or face
a trade off between their graduates' quality and quantity. The problem could
become serious when the financial burden is passed to the universities and
more foreign currency is needed to buy spare parts and other accessories for
equipment maintenance.
1.31.      The extensive technical assistance rendered by the project will
have a long range impact on guiding higher education development. However,
staff and management development must become a continuous process in order to
cope with the accelerating reform policies in the country. Planning
capacities need to be further improved and planning exercises carried out on a
national and provincial level. Higher education plans need to set enrollment
targets, locate areas where institutions are most needed, identify priority
fields of study in relation to the labor market's dynamic needs, more clearly
define institutional roles to avoid duplication, and facilitate more rational
policies for equipment allocation, utilization, maintenance and replacement.
In addition, planning for teacher supply and its distribution needs to be
carried out on a provincial and national level. Teacher education plans will
assist the provinces to address the nation's unprecedented problems of



- 10 -
matching teacher supply and demand in a period of education reforms and
demographic change.
I. Bank Performance
1.32.      The previous Bank Group projects in education had established good
communication channels with the Chinese Government officials. This has helped
the Bank staff working on this project to continue establishing an open and
understanding relationship with their Chinese counterparts in SEdC, provincial
education commissions and institutions, and with IAP/CRC. During supervision
missions, Bank staff frequently visited the institutions and attended
workshops. They were also in touch with the IAP and CRC members and attended
most of their joint policy meetings.
1.33.      The Bank mobilized a team of qualified experts to work with SEdC
and the provincial education commissions during project preparation. They
established the IAP and CRC, agreed on their terms of reference, and selected
highly qualified and available professors and specialists. The Bank and the
Chinese team designed and prepared the project to address what were perceived
as urgent needs and priorities in the expansion and development of higher
education. The Bank team ensured that there was enough assistance to the
Chinese counterparts during the period between Board approval and credit
effectiveness to help arrange a structure for implementation and commence
procurement.
1.34.      The Bank staff fully cooperated with the IAP and the CRC.  Any
difficulties with technical assistance, i.e. foreign experts, workshops and
overseas fellowships were discussed at semi-annual meetings of the IAP, CRC
and the Bank.
J. Borrower Performance
1.35.      In line with a good record in designing, preparing, and
implementing the Bank Group-assisted education projects, the Chinese team has
continued to demonstrate strengths in performance during this project.
Furthermore, Government reform policies, such as decentralization of the
budget, enrollment distribution, and faculty assignment, helped project
institutions to adopt more flexible approaches to implementation of project
components.
1.36.      The staff of the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO), SEdC,
promptly and carefully developed the project proposals and collected the
necessary data and information for project preparation. During implementation
FILO staff coordinated the provincial education commissions and project
institutions in procurement and installation of equipment, participation in
technical assistance programs, and preparation of annual progress and audit
reports sent to the Bank.
1.37.      The SEdC staff drew from their experience in equipment procurement
under previous Bank projects and passed it on to the provinces and project
institutions as guidelines for the purchase of imported equipment. During
implementation, most project institutions finished the civil works in time to
install the imported and locally procured equipment. They established central
facilities including computing and testing centers, and specialized and basic



- 11 -
laboratories to accommodate the procured equipment and make it widely
available for use.
1.38.     On the other hand, the borrower weakness was in implementing the
two planning exercises, i.e., the provincial master plan to be carried out by
the SEdC and provincial authorities, and the teacher supply and demand
analysis to be carried out by the provincial education commissions on a
provincial level. The planning capacities in the center and more so in the
provinces, needed special training and support to carry out these exercises
and identify their objectives and roles within the current economic and social
reforms.
1.39.     With regard to the technical assistance program, the problem was
mainly in the fellowship distribution. The fellowship share of faculty
members was increased substantially and the share of graduate students
decreased in the later years of the project.
K. Consulting Services: The IAP and CRC
1.40.     The IAP and CRC were formed by SEdC and IDA during the preparation
stage (November 1985) of the project and consisted of prominent professors and
specialists. The IAP and CRC played an active and positive role in project
design, preparation, implementation, and evaluation. Most of the members were
retired professors and were fully dedicated to the project operations.
1.41.     Members of the IAP visited 57 of the 60 project universities to
discuss project implementation, to provide advice on a broad range of issues,
and to monitor progress. In addition, they met frequently with staff from
provincial education commissions and project universities to discuss
implementation of the project components.
1.42.     The IAP and CRC held 12 policy meetings during the six years of
project implementation attended by Bank staff and the SEdC and other concerned
Chinese officials. These meetings emphasized equipment procurement,
installation, and testing and reviewed seminars and workshops proposals. At
the middle of the implementation period, they discussed equipment utilization
and maintenance, and by the end of the period the focus was on project
evaluation. The last meeting resulted in a detailed evaluation of project
components and included critical recommendations for project sustainability.
Some of the joint IAP/CRC findings are reflected in this Project Completion
Report.
1.43.     The IAP played a lead role in planning and organizing 13 seminars,
workshops and overseas study tours involving participants from project
universities and provincial education commissions. The IAP offered many
practical recommendations to SEdC, provincial education commissions, and
project universities. Furthermore, it provided important support to SEdC in
the identification of experts from abroad for the workshops and seminars and
helped in selecting local officials for overseas fellowships.



- 12 -
L. Prolect Documentation and Data
1.44.      The Staff Appraisal Report and Other Working Documents.  The SAR
was prepared after a relatively long preparation period and extensive sector
work by the Bank Group and feasibility studies carried out by SEdC. It proved
to be a useful reference during project implementation. The report was
comprehensive and clear in defining the project objectives, scope, and
components. Cost estimates of the project components were relatively accurate.
At the end of the project period, allocations for equipment procurement had to
be increased because of changes in the foreign exchange rate during the
project period. The SAR defined clearly the mechanism of project monitoring,
evaluation and follow up, and included guidelines for equipment and books
selection and procurement. Detailed plans for selecting local and foreign
fellowships, study tours and specialist services were also included. The SAR
identified target indicators for monitoring and evaluation of project
institutions. These targets were frequently used to assess overall project
progress.
1.45.      Evaluation Data.  The extensive evaluation activities of the IAP
and CRC were based on several sources of information. One of the important
sources was the comprehensive self-evaluation questionnaires prepared by FILO
and completed by every university in early 1991. The IAP and CRC selected 8
representative universities and sent them questionnaires to be filled in by
their departments within each university to collect information on enrollment
level, faculty qualification and distribution, teaching and research programs,
and equipment utilization. When the results were tabulated, the IAP and CRC
members visited these universities and collected more qualitative information.
Furthermore, observations and recommendations of foreign specialists and
seminar participants were included in the evaluation process. A comprehensive
evaluation report was prepared and its contents were discussed in a joint
policy meeting in spring 1991. A follow-up meeting was held in spring of 1992
to review the recommendations and finalize the report.
M. Lessons Learned
1.46.      There are many lessons learned from the generally positive project
experiences in design, preparation, implementation, and evaluation. The main
lessons are summarized below.
(a) During project design and preparation, it is important to identify
and address the individual project institutions' needs and
priorities within the overall sector policies.
(b) Project objectives should be clear and reasonable, and preparation
should include detailed guidelines for component implementation as
well as an elaborate and effective monitoring and supervision
system for implementation.
(c) Open channels and continuous communication between Bank staff and
the borrower's officials during project design and preparation lead
to an effective cooperation and coordination in project
implementation.



- 13 -
(d) Project institutions in provinces should be selected from the
leading institutions which usually have more high level and
qualified staff. This comparative advantage increases the potential
to solve problems efficiently, and to accelerate implementation
processes, thereby increasing the potential for project
sustainability.
(e) The role of the IAP and CRC in preparing, implementing and
evaluating education projects in China has been pivotal. This has
been recognized by both the Bank and the Chinese Government. In
this project, the IAP and CRC were selected from high level,
experienced and specialized persons and most being retired
professors who managed to dedicate their full time to project
operations, and this has contributed immensely to the successful
implementation of the project.
(f) Lack of funds available to allow uninterrupted operation of
equipment is still a concern. Present financial budgeting in the
educational institutions do not make proper allocations for
equipment operation and maintenance, a point which should be
addressed in future projects.
(g) Continuing efforts must be made to strengthen the SEdC
and provincial commission's capacity to carry out
education master planning and teaching supply and demand
activities at both the national and provincial levels.
(h) Rigorous scrutiny by outside expert panels of equipment requests
before the equipment lists reach the procurement stage is
beneficial in assuring that institutions purchase instrumentation
appropriate and adequate for their teaching and/or research
missions.






- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
(Credit 1671-CHA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE
A. Coments on the Analysis in Part I
2.1.      The Borrower recognizes that, on the whole, the brief descriptions
of the project objectives, contents, implementation and outcomes contained in
Part I of the PCR are clear and conform to reality. The Borrower also agrees
in general with the views and recommendations of the IAP and CRC presented in
their Evaluation Report of the project, which seem to have no essential
distinction from those given in Part I.
B. Ad.auacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
2.2.      The Borrower confirms that the tables of statistical information
given in Part III of the Project Completion Report (PCR) have been sufficient
for illustrating the key factors relating to the evaluation and implementation
of the project. Those data furnished by the Borrower's implementing agency,
such as the local counterpart funds actually consumed, the total project costs
realized and the implementation indicators finally achieved at the termination
of the project, etc., had been cross-checked with the original tables
carefully and repeatedly to ensure their accuracy.
2.3.      Pro-ect Background:  Early since the late 1970's, it had been
unanimously recognized in China that science and technology are the key
factors and education is the foundation of achievement of the national goal of
economic development. "Education" here indicates the whole sector; basic
education and higher education; vocational and technical education and adult
education. Each subsector needs to be supported to fulfill its mission. The
disruption of the Cultural Revolution, however, had especially severe
consequences on higher education. Vast majority of the institutions of higher
learning had been weakened in about ten years of the "Cultural Revolution".
Therefore, when China resumed its legal seat and rights in the World Bank in
1980, the Chinese government decided to give the first priority for projects
to higher education. While differing in detailed objectives and
implementation, they had in common one overriding purpose: to assist Chinese
higher education institutions to be able to meet the manpower requirement for
national development by producing graduates of high quality. One of the four
projects is the Chinese Provincial Universities Development Project. It has
to be noted that the provincial education institutions play a vital role in
Chinese higher education. They are more numerous than the national
universities and they produce more than half of the University graduates in
the country. Many of these institutions had a long history of development
even though they are not as prestigious as many of the national universities.
The Provincial University Development Project was selected and established
with full rationale.



- 16 -
2.4.      Proiect Design:  A tentative idea of assisting provincial
universities with World Bank credit was actually formed when the Borrower
began to dialogue with the Bank about an overall assistance plan to strengthen
Chinese higher education. Since the proposal was more extensive than the
World Bank could consider at the time, the Chinese government, working with
the Bank, decided to stage the higher education programs over a prolonged
period of time. Building on the experience of the first University
Development project, the Chinese Ministry of Education, with support from the
State Planning Commission and Finance Ministry, and the Bank initiated the
planning of two further university projects, Second University Development
Project and the present Provincial University Project. In broad terms, the
objectives of the two later projects were similar to those of the first,
namely, 1) expanding enrollments in the project universities; 2) improving the
quality of education and research in these institutions; and 3) strengthening
institutional management capabilities. The Provincial Universities Project
initiated and included higher education master planning and teacher training
programs at the provincial level. In its initial design stage, the project
was to be restricted to normal universities, so as to benefit indirectly the
basic education by increasing the quantity and quality of middle school
teachers. Considering the demand of many provinces, the number of Project
institutions was expanded to include, in addition to normal universities, a
number of comprehensive, engineering, medical and agricultural universities
and colleges, 60 institutions in all. The Project institutions were selected
jointly by the MOE and the provinces or regions in which they are located. In
general, they are the leading universities in the respective provinces.
2.5.      Prolect Implementation:  At the start of the Project, a number of
appointments were assigned or designated to ensure its successful
implementation. At each of the three levels namely the SEdC, the Provincial
Education Commissions (PEdCs) and the Project Institutions, a vice-chairman or
vice-president was appointed to take responsibility for the implementation of
the Project with the aid of a special loan office. Except the SedC, however,
all the participating institutions were new to World Bank projects. Most of
them were lacking experience or even unqualified for project implementation.
Nevertheless, overwhelming majority of the participants worked very actively
and learned hard on the job, and gained impressive achievements at the Project
completion. Another important factor related to the achievements is the
assistance given to the Project implementation by adjustment in national
policies particularly related to the decentralization and encouragement given
to institutions to adopt more flexible approaches in the implementation of the
Project. It would be also needed to acknowledge here the valuable assistance
of the World Bank staff and the IAP and CRC to the Project design,
implementation and evaluation.
2.6.      Eauipment:  The major part of the Project funds was used for the
procurement of equipment. Based on the experiences gained from the three
previous projects, the SEdC issued guidelines to the participating provinces
and their Project guidelines for the purchase of imported equipment as
follows: 1) equipment for teaching and basic training should be the first
priority in procurement; 2) an appropriate quantity of spare parts and
auxiliary items should be purchased with the main items; 3) there should be
no purchases of equipment with a projected low utilization rate; 4) major
items of equipment should be chosen to meet concrete teaching and research
objectives. Their availability an use should be extended widely both across



- 17 -
campus to units outside the institution. These guidelines were reissued after
the first bid with the advice from the CRC and IAP. Procurement of equipment
with credit funds was conducted through 3 phases of international competitive
bidding and ran smoothly. In the third round of bidding, the participating
institutions were required to concentrate purchases mainly on spare and
auxiliary parts and small items of teaching equipment. According to reports
from project institutions and observations by visiting specialists, the
majority of the equipment was delivered in good condition and is operating
satisfactorily. To ensure the wider cross-disciplinary use and higher
utilization rate of the major items of imported equipment, most of the larger
institutions had established central facilities including computer centers,
testing and analysis centers, and specialized labs.
2.7.      Staff Development:  The purpose of sending faculty abroad was
mainly to strengthen the quality of faculty needed for the training of
graduates. For this sake, the SEdC required for the selection of candidates
as follows; 1) good character, dedication to work, good health and a sense of
responsibility; 2) good basic disciplinary knowledge; 3) good record of
teaching and research; 4) ability to analyze and solve problems
independently; 5) at least five years teaching experience after graduating
from a university or college; 6) proficiency in a foreign language sufficient
to exchange idea on their own subject and able to pass a national foreign
language test. In the process of implementation, a phenomenon did appear that
fellowship for short-term studies exceeds that for long-term studies. The
experience of the returned fellows, however, showed that the short-term
fellowship program was beneficial to the fellows.
2.8.      Specialist Service and CRC and IAP:  According to the Credit
Agreement of this project and based on the experiences of the preceding
projects, a Chinese review Commission (CRC) and International Advisory Panel
(IAP were established at the initial stage and maintained throughout the life
of the project. The IAP was chaired by a distinguished professor from Canada
and supported by a secretariat located at the Association of Universities and
Colleges of Canada. In the six years of work, the IAP and the CRC visited 57
of the 60 project institutions and held joint meetings twice a year to monitor
and discuss progress of the project implementation, and assisted to address a
broad range of issues including placement of fellows in foreign universities,
selection and coordination programs for specialists, and organization of
overseas study tours and 14 seminars for furthering the realization of the
objectives of the project. They do deserve high commendation and appreciation
of the important and active roles they played in the project implementation.
2.9.      Over 200 of subjec t specialists were selected under coordination of
the IAP and the FILO of SEdC. They were required to undertake activities
wider than usual for those invited through traditional approaches and had a
role more akin to that of a consultant to departments and related units in the
institutions. In most cases, the requirement was fulfilled under the
condition of close cooperations and intercommunication between the specialists
and the host institution.
2.10.     Higher Education Master Planning:  The provincial higher education
master planning activities, although much smaller in scope, were an equally
important component in the project. This component was to strengthen the
capabilities of SEdC and particularly the PEdCs to formulate long-term plans
for higher education development at the provincial level. The master planning



- 18 -
activities initiated two major seminars and a study tour. The first seminar
was on the macro-economic management of higher education. Then a study tour
went to visit American and Canadian universities and colleges. The final
seminar was on the implementation and evaluation of the provincial master
plans. The participating provinces incorporated the recommended policy and
technical activities into their practical work for the provincial "eighth
five-year plan" and "ten-year development program". This component has gained
tangible results and was highly credited by the provinces.
2.11.     Proiect Adiustment:  According to the agreement reached between the
World Bank and the Borrower, the closing date of the project was extended to
December 31, 1992 in order to complete the necessary implementation
operations.
2.12.     Project Results:  As shown in the brief description in Part I and
the comparative table of implementation indicators in Part III of the report,
the Project as a whole had won distinct success in its implementation. Taking
into account the fact that the provincial institutions make up over two thirds
of the Chinese higher education and almost all the 60 project institutions are
key institutions in the provinces they are located, it is appropriate to
highly evaluate the Project results and fully appraise the factors
contributing to its success.
C. Evaluation of Bank's Performance
2.13.     In the early stage of the Project's life, Bank staff participating
in preparation and appraisal were highly professional and qualified for their
task. Moreover, having been involved in the work of the previous education
projects, many of them had established close and efficient working
relationship with the Chinese staff in the SEdC and were familiar with the
working situation of the Chinese projects. In the later period, however,
quite number of Bank staff were transferred to new positions because of
reorganization of the Bank, and some were retired. This affected, to a
certain extent, the understanding of each other and weakened familiarity with
the Project.
D. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
2.14.     As indicated in previous paragraph, it was the first time for all
the project institutions to deal with the World Bank financed project. In
addition, the evolution and implementation of the project were almost
simultaneously practiced with the economic and education adjustment in China
and hence affected by frequent changes of conditions and policies. These
difficulties, on the other hand, turned into an active force to the
enthusiastic and diligent staff of the Project participants. Moreover, the
policy changes carried out by the government in turn become great advantages
to accelerate the reform and development of education. The project has just
served the central purpose of such accelerated reform and development in the
higher education subsector in China. The impressive achievement of the
project is a conclusive evidence of the performance and quality of the
participating institutions of the borrower.



- 19 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION






TABLE 1: RELATED BANK/IDA LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Year of
LOAN/CREDIT TITLE                      Approval                                                     PURPOSE                                                       STATUS                MANAGED BY
UNIvERsITy DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                1981         The project sought to strengthen science & engineering in 28 leading Chinese Universities. Objectives were to  conpleted 1987          SEdC
(LN 2021-CHA, CR. 1167-CHA)                              increase the quality & quantity of graduates & research, to strengthen the planning & managenment capabilities &
to prepare investments in the education sector.
AGRICULTURE EDUCATION AND                  1983          The project was designed to assist agriculture higher educatioft and research in 11 agricultural colleges and 7  completed 1988  Ministry of Agriculture,
REsEARcH PROJECT                                    instittions.                                                                                                                   Aninal Husbandry and
(CR. 1297-CHA)                                                                                                                                                                         Fishery
POLYTECHNIC/TELEVISION UMV PROJECT              1984          The project sought to increase the number of students & to improve the quality of instruction in China's 17  comnpleted 1989          SEdC
(Ca. 1411-CHA)                                    Polytechnic Institutions & 28 television Universities.
RuRAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL                   1984         Tbe educational component of this project was designed to enhauce the quality of education, training &   completed 1989       Ministry of Public Health
EDUCATioN PROJECT                                   curriculum.
(CR. 1472-CHA)
SECOND AGRICLLTUVRAL EDUCATION                1984         The project sought to inprove & assist agriculture education in 23 agricultural colleges, 12 agricultural technical  completed 1991  MinisUy of Agriculture,
PROJECT                                       schools.                                                                                                                       Animal Husbandry and
(IM. 2444-CHA)                                                                                                                                                                         Fishery
SECOND UNIVERsITY DEVELOPMENT                 1985         To increase technical & managerial personnel through policy & institutional changes related to the engineering  completod 1989        SEdC
PROJECT                                       and economics/fuiance education subsector.
(CR. 1551-CHA)
GANSU PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT                 1988          It is part of a comprehensive plan to attain universal nine-year basic education and to improve the quality of  to be completed  Gansu Provincial
PROJEeT                                        instruction in primary and lower secondary schools in Gansu Province.                                      in 1993.                Government
EDUCATION COMPONENT                                                                                                                                                                                             `3
(,LN. 2812-CHA, CR. 1793-CHA)                                                                                                                                                                                      0
TEACHER TRAINING PROJEcr                   1989         To promote universal basic education through the expansion and upgrading of in service training for lower  to be completed            SEdC
(CR. 190SCHA)                                    ;secondary school teachers                                                                                   in 1994
TIXrsaooE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                 1989         The project supports the textbooks upgrading program by the Chinese Government. Objecives are to improve  to be completed             SEdC
(CR. 2006--CHA)                                   the educational quality of textbooks at all levels of schooling, to increase the variety of available textbooks & to  in 1995
improve the efrlciency of textbook production.
VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL                    1990         To improve the quality of technical & vocational training in China through supporting 59 secondary v/t schools  to be completed       SEdC
EDucATtoN PRojEcT                                   in 10 province and 3 municipalities.                                                                        in 1995.
(CR. 2114-CHA)
MEDFUM-S=E  CrTlEs                     1990         The project assists the Changzhou. Luoyang and Shashi cities to improve overall and sector planning and  to be completed               SEdC
DEvELoPMENT PROJECT                                   management, including education.                                                                             1995
(1N. 3286-CHA)
KEY STUDIs                         1991         The project supports the government's plan to reform the management of science and technology programs. It  to be completed            SEdC
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                  consists of support for research and graduate training in 133 State Key Laboratories and Special Labs affdliated  in 1995
(CR. 221f-CHA)                                    with Universities and with Chinese Academy of Sciences.
FDUCATnoN DEVELOPMENT                    1992          The project supports three main goals for the developmentx of education in relatively poor provinces - Shanxi,  to be completed       SEdC
IN POOR PROVINCES                                   Shaanxi, Hubei, Hunan, Guijhou and Yunan.                                                                   in 1996
(CR. 2339-CHA)                                                                                                                                            .
EFJEenVE TEACHING                      1993         The central aim of the project is to contribute to improved lesaning at the lower middle school level by  to be completed              SEdC
SERVICE PROJECT                                    providing teaching services, including instructional methodology, teacher training and management of teacher  in 1998
(CR. 2471-CHA)                                    training and assignmrent.



TABLE 2: PROJECT TIWETABLE
Item           Date Planned   Date Revised    Date Actual
Identification               /84                          /84
Pre-appraisal                /85
Appraisal Mission            /85
Negotiations                10/85
Board Approval              12/85
Credit Signature            03/86                        07/01/86
Credit Effectiveness        07/86                         10/86
Project Completion         12/31/90      12/31/91        12/31/91
Credit Closing             12/31/91       12/31/92       12/31/92



TABLE 3:       CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
IDA  FY             1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992     TOTAL
Appraisal Estimate *         6.0      26.0      49.0      25.0      11.0       3.0      120
Cumulative as % of           5.0      26.7      67.5      88.3      97.5    100.0
total
Actual Disbursement         56.3      13.4      44.7      11.3       3.7      20.6      150
Cumulative as % of          37.5      46.5      76.3      83.8      86.3    100.0
total
Actual as % of             938.3      51.5      91.2      45.2      33.6    686.7
Estimate
Date of Final                         12/92
Disbursement:



TABLE 4: IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
(1984)        (191)           (1990)
Indicator                               Actual         Actual         Target
Quantitative Expansion
Increased Total Undergraduate Enrolhnent                         200,000        273,272         260,000
Increased Postgraduate Enrollment                                  5,000         8,519          20,000
Management (Efficiency) Improvement
Student:Faculty ratio                                               5:1
Normal University                                                                7:1-10:1         8:1
Other University                                                                 7:1-9:1          7:1
Utilzation rate of Laboratories                                    50%            70%            75%
Utilization rate of classrooms                                     60%            92%             85%
library opening hours per week                                      50             75             80
Commuting Students (as % of undergraduate students)                 2%             3%             10%
Staff Development
Lower average faculty age                                                      * 3 years less   3-5 years less
Increase % of faculty with Masters                                  2%           * 27%            15%
Increased % of faculty with Doctorate                          less than 1%       * 5%            3%
Lower % of teaching assistants                                     33%           * 31%           20%
Curricula and Pedagogy
% of required experiment taught
Basic Undergraduate Courses                                        80%            * 94%          95%
Specialized Undergraduate Courses                                  60%           * 83%           80%
Lower % of Compulsory Courses                                      65%           * 76%           50%
Increase in practice work                                        not enough       more           more
Increase in optional courses                                      10-15%         * 17%          15-20%
Increased use of discussion methods                                little         more           more
Increased use of audio-visual material                             little         more           more
Optional courses in related majors                                seldom          more           more
Number of library books checked out per student per week        less than I       * 1.6          1.5%
Delay of fimal decision on undergraduate major until second year  seldom          more           some
Normal University
Number of weeks of teaching practice                                6              7-8           10-12
Pedagogy/psychology courses on % of total teaching hours           6-7%           7-8%            10%
Introduction of dual majors                                     not possible    not possible    possible
Note: Figures with "t" are those as end of year 1990



TABLE 5: PROJECT COST (US$ Million).
Appraisal Estimates                           Revised Estimates                                 Actual
Component                       Local          Foreign         Total         Local          Foreign        Total         Local          Foreign        Total
Civil works & Furniture                      181.0              0.0         181.0           50.0              0.0          50.0         56.0               0.0         56.0
Equipment                                    147.0            100.0        247.0            30.0            100.0         130.0         32.0             131.6        163.6
Specialist Services                            0.0              4.0          4.0             0.0              4.0           4.0          0.0               4.7          4.7
Assistance to Higher Education.               29.0              16.0         45.0             1.5             16.0          17.5          1.8              8.7         10.5
Development Studies, and Fellowships
Otheri'                                        0.0              0.0          0.0            17.0              0.0          17.0          15.2              0.0         15.2
Total Project Cost       357.0            120.0         477.0           98.5            120.0         218.5         105.0            150.0        255.0
Notes:
'L    Project costs are based on the January 1986 exchange rate of RMB Y 3.20 per US$1.00.
2'    The ratio of counterpart funds to the IDA credit was revised during implementation from 3: 1 to 1: I for over commitment by provincial governments.
3/    Other include domestic transportation expenses, service charge, and administrative expenditures.



TABLE 6: PROJECT FINANCING (in US$ million)"_
SOURCE                   Appraisal                  Revised                     Actual      %
Amount                  Amount2'                    Amount
Government                           357.0         74.8          98.5         45.1        105.0       41.2
IDA                                  120.0         25.2         120.0         54.9        150.0       58.8
Total in RMB Y million               477.0        100.0         218.5        100.0        255.0      100.0
IDA                                  384.0         25.2         384.0         54.9        480.0       58.8
Total                               1526.4        100.0         699.0        100.0        816.0      100.0
Notes:
'L   Project financing is based on the exchange rate of January 1986 (Y3.20 per US$)
2/   The ratio of counterpart funds to IDA credit was revised during the implementation from 3:1 to 1: 1 for over
commitment by provincial governments.



- 26 -
TABLE 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS FOR THE PROVINCIAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
Credit                                      Subject                                      Deadline                  Status
Agreement                                                                                 Compliance
Section 3.01    The Borrower's commitment to fulfill the project objectives, to carry out   Objectives by   Most of the objectives have
the Project through the SEdC and the Provinces with due diligence and    12/90; Others in    been finished and satisfied;
efficiency and to provide the needed funds, facilities, services and other   the whole cycle  others went on smoothly
resources for the project.                                             of the project
implementation
Section 3.02    The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee, the Project Office   July 1986          Performed quite well
within the PEdC, the Loan Office within project universities, the CPC
and IAP established for the purposes of the project, with staffing,
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03    Procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for   In the whole       Successfully completed
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall   cycle of the
commence as agreed.                                                    project
implementation
Section 3.04    The Borrower shall award fellowships with the project in accordance   In the whole          Successfully completed
with selection procedures and criteria agreed with the Association.    cycle of the
project
implementation
Section 4.01(a)   The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and    Each year during    Successfully completed
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting   the project
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the   implementation
project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the project or any part thereof.
Section       The Borrower shall have the accounts, including the Special Account, for   Each year during    Successfully completed
4.01(b)       each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing   the project
principles consistently applied, by independentauditors acceptable to the   implementation
Association; fumish to the Association a certified copy of the report of
such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
Association  shall have reasonably  requested; and  fumish  to the
Association such other information conceming said accounts and the
audit therefore and said records as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.01(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested   In the whole        Successfully completed
r          from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditures, the    cycle of the
Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate records and    project
accounts reflecting such expenditures; retain, until one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year, all records
evidencing such expenditures; enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and ensure that such separate accounts are
included in the audit and that the report thereof contains in respect of
such separate accounts, a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn, in respect of such expenditures
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
Section 4.02    The Borrower shall until such date as may be agreed between the    Every year               Successfully completed
Borrower and the Association, monitor and evaluate the progress   especially
achieved in fulfilling the objectives of the Project through performance    mid-term  and
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Association.            completion in the
project
implementation



- 27 -
TABLE 8: PROJECT STUDIES
Studies                                                               Status       Impact of Study
Provincial Higher        Purpose   as   defined   at   appraisal:    completed    Efficient
Education            Through the practical experience gained                        operation of
Masterplans           in execution of two planning activities,                       provincial
the   central  and   Provincial  higher                        education
education authorities will strengthen their                    development
capacities  to  design  and  implement                         masterplanning
similar comprehensive plans which have
a long-term time frame and are linked to
economic growth rates and the manpower
needs of major economic sectors.
Provincial Teacher        Better   understanding   of         teacher   completed
Education Plan         education   and   more   knowledge   in
teaching of sciences and math.
Notes:
While the provincial governments were involved, responsibility for coordinating and implementing these studies activities rested
with SEdC. During the implementation of the project, 12 workshops (on macroeconomic management of higher education)
were sponsored by SEdC to provide international educational practice and experience in drawing up long-term programs and
plans for provincial officials in the educational sector. The project provincial governments have integrated these studies with
planning activity of the provincial eighth five-year development program and the educational development program in next
decade, including provincial higher education masterplan and teacher education plan. The work for the two programs has
already been completed under the TA component. These activities were supported mainly by the provincial resources.
TABLE 9: STAFF INPUT (STAFF/WEEK)
Stage of Project Cycle                   Planned            Revised             Final
Through appraisal                                        78.4                                  78.4
Appraisal to Board Approval                              64.7                                  64.7
Board Approval to Effectiveness                           10.0                                 10.0
Supervision                                              67.5                                 66.2
Total             220.6                                219.3



TABLE 10: IDA Missions
Stage of Project        Month/    Number of    Number of   Number of   Performance Rating                 Type of Problems
Year       Missions       Persons          Days       and Specialization
Identification               9/83            1             5             22         econ
Pre-appraisal                8/94            2             4             30         econ, ed sp, voc sp
Appraisal                    12/84           1             4             15         econ. ed sp, tch ed
Pre-negotiations             10/85           1             4             21         econ, consultants
Supervision                  5/86            1              2             16        econ                 Implementation ahead of SAR
2/87            1             1             11        educator              No major problem
2/88            1             1             12        econ
7/88            1             1             7         econ, tech ed
4/89            1             2             16               -do-                                                     co
3/90            1             1             24               -do-
10/90           1             2             13               -do-
10/91           1             1             10               -do-



