CREDIT NUMBER 1671-CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Provincial Universities Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                     5          ,1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1671-CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                , 1986, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA    (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted, (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "State Education Commission" means the Borrower's State
Education Commission or any successor thereto;
(c) "Provinces" means the provinces, autonomous regions and
municipalities participating in the implementation of the Project
and listed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(d) "Provincial Universities" means the universities and
other institutions listed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit with-
drawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section  2.07. The   Borrower  shall  repay   the  principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1996, and ending
February 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one per-
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shell be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
the State Education Commission and the Provinces with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educa-
tional, engineering, financial and administrative practices, and
shall provide, and cause each of the Provinces to provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to coordinate and assist in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Steering
Committee established for the purposes of the Project, with
staffing, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Asso-
ciation; (ii) cause each of the Provinces to maintain the Project
Office established for the purposes of the Project,       or the
existing permanent unit within the Provincial Higher Education
Bureau assigned for the purposes of the Project, each with
staffing, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Association; (iii) cause each of the Provincial Universities to


﻿-5
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year   in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn, in respect of such
expenditures, have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, until such date as may be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, monitor and
evaluate the progress achieved in fulfilling the objectives of
the Project, through performance indicators agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the


﻿-6-
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council has
approved this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANMIN                            22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit All,,ocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment,               81,000,000         100% of foreign
books and                                  expenditures,
journals                                   100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items
locally procured
(2) Consultants'             16,200,000         100%
services,
exchange
programs,
fellowships
and study
tours
(3) Unallocated              10,800,000
TOTAL             108,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿9
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the
Borrower in developing higher education at the provincial level
through assistance to the Provincial Universities; and (ii) to
continue supporting the three national educational objectives of
enrollment expansion, educational program improvement and manage-
ment reform.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   A program to (i) increase the number and improve the
quality of graduates, and (ii) improve the quality of
teaching and management at the Provincial Universities,
through the provision of buildings, furniture and
equipment, specialist services, fellowships, training
and other related inputs required.
Part B:   A program to strengthen planning and management capa-
bilities of the State Education Commission and the Pro-
vincial Higher Education Bureaux through provision of
equipment, specialist services, fellowships, training
and other related inputs required.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordarce with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in China may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or group of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding proce-
dures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Books and journals estimated to cost up to an aggregate
amount of $5,000,000 equivalent, and proprietary items and other
items required for standardization estimated to cost up to an
aggregate amount of $7,000,000 equivalent, may be purchased
directly under negotiated contracts.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 12 -
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $500,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply;
provided, however, where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall be fur-
nished to the Association prior to the making of the first pay-
ment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
where payments for such contract are to be made out of the pro-
ceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, together
with the other information specified therein, shall be furnished
to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 (the Special Account Schedule)
to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Asso-
ciation has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Provincial Universities
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the following shall be the Provincial Universities and the
Provinces participating in the Project:
1.   Beijing Normal College            Beijing
2.   Tianjin Normal University         Tianjin
3.   Hebei Normal University           Hebei
4.   Neimonggol Normal University      Neimonggol
5.   Liaoning Normal University        Liaoning
6.   Siping Normal College             Jilin
7.   Harbin Normal University          Heilongjiang
8.   Shanghai Normal University        Shanghai
9.   Nanjing Normal University         Jiangsu
10.   Zhejiang Normal University        Zhejiang
11.   Anhui Normal University           Anhui
12.   Fujian Normal University          Fujian
13.   Jiangxi Normal University         Jiangxi
14.   Shandong Normal University        Shandong
15.   Henan Normal University          Henan
16.   Hubei University                 Hubei
17.   Hunan Normal University          Hunan
18.   South China Normal University     Guangdong
19.   Guangxi Normal University         Guangxi
20.   Sichuan Normal University         Sichuan
21.   Guizhou Normal University         Guizhou
22.   Yunnan Normal University          Yunnan
23.   Northwest Normal College          Gansu
24.   Qinghai Normal University         Qinghai
25.   Northeast Normal University       Jilin
26.   Central China Normal University   Hubei
27.   Southwest Normal University       Sichuan
28.   Shaanxi Normal University         Shaanxi
29.   Hebei University                  Hebei
30.   Shanxi University                 Shanxi
31.   Neimonggol University             Neimonggol
32.   Liaoning University               Liaoning
33.   Yanbian University                Jilin
34.   Heilongjiang University           Heilongjiang
35.   Suzhou University                 Jiangsu
36.   Hangzhou University               Zhejiang
37.   Anhui University                  Anhui


﻿- 14 -
38.   Jiangxi University                  Jiangxi
39.   Zhengzhou University                Henan
40.   Xiangtan University                 Hunan
41.   Guizhou University                  Guizhou
42.   Yunnan University                   Yunnan
43.   Northwest University                Shaanxi
44.   Ningxia University                  Ningxia
45.   Xinjiang University                 Xinjiang
46.   Shenzhen University                 Guangdong
47.   Beijing Technical University        Beijing
48.   Taiyuan Technical University        Shanxi
49.   Shanghai Technical University       Shanghai
50.   Fuzhou University                   Fujian
51.   Shandong Technical University       Shandong
52.   Guangdong Technical College         Guangdong
53.   Guangxi University                  Guangxi
54.   Tianjin Medical College             Tianjin
55.   Harbin Medical University           Heilongjiang
56.   Shanghai Second Medical University  Shanghai
57.   Hubei Medical College               Hubei
58.   Chongqing Medical University        Sichuan
59.   Xinjiang August 1
Agricultural College              Xinjiang
60.   Sichuan Agricultural University     Sichuan


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
SDR 5,000,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Crcdit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent


﻿- 16 -
amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the Project, minus the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower


﻿- 17 -
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


