Document of
FILE COPY                         The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2351 -IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
June 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -    Rupiah (Rp)
US$1            -    Rp 415
Rp 1            -    US$0.002
Rp 1,000,000    -    US$2,410
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPEDA       -  Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS      - National Development Planning Agency
BIMAS         - A farm input-credit program
BRI           - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGE           - Director General of Estates
DGH           - Director General of Highways
Hak Milik     -  Right to full ownership of land
PNP           -  State-owned estate enterprise
PTP           -  State-owned estate enterprise with limited liability
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Amount:             $65 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:              20 years including five years of grace with interest at
7.5% per annum.
On-Lending
Terms:            (a)  Smallholder development -- to new settlers, 19 years
including four years of grace with interest at
10.5% p.a.
(b)  Smallholder development -- to replanters, 14 years
including four years of grace with interest
at 10.5% p.a.
(c)  Nucleus estate component -- to PTP IV, 16 years
including eight years of grace at 13.5% p.a.
In all on-lending, the Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Proiect
Description:      The project would help the Government's objectives for
the development of the rubber sector through the settlement
of poor and landless families on hitherto unproductive land
while raising rubber output, farm incomes, living standards
and export incomes. Seven thousand six hundred families
would settle on 38,000 ha located in Riau and Jambi Provinces
in Sumatera. Seven thousand five hundred ha of existing
rubber trees would be replanted, which would benefit an
additional 3,750 families in the same areas. An additional
3,500 ha would be developed for the public sector estate PTP
IV at Air Molek, Riau. The project also includes technical
assistance to the Director General of Estates for project
preparation, planning and implementation, to the Extension
Training Center for extension and training in smallholder
rubber management and to the Director General of Highways
for project road engineering.
At full project development new settler and rubber replanter
family incomes would be about $900 (constant 1977 $). The
proposed project would increase production of rubber and
food crops on a total of 49,000 ha, of which 41,500 ha
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
represent new land development. The project would directly
benefit some 11,350 smallholder families or about 56,750
people in the rural target population. The expansion of
PTP IV in Riau would provide employment opportunities for
another 2,000 families.
No significant risks related to rubber development and
food crop production are expected. In order to reduce
operating and overhead costs, the Government has requested
debt service by smallholders to be made in kind with PTP IV
working as collection agent for smallholder rubber.
Although this cost recovery method has not been tested in
Bank-assisted projects in Indonesia, it would not present
any undue risks. The management capability of the Provin-
cial Government in this type of project remains untested.
With close guidance by the Director General of Estates and
helped by project technical assistance, it is expected
that the provincial authorities would successfully carry
out project responsibilities and build provincial level
institutions.
Estimated Cost:                                              Local  Foreign  Total
-----(US$ million----
I.  Smallholder Development             24.70    24.85   49.55
II. Nucleus Estate
Development:PTP IV                 4.35      3.77    8.12
III. Technical Assistance, Training
and Supervision                    0.94      1.94    2.88
Base Cost                         29.99    30.56   60.55
IV. Contingencies
Physical                           3.00     3.06    6.06
Price                             17.51    16.38   33.89
Total costs                         50.50    50.00  100.50
Financing Plan:    The proposed loan of $65 million would cover the foreign
exchange cost of the project and $15 million of local
costs. The balance costs amounting to $35.5 million would
be met by the Government.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY       1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
-----------------------($ million)…-----…-_________
Annual        4.5     9.5    10.0    13.5    20.5       7.0
Cumulative   4.5    14.0    24.0    37.5    58.0    65.0
Rate of Return:    About 15% (weighted average).
Staff Appraisal    Report No. 1950a-IND, dated June 15, 1978, Regional
Report:           Projects Department, East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A NUCLEUS ESTATE AND
SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $65 million to help
finance a Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent Devel-
opments, Short-Term Prospects and Development Issues," of April 26, 1978
(2026-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on April 28, 1978.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-
1973/74),/2 the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almost completed.
Transport, power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after
years of neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. Agricultural
output expanded at an average rate of 4.5% a year and the foundations of
modern industry - fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this period,
the annual rate of economic growth exceeded 7.5%; domestic savings and
investments also rose rapidly.
4.        With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), the Government expected that rehabilitation would be completed and
a start made on a course of long-term development which would assure not
only a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a wider distribution of
income. Progress in these respects has been mixed. While there has been
considerable further improvement in the country's physical and social
infrastructure (power, roads, telecommunications, education, family planning),
much of the Government's attention and efforts have been focused on short-
term issues, the economic growth rate has tended to slacken, and public
concern with equitable distribution of income has grown. The first two
years of the Plan were dominated by the developments in the oil sector -
the sharp increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's serious financial
/1 This part is the same as that in the President's Report No. P-2324-IND,
dated May 8, 1978, for the Eleventh Irrigation Project.
/2 Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.



- 2 -
difficulties. The latter arose from Pertamina's undertaking of a large and
diverse investment program without arranging satisfactory financing. Foreign
bank credit became more restrictive with the onset of world recession.
Pertamina was unable to roll over its short-term debt and failed to meet the
financial obligations which were falling due. In these circumstances, the
Government stepped in and assumed the oil company's obligations. The repay-
ment of these obligations, along with the fall in export earnings as a result
of the recession, necessitated large foreign commercial borrowing, seriously
strained the Government's budgetary resources and Indonesia's balance of
payments, and led to a sharp decline in the foreign exchange reserves.
5.        In most respects, the Government managed the Pertamina crisis
well, and the following two years (1976/77 and 1977/78) witnessed a substan-
tial improvement in the balance of payments and the Government's budgetary
position as well as a reduction in the rate of domestic inflation. During
1976/77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly (following improvements in
the world economy), and rose to a higher level than anticipated. Imports
continued to increase rapidly but the rate of increase of import prices
slowed down, and Indonesia's terms of trade improved. These trends continued
into 1977/78, and resulted in substantial additions to the foreign exchange
reserves, which have averaged over $2 billion (or about four months of
imports) in the early months of 1978.
6.        The Government's budgetary position also improved in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also exceeded the
amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of government efforts to curb smuggling
and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional revenues
together with continued restraint on current expenditures enabled the
Government not only to increase development expenditures substantially
but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, and contributed to
bringing down the inflation rate to 14% a year compared to 20% in 1975/76.
The Government budget tightened in 1977/78, since oil as well as non-oil
revenues rose more modestly while current expenditures rose more rapidly
largely due to an overdue general increase in civil servant salaries. As
a result, budgetary savings declined in real terms for the first time in
recent years. Nevertheless, through a cautious monetary policy, the
inflation rate was further reduced to about 10%.
7.        The substantial increase in oil revenues since 1974 has been
largely invested. Government development expenditures more than quadrupled
from 1973/74 to 1977/78 when they amounted to Rp 2.5 trillion (or about
$6 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation, this
represented a real increase of over 30% a year. Over this period, the rate
of gross domestic investment averaged about 22.5% of GNP. However, this
high level of investments has so far failed to increase the rate of growth
of the Indonesian economy; economic growth in the first four years of
Indonesia's Second Development Plan (1974/75-1977/78) has, in fact, been
slower than that in the First Plan period. The world recession, slackening



- 3 -
agricultural output and domestic inflation (which made some domestic industries
uncompetitive with imports), all had a dampening effect on the growth of the
economy. In addition, public investments in recent years have been concentrated
on relatively capital-intensive industrial and infrastructure projects with
long gestation periods. Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from
investments in such sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc.,
depends on the growth in demand which in turn is determined by the growth
of the rest of the economy, mainly the private sector, which has failed to
provide the necessary momentum to growth. The indications are that private
investments rose only modestly in recent years for a number of reasons,
including the Government's attempts to control domestic inflation and to
encourage indigenous (pribumi) investors, and the uncertain state of the
world economy.
8.        Between 1961 and 1971, the population of Indonesia grew by 2.1%
annually; with high fertility rates, increasing longevity and an age distri-
bution heavily weighted towards the younger groups, there was a widespread
expectation that growth would further accelerate, and reach at least 2.3% over
the 1971-1976 period. Yet the Inter-Censal Population Survey shows that the
growth rate was actually reduced to 2.0% and that Indonesia's population
stood at 130.2 million in March 1976, about 5 million less than had been
expected. Further declines in mortality may actually raise the growth rate
once again, but there is now hope that the population will reach 200 million
only at the end of the century - later than even the lowest earlier projection.
9.        The most outstanding and encouraging feature to emerge from recent
data was a marked decline in fertility levels in Java and Bali. The total
fertility rate for Java declined from 5.5 in 1971 to 4.4 in 1976, a drop of
20%. In Bali, fertility declined even more dramatically, from 5.8 to 3.8, by
more than a third. The National Family Planning Program, which began in 1970
and enjoys strong political backing and support from major religious and other
private organizations, is believed to be an important reason for the fertility
decline. A start was recently made to extend the services of the Program
to the other islands. Their total fertility rate was 6.8 in 1971 - well
above that of Java - and it showed no decline up to 1976. Mortality rates
also differ sharply. Life expectation in the other islands is 47 years as
against 49 years in Java. Moreover, the gap itself appears to be widening,
although mortality rates are diminishing everywhere.
10.       Information on underemployment and wages is incomplete and not very
reliable but there are indications that the growth in opportunities for
gainful employment has about kept pace with the growth of the labor force
since 1970. Real wages do not seem to have fallen. This is encouraging,
since many of the changes that are taking place in agricultural production
and processing techniques, including improved transportation, mechanical rice
hulling, etc., are of a labor saving nature. It is evident that farming on
Java is increasingly becoming a part-time activity, that landlessness is
becoming more common and that a growing proportion of Java's rural population
is primarily or exclusively dependent on the sale of their labor to earn an



income. The need for greater emphasis on the promotion of labor-intensive
export industries and the development of small and medium-scale rural indus-
tries deserves high priority in the formulation of future development plans.
11.       Perhaps the most worrying development in recent years, and one with
important long-term implications, is the slackening in the rate of growth in
agricultural production, particularly of rice. Over the 1975-77 period, rice
output failed to rise appreciably; for 1977, rice production is estimated at
15.9 million tons, about the same as the previous year, and almost 10% below the
Second Plan target for that year. The domestic price of rice has been kept
stable only by means of very substantial imports. In 1976/77 rice imports
amounted to 1.6 million tons and in 1977/78 they reached 2.6 million tons, or
over 15% of domestic consumption and 30% of total world trade in rice. The
stagnation in rice output over the last two years, while reflecting a complex
of institutional and policy constraints, is primarily the result of successive
droughts and, in Java, the wereng (brown planthopper) infestation. Long-term
expansion of food crop production and a substantial reduction in rice imports,
require prompt assessment of available land and water resources, accelerated
construction of irrigation and drainage facilities, acceleration in land
settlement and transmigration programs based on food crop production and,
most importantly, expansion and strengthening of agricultural support services.
12.       The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of large foreign debt and some burdensome ongoing investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of 1976, together
with a hardening of average terms during those years, have raised the level
of debt service payments which are now expected to reach about $1.5 billion
in 1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 15% in 1976 and 16% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of the remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling $1 bil-
lion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.3 billion in 1975 to $3.2 billion in 1976 and to $1.7 billion in
1977. Most of the decline was achieved through a reduction in commercial
borrowing. This means that average loan terms have recently begun to soften
again, which will be reflected in future debt service payments.
13.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 5 -
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.75 billion in 1978/79, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in May 1978 the indications of probable commitments in 1978/79 made
by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to $1.6 billion; the
meeting concluded that the Bank recommendations would be approximately
met.
14.       As a result of the pattern and terms of external borrowing during
the recent past, net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline
in 1978/79 to about $600 million, even if the recommended level of new ODA
commitments is reached. At the same time, there is a growing doubt that
crude oil production can be increased much above the current level of 1.7 mil-
lion barrels a day during the next few years. Oil exploration activity in
Indonesia has remained much below the peak of 1975 partly as a result
of the renegotiation of the oil contracts in 1976 and partly on account of a
U.S. Internal Revenue Service ruling which declared the oil revenues withheld
by the Government of Indonesia as royalties rather than tax for the purpose
of allowing income tax credit to the U.S. companies operating in Indonesia.
In the meantime no large new oil fields have been discovered, and, although
the Government has now offered improved incentives to the oil companies and
revised the contracts to meet the IRS objections, it is not certain that the
exploration activity would revive soon enough to make up for the time lost.
15.       The implication of recent developments for imports, exports, net
service payments and future capital inflow requirements is currently under
study, but indications are that, while foreign exchange will be scarcer
over the coming years, Indonesia would be able to finance essential imports
of consumer, intermediate and capital goods and still meet its debt service
obligations. However, the relative decline in oil revenues will have serious
budgetary consequences. In order to maintain the relatively high rate of
domestic investment already reached, the Government would need to raise
substantial additional non-oil revenues over the coming years. The Government
has been quite cautious in increasing current expenditures and there does not
appear to be much scope for reducing them further; they should, in fact, rise
in step with the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable growth in
Government salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant part of
which is development related. Nevertheless, despite the Government's efforts
to limit current expenditures and raise domestic revenue, there is likely to
be a serious domestic resource constraint in the coming years.
16.       The Government is fully aware of the serious concerns regarding
Indonesia's future development discussed above and will make them the focus of
the Third Development Plan which is now under preparation. In the meantime
the Bank is undertaking a major review of the development problems facing
Indonesia, covering in depth such issues as domestic and foreign resource
mobilization, as well as trends and outlook for agricultural growth, popula-
tion, employment, and income distribution. This review is expected to assist
the Government's deliberations and preparation of the Third Plan; the final
report will be ready towards the end of 1978.



- 6 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
17.      As of April 30, 1978, Indonesia had received 38 IDA credits
totalling $600.8 million and 31 Bank loans amounting to $1,526 million. At
that date, IFC investments totaled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank
Group in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end
of 1977 was about 8% and the share of debt service, about 1.8%. By the end
of 1978, these ratios are expected to increase to around 12% and 5%, respec-
tively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC
Investments as of April 30, 1978, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
18.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to promote
agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group. More
recently, a major effort to aid the Government's transmigration program has
been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has been on
expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas resources and
on establishment and improvement of development finance institutions, a
Credit has recently been extended to finance a small enterprise development
project. The main emphasis in education has been on improving primary and
secondary education and manpower training as well as on expanding non-formal
education. In the social sector, the Bank Group has also financed urban
development, through neighborhood improvement programs, urban water supplies
and family planning and nutrition. A major portion of Bank Group financing
has been used to rehabilitate and expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure,
particularly in the power and transportation sectors. Credits have also been
extended to finance a telecommunications project and a tourism project.
Finally, the Bank Group has assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and
formulate its development programs and projects through four technical
assistance Credits and a Loan for a natural resource survey and mapping
project.
19.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968
for irrigation rehabilitation, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June
1974. Disbursements on Loans and Credits, which were slow in the early years,
are now at satisfactory levels. The Indonesian authorities have also become
increasingly aware of the cost to the country of delays in project execution,
caused by cumbersome procedures, and the need to establish an effective
control system in BAPPENAS (the National Development Planning Agency). At
the Government's request, the Bank arranged in 1974, for assistance under the
Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring
and control system which is now in operation and which should lead to
improved project implementation not only of Bank Group-assisted projects but
of development projects generally.
20.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work opportun-
ities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor



-7 -
force and increase agriculture production, particularly of food crops.
Efforts to increase employment through programs directed towards improving
the incomes of the poor and their living standards are expected to be the
major focus of the Third Development Plan (1979-84) which is now under
preparation. To assist the Government, the Bank (as mentioned in para. 16
above) has undertaken a major review of the development problems facing
Indonesia. This review should help the Government formulate policies and
programs to expand food production, further reduce population growth, and
expand nonfarm rural employment, particularly in Java. While some of these
programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group financing, it will be some
time before they are ready for implementation. Meantime, a small enterprise
development project designed to increase non-agricultural employment in rural
areas and small towns, has already been approved by the Executive Directors,
and an integrated rural development project is being appraised. With respect
to agriculture development, projects are being prepared which would improve
and expand research and extension services, rehabilitate and expand irrigation
systems, help replant smallholder rubber and coconut plantations, and develop
presently underutilized land in areas outside Java for transmigrants and
other smallholders. In addition to the population program, which continues
to have high priority, other areas of particular importance for Bank Group
assistance will be improvement of urban services through construction of
urban water supply systems and further expansion of neighborhood improvement
programs, and improvement and expansion of higher education particularly of
technicians, accountants and agriculture specialists, as well as primary and
secondary education. Finally, Bank Group financing continues to be important
for the Government's program of infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion,
particularly in transport and power, which will continue to require very
large investments for many years before these facilities are adequate to
support Indonesia's development.
21.      Between 1968 and 1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA
terms. Following the rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled
Indonesia to borrow on less concessional terms, it was decided that all
lending to Indonesia after June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974,
the Government has saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil
revenues and greatly expanded its development expenditures which reached
about $6 billion in 1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above, it now
appears, however, that both the budgetary and balance of payments situations
are again likely to become more difficult in the years ahead. Thus, while
Indonesia has always qualified for assistance on concessional terms on
grounds of its low per capita income ($240 in 1977) and the quality of its
economic management, such terms are now also necessary to enable it to
maintain a high level of investment without impairing its ability to service
its external debt. The Bank has accordingly informed the Government that,
starting in FY78, it will provide a portion of its lending on IDA terms.
22.      In the past few years, the Bank Group has financed, from time to time,
part of the local cost of projects with a low foreign exchange component,
particularly in the social sectors, in order to make a meaningful contribution



to the financing of these projects. As noted in Part I, Indonesia now faces
a more difficult financial situation, in part for reasons outside its control.
Despite the Government's efforts to increase its non-oil revenues and limit
the growth of current expenditures, Government savings in real terms are
likely to increase very slowly, if at all. At the same time, the Government
is attempting to increase development expenditures, particularly for employ-
ment-creating programs, as well as for programs and projects in agriculture
and the social sectors, the costs of which are largely in local currency.
The Bank Group cannot provide adequate assistance to the Government's overall
development effort if it limits its financing to the foreign exchange cost of
projects. It is,therefore9proposed that Bank Group lending should include a
portion of the local costs particularly in the case of projects designed to
create nonfarm employment and raise agriculture production.
23.       The proposed loan is the ninth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to Indonesia
this year to $505 million. Projects for technician, accountancy and agricul-
tural training, rural and urban development, transmigration and road betterment
are expected to be ready for presentation in the next several months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
Sector Problems
24.       Some 80% of Indonesia's 135 million people live in rural areas,
where about two-thirds of the labor force is employed. Agriculture is
dominated by smallholder production, with about 14 million smallholder
families cultivating subsistence and cash crops on about 14 million ha. In
addition there are about 1,300 large estates covering about 1.7 million ha.
Over the last five years, agricultural production increased at an average
rate of 4% per annum while economic growth averaged about 7% per annum. The
sector continues to be of major importance in the country's economic develop-
ment although there has been a steady decline in the contribution of agricul-
ture to GDP from 55 to 33% over the last fifteen years matched by a comparable
decline in the relative importance of agricultural exports to total export
earnings. Despite the 35% increase in food production over the last decade,
growth in the area under rice has remained steady at about 1% per annum and
yield increases have averaged 2.6% per annum through 1974 after which they
have been stagnant because of pests and droughts. Consequently, rice imports
rose dramatically to 2.6 million tons in 1977/78.
25.       The rural population constitutes a major segment of the country's
poor. Important problems of the rural sector include the overpopulation
of Java and an uneven distribution of population, substantial underemploy-
ment, small uneconomic farms and low levels of productivity. On Java,
Madura and Bali, about 64% of Indonesia's population live on about 7% of
the total land area. High population densities on these islands have led
to intensive pressure on arable land and to ecological deterioration. With
increased fragmentation of farms (60% less than 1 ha; of these 30% less than



- 9 -
0.25 ha), rural farm incomes have declined to 40% below urban levels. On
Java, about one-third of the agricultural labor force is landless and about
40% of farm incomes are derived from off-farm employment. With these trends
likely to continue, alternative employment opportunities have to be created
on a large scale.
Sector Strategies
26.       The Government's priorities for the development of the rural
sector as set out in the Second Five Year Plan (1974-79) are employment
creation, balanced regional growth and social development, increased food
production in pursuit of rice self-sufficiency and increased agricultural
exports. The Government's plans for the realization of these objectives have
included the continued intensification of food crop production on Java; the
implementation of an accelerated land settlement and transmigration program
which would rely on the smallholder exploitation of some of the 40 million ha
of unutilized land on the islands outside Java, Madura and Bali for small-
holder food crop and tree crop production; implementation of a national
replanting program for rubber and coconuts and the alleviation of poverty
in the most severely disadvantaged areas.
27.       In support of these objectives, the Government has embarked on
a sizeable program of land settlement based on tree crop development, mainly
rubber, by smallholders, particularly on the islands outside Java and Bali.
State-owned estate companies (PNP/PTP) plant tree crops on smallholdings
to be settled by landless families in the area and by transmigrants, provide
them with technical advice and services including processing and marketing
facilities. The Government is also assisting smallholder rubber replanting
with a view to increasing productivity. The focus of these programs is
to reverse declining export crop trends and foreign exchange incomes and
also to immediately benefit the rural poor.
28.       Although the creation of new opportunities for gainful employment
must at least keep pace with the growth of the labor force, the changes
associated with modernization in rural Java are generally labor-saving, so
that farming is increasingly becoming a part-time activity. Future develop-
ment strategy will stress labor-intensive export industries, especially on
the other islands, and small-scale rural enterprises producing for the
domestic market. On these islands there is also potential for new irrigation
systems including tidal and swamp land development, which could support the
national rice production effort. Upland food crops offer promising develop-
ment prospects and there is tremendous scope for area expansion if econom-
ically viable, long-term cropping systems can be developed. Migration to the
other islands offers challenging opportunities for improving social equity
and the economic use of Indonesia's two main underemployed resources:
Javanese labor and unexploited land in the other islands.
The Rubber Subsector
29.       The rubber industry in Indonesia, at one time the world's largest
producer of natural rubber and currently second only to Malaysia, produced
about 783,000 tons and exported 750,000 tons in 1975/76, 22% of total



- 10 -
world exports. The third largest export commodity of Indonesia, natural
rubber, contributes 6-8% of total agricultural GDP, 8% of export earn-
ings and 20% of non-oil exports. It provides a livelihood for more than
10 million people. The subsector is characterized by the low productivity
of smallholders compared with the large estates. About 70% of rubber pro-
duction comes from smallholders owning about 81% of the land under rubber
on holdings averaging 1.5 ha.
30.       In the years to 1970 there was a steady growth in total rubber
production and in the area under rubber averaging 2.1% and 1.7% per annum,
respectively; this was followed by a marked decline with total rubber
production falling on average about 0.5% and the growth in planted area
slowing to less than 1% per annum. Little replanting has taken place and
many of the older rubber plantations have deteriorated. For these reasons,
total production is projected to decrease to 610,000 tons and the total area
under rubber to 870,000 ha by 1990, without substantial replantings in the
next five years.
31.       Today about 70% of the 1.9 million ha of smallholder rubber is
grown in Sumatra and 19% in Kalimantan. Much of the rubber in the Riau and
Jambi areas of Sumatra, is mature and senescent. There is very little
evidence of replanting. Abandoned rubber has increased, a large proportion
of smallholder-owned trees are excessively tapped, low yielding and rapidly
reaching the end of their economic life. Smallholder planting material is
also generally low yielding, little fertilizer is in use, and tree maintenance
is neglected. Accordingly, after 1970, smallholder production stagnated at
571,000 tons and by 1975 had declined to 536,000 tons, while the area under
smallholder rubber remained constant. Most of the farmers also grow upland
rice and home garden vegetables and fruit trees. The average annual family
income of a typical household in Riau and Jambi is about $750.
32.       There is a well established estate sector of 432,000 ha comprised
of the Government-owned estate groups (PNP/PTPs) with 190,000 ha, foreign-
owned and domestically-owned private estates with 71,000 and 171,000 ha,
respectively. The area under rubber in both Government-owned and foreign-
owned estates has declined after 1970 while production has increased on
account of good management and the application of advanced technology.
Domestically-owned private estates are more comparable with smallholders;
less than 30% of the area has been replanted and it is estimated that by
1990, their area will decline by more than 60% and rubber production by about
20%.
Bank Group Experience in the Subsector
33.       In support of the policy objectives of Government, Bank Group
assistance to smallholder rubber producers has included Credit 358-IND (North
Sumatra Smallholder Development Project) for $5 million and Loan 1499-IND
(Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project) for $65 million. In Credit
358-IND, the full program of oil palm and rubber planting by smallholder
participants has been successful. Costs of the project have increased from
$10 million estimated at appraisal to about $30 million by project completion.



- 11 -
Higher than anticipated output of and prices for rubber and palm oil, and
improved project development techniques, should more than compensate for the
cost increases. The project's return to the economy is likely to be higher
than the 14% estimated at appraisal.
34.       It is too early to assess progress under the Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders I Project since the loan only became effective in January 1978.
Preliminary indications are, however, that the project is off to an excel-
lent start. Land clearing is in full progress, high quality planting material
is being prepared for distribution to smallholders and an experienced project
staff complemented by comprehensive technical assistance is being assembled
on the project sites in Aceh, South Sumatra and West Java. The project
is expected to benefit some 5,750 settler families and raise their present
level of net income from $250 to about $800 by year 10. It is also expected
to create about 11,500 permanent jobs and a further 4,000 casual jobs and
return about 15% to the economy on the smallholder components. Smallholder
rubber development is also under implementation under the Transmigration and
Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).
35.       Assistance for rehabilitation and expansion of existing rubber and
oil palm in public sector estates was provided under IDA Credits 155-, 194-
and 319-IND. Generally, these projects have been implemented and completed
successfully. Credit 319-IND (Fourth Agricultural Estates Project) has
progressed particularly rapidly with plantings of rubber and oil palm in
excellent condition and well ahead of appraisal estimates. PTP IV, now
rehabilitated from assistance provided by Credit 194-IND, will perform a
nucleus estates role for the proposed project. A Project Performance Audit
Report has been issued for Credits 155-IND and 194-IND which indicate that
the projects' objectives in terms of physical development and production were
largely met. The projects also achieved their other objectives of improvements
in technical standards and estate financial viability; increasing foreign
exchange earnings and contributions to Government revenue; improving estate
management and marketing organization; and laying the foundations for a much
larger agricultural estate development effort.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The project was identified and prepared by the Government with
the assistance of consultants and appraised by a Bank mission which visited
Indonesia in September/October 1977. A report entitled "Indonesia - Nucleus
Estate and Smallholders II project - Staff Appraisal Report", based on the
mission's findings is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are given in Annex III. The negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
from May 8-17, 1978; Mr. Pang Soeparto, Director General of Estates, led the
Government delegation.



- 12 -
Project Objectives and Design
37.       The Government's rubber subsector and regional development objec-
tives, to which the project would contribute are: (i) improved efficiency in
rubber production by raising yields and lowering costs; (ii) an increase in
rubber production leading to increased exports and foreign exchange earnings;
(iii) an increase in the supply of raw materials for the rapidly expanding
local processing industries and small business enterprises in the urban areas
particularly in Sumatra, creating additional employment opportunities outside
Java; and (iv) the low cost settlement of poor and landless families on
presently unproductive land, raising farm family incomes and living standards,
while contributing to balanced regional growth.
38.       The project design is responsive to the main constraints which
have inhibited past smallholder project implementation. These are managerial
in regard to planning and implementation of the physical aspects; technical
and economic in view of incomplete knowledge of the optimum choice of food
crops and the optimum use of inputs including fertilizers for sustained
annual food cropping on red-yellow podzolic soils; administrative with
respect to estate and settler financing arrangements and social in relation
to smallholder organization and training. Accordingly, PTP IV will provide
nucleus estate services for smallholder development, as contractors for
rubber establishment, including land clearing, planting, fertilizing and
maintenance during the first three years; for clearing the initial food crop
area (0.4 ha/family) and for supplying food crop seed and fertilizer in the
first year; for provision of water supply, procurement of materials and
supervision of settler housing construction; for construction of secondary
village and rubber collection roads; and later as suppliers of services such
as processing, latex collection for cost recovery, marketing and settler
training in rubber husbandry. Since the complete technology of rubber
establishment on red/yellow podsolic soils is well known to the nucleus
estate contractor-, the farm model is based on rubber, which will yield
surplus cash and enable the smallholder to further develop his farm.
39.       The project would also include rubber replanting on smallholdings
with less than 2 ha of rubber, the productive life of which is less than
10 years as one possible strategy to help arrest the current decline in
rubber production and improve the cash incomes of an impoverished segment of
the population in the project area. Since it would make little sense to
uproot people who are well settled on presently unproductive land and settle
them on new land, PTP IV will assist in the replanting of their run-down
rubber smallholdings. In the rubber replanting area*, PTP IV would clear
land, provide planting material and necessary inputs, supervise and organize
the smallholders for planting, weeding and maintenance. The project would
also strengthen PTP IV's capacity to undertake further smallholder development
by providing for the establishment of a small but viable nucleus rubber
estate in the Riau project area and provide facilities in Jambi, thereby also
assisting in the improvement of PTP IV's economic efficiency.
Project Description
40.       The main features of the proposed project are as follows:



- 13 -
(a) New Land Settlement - Air Molek, Riau: (i) Construction in 11
development schemes of 11 central villages, each with a village
center, and 18 satellite villages, together with necessary infras-
tructure facilities, to accomodate a total of 5,700 settler houses;
(ii) construction and upgrading of 108 km of all-weather access
roads, 56 km of primary and 73 km of secondary village roads,
and 373 km of farm roads and tracks, to establish a low-cost feeder
road system to and within the settlement areas; (iii) block planting
and maintenance for 3 years of 11,400 ha of rubber by PTP IV as
nucleus estate; and (iv) distribution of seeds and fertilizer for
food crops during the first year for each settler family; and
agricultural credit, extension and cooperative services.
(b)  New Land Settlement - Bajubang, Jambi:  (i) construction in four
development schemes of four central villages, each with a village
center, and eight satellite villages to accommodate a total of
1,900 settler houses; (ii) construction and upgrading of 33 km of
all-weather project access roads, 10 km of primary and 36 km of
secondary village roads, and of 96 km of farm roads and tracks;
(iii) block planting and maintenance of 3,800 ha of rubber and
maintenance for 3 years by PTP IV as nucleus estate; and (iv)
distribution of seeds and fertilizer for food crops during the
first year for each settler family; and agricultural credit,
extension and cooperative services.
(c) Rubber Replanting for Existing Smallholders (i) In Air Molek, Riau.
Replanting by PTP IV of 3,000 ha of senescent seedling rubber with
improved clones for 1,500 families who will be provided with
agricultural credit, extension and cooperative services and served
by the roads described earlier; (ii) In Bajubang, Jambi. Replanting
also by PTP IV of 4,500 ha of senescent seedling rubber for 2,250
families, who will benefit from the above-mentioned services and
improved access.
(d) Nucleus Estate Development of PTP IV at Air Molek, Riau. New
block planting of 3,500 ha of rubber, construction of housing
for about 1,737 estate employees, and of ancillary buildings.
(e) Program Support and Technical Assistance for Smallholder and
Nucleus Estate Development. Technical assistance to the Extension
Training Center at Sungai Tiga, Jambi, to facilitate extension and
training in smallholder rubber management in Sumatra; to the
Director General of Highways for preparation and supervision of
construction of roads and for the preparation of a road maintenance
program in the project areas; and to the Director General of
Estates in project preparation, planning, implementation and
evaluation.



- 14 -
Farm Plans and Settler Income
41.       In accordance with the Government's policy, the farm plan is
designed to provide at least investment cost, a target family income which is
adequate as an incentive for smallholders to relocate and develop their
holdings, of about $900 (constant 1977$) at full development in year 15 after
repayment of a proportion of the farm development costs. Analysis of farm
models showed that family income objectives would best be achieved by pro-
viding a farm of 5 ha, with each settler family having 2 ha of block planted
clonal rubber, a small (0.2 ha) intensively cultivated house garden and lot
and 2.8 ha initially under rotational annual food cropping; of this, at full
development, it is expected that smallholders would plant 1 ha in either
rubber or coconut, from their own resources. A family income of $900 would
ensure sufficient, net cash incomes to meet household expenditure requirements
of smallholders ($420 p.a. per family of five) and provide a net cash surplus
of about $300 in year 3 rising to $500 in year 20, sufficient for planting
an additional 0.5 ha in rubber or coconut in any one year (making a total
area of 3 ha under tree crops at full development). Incomes would compare
favorably with those of estate workers in the area estimated at $850 - 900
by 1990. The investment cost per new settler family in Riau and Jambi would
be $5,839 (Constant 1977$).
42.       Family incomes of rubber replanters would rise from about $230
in year 3, when these families would still be dependent on at least 1 ha of
existing rubber, to about $670 in year 15 and to about $950 after they have
completed debt repayments. By year 10, most families would have sufficient
incomes to initiate further replanting on small areas. The investment cost
per family replanting rubber in Riau and Jambi would be $2,920 (constant
1977$).
43.       New settlers would be selected on the basis of criteria which would
give priority to landless families in the area, and thereafter, to transmi-
grants. It is expected that about 25% of the new settlers would be transmi-
grants from Java. New settlers would have some farm experience, be married,
between the ages of 20-40 years, and in good health earning annual incomes of
less than $360. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Directorate General of Agraria in the Ministry of Home Affairs would issue to
the new settlers certificates of "conditional" Hak Milik (right of ownership)
for a 5 ha land allotment within 6 months of entry as a prospective settler.
A new settler would be required to work as a laborer in the rubber area
developed by the nucleus estate up to three years after the rubber has been
planted. If his performance in this work is regarded as satisfactory by a
Provincial Coordinating Committee responsible to the Governor, the settler
would receive a certificate of "unconditional" Hak Milik title at the end of
year 3. These Certificates of Title would, however, be retained by BRI until
the settler had fulfilled his obligations (Section 3.11 of the Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
44.       Assistance for rubber replanting would be extended to existing
smallholders in or near the project areas in Riau and Jambi having family
incomes below $500 p.a. with the same age criteria as for new settlers.
The smallholders would provide labor on their own holdings and replanting
would be phased to avoid drastic reductions in present incomes. Rubber
replanters would also receive certificates of "conditional" Hak Milik to 2 ha
of land to be replanted in the project within six months of their selection and
"unconditional" Hak Milik within three years, but title certificates would be
retained by BRI until loan obligations have been fulfilled (Section 3.11 of
the Loan Agreement).
45.       The Government has indicated that PTP IV should collect rubber
to meet smallholder repayment obligations and all other rubber that project
farmers choose to sell at a price about 70% of the fob price. Assurances
were received during negotiations that the Government would cause PTP IV to
pay about 70% of the prevailing fob price for such rubber subject to certain
price adjustments. (Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement). Since smallholders
in the project areas have been receiving about 35 to 45% of the fob value of
rubber, there would be a marked price improvement due to new conditions of
marketing smallholder rubber.
Project Costs and Financing
46.       The project would be fully implemented over a ten-year period
at a total estimated cost of $155 million. The Bank loan would assist
with the financing over the first five-year period. During this period,
project costs are estimated at $100.5 million, of which $50 million would
be in foreign exchange. The costs are based on late 1977 prices. The
provision for expected price increases has been computed at annual inflation
rates as follows: for civil works at 15% for 1978/79 decreasing to 12%
in 1980/81 and to 10% in 1982/83 ; and for equipment and services at
8% for 1978 decreasing to 7% in 1980-83. Physical contingencies of 10%
have been added to the cost of all items of investment and to the number
of man-days of management consultant services.
47.       The proposed Bank loan of $65 million would finance 65% of total
cost for the first five years of project implementation. It would finance
the full foreign exchange cost and $15 million, or about 30% of local costs,
for smallholder development. The Government would finance about $35.5 million
or 35% of total project costs. A summary of estimated costs appears in the
Loan and Project Summary. Since the implementation of the project would not
be completed until the tenth year, the Government would also meet the total
remaining costs of $54.5 million.
48.       The smallholder development components of the project would be
financed partly from the proceeds of the Bank loan ($56 million) and partly
from Government funds ($26.5 million). Of this, non-credit items for small-
holder development, mainly for infrastructure, would be met from the Bank
loan ($9.7 million) and from Government funds ($10 million). For credit
items, under a financing agreement between Bank Indonesia, BRI and PTP IV
$62.8 million (of which the Bank loan would finance $46.3 million) would be
passed on in the form of a loan ultimately to be repaid by the smallholders.



- 16 -
Loans to the smallholders would be for 19 years in the case of new settlers
and for 14 years for rubber replanters, both loans including 4 years of
grace. Interest would be at 10.5% per annum and would accrue during the
grace period. Repayments would be made through in kind deliveries of rubber
(para. 45).
49.       Part of the proceeds of the Bank loan ($6 million) and the Govern-
ment contribution ($7.5 million) for the development of a nucleus estate in
Riau would be onlent by the Government to PTP IV under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement for 16 years, including 8 years of grace. Interest would be at
13.5% per annum, would accrue during the first 4 years of grace and become
payable thereafter. In order for PTP IV to retain internally generated funds
for its own expansion program, the Government would review PTP IV's expansion
program every year and make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure
that PTP IV distributes dividends only if the Government review of PTP IV's
cash flow demonstrates that it's investment program and its operations would
not be impaired. (Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement). Government budget
funds would be allocated in sufficient amounts to cover noncredit expenditures
during project implementation, and wherever these allocations proved inade-
quate, the Government would make timely arrangements to meet such additional
requirements (Section 3.13(b) of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement
(i) Smallholder Development
50.       For rubber development ($46.9 million of total project cost), new
planting and replanting will be carried out by PTP IV since it involves the
execution of a specialized, integrated service which cannot be procured
through a competitive bidding process. PTP IV has the ability to carry out
such a contract in a cost-effective manner. Fertilizer and agrochemicals
for rubber development, as well as agricultural machinery, vehicles and
equipment ($4.9 million) would be procured by PTP IV on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank Group Procurement Guidelines.
A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of the imported goods or the
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Agrochemicals costing less than
$100,000 annually and agricultural machinery, vehicles and equipment costing
less than $50,000 would be procured following local competitive bidding or
prudent shopping procedures, limited to a total of $250,000 for each of the
Jambi and Riau project areas. Civil Works ($15.0 million) including construc-
tion of housing and minor roads, would be carried out by PTP IV. Materials
would be provided for constructing settler houses each costing $395. Major
road construction ($13.5 million) would be the responsibility of the Direc-
torate General of Highways and would be carried out under unit-price contracts
awarded after domestic competitive bidding. ICB would not be appropriate for
road construction since these roads are in three separate locations and the
extended phasing of road works timed with village development is not likely
to attract foreign firms.



- 17 -
(ii) Estate Development
51.       Rubber block-planting on the nucleus estate ($8.3 million) would
be carried out by PTP IV, since it cannot be procured through ICB procedures
for the reasons stated under para. 50 above. Fertilizers and agrochemicals
for rubber block-planting, as well as agricultural machinery, vehicles and
equipment ($2.7 million) would be procured following ICB procedures subject
to the same preference stated in para 50 above. Agrochemicals (including
fertilizer) in lots costing annually less than $100,000, agricultural machinery,
vehicles and equipment costing less than $50,000 and all office equipment
would be procured locally through prudent shopping. Civil works contracts
($2.5 million) for housing would be awarded after local competitive bidding
among prequalified contractors in accordance with Govern-
ment procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
(iii) Technical Assistance
52.       Consultant and technical services to the DGE and DGH ($3.6 million)
would be engaged on terms and conditions approved by the Bank. Costs for
internationally recruited consultants have been estimated at $70,000 per man
year (including international travel, housing allowances, and local transpor-
tation) on the basis of past experience in Indonesia. For the Extension
Training Center at Sungai Tiga, Jambi ($0.9 million) civil works contracts
and agricultural machinery, equipment and vehicles would be awarded after
local competitive bidding under procedures described in para. 51 above.
Disbursements
53.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against (a) 60% of the total
cost of civil works consisting of housing, estate workshops, classrooms,
garages and farm roads; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly
imported agrochemicals, agricultural machinery, vehicles and equipment; 95%
of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment, 65% of the cost
of imported farm equipment and 50% of urea procured locally, if such contracts
are awarded to local bidders after ICB; and 40% of the cost of a few vehicles
for project start up procured locally after prudent shopping; (c) 75% and
20% of the cost of rubber development for the smallholder components and for
PTP IV, respectively, against certified quarterly reports by PTP IV; (d) 65%
of road construction, upgrading costs for main access roads and of the cost
of primary village roads; and (e) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of all
consultant specialists, inspection and technical services and 100% of
the cost of local consultants. It is expected that disbursements would be
completed within about 5 years of loan effectiveness. The entering into of a
smallholder rubber development agreement between the DGE and PTPIV and of
satisfactory financing agreements between the Government, BRI and PTP IV
would be conditions of loan disbursement for the smallholder project compon-
ents, and of a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and PTP IV a condition of loan disbursement for the nucleus estate component
(Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c) of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Project Implementation, Organization and Management
54.       The project would be implemented by existing central and provin-
cial government agencies. Overall responsibility for the execution of the
project would rest with the DGE. The nucleus estate PTP IV would be directly
responsible to the Ministry of Agriculture in Jakarta for its own expansion
program under the project and would be accountable to the DGE for the small-
holder rubber development components.
55.       The DGE, appropriately strengthened by technical assistance pro-
vided under Loan 1499-IND and the proposed project, would have primary
responsibiity for project and village master planning; preparation of annual
work programs; advice to the provincial and site authorities on recruitment
of new settlers and rubber replanters and design of smallholder agreements;
approval of project budgets, coordination of project financing arrangements
and advice on procurement; contracting with PTP IV for rubber development,
replanting and ancillary services; and for project monitoring and evalua-
tion in consultation with the Bank. These activities would be coordinated
with Provincial Coordinating Committees for Riau and Jambi.
56.       The DGE would be represented at each site by a Project Manager
who would be responsible to the DGE for preparation of action programs and
budgets, supervision and coordination of all project activities undertaken
by PTP IV and the Provincial Coordinating Committees. The chief executive
of these committees would be the Chairman of the Provincial Development
Planning Agency (BAPPEDA), who is responsible to the Governor of the Pro-
vince and will assist the Provincial Government. The main activities of
the Provincial Government would be providing village infrastructure, health,
education and community facilities, and arrangements for food cropping
programs; determining the rubber price to be paid by the nucleus estate
processor to the smallholders; and advising on settler selection criteria.
The delegation of greater responsibilities to the Provincial Governments
is consistent with Government objectives in regional development.
57.       PTP IV, the nucleus estate selected for development of the new
settlement and rubber replanting areas, would have full authority to operate
resources, machinery, material inputs and finance required to replant rubber
and to develop and hand over to new settlers potentially high yielding areas
of three year old rubber (para. 38 above). The Government would consult with
the Bank before making any appointment to the Executive Management of PTP IV
(Section 4.05(b) of the Loan Agreement). Construction and upgrading of
all-weather main access and primary village roads which are part of the
provincial road network in Riau and Jambi would be the responsibility of the
DGH. The Government would ensure that DGH would arrange for the design and
all engineering requirements for the project road improvement program by
June 30, 1979 (Section 3.14 of the Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
58.       BRI would act as handling bank for the Government to channel project
funds for rubber development to PTP IV, and also provide short-term credit to
settlers for food cropping through the BIMAS program. During the period of
cost recovery by the nucleus estate, BRI as the handling bank would maintain
settler loan accounts on behalf of the Government. The Government would bear
all risks in the credit delivery and cost recovery system, including the
foreign exchange risk. The expected cost recovery indices for the project
are 55% for new settlers and 62% for rubber replanters. For administration
and handling of smallholder loans, BRI would share with Bank Indonesia 1% on
the outstanding balance per annum on all smallholder credit funds. The
Government would extend the BIMAS program to meet the needs of the new
settlers and rubber replanters by August 1, 1979 and an adequate number of
BRI mobile or village units would be deployed to serve the project areas in
Jambi and Riau. In the event that the BIMAS program is not established in
time, PTP IV would continue to provide seed and fertilizer to settlers and
replanters after the first year for subsistence food crop development (Section
3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
Market Aspects
59.       The short-term price outlook for natural rubber is expected to
remain favorable with the price for the best quality rubber cif New York
projected to increase from about 37J/lb in 1977 to 43.O4/lb in 1985. In the
long run, prices for natural rubber are constrained by those of synthetic
rubbers and have to compete effectively with available synthetic substitutes.
The long run equilibrium price of natural rubber in 1990 through 2,000 is
forecast in Bank commodity projections to be about 47.0/lb (in constant
1977 $).
60.       Rubber produced by PTP IV on the nucleus estate in Riau would be
sold through the existing and well established marketing organizations.
New settlers and rubber replanters in Riau and Jambi are expected to produce
lower grades of rubber and some latex. PTP IV would process and market the
latex or slab collected in repayment of settler debts (para. 45). Owing to
the relatively favorable prices that will be paid to smallholders, it is
expected that most smallholders would also sell their additional rubber
production to the nucleus estate.
Benefits
61.       The proposed project would increase rubber and food crop production
on a total of about 50,000 ha of which 41,550 ha would represent development
of presently unutilized and uneconomic forest areas. The project would
directly benefit some 11,350 smallholder families or about 56,750 people in
the rural target population and through expansion of PTP IV in Riau would
provide employment opportunities for another 2,000 families. Increased
regional employment in the project areas as a result of multiplier effects
could be conservatively estimated at an additional 12,350 rubber related,
secondary service and tradesman jobs, resulting from the project.



- 20 -
62.       About two permanent jobs would be initially created on each small-
holding increasing to three through tree crop expansion into an additional
ha. On the basis of two jobs, Government cost per job created would be
about $2,920 in new settlement and about $1,475 for rubber replanting,
which compare favorably with average small-scale industry in Indonesia at
about $6,500, in medium to large industry at about $17,000 and with about
$4,000 at PTP IV nucleus estate.
63.       The estimated effects on income represent increases in per capita
incomes from $70 to about $180 (constant 1977 $) at full project develop-
ment for 38,000 beneficiaries of new settlements and from $100 to $180
for about 18,750 beneficiaries of the rubber replanting component. Other
benefits which have not been quantified include an improved health delivery
system including malaria control, improved water, sanitation, family
planning facilities and improved nutrition for about 65,000 people; primary
and secondary education facilities for children of 11,350 families; improved
roads and transportation for about 150,000 people; and the multiplier effects
on the regional economy of local capital formation, small business development
and increased levels of consumption expenditure.
64.       With the proposed expansion of PTP IV in the Riau area, its net
income would be about $88.2 million or a net incremental benefit from the
project of about $14.7 million per annum at full development. Incremental
income generated from PTP IV through its expansion in Riau is estimated over
the life of the project to accrue benefits to the Government from corporation
and other taxes amounting to $220 million, and from dividends, estimated to
total $109 million. PTP IV's expansion plans outside the project include
diversification into rubber, oil palm and cocoa. Provided the program is
implemented on schedule, PTP IV's net income would increase from its present
level of $3.2 million to about $73.5 million at full development in 1996.
65.       The weighted economic rate of return for the project is 15%.  The
rate of return for each new settlement component is estimated at 14%. The
settlement cost per family is $5,839 at Jambi and at Riau. The economic rate
of return for the rubber replanting components at Jambi and Riau would be
16%. The rubber replanting cost per family is $2,920 at Jambi and at Riau.
Sensitivity analysis would indicate that the rate of return for the project
would decrease to 12% if labor is valued at its financial cost. The economic
rate of return for PTP IV is estimated at 19% on the basis of total invest-
ment costs. The higher economic rate of return for nucleus estate development
reflects the lower investment costs and higher yields, and for rubber replant-
ing the lower government investment needs particularly for social services
and village infrastructure, which have been largely met. As the project aims
at replicability, settlement and replanting costs would be closely monitored
with a view to identifying opportunities to reduce costs or to introduce
physical or technical changes which would make the program increasingly more
cost-effective.



- 21 -
66.       The project would continue to assist the Directorate General of
Estates to improve its capacity for planning and project preparation,
and implementation and evaluation of ongoing projects. Assistance for
an Extension Training Center in Jambi would provide a new facility to serve
the extension training needs of rubber management in Sumatra. The Directorate
General of Highways would be assisted through technical assistance for road
development.
Ecology
67.       Indonesia has not yet established its own rules on matters of
environmental quality. The proposed project would provide a stable and
proven agricultural system responsive to criteria for protection of the
environment, particularly since shifting cultivation and indiscriminate
forest denudation are serious problems in Indonesia.
Risks
68.       Although Loan 1499-IND (Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project)
was the first to utilize the nucleus estate approach for tree crop develop-
ment and smallholder settlement, it has not been under implementation for
sufficiently long to evaluate the risks for the proposed project. However,
no particular risks of a technical or economic nature are foreseen. Since
the project would rely heavily on the management and technical capabilities
of PTP IV which has demonstrated through Credit 319-IND (Fourth Agricul-
tural Estates Project) its expertise and capacity for rubber development,
risks related to the planting and development of rubber would be minimal.
Risks in obtaining projected food crop benefits would not be critical since
project management, innovative technical approaches and the availability of
seed and fertilizer have been provided for in the project. Moreover, the
farm model has been designed to secure an assured income base from rubber.
Conservative yield estimates have been used for food cropping.
69.       Some of the organizational and financial arrangements to be employed
in this project, as in Loan 1499-IND, are innovative and untested. Although
no particular risks are envisioned in the design and flow of credit funds,
cost recovery in kind has not been tested before in Bank-assisted projects
in Indonesia or by the BRI. Given the ability of settlers to repay their
loans and a built-in price incentive to encourage them to sell their rubber
to the nucleus estate, the element of risk derives from the increased
responsibility assigned to PTP IV as collection agent. The Government has
decided to use this method of cost recovery and is confident that the
nucleus estate will collect smallholder rubber for debt repayment to reduce
its own operating and overhead costs.
70.       The management capability of the Provincial Governments in the
extensive role of settlement planning, arrangements for recruitment of
settlers and rubber replanters, timely budgeting for and implementation
of village construction and the prompt provision of health services for
vast numbers of families in such a project are untested and would require
staff dedication and constant attention. To minimize these management
risks and to supervise the integration of such components as rubber and



- 22 -
food crop development with village infrastructure construction, close guid-
ance will be called for by the Director General of Estates helped by the
technical assistance provided under the proposed project. It is expected that
the provincial authorities, with the above-mentioned supervision and assis-
tance, will prove to be capable of successfully implementing all of its
project responsibilities; and help build provincial level institutions, to
acquire direct implementation capacity and reduce the otherwise high costs
of managing smallholder development under different strategies.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
72.       Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of disbursement would be as
follows:
New Settlement and Rubber Replanting
(a) signing of a smallholder rubber development agreement between the
DGE and PTP IV to specify the work to be carried out for new
settlement and rubber replanting in Riau and Jambi, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03(a) of and Paragraph
4(b)(i) of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement);
(b) signing of a Financing Agreement between the Borrower and BRI and a
Subfinancing Agreement between BRI and PTP IV in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03(b) of and Paragraph 4(b)(ii)
of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement); and
PTP IV Estate Development
(c) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and PTP
IV in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of
and Paragraph 4(c) of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 15, 1978



AMNE I
TABLE 3A                                                 Page 1 of 4 pages
INDONESIA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  ---- -------------             -- ------
---------------                      ~~~~INDONESIA                        REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1904.3                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      283.8                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           BANGLADESH    INDIA            PHILIPPINES**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      90.0 *   130.0*    240.0 *La              80.0*      100.0*      230.0*
--- -- -- --- - -- _-- -- -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            94.7      117.6     135.2 /a              70.8       547.6        36.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        10.0       62.0      71.0  a            492.0       187.0       123.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       337.0      419.0      476.0 7             730.0       308.0       375.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          46.0       45.9       42.9               50.3        41.0         44.2
CRUDE DEATH kATE (/THOU,AV)           25.4       20.6       16.9               22.9         19.0        13.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       125.0 /a,b   ..                               ..         ..        81.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        47.5          .      48.1                43.3        47.2        s5.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8 /C    3.2         3.1                3.1         2.9          3.3
POPUL'TION GROWTH RATE Ix)
TOTAL                                  2.1        2.0        2.4                2.8         2.3          3.0
URBAN                                   .-        3.7 /      4.1                 6.2         3.2         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)           14.9       17.5 /b   18.2                  6.4        19.8        27.6
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        42.1 Ia   44.0       43.                    ..       41.6        45.6
15 To 64 YEARS                        51.3       53 .5     53.6  a                ..       51.3        51.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.6ta    2.5          2.5                  ..        3.1          2.8
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9        0.9                  ..         0.8         0 9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1. 1.3                         ..         1.1  L      1-5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .      259.3 IC 6786.2 /c                 ..    14S18.0       320.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                  ..         ..          2.o
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         34600.0         ..   44200.0 S           22300.0   218000.0    12400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          75.0         .-       69.0               71.0        69.0        55.o j
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)            5.4         ..                             ..          ..         7.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
-- -- - - - -- - ._-- - - -
OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               *-         ..       33.7L.             16.7 /a    25.0 /b
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..       52.0/e             U2.3 '      53.1
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..        6.8 7              7. 7        4.7
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSC HODLS              *-         ..       17.3  a            19.6/a      12.1
OISTRIBUTION OF LANO OMNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            48.0 /b      ..         ..               34.b0Ib
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           3.0         ..         ..10
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             41380.01k26830.0  16930.0                 7600.0 /c  4890.0
POPULATION PER NUR.ING PERSON                   7770.0 Ld7310.0 /f            72030 .      5220 : / 
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           1370.0                                                    ^ 1670.0 14300.0    1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)          89.0       91.0      98.0                as.ole    93.0          93.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               43.0       43.0      43.8                   .        13.0        45.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          15. iLd    14.0      16.6                  *-        16.0        22.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..         6.6
EDUCATION
AOUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       67.0       68.0       79.0 /2             50.0        65.0       113.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       6.0       12.0      19.0                15. 0         . .       49.o
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                                           -
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0      12.0                10.0        12.0        10.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(x OF SECONDARY)                      20.0      29.0       32.0                 1.0         6.0 Ld    6s.o lb
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 47.0 /e   59.0       62.0  h               ..        36.0          ..
HOUSING
PERSONS PL. ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..       1.6 /b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER CX)                         ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..       76.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..         ..                  ..         ..        23.o
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         .         *-                   .          .-        7.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           7.0          -      39.0                 6.0        21.o        72.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            1.0        2.0       3.0                 0.4         1.0         8.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            15.0       20.0      26.0                20.0       114.0      235.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.2       0.4        0.4                .0.1         0.3         2.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFtNITIONS ON REVERSE



AM=NE I
Page 2 of 4 paga
UI.lss otherwise noted, data fr 1960 refer to eny year betveen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwoen 1968 and 1970, nd for molt Recent Eatiatce bet-een
1973 .nd 1975.
G 0NP per capica data are b d on the World Bank Atlas nethodology (197i-76 basis).
**  rhe Philippin e has been selected  as an objective country for its geographiceal  imilarity  nd because of its apparent advance stage of sconcoic
dv. Iopsot.
DOINESIA       1960    /e  Exclud"e Wfet Irian;    /b  1962;    /c  1951-56;    /d  1961-63;    lo  10 years  nd over,  bility to read and writ,
in either Latin or mon-Latin charectere.
1970    /   1961-71;    /b  1971;    /   1968-70;    1j  Includimsg nure-eidwiv.e.
M1O1  RECnr ESIDAT!:    /a  1976;    /b  1971;    /   1968-75;    Ld  mostly utmloyed workers aokiog their first job;    /o  Incon
recipits;    /f  lncluding midwives;    /A  Net mnrollmnt;    /h  10 yacrs rad over, ability to reod and
write in either latin or non-Latin character,.
iANCLaESH      1970    is  1966-67;    /b  1967-8;    /c  RXgistered, eot all practicing in the country;    Ld  Govwrnment hospital cetablinhueta
only;    /*  Average 1969-71;    /f  Approximate enrllment  c perentage of population iv 6-10 and 11-15 age groups
reapectlvely.
rNDIA          1970    /a  Ratio of population under L5 cnd 65 cnd over to labor force age 1. and ov-r;    lb  196768;    /   Including midwives;
id 1967.
PH7LIPPI1AES   1970    to  Aa prceotag  of moploymet;    Lb  Not  including private vocational chools.
RI, J.nuary 26, 1973
DVflr?f   OF  SOCIAL D5DICA¶OU
I Are (thou k.2                                                                          Population par norinfat p es  - ftpl.ti.m  divided by eu,r of practtcing
o0.11 - Total Surface areas oprtaing land area  nd tland wecn.                                -1.  nd ft-l  graduate our-_e,  cratsd" or "cr-ifiLd" nur.., and
oric. -  lMoat r-esot  stimate of aricultural ar   ucd teporarily or parn-                    eailiary pcrcoetl with training or ecperemc*.
cnaCly for cr-pa, paatuea, arlt & kitcho gnardeam  or to lie fallow.                      pwule   in           ital bed - PoUlation divided by number of hospital beds
available1. in poblc a.d prlvete Seneral and epooaicsd boapial and
GN? o_r capita (USS) - cGP per capit.  s-iata  at current market price,                        rehabilitation cear;  cluda   nurcing hoes cod *tbt-blhr.t for
cairo-a.-d b   o  cov-r-ion _athd on World Bank Atl.. (1973.75 basis)                       cstoedial nd preventiv   cre
1960; 1970 cod 1975 data.                                                                 prcct   ccv  fclrs So  r.mwira"Tsi - Comput.d iron enrgy
equivalent of unt food soppliasava.ilable in couatry per tapit  per day;
PoPulation *nd vital etatiattc                                                                aiable ..ppiLs o-pria. dc-tl. prodction, impors Ice. U              por, and
Population (mid-rear million)   A  of July fint;  if not availble,   er.gS                    chage  in  tock; oct upplies cclede  atm l feed, ceeda, quntlttCt ..nd
of rwu  cod-year ..tttaa; 1U60, 1970 and 1975 data                                          in food procasieg and lo..s i- diatributfon; requtr_ont. were estimated
by FA0 based oo phyiologioal nseda for nar_sl ativity ad health mosid.
P7Ulction d- Ity - per  qur. ks - Mid-year population per squere kilometer                    *ring snmirotaol t1trwtwu, body wights,  S. and  n. diatributone, of
(100 heters.) of total  rea                                                                 population, and alloiag lOA for vnsta at houaehold levl.
popultiom dsnalty - ocr  quarr  km of arlc. lnd - Computed a  above for                     per capitA cucy Of protein  es_o Ver day) - Protein content of per capita
ogrtiultural lad oly.                                                                       n  t supply of food per day;  .at *vpply of food ia dfimed ac  bv ; require-
ante f-or a11 co-tri.0 oatabliahed by USDA Ct-on-. Re.rbch  crvioe.
vital atatintica                                                                               proide  or a niont   llowanc  of 60 gr-  of total prouti  per day,  nd
Crud- birth r-te par tbohwd. averco  - Annual live births per thousand of                      20 grosa of ant_al and pole.  protelt, of which 10 gren sbould be animal
eld-year populotion; ten-year arlthl tio averagoe ending tol 190 sad 1970,                  protein; the  atanderds are lovr than thoe of 75 gr_ of total protel.
and five-year averaga ending in 1975 for meat recant eatitA.                                and 23 are   of *nieal protei  a as  veragc for the world, prop_ad by FAO
Cn,dn d -th rta ovr thousand. *a_ra. - uAnual deths par thouwsnd of  tid-ycar                 in the Third World Food Survey.
poPulation;  nn-yar ar;-rthtic average  ending in 1980 end 1970 and five-                  ter cest protiei  *uer fr  onl and rUIsE -  retdn   ply of food
year  versge ending in 1975 for mot recet  stimat.                                         dr                                     ravd fr   *ni   d pulsed in ar   per dy.
Infot eorc -lt5y race frthou) - Annual deatha  of infste under o   year of  g               De_th rat  (/thou) aes 1-4 - Arnual dnctha per tho-ocod in 0S.  -oup 1-4
per thousand liv  births.                                                                   years, to children  in this ap  group;  gg-gted ac en indieator of
Life  -paootac-r at birth (yrm   - Av-rog  muelbr of yars of lifs raiinisJ ct                 ealnutrition
birth; wully five-year ev-reg- ending in 19b0, 1970 and 1975 for de-lOP-
tog countrio.                                                                             Educatio
Gr. reproduction rate - Average  numbr of live daughters   wvoan will bear                   Adiuatd anrollot ratio - vriparr ochool - Etrollmeat of a11 ale  as par-
in bar normal reprductive preiod if ohs arFprincea  presnt ag-sp-cific                      cenr g  of p_insy school-age population; inclds children ygd b-11 y70r.
fertility rata; uelly five-year cereg" ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                         but adjusted for different lengths of primry education; for countres with
far developing conotric.                                                                    uiverel education,  nroll_eet mar aecead 100M  ic. e             pupils  .  blow
Population *rovib rats cfI  - total - Compound  onuwl growth rates of eid-year                 or above the official sohool  ago.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               1d1ited  Proll_nt ratio - a*coadr schpol - Computed  s  bove; sacondry
Fowol-tion growth reta CII - urban - Coapeted liLk  growth rots of total                        d tion rvira, at leat four ye-ra of  pprovwd prtmary iatrctian;
population; different definitiona of urban arssn   y affect cmparability of                  prowid   geaneral, vocational or teacher training iatructions for pupils
data wmm  caotris.                                                                           of 12 to 17 yerc of ag;  orreepmdwnce  ourea are g...rally scluded.
Urban po Multion  n of tstel) - latio of urbee to total population; different                Y"r of  'chalirorvle  (tir.t ad second lavelel - Tst  years of
d finitione of urban armc" sy afftct.c"rability of data nag  oe.mtrie                        mcy lLa; t acery  le_l vti    instruction e   be partinlly or
neaplecaly aluded.
M,e *tructure (fwenmt) - Children (0-4 yars)  working-sa  (13-64 year,),                     Vocational enrolMt Cn of  Secondary) - Vscational institution  inclade
and retired (65 year. and  vcr) os percentages of mid-year poplation.                        tecbnics, induotril or other pr-r-a which owrate Independently or as
Asn dl p-ndeyc ratio - catlo of popuLtion under 15 and 65 sod over to tho.e                    depernnt. of aecondary intitution.
of ags 15 through 6i.                                                                      Adult literacv rece (7) - Literate adults (able to red and writs) a. Per-
Econonic dependency ratio - Ratio of population ondar 15 and 65 sod over to                    centag  of total adult population ased 15 yers.  and over.
ths lbor forts In ag  group of 15-64 ycr..
Fanilt plninsta - _cceotors (cumulative. thou) - Cu ulstiv. number of acceptors               Nous tm
of birth-control dvine. under *v piceA of matInal f_ily planting prra                      Persona pgo raw r urbhn  - Av-raS  mv bhr of per-on-  par ro  it oci    u ptd
since ine ptin.                                                                              conventional d  inga in urban areac; dv llinpg  seclude non-per--nnt
Fonily vlsnnime - nrers  rI f n ie    d wAnen) - Prwcenrg.a of married oan of                  Structures  nd vnnc.upind parts
childheartog aI m (15-44 yaro) rho o-  birth-control devics to   1 maried                  Octupied dv lline without Lvd water (X) - Occupie4 co-r 1siLonni d.ii.u.
westn  . sn        group.                                                                    is urbao and rural ares without inside or ouide piped Water facilities
ca percantage of a11 occupind dwellings.
EiPloryent                                                                                   Access to electricity (2 of *11 dellines) - Conventional deltiage  itch
Total labor force (thouond) - Econamic-lly acti- preon, including and                          electricity in living quartera cs portnt of tor.i dwelli.fe in urban and
fores  nd unployad but e-.ludiog housoives, etudanto *set.; d-finitiona                      rural  t
in cerinu  cot"tric  at not coparable.                                                     Rural dvellinar connrcted to el*ctricity (1) - Caaput.d 4    above for rural
Labor forts in aerioulturs C) - Agricultural labor force (in famning, forestry,                dwelling  only.
baoing cnd fihing) as pr antys of total laor force
.Omplored (2 of labor foro) -  -nploYed are usully defined as penone who                     CoGnaaption
ar  able  nd willIng to tak  a job, out 0f e job on a given day, reained out                adio receivers (pr thou wv) -  11 types of recaivers for radio broadocstc
of a job, and seeking work for a specified sini n    period   at exceeding one              to  nr        ic   per thousnd of population; s.cl.des onlles-ed reo-L-nr.
week; my not be coparable bhtvecr countries due to different definitions                     is cuntrio  vod in yers whe  registration of radio seta was in effset;
of unemployed and .ourc of data, e.g.  employment office Statiatics, sinple                  data  or recent yea   my wt be comparable sim  ..et coustri. ahbolishd
sureyc, conpulscry unaployment *nurance.                                                     licesaing.
P?sanmer car. (pfrthou pop) - P.oa..sr c.ro  coprise actor care accus
loco   diatributian - Pvre-ntag  of priva-c ioe (bath is n-h end kind)                         lea. th n   ht prsn a *td.c anbul.a1          -. hearses r cd    litary
rorsivnd by riohat 52, richest 20   poorest 251, cod Poorest 402 of house-                   vehieles.
hold.                                                                                      Electricity (kwh/yr par cap) - Annual tona.ptioo of indoarrloincas.rtial.
public  nd private electricity i  bilowatt hours per capita, S.neraill
Diatrib.tion of land ounrr-hip - Perc.sta.ge  of land owoed by weithielt 101                   based on productIon data, without llowanc  for looses In grLds but a.lo-
nd poorvvt 10  of land owners,                                                               mng for Imports and *eport. of electricity.
Newprint (ka/yr per c*a) - Per capita acual consv ptbon in kilogram
Dlc Ith sod Nutrition                                                                           nntimtrd frmn domsetic production plus mat leporr of eweprfnt.
Population par hyvio-tn - Population dicid.d by nub,er of precticing
physicianm  qualified fran a medical school at -ni-rsity lel.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976 1/                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       j.i                      1960 -65           1965 -70           1971-76
GNP at Market Prices          36,294       100.0                          1.9               4.9                 7.8
Gross Domestic Investment      7,723         21.3                         3.3              11.5                16.2
Gross National Saving          6,908         19.0                         5.8               5.1                22.2
Current Account Balance      -   815       -  2.2
Exports of Goods, NFS          6,183         17.0                         1.5               7.8                 9.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          6,352         17.5                         0.2              10.9                19.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                   Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      .                  MU
Agriculture                   11,624         31.1              35.3      62.6                   329         49.7
Industry                      12,672         33.9               4.7       8.3                 2,696        407.3
Services                      13,043         35.0              13.4      23.8                   973        147.0
Unallocated                                                     3.0       5.3
Total/Average
37,339                          W        100.0                   662        100.0
GOVERNMPNT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp. Bil)                                           % of GDP
1976t77       1977/78                              1975             1976
Current Receipts                    S77          3-535                               18.1              18.6
Current Expenditure               1,610          2,149                               10.2              10.4
Current Surplus                 - 1,267          1,387                                7.8               8.2
Capital Expenditures              2,044          2,157                               11.7              13.2
External Assistance (net)           784            773                                4.0               5.1
MONEY, CREMDIT and PRICES                 1972          1973        1974         1975         1976        1977
(Billion Rp  outstanding end periodT         Provisional
Money and Quasi Money                      695           987        1,452       1,978        2,631       3,218
Bank credit to Public Sector               129           198         246        1,430        1,553       1,388
Bank Credit to Private Sector              524           889       1,158        1,367        1,727       2,052
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            15.2         14.6         14.8        16.3         17.0
General Price Index (1963 - 100)           807         1,028        1,370       1,640        1,873       2,094
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         25.7          27.4        33.3         19.7         14.2        11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector               -14.0          53.5        24.2        481.3          8.6       -10.6
Bank credit to Private Sector               65.3          69.7        30.3         18.0        26.3         18.8
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1.
/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed morkers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
May 31, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWSB
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975     1976      1977                                                 US $ Mln    %
(Millions US$)  Provisional
Exports:                      4,738    6.183    7,592               Oil                                 2,906     57.1
Oil (net)                   2.921    3,567    4,243               Timber                                605     11.9
Non oil                     1,819    2,216    3,349               Rubber                                461      9.1
Imports                      -5,533   -6,352   -7.489               Palm Oil                              117      2.3
Resource Gap               -' 795   -  169       103              Tin                                   107      2.1
Factor service:              -  462   -  646   -  828               Coffee                                104      2.0
Interest                   -  178   -  362   -  473
Investment Income          -  284   -  284   -  355                 All other commodities               741     15.5
Balance on Current Account  -175    -  T5   - 75                            Total                       5,091    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       497       329      286              EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              2,395    2,327    1,988                                                          US $ Min
Amortization              -  322   -  625   -  826
Subtotal                   2,073    1,702    1,162                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             11,391
Capital Grants                            ..       ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  ..
Other Capital (net)          -2,250   -  205    )  74                 Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i            -   46   - _fi      2,                                             1/
Increase in Reserves (+)   -  983        736    1,197               DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-
70
Gross Reserves (end year)       590    1,494    2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)       490    1,226    2,423                 Public Debt. incl. guaranteed              17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        93       119       28
of which:  Petroleum         89      114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum      2,921    3,567    4,243         LARnIIDA LENDiNG    (April 30, 1978) Million 1S$
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                      -
Outstanding & Disbursed               462.4      466.1
Through  - AuR. 1971           Since  -  1971                   Undisbursed                         1,063.6       134.7
US $ 1.00 = Rp 375             US $ 1.00 = Rp 415               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       1,526.0       600.8
Rp   1.00 = US $2.67                1.00 = US $;2 .t                      gs10
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
May 31, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 19 pages
SUMMARY OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1978)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                      Undisbursed
Number       Year                      Purpose                        Bank       IDA      Bank/IDA
Thirteen Credits fully disbursed                                                155.9       0.0
195          1970          Second Irrigation Rehabiitation                       18.5       0.1
220          1971          Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                       14.5       0.2
246          1971          Seeds                                                  7.5       0.7
259          1971          Tea                                                   15.0       1.8
260          1971          Second Highway                                        34.0       0.6
288          1972          Second Education                                       6.3       0.1
289          1972          Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                      12.5       0.6
300          1972          Population                                            13.2       5.0
318          1972          Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                      8.5       2.0
319          1972          Fourth Agricultural Estates                           11.0       3.0
334          1973          Second Electricity Distribution                       40.0       0.5
355          1973          Beef Cattle Development                                3.6       0.8
358          1973          North Sumatra Smallholder Development                  5.0       0.7
387          1973          Third Education                                       13.5       4.9
388          1973          Third Highway                                         14.0       1.0
399          1973          West Java Thermal Power                               46.0       5.9
400          1973          Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                     7.8       6.7
405          1973          Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                         50.0       4.2
428          1974          Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                         16.5      10.6
436          1974          Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                  10.0       2.8
451          1974          Fourth Technical Assistance                            5.0       2.8
479          1974          Bali Tourism                                          16.0      12.0
480          1974          Fisheries Credit                                       6.5       2.3
514          1975          Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                        30.0     25.3
785          1978          Small Enterprise Development Project                  40.0     40.0
1005         1974          Railway                                    48.0                 6.8
1040         1975          Jakarta Urban Development                  25.0                 4.8
1049         1975         Five Cities Water Supply                    14.5                11.8
1054         1975         Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                            50.0                  4.5



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 19 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit     Fiscal                                                                      Undisbursed
Number      Year                       Purpose                        Bank       IDA      Bank/IDA
1089         1975         Second Fertilizer Expansion                115.0                  3.0
1100         1975         Sixth Irrigation                            65.0                54.7
1127         1975         Fourth Power                                41.0                 13.5
1139        1976          Fertilizer Distribution                     68.0                  2.7
1179         1976         Agricultural Research & Extension           21.5                 20.6
1197         1976         National Resource Survey & Mapping          13.0                 11.6
1236         1976         Fourth Highway                             130.0               115.9
1237         1976         Fourth Education                            37.0                 35.2
1250        1976          Second Shipping                             54.0                52.7
1254         1976         Third Fertilizer Expansion                  70.0                21.0
1259         1976         Fifth Power                                 90.0                 82.1
1267         1976         National Food Crops Extension               22.0                19.1
1268         1976         Seventh Irrigation                          33.0                 26.6
1318        1977          Transmigration and Rural
Development                              30.0                 27.1
1336        1977          Second Urban Development                    52.5                32.6
1337        1977          Tanjung Priok Port                          32.0                 27.0
1363        1977          Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                               15.0                13.9
1365        1977          Sixth Power                                116.0                 97.6
1373        1977          Nutrition Development                       13.0                 13.0
1433         1977         Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.0                 18.3
1434         1977         Eighth Irrigation                           63.0                 62.5
1435         1977         Ninth Irrigation                            35.0                33.5
1437        1977          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                            40.0                38.1
1472        1977          Second Population                           24.5                24.5
1486         1978         Non-Formal Education                        15.0                 15.0
1499        1978          Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.0                 65.0
1513         1978          Seventh Power /b                          109.0               109.0
Total                                                 1,526.0    600.8   1,198.3
of which has been repaid                                2.3       0.0
Total now outstanding                                 1,523.7    600.8
Amount sold                                   26.9
of which has been repaid                     0.0       26.9       0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA/a                      1,496.8    600.8
Total undisbursed                                     1,063.6    134.7   1,198.3
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.
/b Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 19 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1978)
US$ million
Fiscal                                                         Loan      Equity      Total
Year
1971     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                10.6       2.5         13.1
1971     P.T. Unitex                    Textiles                2.5       0.8          3.3
1971     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles                2.0       0.5          2.5
1971     P.T. Kabel Indonesia            Cable                  2.8       0.4          3.2
1972     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles               4.5       1.5          6.0
1973     P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel        Tourism                11.0        -          11.0
1973     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                  5.4       0.7          6.1
1974     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles                2.0       0.3          2.3
1974     P.T. Monsanto Pan              Electronics             0.9        -           0.9
1974     P.T. PDFCI                     Devel. Fin. Co.          -        0.5          0.5
1974     P.T. Kamaltex                  Textiles                2.4       0.6          3.0
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                  5.0       1.5          6.5
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                   -        1.1          1.1
1977     P.T. Daralon Textile
Hanuf. Corp.             Textiles                0.3        -           0.3
1977     P.T. Kamaltex                  Textiles                1.4       0.1          1.5
Total                                           50.8      10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             25.9       1.7         27.6
Total held by IFC                               24.9       8.8         33.7
Undisbursed (including participants' portion) 0.8           -           0.8



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 19 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                   Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 195, 220, 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434                 5-7
and 1435)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,               7-9
405, 480, Ln. 1318, and 1499)
Agriculture Support Services (Cr. 246, Ln. 1179, and 1267)               9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785)                                            10
Education (Cr. 288, 387, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                             10-11
Energy (Cr. 334, 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                              12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                13
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                             14
Development Finance Companies  (Ln. 1054, 1437,                          14-15
Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                        15
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                     15
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                  15-16
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                       16
Highways (Cr. 260, 388 and Ln. 1236)                                     16-17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                  17
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                         18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                      18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                            18
Urban Development (Ln. 1040 and 1336)                                        19
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                      19
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 19 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 195   Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Initial progress was delayed by difficulties in equipment procure-
ment and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs. The
project is expected to be completed by March 1979. The credit is about 98Z
disbursed. The rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and
hydraulically adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is
improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost has more than
doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in contract
quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satisfactory
because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected during
appraisal.
Credit No. 220   Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date:  May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Overall project completion is expected by about September 1978,
about 3 years years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay -
difficulties in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations,
heavy rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently, high inflation
rates and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained. The project is now essentially completed with
97% of the Credit disbursed. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost is about twice
the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher than
those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 19 pages
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. About 70% of the works are finished
and completion of the project is expected by March 1979. The Credit is
about 92% disbursed. Feasibility studies included in the project have been
concluded and groundwater investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and good progress has been achieved.   Based on bid prices for the first
contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of detailed design, the
total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Most of the project programs have advanced well during the past
year. Design of works for the Cirebon and Rentang subproject systems is
beyond the capability of PROSIDA to execute, and assistance has been provided
under Loan 1434-IND to expedite this work through the use of local consultants.
Critical review of the program for benefit monitoring is under way.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation Project:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the engagement of the
consultants. The project is slightly behind schedule in the North Sadang and
tertiary development areas. The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are well ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation Project:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1983.
The project is progressing satisfactorily and is on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation Project:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977, Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is on schedule and progressing satisfactorily.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971: Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
before project completion, but factory capacity still has to be increased
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 5,000 tons or 25%. Inflation and additional construction and
equipment costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above
appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
participating in both the NES I project and the Transmigration and Rural
Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. Major changes in project scope and
objectives (approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977) reflected a
change in the project from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for
export to that of production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and
breeding animals. The project was reviewed in November 1977 and the mission
found the state of ranch development and management satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 19 pages
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973: Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress of this project continues to be satisfactory, and the full
program of planting 9,000 ha of rubber and oil palm by smallholders was
completed by the end of 1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these
plantings will have been brought to maturity. Government has decided not to
expand the project in its present location because of the extensive support
already given to North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported
projects; instead, Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for small-
holder development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on replanting
and less on rehabilitation; thus, the mix had to be changed reducing the
overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Production, however, will
not be affected since yields from replanted tea are higher than from rehabil-
itated tea. Costs will, however, exceed appraisal estimates by about 77%
since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have generally
increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in implementing the
institutional framework for long term lending, a new venture for BRI.
Because of this and difficulties in involving the private estates in the
project, disbursements are behind appraisal estimates. The problems are
being solved and the rate of disbursements is expected to accelerate. While
the project has experienced difficulties, it is estimated that, because of
the project-induced spin-off effects, an area at least equal in size to the
project is being improved. Over 500 farmers' groups have been formed to
improve tea production supported by a project training program involving up
to now nearly 4,000 farmers. These developments have been helped by a surge
in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal estimates). Considerable investment in
factory and field development outside the project is taking place, largely
financed by short- and medium-term loans of BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs which are involved in the rehabilitation process are
both in a weak financial position and this problem requires attention. The
Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the industry
but progress of this study is slow.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 19 pages
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the project has generally been progres-
sing satisfactorily. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is virtually
completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equipment is on
site ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond lending has
suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development Prolect:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: February 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind appraisal
estimates partly because of the initial delay in project effectiveness, and
because of weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 650 migrant
families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing food
crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fertiliser
supplies and poor seed supply, although half originates from construction and
rubber planting. In the existing settled area at Way Abung, there has been
little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are not available on site
and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash crops. Experience to
date highlights the need for improving project management and ensuring that
agricultural support services and input supply systems are in place as settle-
ment proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I Project:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Initial progress under this project shows that it is off to an
excellent start. Land clearing is in full progress, high quality planting
material is being prepared for distribution to smallholders and an experienced
project staff is being assembled at the project sites.
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 246  Seeds:   US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971; Effective
Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date: June 30. 1978.
At Sukamandi 1,600 ha have been developed and it is planned to
develop an additional area of 400 ha in 1978. Significant results as of
1976/77 season, expressed as percentages of appraisal estimates are:
(a) area under production - 2,020 ha (54%), (b) yields of rice seed -
2.9 tons/ha (72%), and (c) production of certified seed - 4,900 tons (42%).
Due to cost escalations and implementation difficulties, only one seed
multiplication district, Klaten, out of the three planned at appraisal, has
been developed. Total area developed so far is 250 ha of a total estimate of



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 19 pages
500 ha. National Seeds Corporation's cost of production continues to be high
and it is not commercially viable even with increases in production. The
Corporation will need continued financial support from the Government.
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date:  February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project having suffered initial delays is about one year behind
the appraisal report schedule, but is now progressing satisfactorily.
Architects for civil works construction have now completed schematic drawings,
a contract for provision of technical assistance for research is under active
implementation and an agreement with FAO for technical assistance in extension
of agricultural information was signed in October 1977.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The construction and procurement programs, after a somewhat slow
start, are now on schedule. Staff appointments are on schedule with the
exception of some supervisory staff and subject matter specialists outside
Java. The new extension methodology has been adopted in all project provinces
and is being gradually applied. A second-phase project, covering the remaining
provinces in Indonesia, is being prepared.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978: Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
This credit is expected to become effective in July 1978.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Printing of 81 million textbooks has been completed,
generally about nine months behind schedule. Similar delays are expected in
the printing of 31 million books for 1977/78, due in part to delays in paper
procurement. Teaching equipment has been procured and delivered. Teacher
training is on schedule and 3,800 tutors and administrators and 370,000
teachers have participated in training seminars. Due to delays in book
production, it has proved difficult to keep the training program in phase
with book deliveries. Project management has been strengthened by addition



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 19 pages
of specialists under a technical assistance contract signed with UNESCO. The
Government is presently seeking additional technical assistance in publishing
and paper procurement. Disbursement has improved and is now 91% of the
appraisal estimate as against 69% a year ago. The Government is planning a
major review of the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Govern-
ment textbook projects and to overall future needs for production of instruc-
tional materials.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15.
1976: Effective Date: June 17. 1976: Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project suffered initially a ten-month delay due to late
signing of the Funds-in-Trust agreements with the UN agencies providing
technical assistance and slow site selection. However, no further delays
have occurred and good progress is now being made in implementation. Cumber-
some implementation procedures in the Department of Manpower are still a
potential source of delay for that Department's subproject and should be kept
under review. Architectural designs for all three subprojects have been
prepared by consultants and approved by the Bank. Most sites have been
acquired and surveyed. Construction firms have been prequalified. Tenders
for construction of 14 to 24 project institutions will be called in the next
six months. Equipment lists are in advanced stages of preparation. Eleven
additional technical assistance specialists assumed their posts over the last
six months and the technical assistance program is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training Project: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6. 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is satisfactory. The overseas
fellowship program to train 40 Indonesian educators in ways to improve teacher
training has started. The technical assistance contract has been signed. The
design of physical facilities has fallen behind schedule because of delays in
appointing consultant architects. First phase civil works was, however,
tendered in March, permitting commencement of construction by July 1978.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education Project: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977: Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Initial implementation progress is satisfactory.   All positions
in the project unit are filled and appointment of key staff at provincial
centers has been completed. A technical assistance firm has been selected by
the project unit and contract negotiations began in late March 1978. Rehabili-
tation of one of two existing provincial centers is underway. Three of four
sites for new provincial centers have been acquired. Construction of four new
provincial centers is expected to begin in July 1978. Initial staff training,
learning materials development and evaluation activities are being carried
out.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 19 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 334   Second Electricity Distribution:  US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND
and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered setbacks in implementation
due to delays in the preparation of designs for the system expansion because
of constantly changing city development plans during the early period of
implementation, procurement problems and cumbersome management procedures.
As a result the project is two years behind the original schedule. These
difficulties have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. The
Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1977 to June 30, 1978
to allow additional time for the delivery of some recently ordered goods.
Completion of voltage changeover and connection of consumers will require
another 12 months after Closing Date.
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 MW units at Muara Karang (Part
A of the Project) were about 65% higher than estimated at the time of
appraisal. This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in
an increase in the total project cost of more than 100%. Government will
provide the additional funds required. The additional financing requirements
led to a delay in the award of the general construction contract and, as a
result, the project is about two years behind schedule. PLN has satisfactorily
met the targets Li its financial recovery plan (Part B) provided for
under the terms of the Credit Agreement. The Java System Study (Part C) has
been completed. The Citarum Hydroelectric Feasibility Study (Part D) had to
be extended by another working season to complete additional field work. It
is likely that the Closing Date of the Credit will need to be postponed by
about 12 months.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17. 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Part A of the project provides for the expansion of the Muara
Karang thermal power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW
generating unit. The general construction contracts covering this unit as
well as the first two financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded although
after some delay because of the problems of cost-overruns for the first two
units. The Financial Recovery Plan (Part B) and feasibility study for a new
thermal plant in West Java (Part C 1) have been completed. The Training
Program (Part D) is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of the project
is now satisfactory but final completion will be about 18 months behind the
original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is under way but disbursement is
substantially behind schedule. Orders have been placed for the first of
three lots of equipment for about $11.0 million; these are now being
received enabling field work to be commenced. Bids are being issued for the
second lot worth about $40.0 million and arrangements for construction
altered to speed up implementation. Nevertheless a delay of about a year is
expected in completion of the Project, due to the slow start. Part B of the
Project (the financial recovery plan) has been completed.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power Protect: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977:
Effective Date: June 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Orders have been placed for main generating plant and equipment.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power Project: US$109.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31. 1983.
This loan is expected to become effective in July 1978.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975: Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
The project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December
1976, one month ahead of schedule. Some operational difficulties are yet to
be resolved. The gas system has been completed and total project cost
is expected to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, was commissioned in mid-October 1977,
about three months ahead of schedule. Total project cost is expected to
be below the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 19 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973: Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 290 ha has been acquired and acquisition of another
31 ha is under negotiation. 104 ha of the 129 ha of developed land have been
sold to 83 firms. Factory employment at full capacity will be around 17,000
and an estimated 1,400 are employed on the average in both factory construction
and land development. Overall, operations are profitable. The return on
capital investment, which is now projected to be 20.6%, is significantly
higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to the fact that
developed land values are rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1054   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):  US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974: Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Despite significant institutional improvements achieved by BAPINDO,
the company has still a high level of arrears; its appraisal work is slow and
administrative costs are excessive. These problems are being addressed
through a Program of Action discussed and agreed among the Government,
BAPINDO and the Bank. The loan is expected to be fully committed in the next
few months.
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III Project:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorly.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974: Closing Date:  December 31, 1978.                           *
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed satisfactorily. The Credit is
fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI Project:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date:  April 21, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The National Family Planning Program, of which the project is
an integral part, is expanding in terms of the numbers of new acceptors
recruited annually and now covers about 18% of all married women in the
reproductive age group. Implementation of the civil works component is
on schedule.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population Project:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6,
1977; Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Although the NFPCB, the agency responsible for project implemen-
tation, had done considerable preparatory work, the promise of rapid progress
shown prior to loan effectiveness has not yet materialized. Tendering for
civil works and the procurement of vehicles and equipment are about five
months behind schedule, due in part to the preoccupation of the NFPCB with a
proposed internal reorganization, and the recent promotion of the Chairman of
the NFPCB to the post of Minister of Health in the new Cabinet.
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development Project:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under this project is satisfactory. The training
of field staff, the nutrition intervention pilot project, the anemia control
and home garden components are proceeding on schedule. Principal management
staff are in position. Tender documents for the first phase of civil works
and approved lists of equipment are ready.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976: Effective Date: April 2.
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is essentially on schedule. Construction of
BAKOSURTANAL headquarters and facilities, including cartographic, printing,
photographic interpretation, and data processing wings, is about 50% com-
plete. Contracts covering about 40% of the equipment to be procured under
the project have been awarded. The first new topographic map sheets of
Sumatra have been completed, and an orderly schedule for several hundred
additional sheets are in various stages of compilation and production.
Training programs and the work of expert advisors engaged under the project
are progressing well. Final loan documents for a parallel CIDA-financed
project are awaiting Government's signature.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date:  August 28, 1975;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
All the contracts for the original project have been let and most
materials and three ships have been delivered to Indonesia. Savings of about
$12.5 million from the loan were realized in the original project. Procurement
of an additional ship and bulk reception facilities to serve expansion of
fertilizer output beyond that anticipated at appraisal were approved by the
Executive Directors on April 5, 1977. The expanded project is under way, the
fourth ship has been delivered, and other components are likely to be com-
pleted successfully.
Credit No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overruns have been rela-
tively small (despite sharp price increases) due to efforts to reduce
construction quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services.
Construction work is completed; but work is still proceeding on detailed
engineering of the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to
reconsider road design standards in relation to those recently developed for
the highway betterment program and to take into account the Bank's recommen-
dations regarding standards for urban portions of the road.
Credit No. 388 Third Highway: US$14 Million Credit of June 1. 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections in the
project was started early in 1974 under two contracts. Contractors have been
delayed mainly because of long mobilization periods and unusually adverse



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 19 pages
climatic conditions. Construction costs will likely exceed original estimates
by more than 100%, m ainly caused by in creased quantities combined with
sharply escalated prices. The project also included feasibility and detailed
design studies of highway betterment works. Most of the studies are now
completed and formed the basis of the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-IND).
However, work on a few studies will continue for another 3-4 months and will
then form the basis for lending by ADB or bilateral agencies. The training
program component was satisfactorily prepared and is being implemented by the
Government.
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway Project:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976;'Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Nearly all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays ranging
from nine months to about one year. Construction contracts for almost 900 km
of roads have been awarded, and tender evaluation has been completed for the
remaining about 380 km. Some problems in the execution of the road works
have been revealed on contracts started in 1976 but it is still too early to
assess the future impact of these difficulties on the overall construction
progress and project completion.
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28. 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to March 31, 1979 in order to provide additional time for several
new projects of ship rehabilitation and the technical assistance to be
developed. Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy appli-
cants,just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will
have been rehabilitated.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping Project:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants, most of
which have now been made, has caused a slow start to the project and has
slowed project implementation and disbursements. The financial position of
the state shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory, and further deterioration
could cause financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government
is considering steps to deal with this problem and with the acquisition of
high-cost new ships. Solutions likely to be proposed may require amendment
to the project description. It is expected that such a proposal will be
discussed with the Bank in June 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1337   Tanlung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tanjung Priok Port traffic during 1977 slightly exceeded appraisal
forecasts for total dry cargo, about 2.8 million tons were handled in the
first half of 1977. The first construction contract for Basin III civil works
and the second for Regional Harbor improvements have been let; container
handling and other equipment is being procured. There continue to be problems
in completing government financed works in Basin III but these works are
expected to be completed by December 1978. Good progress is being made in
revising accounting procedures and in related staff training.
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement is now well under way and almost all contracts have
been signed or are about to be signed. Project execution is behind schedule
due to initial slow procurement and execution of works. Freight and passenger
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However slight
improvements were made in the second half of 1977 after the arrival of new
locomotives and rolling stock, and with operations improved with the aid of
consultants. The financial performance of the railway deteriorated in 1976
and 1977 due mainly to the declining traffic and to an increase in cost
including a large wage raise in early 1977. The overall situation is being
reviewed with the railway administrators and the Government.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion by the
end of 1979. The construction of the hotel training school has been completed.
The completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is
scheduled for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project
appraisal. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 31% in 1976
and by a further 8% in 1977 to 286,000 visitors. Despite considerable efforts
made by BTDC and the Bank Group in promoting hotel investment at Nusa Dua, no
hotel investors have yet come forward. It is therefore highly unlikely that a
first hotel at Nusa Dua could be completed by the end of 1979 to coincide with
completion of the infrastructure.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 19 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974: Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 60% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots have been resolved. About
2,900 core housing units are presently being allocated, and the remaining
4,300 are expected to be available by September 1978.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4. 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Although land acquisition is causing some
delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is being
made in developing Government capabilities in undertaking a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs about
15% above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of
tender documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for
major civil works have been signed. The reorganization of the Directorate of
Sanitary Engineering has been completed and the establishment and development
of local water enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. We are waiting for
the Government to issue an interministerial decree defining relationships
between the various Ministries and the water enterprises.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDER IN PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: Eighteen months.
(b) Project prepared by: FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
(c)  First prese-ted to the Bank:  September 1976.
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: September 1977.
(e) Follow-up mission: None.
(f) Completion of negotiations: May 17, 1978
(g) Planned effectiveness: About October 1, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions - None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) The following will be conditions of disbursement for the
respective components of the project (para. 53):
New Settlement and Rubber Replanting
(a) signing of a smallholder rubber development agreement
between the DGE and PTP IV specifying the work to be
carried out for new settlement and rubber replanting in
Riau and Jambi, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank;
(b) signing of a Financing Agreement between the Borrower
and BRI and a Subfinancing Agreement between BRI and
PTP IV in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
and
PTP IV Estate Development
(c) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and PTP IV in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.



ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii) Other special conditions on which assurances have been given
by the Government during negotiations, are as follows:
(a) that the Government would issue to new settlers and
rubber replanters certificates of "conditional" Hak Milik
(right of ownership) for 5 ha and 2 ha allotments respec-
tively, within 6 months of entry as a prospective settler
and "unconditional" Hak Milik within 3 years (pars. 43
and 44);
(b) that the Government would cause PTP IV to pay about
70% of the prevailing fob price for smallholder rubber
subject to certain price adjustments (para. 45);
(c) that in order to release internally generated funds
for PTP IV's own expansion program to secure its viability,
the Government would review PTP IV's expansion program
annually and make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
to ensure that PTP IV distributes dividends only if the
Government review of cash flow demonstrates that PTP IV's
investment program and its operations would not be
impaired (para. 49);
(d) that Government budget funds would be allocated in
sufficient amounts to cover noncredit expenditures during
project implementation, and that wherever these alloca-
tions proved inadequate, the Government would make timely
arrangements to meet such additional requirements
(para. 49);
(e) that the Government would consult with the Bank before
making any appointment to the Executive Management of
PTP IV (para. 57).
(f) that the Government would ensure that DGH would arrange
for the design and all engineering requirements for the
project road improvement program by June 30, 1979
(para. 57);
(g)  that the Government would extend the BIMAS program to meet
the needs of the new settlers and rubber replanters by
August 1, 1979 and that an adequate number of BRI mobile
units would be deployed to serve the project areas in
Jambi and Riau with the commencement of the BIMAS program.
In the event that the BIMAS program is not established by
August 1, 1979, PTP IV would continue to provide seed and
fertilizer to settlers after the first year for subsistence
food crop development (para. 58).






INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 1I PROJECT'
JAMBI PROJECT AREA
PROJECT BOUNDARY
-EXISTING ROADS
PROPOSED MAIN ACCESS ROADS
PROPOSED PRIMARY VILLAGE ROADS
....PROPOSED SECONDARY VILLAGE ROADS
TOWNS AND VILLAGES
0   01         MIE
KfIphoto,,,pO Me ydETESR                                                                                                                                                                 EAIEA
WoOd BathsMath e,ch.ooe/y ho;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
th  OtoO,40 ofte tdeso
the ;po,t o oohoh,t,attNT                                                                                                                                                                                          KENALN OCEA
The denoet,,taoons toed a,td tO ~~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
MUARABU hot, tttLIA,,Ot
do ,,ot etAe. 00 the part ot the ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    SU
Wo,fd 8000 end to a'h,hateJJBAoTH,  tAt
Joagment 0,, the /ega.otatoo oh  Cl- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ AL
eovterr.tyorattye,do,oerttat          ;ootoc       'P    ENoROK
OCtOetaoto ohoot,, htto,,da,,tt ~ ~ ~ ~   ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ANJNGP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OT  HN






IBRD 13519
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                               AAAAv z9
l       A                                                            ,A A E TA 'A{ 
I  J  -<   10  AN
OTAMEDAN                            .t/                                                          K:NENAss
.s~~ ~~           ~              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ I-A'I 
0~~~~~~~
0~~
'41~~~~~~~~~~~4
AIR MOLEK-EAST
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER II PROJECT
AIR MOLEK PROJECT AREA
AIR MOLECK-WEST                                                                  PROJECT BOUNDARY
^ 'EXISTING ROADS
A                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~UPGRADING TO MAIN ACCESS ROADS
_____PRIMARY VILLAGE ROADS
rAAILANU                             …~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY VILLAGE ROADS
F.oAIR MOLEK    *,                                                                  TOWNS AND VILLAGES
RA.AVSIA                             I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AZ2zA ~~~~~~RIVERS
I   A  .19     I Al                                      I           .                        
I                                               I                                A''  I 1               A.
MILES
-p   7 1A, MAIR~J    Ij5IL;METE RS
A -                       Al AIR MLCAE                                    - AROAECA9AANDARY
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA VAs ,°             IA  °IA AA l                                 UPRAIN  TO PAAN ACESS ROAD



