Document of
The World Bank   FIL   c
FOR OFFICIAL "SE ONLY
Report No. 1950a-IND
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLEOLDERS II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 15, 1978
Transmigration and Land Settlement Unit
Regional Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURR4NCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1             =  Rp 415
Rp I             =  US$0.002
Rp 1,000,000    =  US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)  =  1,000 grams (gm) = 2.205 pounds
I metric ton      =  1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)   = 10,000 square meters (sq m) = 2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF INDONESIAN TERMS
Adat                   - Body of traditional law
Alangalang             - A coarse grass, establishing itself after the
slash and burn cycle
Bupati                 - District Chief Executive
Department Kesehatan  - Department of Health
Desa                   - Village
Dokabu                 - District Health Officer
Dukuh                  - Hamlet of 25-30 houses
Gotong-royong          - Community self-help project
Hak Pakai              - Individual's right of use or exploitation of
assigned land
Hak Milik              - Right to full ownership of land
Kabupaten              - District
Kecamatan              - Subdistrict
Marga                  - Community grouping under Adat Law
Mushalla               - Small prayer house
Puskesmas              - Community Health Center, subdistrict level
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
APBD              - Anggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Daerah - Regional Budget for
Revenues and Expenditures
APBN              - Anggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Negara - State budget for
Revenue and Expenditure
AARD              - Agency for (Agricultural) Research and Development
BAKOSURTANAL      - National Coordinating Agency of Survey and Mapping
BAL               - Basic Agrarian Law
BAPPEDA           - Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS          - Badan Perancana Pembangunan National, National Development
Planning Agency
BIMAS             - Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan, "Mass Guidance
Program for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm input-
credit package program
BRI               - Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BUUD              - Badan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village Unit
Cooperative
CCL               - Criticial Consumption Level
CP                - Cooperative Program
CRIA              - Central Research Institute for Agriculture
DGA               - Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
DGE               - Directorate General of Estates
DGFC              - Directorate General for Food Crops
DGH               - Directorate General of Highways
DIP               - Daftar Isian Projek - Project Budget Document
DPD               - Dinas Perkebunan Daerah - Provincial Estate Crops Services
DPUP              - Provincial Public Work Services
DRC               - Dry Rubber Content
FAO               - Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI               - Government of Indonesia
INPRES            - Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction" - a special
program
IPEDA             - Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
JMO               - Joint Marketing Office
KUD               - Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
MOA               - Ministry of Agriculture
MOASS             - Minister of Agriculture Supporting Staff
MOLT              - Ministry of Labor and Transmigration
MOTC              - Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives
MPW               - Ministry of Public Works and Power
Mil.              - Million
MSL               - Minimum Subsistence Level
PELITA I          - First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70 - 1973/74)
PELITA II         - Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75 - 1979/80)
PMU               - Project Management Unit
PNP               - Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, State-Owned Estate Enterprise
PT                - Perseroan Terbatas - State-Owned Corportation Operating Under
the Commercial Code with Limited Liability
PTP               - Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan, State-Owned Estate Enterprise
with Limited Liability
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. THE SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       .       1
Background  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  1
The Agricultural and Rural Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
The Subsector . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
2.  PURPOSE, PRIORITY AND FORMULATION OF PROJECT  . . . . . . . .    7
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Project Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .    8
Project  Area    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
Design Standards  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
3  THE PROJECT .. . . . . . . . . . . .                             16
Project Summary   ..16
Project Costs and Financing Arrangements  . . . . .  . . .   24
Budgeting   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
Procurement   .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
Disbursement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Quality and Cost Controls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
Accounts and Audit    ..33
Cost  Recovery  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT         ..               .36
Borrowing/Executing Agency Functions  . . . . . . . . . . .   36
Aspects of Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . .   41
The Environment.. . . . .                   . . .             42
5.  DEMAND AND MARKETING ARRANGEMENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
Rubber            .....43
Food Crops           ... ..44
6.  PRODUCTION, TECHNOLOGICAL FACTORS, AND FARM INCOMES ..... 45
General .                          . . . . .. . .   . .  . .   45
Crop Recommendations        ... . .45
Yields and Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   47
Farm  Plans  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  47
Farm  Incomes    .  .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  49
7. COST, BENEFITS, AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   51
Project Benefits and Justification  . . . . . . . . . . . .   51
Costs                 ...52
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. P.R. Melkye, G.B. Fox, T. Prins (Bank), C. Carlier, R. Fuentes, C. Relf,
and M.E.L. Robey (Consultants) which visited Indonesia in September/October 1977.
Messrs. B.S. Gray, R. Alexander and B.H. Pottker also contributed to the
preparation of the report.



- 2 -                         Page No.
Financial Results ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    52
Economic Results  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    54
Project  Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  56
8. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .  . . . . . . .   57
ANNEXES
1. Project Area .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   62
2.  Project Phasing, Cost Estimates, Disbursements .  . . . . . .   65
3.  Project Road Component .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   79
4.  Crop and Farm Budgets ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    86
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
1. Annual Inflation Rate for Project Costing
2. Project Cost Summary
3. Farm Incomes - New Settlement
4. Farm Incomes - Rubber Replanting
5. Results of Cost-Benefit Analysis
6. Results of Economic Analysis
7. Economic Rate of Return Sensitivity Analysis
CHARTS
1.  Organization Chart of Directorate General of Estates
2.  Organization Chart of Government-owned Estates System
3.  Organization Chart of a Government-owned Estates Group (PTP)
4.  Organization Chart of Provincial Government
5.  Organization Chart of Settlement Projects
6.  Organization Chart of Flow of Funds - Noncredit Items
7.  Organization Chart of Flow of Funds - Credit Items
8. Bar Chart - Project Implementation Schedule - Settlement Activities
9. Bar Chart - Project Implementation Schedule - Estate Activities
LIST OF FIGURES
l. Settlement Devlopment Plans
2. Schematic Settlement Layout - Rubber and Food Crop Area
3.-4. Low-cost Housing Plan - First Stage
MAPS
13518 - Riau Project Area
13519 - Jambi Project Area
BACKGROUND ANNEXES - Related documents and statistical data available in
Project File.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR
A. Background
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance to
develop 38,000 ha of rubber and food crop land to settle 7,600 poor families
in Riau and Jambi Provinces, Sumatera, using the public sector estate PTP IV /i
as the development agent under the nucleus estate development scheme. Assist-
ance is also sought to replant 7,500 ha of rubber for 3,750 families in
Riau and Jambi Provinces; strengthening PTP IV through new rubber development
of 3,500 ha in Riau Province; and program support for smallholder and nucleus
estate devlopment through technical assistance to the Directorate General of
Estates, the Directorate General of Highways and the Dinas Perkebunan Daerah
Extension Center in Jambi Province.
1.02      The project was identified by the GOI with assistance of the Bank.
It gives expression to national needs and priorities as outlined in GOI's
Second Five-Year Plan and is consistent with the recommendations of the Bank's
1972 Agricultural Sector Survey. The project was prepared by the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program.
B. The Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.03      In spite of the steady decline in the contribution of agriculture
to GDP from 55% to 33% over the last fifteen years and the declining relative
importance of agricultural exports to total export earnings from 55% to 30%
in the same period, the rural sector remains a major force in the country's
economy and development. Agriculture and to a lesser extent forestry and
fishing, still dominate the life and welfare of the Indonesian people. The
sector's importance in the economy is mainly in terms of its contribution to
employment, export earnings and food production. The sector provides a rising
demand for manufactured goods and a potential large pool of labor available
for employment in other sectors of the economy.
1.04      Some 80% of the country's 135 million people live in rural areas and
about two-thirds of the labor force is partly or fully employed in the sector.
With the exception of oil palms and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholder
production; there are some 14.4 million smallholder families cultivating
subsistence and cash crops on 14.2 million ha. In addition there is estate
/1 A Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan (PTP) is a State-Owned Estate Enterprise.



production from some 1,300 large estates occupying 1.7 million ha. Over the
last five years the volume of agricultural output increased at an average rate
of 4% p.a. while the total output of the Indonesian economy grew at about
7% p.a. The major factor influencing the rate of growth in agricultural
production is rice output which in 1976 accounted for nearly 30% of agricultural
GDP. Growth in the total area harvested has remained steady at about 1% p.a.
and yield increases have been about 2.6% p.a. for the five years to 1974 after
which these yields have been stagnant because of adverse pest and drought
conditions. The present level of rice production, however, will not be
sufficient to close the gap between supply and demand which is expected to
continue to be in the order of 10% of annual production. The production of
corn, sweet potatoes and cassava has remained almost constant over the longer
term; the production of soybeans has steadily increased, albeit from a small
base. There has been growth in the production of almost all of the tree
crops, the growth in production of palm oil being particularly rapid and
growth in rubber output being much slower. Coconut production has remained
virtually stagnant since the late 1950s.
1.05      The population of the rural sector constitutes the major part of the
country's poor. The major problems of the sector relate to over population of
Java, an uneven distribution of population in the rural sector, uneconomic
farms, and low levels of productivity. Java, Madura, and Bali which have the
most favorable soil and climatic conditions in Indonesia have 64% of the
population, but only 7% of the total land area. Although it is estimated that
these inner islands have 45% of all land most suitable for cultivation, the
high population densities on these islands together with the high proportion
of people living in the rural areas have led to intense pressures on arable
land. On Java where 70% of the total land area is cultivated, nearly all the
marginal land and some of the submarginal land has been brought into production.
Fragmentation of farms has increased to the point where about 60% of all farms
are less than 1 ha and about 30% of these are less than 0.25 ha. Division of
farms into more than one parcel of land has also increased by 40% in the last
15 years. The effect is to lower farm incomes and increase the gap between
urban and rural incomes, the latter now being 40% below the level observed for
urban areas. On Java, about one-third of the agricultural labor force is
landless and about 40% of farm family incomes are derived from off-farm work.
With these proportions likely to increase and existing alternate employment
opportunities already overcrowded, the future looks bleak.
1.06      To alleviate these problems in the rural sector, Government set its
priorities for development of the rural sector in the Second Five-Year
Plan, April 1974-March 1979. These were: employment creation, balanced
regional growth and social development, increased food crop production in
pursuit of rice self-sufficiency and increased export crop production, parti-
cularly in rubber to retain Indonesia's market share. In line with these
objectives, the Government has set itself the following tasks: continued
intensification of food crop production and creation of more off-farm employ-
ment opportunities on Java; implementation of an accelerated land settlement
and transmigration program which would bring some of the estimated 40 million
ha of unutilized land on the other islands into smallholder food crop and tree
crop production, implementation of a national replanting program for rubber and
coconuts, and alleviation of poverty in the most severely disadvantaged areas.



-3-
1.07      In support of these objectives, the Government has embarked on a
sizeable program of smallholder tree crop development outside of Java. The
program acknowledges several objectives including the improvement of existing
agriculture while utilizing available resources for the development of large
new areas of unutilized land for land settlement. In view of scarce technical
and managerial capabilities, one of the main approaches selected by the GOI
for a land settleiuent program has been to use state-owned estate companies
(PNP/PTPs) to plant tree crops on land to be settled by local landless families,
and transmigrants. The estate companies provide a range of services with
efficiency and the technology of "estate crops" including the provision of
planting material, land clearing and planting, procurement of inputs and
provide processing and marketing facilities to the smallholders. The main
tree crop at the outset of this program is rubber.
C. The Subsector
Crop Production
1.08      The Indonesian rubber industry, at one time the world's largest
producer of natural rubber, is currently second largest to Malaysia, producing
about 783,000 tons and exporting 750,000 tons in 1975/76 - 22% of total
world exports. The third largest export commodity of Indonesia, natural
rubber comprises 6-8% of total agricutlural GDP, 8% of export earnings and 20%
of non-oil exports. The industry provides full-time employment for 2 million
people and part-time employment for an additional 8 million people.
1.09      In the years to 1970 there was steady growth in the industry.  From
1965-1970 for example total rubber production increased on average 2.1% p.a.
and the area under rubber increased on average 1.7% p.a. From 1970-1975
however there has been a marked and ever-accelerating decline, total rubber
production fell on average 0.48% p.a. and the growth in rubber area slowed
to 0.09% p.a. Rubber yields in these 10 years remained stable, around 300-
330 kg DRC/ha. Future total production is likely to decrease significantly
due mainly to the relatively small area of new plantings over the past 15
years and the deterioration of many of the rubber plantings established in
the ten-year period after World War II. In order to return rubber production
to present levels (1975), new planting and replanting would need to be at a
rate of about 50,000 ha a year, a program which would be enormous relative to
past programs. Without such a program it is expected that by 1990 the total
area under rubber would be about 870,000 ha and total production as low as
610,000 tons.
Structure of Rubber Production
1.10      About 70% of national production comes from smallholders who have
80% of the total rubber area with average rubber holdings of 1.5 ha. About
70% of the 1.9 million ha of smallholder rubber is grown in Sumatera and 19%
in Kalimantan. Most of this area was planted in the 1950s and early 1960s when
prices in 1975 constant terms remained favorable at over $1/kg. These plant-
ings, however, were slightly greater than those needed to replace rubber that
had become too old or was abandoned. Consequently the total planted area of
smallholder rubber increased from 1.4 million ha in 1959 to 1.8 million ha



- 4 -
in 1970 and has remained at that level to the present. There is very little
evidence of replanting by smallholders, most of the area being rejuvenated by
poor quality self-sown seedling rubber growing through existing stands. Small-
holder production characterizes most of this area development. During the
1960s production increased from 480,000 to 571,000 tons in 1970, then stagnated
until 1973 when production reached almost 600,000 tons due to a short-term
price increase. By 1975, smallholder production had declined to 536,000 tons.
In the absence of settlement and rubber replanting programs, this decline is
expected to continue so that by 1990 the area of smallholder rubber will be
about 630,000 ha and production about 270,000 tons.
1.11      There is a well-established estate rubber sector of 432,000 ha
comprised of the PNPs and PTPs with 190,000 ha (44%); private national estates
with 171,000 ha (40%), and private foreign estates with 71,000 ha (16%). The
main center of estates production is Sumatera, followed by Java and Kalimantan.
The area under rubber in government estates decreased from 225,000 ha in 1970
to 180,000 in 1977 while production increased from about 118,000 tons to
145,000 tons. Similarly, private foreign estate companies decreased their
area from about 71,000 ha to about 68,000 ha in the same period while their
production increased from 40,000 tons to about 55,000 tons. Development of
the private national estates has in many respects been similar to that for
smallholders. The area of these estates was estimated to be 171,000 ha in
1976, production was 52,000 tons, 55% of this coming from North Sumatera.
Although plantings and replantings since 1961 by private national estates are
50,000 ha, it is expected that by 1990, their area will have dropped to
65,000 ha, and the production to 43,000 tons.
1.12      The forecast of a substantial decrease in the future production
of rubber has stimulated Government to initiate an expansion program for
rubber replanting and new rubber planting. The focus of this program is
smallholder development, first to raise the productivity of existing holdings
through the provision of high quality planting material, fertilizers and
improved farmer education in modern husbandry, and secondly, to assist poor
and landless families to clear unused jungle and plant new rubber. Such a
program is pressing not only to reverse the trend in declining export crop
production and foreign exchange earnings but also for immediately benefiting
the rural poor.
Agricultural Institutions
1.13      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).  The MOA comprises five Direc-
torates General (Estates, Fisheries, Food Crops, Forestry and Livestock).
The Directorate General of Estates (DGE)/1 has regulatory responsibility
for all privately owned estates, smallholdings involving tree crops and
industrial crops which include rubber, coconuts, oil palms, tea, coffee,
tobacco, etc. These responsibilities are shared within three Directorates
within the DGE in Jakarta; Planning, Production and Means of Operation. Organ-
ization of the DGE is presented in Chart 1. Extension services to tree
/1 The term "estates" in Indonesia comprises large estates and smallholdings
planted with tree crops.



- 5 -
crop smallholders are the responsibility of the DGE and the Provincial
Estate Crop Service (Dinas Perkebunan Daerah) for which the DGE has technical
responsibility in each province. The responsibilities for public sector
estates rest with the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises created in March 1976. This body
assists the Minister in policy formulation, coordination of estate crop
activities, estate inspection, estate budget approval and control, and monitor-
ing and evaluation of the operations of the public sector estates. Both the
MOA Support Staff and the DGE have received technical assistance under the
Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project, Loan 1499-IND, in order to facili-
tate more efficient operations of the public sector estate system and to
assist the DGE in preparation and implementation of smallholder development
projects for which finance, facilities, and manpower have been small in
relation to the size of the program. Improved operations and project imple-
mentation have resulted from this technical assistance. Extension services to
tree crop smallholders continue to suffer because neither the DGE nor the
Provincial Estate Crop Service has had adequate funds to improve the scope of
extension to smallholder tree crop farmers or the number of tree crop extension
personnel.
1.14      Public Sector Estates.  The Indonesian Estates Industry is dominated
by the public sector estates comprising 28 estate groups which are located
mainly in Northern Sumatera and Java with over 500,000 ha of plantation crops
excluding pine forests. Organization of the Government-owned estates system
is shown in Chart 2. Government policy is now to convert their fully owned
estate enterprises, the PNPs,/1 into PTPs which are limited liability companies
operating under the Indonesian Commercial Code. The majority of these estates
have now been converted. Organization of a Government-owned estates group
is shown in Chart 3. The importance of this vast estate enterprise to the
rural sector is that it employs over 500,000 resident and seasonal staff and
labor, and it is estimated that the welfare of 3 million people is immediately
dependent on the estates system. The quality of management on the estates has
greatly improved since the 1960s and with such improvments, the estates are
now able to facilitate smallholder development.
1.15      Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI).  BRI provides short-term credit to agri-
cultural cooperatives, farmers, fishermen and other agricultural enterprises.
BRI participates in the administration of the Mass-Guidance (BIMAS) program of
seasonal production credit, a national program to raise food crop production
and farm income by supplying credit and cash inputs at subsidized prices,
mainly to rice farmers. This program administered by the Director General of
Food Crops (also MOA) is implemented through village units throughout Indonesia
in each of which the BRI establishes a credit office. With the exception of the
Tea Smallholders and Private Estates Project (Credit 400-IND), BRI has had
very little involvement in the provision of long-term credit necessary for
tree crop financing. Under the proposed IDA assisted Rural Credit Project
the BRI would expand credit operations to tree crop agriculture. Until such
time as BRI is fully capable of tree crop credit operations, the BRI has
11 The PNPs, Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, were classified in 1968 during
reorganization of the estates groups as PNP I- PNP XXVIII.



-6-
agreed to utilize a simplified credit delivery system for administrating
rubber loans through nucleus estate contractors as presently implemented
under the first Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project (Loan 1499-IND).
Other Institutions and Government Planning for the Rubber Sector
1.16      In addition to the aforementioned institutions, the Ministry of
Trade and Cooperatives (MOTC) intervenes in the subsector with responsibility
for policies on product specifications, quality control and smallholder
marketing. The Ministry of Industry is responsible for processor licensing.
The salient feature to this mix of institutions in the rubber subsector,
however, is that there is no single authoritative body such as a national
rubber board representing the interests of the rubber industry. The Government
is presently considering the possibilities for such a board and the introduc-
tion of a national rubber tax, the CESS,so as to plan, guide and finance a
national rubber replanting scheme. Although the public sector estates in the
rubber subsector can further national rubber production through rehabilitation
of their own existing areas, significant increases in national production can
only be achieved with massive replanting in smallholder areas and new plantings
in smallholder settlements and estates. The proposed project starts this
replanting process utilizing the nucleus estate approach for both new rubber
development and rubber replanting to provide for about 26,200 ha of rubber
development in addition to the ongoing projects and those under preparation
encompassing about 150,000 ha spread over 5-6 years.
Bank Group Lending in the Subsector
1.17      In support of the policy objectives of Government, Bank Group
assistance to smallholder rubber producers has included Credit 358-IND (North
Sumatera Smallholder Development Project) for $5 million and Loan 1499-IND
(Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project) for $65 million. The full
program of oil palm and rubber planting by smallholder participants in the
former project, now nearing completion, has been successful. Costs of the
project have increased from $10 million estimated at appraisal to about
$30 million by project completion. Higher than anticipated outputs and
prices for rubber and oil palm, and improved project development techniques,
should more than compensate for the cost increases. The Project's return
to the economy is likely to be higher than the 14% estimated at appraisal.
1.18      It is too early to judge the success of the Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders I Project since the Loan only became effective in January 1978.
Preliminary indications are, however, that the Project is off to an excellent
start. Land clearing is in full progress, high quality planting material is
being prepared for distribution to smallholders and an experienced project
staff with comprehensive technical assistance backing is being assembled
on the project sites in Aceh, South Sumatera and West Java. The project will
benefit some 5,750 settler families and raise their present level of net
income from $250 to about $800 (constant 1976) by year 10. It will also
create about 11,500 permanent jobs and a further 4,000 casual jobs and will
return about 15% to the economy. Smallholder rubber development has also been
started on modest areas in Southern Sumatera under the Transmigration and Rural
Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).



1.19      Assistance for rehabilitation of existing rubber in public sector
estates was given to certain priority estate groups under IDA Credits 155, 194
and 319 since these estates were planted between 1935-40, and had by the early and
mid-1960's become low yielding and uneconomic. Credit 319-IND (Fourth Agri-
cultural Estates Project) has progressed particularly rapidly with plantings
of rubber and oil palm in excellent condition and well ahead of appraisal
estimates. The recently published project performance audit Report for
Credits 155 and 194, /1 the latter providing assistance for the rehabilitation
of PTP IV, has found that from both the Government and Bank's viewpoint, both
projects, on balance have been successful in physical and financial terms.
PTP IV has been selected as the nucleus estate for the proposed project. The
scope of the program of NES projects and a replanting program must be made
sufficiently large with the goal to plant 50,000 ha/year if production in
1990 is to return to present levels and the share of Indonesian rubber in the
world market is to be retained.
2. PURPOSE, PRIORITY AND FORMULATION OF PROJECT
A. Prolect Oblectives
2.01      Basic Objectives.  GOI economic objectives for the rubber subsector
and for the regional development to which the project would contribute are
(a) to increase the efficiency of the subsector by raising yields and lowering
unit costs of production; (b) to increase production of rubber leading to
increased exports and foreign exchange earnings; and (c) to increase the supply
of raw materials for local processing in the rapidly expanding industrial and
urban areas outside of Java, particularly in Sumatera thereby creating
secondary employment. The proposed project is designed as a particularly
effective means of helping to achieve GOI objectives for development of the
rubber subsector since the project would not only settle poor and landless
families on largely unproductive land while raising rubber output and export
income, but would also minimize the drain on public resources through an
innovative system of cost recovery.
2.02      Socially the project would generate productive employment at a
relatively low cost, raise family incomes of the landless or near landless
poor, and stimulate small business in the project areas. The project would
provide for a low cost health delivery system (Puskesmas) including malaria
control, improved water and sanitation, family planning and basic health
services for about 65,000 people. Primary and secondary education facilities
would be provided for children of 11,350 families. Regional needs would be
served with new and upgraded roads to improve transportation for about 150,000
people living in or near the project area. The project would establish at the
end of the project period a high-yielding, permanent tree crop and provide a
stable and proven agricultural system responsive to critera for protection of
the environment, particularly since shifting cultivation and indiscriminate
/1 Project Performance Audit Report - Indonesia - First and Second North
Sumatera Estates Projects (Credit 155-IND and Credit 194-IND) Report No.
2033, April 20, 1978.



-8-
forest clearing are serious problems. The project would assist in institution
building with benefits for the Directorate General of Estates in planning,
implementation and evaluation of ongoing projects, and the Directorate
General of Highways through technical assistance for road development.
Assistance for a Dinas Perkebunan Extension Training Center in Jambi would
provide a new facility to serve the extension training needs in rubber
management in Sumatera.
2.03      GOI requires that public sector estates with their technical and
managerial expertise be utilized as nuclei to promote and guide smallholder
development. The use of public sector estates is an effective way to realize
these stated GOI objectives since in an environment of scarce technical and
managerial skills the GOI can rely on the PNP/PTPs to meet the demanding
requirements of settlement and rubber development in clearing jungle, providing
employment to poor and needy families to be settled in the area, and securing
sufficient inputs and marketing facilities to ensure that settlers become
successful smallholder producers. Most other schemes to meet these objectives
would require new and costly organizational efforts on the part of GOI agencies
when these services are already comprehensively carried out by public sector
estates. The crops which best lend themselves for development by nucleus
estates at present are rubber, coconuts and oil palm. These crops have satis-
factory export potential; their returns to the farmer are satisfactory, pro-
duction and processing techniques are well known in Indonesia and the crops
are well suited to the poorer soils of Sumatera and Kalimantan where there are
large tracts of undeveloped agricultural land available for settlement.
B. Prolect Formulation
2.04      Project Constraints.  The formidable number of poor farmers, land-
less people and the growing number of underemployed and unemployed in the
rural labor force and the shortage of finance for development necessitates
that the project be designed to minimize the cost of settlement per family and
yet provide sufficient on-farm investment to assure their successful livelihood.
The project has therefore been formulated to utilize fully the opportunities
of farm family self-help and to minimize Government expenditures on agri-
cultural support, social services and project infrastructure. Conceptually,
the proposed project is the same as the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I
project, the role of the nucleus estate, however, being broadened to include
rubber replanting. Technical, organizational and financial details are,
except in a few minor cases, the same as in the first nucleus estate project.
2.05      The project should be effective in meeting the various constraints
which have been encountered in past smallholder projects in the subsector.
These are managerial in relation to physical planning and implementation;
administrative in respect to estate and settler financing arrangements;
and social with regard to smallholder organization and training. Firstly,
the public sector estate, PTP IV, would provide services as a nucleus estate
to assist smallholder development as contractors for rubber establishment,
including land clearing, planting and maintenance during the first five years
to rubber maturity and later as suppliers of services such as processing,
marketing and settler training in rubber industry. Secondly, since past



problems with project financing have been caused by the use of multiple
sources of funds, each with different cumbersome procedures for allocation,
provision and release, project financing has been simplified into two separate
streams: budget funds from the Government for infrastructure, social services,
main access and primary village roads, and the provision of credit for rubber
development through the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). The administrative
burden of maintaining separate settler accounts and credit arrangements have
been minimized for rubber development by providing the necessary funds
directly to a public sector nucleus estate for each settlement area and
establishing a standard mortgage for each settler. Finally, problems of
organizing the training of settlers will be minimized if they are organized
on the estate in working groups under the supervision of experienced foremen
who can help them learn the skills of their new trade. As estate laborers
for the first three years of settlement, they would have an assured source of
income and access to health, education and welfare facilities on the estate.
In order to facilitate an environment for fair treatment in respect to input
costs, prices for produce and continuous training in farm management, the
Director General of Estates would have overall authority for project implemen-
tation and settler organization in collaboration with Provincial Government.
2.06      Rubber Replanting.  The project has been designed to broaden the
developmental role of public sector estates in the areas contiguous to those
where new settlements would be established to include rubber replanting on
existing smallholdings where the productive life of rubber trees is now less
than 10 years. An expanded role of the nucleus estates to include replanting
would not conflict with other plans and strategies now being formulated for
rubber replanting in this or any other areas of Indonesia nor would it conflict
with the plans for Assisted Rubber Replanting Programs utilizing either
Project Management Units or the local Dinas Perkebunan Daerah (Provincial
Estate Crops Services).
2.07      In the area surrounding the proposed project sites, present holdings
support a substantial number of families which are actively tapping rubber,
growing food crops and earning average annual net family incomes of about
Rp 300,000 (US$720). Although the incomes of existing rubber smallholders are
relatively high compared to a large part of the rural population, and these
families are well settled on productive land, incomes of these families are
likely to substantially decline as their rubber trees become exhausted. These
smallholders should not be ignored in the development of the project area. It
would be particularly costly to uproot these people and consider them as new
settlers, provide them with new housing, bulldoze their old but still economic
rubber trees, consolidate and redistribute their land, plant new improved
rubber clones and then have them wait six years for the new rubber to mature.
Rather, the inclusion of existing surrounding smallholders in rubber replanting
in the project would provide project management and local government authorities
with the opportunity to meet the present and future needs of project benefi-
ciaries either through new settlement or rubber replanting development.
2.08     Nucleus Estate Development.  Vital to smallholder development, the
project is also designed to strengthen the capacity of the public sector
estate, PTP IV, for its role as the nucleus estate. To achieve this objective,
PTP IV would be assisted to improve its economic efficiency by increasing its
area of planted rubber. The project would provide for the establishment of a



- 10 -
small, but viable nucleus estate of 3,500 ha of rubber in the Riau project
area and also with an office and nucleus estate facilities in the Jambi project
area.
C. Project Area
2.09      Location.  The project is located within the Provinces of Riau and
Jambi in Central Sumatera. In Riau Province the project would be sited in
the Air Molek west block which is about 140 km south of Pakanbaru and north
of the Indragiri River. Project developments would also include the Air
Molek east block which is located about 22 km east from the Air Molek west
area and south of the Indragiri River. Rubber replanting would be undertaken
predominately along the existing roads in both areas for rubber smallholders.
The project area in Riau Province is shown in Map 13518. The siting of the
nucleus estate development for PTP IV in the Riau area would be located in
the Air Molek west block on the eastern most portion just north of the
Provincial road bordering the Indragiri private estate. It is expected that
the Indragiri estate may provide additional land to the project area since
the estate is returning concession land to the GOI and is presently consoli-
dating its own area about 10 km to the east of the block boundary and convert-
ing old low producing seedling rubber to oil palm. Total gross land area to
be made available to the project in Riau Province for new settlement and
nucleus estate development would be about 41,000 ha.
2.10      The Jambi project area located on the Bajubang block is about 20 km
southwest of Jambi town and south of the Batang Hari River. Total gross area
for new settlement in this block would be about 11,875 ha while an additional
4,500 ha of land would be replanted for existing smallholders living predomi-
nantly in the southern part of the Bajubang block between Tempino and Bajubang
town. Much of the southern part of the Bajubang area has been excluded for
new settlement since Pertamina is located in this area on large holdings and
much of the topography in the southern forest area is not suitable for small-
holder development. The Senami area of Jambi just west of the Bajubang block
was similarly excluded from development since high investment costs would have
been required for drainage, soil conservation and roads. The Bajubang area is
shown in Map 13519.
2.11      Climate.  Mean monthly rainfall figures for Jambi and Riau are
provided in Annex 1, Table 1 and 2. Total rainfall is adequate for growing
rubber. The mean temperature for the town of Palembang, about 150 km southeast
of Jambi and 300 km southeast of Air Molek varies from 260 to 27.50 C
in January and May, respectively and reflect those of the project area (Annex 1,
Table 3). Wind velocities are low in both project areas and present no risk
to tree crops. Soils and topography of the project area are covered in
para 6.03.
2.12      Land Use.  The project areas have a low land use intensity.  About
60% of the Jambi project area is covered in primary forest and further 30% is
under secondary forest mixed with rubber. In Riau 14% of the project area is
primary forest, 30% is swamp land and 47% is secondary forest mixed with
rubber. The primary forest is not suitable for large scale mechanical exploita-
tion, as the volume of commercial timber is less than 25 cubic meters per ha.
A number of small forestry concessions have operated in the area for many
years.



- 11 -
2.13      Much of the rubber in the area is senescent.  Some 15% of the rubber
trees are more than 40 years old, 22% are older than 30 and 56% are between 10
and 30 years, their average being 19 years. Less than 20% of the trees are
under 10 years, most of these are low yielding, self-sown seedlings. There
is very little evidence of replanting. Of the mature rubber between 10
and 30 years old, some 20% is not tapped due to problems of access, shortage
of tappers and poor production. The condition of the trees is poor. Growth
is very slow due to severe weed competition, soils of low fertility and lack
of fertilizer. Tapping which starts usually around year 10 is excessive and
of a low standard with the result that there is serious wounding and wastage of
bark. Yields in the project area are low, averaging 350 kg per year. About
65% of the farmers in the project area grow annual subsistence food crops,
upland rice being the major crop. In addition a mixture of fruit trees and
vegetables is grown around the house. In general, techniques are traditional
and typical of shifting cultivation systems. Livestock is not important.
2.14      Population and Incomes.  About 5,000 families live in and adjacent
to the Riau project area, 85% of these in Air Molek west. The average family
size is five and the average population density is six per square kilometer.
Some 25-30% of families in Riau, and a similar percentage in the Jambi
project area, are landless. Farm holdings in both areas are large by most
Indonesian standards, averaging six ha. Of the families with land, about 18%
have holdings between 0.1 and 2 ha in both Jambi and Riau; 17% in Jambi and
46% in Riau have holdings from 2.1 to 5 ha; 23% of families in both areas have
holdings between 5.1 and 10 ha; and 39% in Jambi and 14% in Riau have holdings
greater than 10 ha. Roughly 45% of both project areas are farmed by indivi-
duals with user rights to more than 10 ha. The amount of land available for
closer settlement and intensification of production is considerable.
2.15      The average annual family income of a typical household in Riau and
Jambi is about Rp 300,000. The percentage composition of income is: rubber
45%, food crops 42%; and off-farm labor 13%. Rubber smallholders in these
areas are above the national average and have 4.5 ha rubber of which 3.0 ha
are in production and 1.5 ha is too old to tap. On average farmers grow 50%
of their family's rice requirements. In addition, garden crops such as
cassava, soya bean, peanuts, vegetables and fruits are grown for home con-
sumption. Off-farm jobs are more readily available in Jambi than in the
Air Molek areas of Riau where there has been an outmigration in recent years
due to lack of remunerative employment opportunities.
Infrastructure
2.16      Roads.  The present road network in both the Riau and Jambi project
areas is poor and conditions are inadequate even for current needs. In Riau
Province access to Air Molek west from Penkanbaru, the provincial capital, and
from Rengat, the district headquarters and inland port, except for a regular
air link, is by earth surfaced road with sporadic gravel stretches which have
minimal drainage. Some stretches of road, particularly the links from Rengat
to the north, become impassable during the rainy season. Access to Air Molek
east is by ferry which requires substantial improvement. Internal roads exisL
in both project areas of Air Molek west and east, but in Air Molek east the
Kabupaten and Inpres roads are in extremely poor condition. Roads in Jambi



- 12 -
link the provincial capital and inland port to Padang (560 km) on the west
coast via Muarabungo and to the southeast with Palembang (300 km).
2.17      Water Transport and Port Facilities.  The Kuantan River in Riau
Province provides transport from Rengat to Baserah, Kualacenako and Tembilahan
on the coast. Riverboats and barges up to 100 tons cap'acity can operate from
the coast to Rengat in the wet season and Kualacenako in the dry season.
Facilities at both ports are minimal, but sufficient for project implementation.
In Jambi the Batang Hari River flows west to east from Muoratembesi to Jambi
port (140 km). The river is navigable to Jambi for sea going vessels up to
1,000 tons DWT and port facilities are adequate for project requirements.
D. Design Standards
2.18      Family Income and the Farm Plan.  GOI formulation of a family net
income target coupled with the decision to recover a proportion of the farm
development costs are key elements in determining the size and type of farm
operation required for financial viability. In formulating policy for Nucleus
Estates projects for the Pelita II period, GOI has indicated that the minimum
level of net family income of US$800 (constant 1976) would be acceptable at
full development (US$900 constant 1977). The farm plan has been designed to
provide the least investment cost allocation by GOI for settlement projects
while maintaining incomes per farm family at about US$900 at full development
and after cost recovery (para. 3.51).
2.19      Family income of US$900 at full project development is an acceptable
target for Nucleus Estates projects within the national criteria for absolute
poverty levels, and regional requirements in the project areas. The absolute
poverty level in Indonesia is estimated at Rp 39,500 (US$95) per person per
annum. A target net family income of US$900 after debt service implies a
growth rate of 5% in per capita consumption to 1990-91 from the poverty income
level. Comparison of this family income target with present family incomes of
prospective settlers indicates that US$900 at full development would provide
adequate incentive to relocate. A farm plan generating this income would ensure
that families remain on the settlement and develop their holdings. This farm
income level would keep pace with projected gradual improvements in real wages of
casual laborers in the area which are expected to be about US$850-900 by 1990-91.
2.20      The analysis of various farm models when related to potential family
income resulted in a plan which would allocate a block of two ha of clonal
rubber within a total farm size of 5 ha for each settler. Provision is also
made in the farm plan for production of basic family food supplies. In addition
to the establishment of a small (0.15 ha) intensively cultivated house garden,
the farm plan envisages that each family would practice rotational annual food
cropping in a total area of 2.8 ha. The role of the nucleus estate, PTP IV,
would be to block plant rubber and allocate 2 ha to each family as well as
clear the first 0.4 ha of food crop land. In the period of immaturity, one
member per smallholder family would be offered full-time employment as a
rubber smallholder-trainee employed by the nucleus estate. The settler's
income would clearly be higher than what he would earn purely by food cropping.
At full development, the total farm area would consist not only of 2 ha of



- 13 -
rubber (planted under nucleus estate supervision) and a 0.15 ha house lot with
fruits and vegetables, but it is expected that smallholders would plant an
additional ha of tree crops from their resources in either coconut or rubber.
About 1.8 ha of land would then be left for rotational food cropping/legumi-
nous fallow.
2.21      Assistance for rubber replanting for existing smallholders in or
near the project area is targeted for those families below the average income
level of Rp 300,000 (US$720). In practice it is expected that beneficiaries
for rubber replanting would be families with incomes between Rp 150,000 and
200,000 (US$350-500) and with 2 ha or less under rubber for which the produc-
tive life of existing rubber would be 10 years or less. The farm plan would
be implemented according to a strategy similar to the nucleus estate role in
new settlements. PTP IV would assist in clearing, planting and provision of
inputs for a three-year period for two ha replanted rubber for each family
included in the project (para. 3.03). Inputs would be provided and supplied
by the nucleus estate to the time of rubber maturity. Smallholders for rubber
replanting would not be required to work as nucleus estate laborers but would
provide their labor on their immediate holdings. It is envisaged that most
rubber replanting would be carried out with the first of 2 ha per family
cleared and planted in Year 1 while the second would be planted in Year 3 in
order that smallholders do not have drastic reductions in their present
incomes. This strategy does not require additional allocations of land for
food cropping although credit facilities would be available for additional
inputs for food crop needs as required. The farm plan would also be consis-
tent with GOI income objectives since replanters would have net family incomes
of US$900 at full development which would provide sufficient cash income to
enable smallholders to plant additional areas with tree crops or provide
additional inputs for food crops. Incomes from both farm plans are further
described in para. 6.16.
2.22      Rubber Development.  Estate standards for rubber development including
labor and machine requirements for land clearing, the use of fertilizer and
other inputs and the cost of rubber establishment would be used as provided in
the Project File. Standards for rubber are based on experience with PTP X, V,
and IV. PTP IV selected as the nucleus estate for the proposed project has
developed considerable skill in land clearing and rubber development under
Credit 194-IND. To carry out the proposed project it is essential that
PTP IV has full authority over the resources, machinery, material inputs, the
training of labor and control of finance, required to achieve and hand over to
the settler potentially high yielding areas of three-year old rubber. Project
design has therefore aimed at making the nucleus estate responsible not only
for clearing of land, rubber planting and maintenance, but also the construction
of rubber area roads, provision of building materials and supervision of
settlers' own construction of housing, the procurement and application of
inputs for development during the entire rubber immature period, and the
clearing of an initial food crop area (0.4 ha) for each new settler family.
Rubber would be established in large blocks of at least 500 ha so as to
maximize economies of scale. The nucleus estate would be required to hire new
settlers as laborers and provide temporary housing until settlers' own houses
are constructed. PTP IV would be authorized to recruit casual labor whenever
settler labor is unavailable or when additional demand requires.



- 14 -
Settlement Design Standards
2.23      Village Layout.  In planning a new land use pattern for the project
areas of Riau and Jambi, the basic principle in design has been to identify
areas suitable for rubber and food crops and those areas now occupied and
potentially suitable for rubber replanting. New food crop blocks would be
restricted to land within slope classes 1 and 2 (00 - 30and 40 - 60 respec-
tively) to reduce the need for soil conservation and minimize extension require-
ments.   Rubber has been allocated to slope classes 3 and 4 (70 - 120 and
130 - 180 respectively). Detailed mapping of the distribution of land for
rubber and food crops was undertaken at appraisal and is available in the
Project File. Central and satellite villages for new settlement have been
based on the location of these blocks in order to locate villages on the food
crop areas in a nucleated layout /1 thereby minimizing road development costs
and maximizing community development as in the traditional Sumateran village
layouts. Each village has been sited for smallholders to live on a 0.2 ha
house and garden lot on their food crop area within a maximum of 3 km distance
from the extremities of this lot to the rubber area. Primary villages would
vary in size between 160-225 families and satellite villages from 75 to 125
families.
2.24      Settler Housing.  The design standards for settler housing have been
based on considerations of cultural preference of the settlers themselves, the
availability of building materials, and the Indonesian concept of gotong
royong (mutual self-help among farm families). Two basic settler houses on a
core shell basis, have been designed for settlement, one being more suitable
for upland areas (Figure 3) and the other more suitable for lowland areas
(Figure 4). Both houses would have an enclosed living area of 35 sq m, which
represents an expansion of the house designed for the NES I project. The cost
for each house type is estimated at Rp 165,000 (US$395), a reduction in the
housing cost of past smallholder projects owing to the fact that settlers
would construct their own houses in work units under nucleus estate supervision.
The upland house is characterized by stub walls made from Cimva-Ram type
cement stabilized building blocks (40 cm x 20 cm x 10 cm) with timber cladding
on a timber frame and a verandah. The lowland house would be built on stilts
of concrete with an entirely timber frame and cladding. Both houses would
require BWG 34 galvanized sheeting for roofing material.
2.25      Settlement Facilities.  To ensure replicability, settlement d,sign
for village buildings including community halls, schools, religious facilities
would be based on GOI standard designs and would be constructed by existing
provincial services and agencies. Initially, higher levels of these services
would be concentrated in central villages. Health and school facilities would
be designed to reflect target levels set in the second Five-Year Plan and
developed under the INPRES (Rural Public Works) Program.
2.26      Road Development.  Design standards for roads have been based on the
requirements for access to the settlement scheme with particular attention
given to the requirements of collection and transporting latex as a perishable
/1 Settlement and village layout plans are in Figures 1 and 2.



- 15 -
product. The hierarchy of roads and tracks forming a comprehensive network
over a wide area would include:
(a) main access road in each project area to remain open in all weather
to medium-weight passenger and goods vehicles;
(b) primary village roads forming spurs from main access roads to provide
all-weather access to light passenger and goods vehicles;
(c) secondary village roads leading from either main access roads or
extensions to primary village roads to provide an earth-surfaced
access to four-wheel drive vehicles and agricultural tractors;
and
(d) rubber collection tracks through the newly planted-rubber areas to
provide access through most of the year to four-wheel drive vehicles
and agricultural tractors; in addition tapping paths to each plot of
smallholder rubber would provide access by foot or bicycle for
tapping requirements in the new rubber trees.
2.27      Planned alignments for the main access, primary village and secondary
village roads as well as descriptions of existing roads, soils and terrain and
proposed road cross sections are detailed in the Project File. Design specifi-
cations for roads include:  (a)  main access to be 'bvilt 6.5 m wide with a
pavement width of 4.5 m on a wearing surface of laterite or gravel depending
on sources of sound materials and a maximum gradient not exceeding 12%. Access
roads would be on a crown height of 70 cm above prevailing land, would have
the combined thickness of a laterite subbase and base of 25 cm and 10 cm on
the 1.0 m shoulders. Cement stabilization of poor soils may be needed and
detailed engineering studies would be required for analyzing the stabilization
of base and subbase materials/i; (b) primary village roads to be built 5.0 m
wide with a 3.0 m wearing surface of laterite included in a 30 cm embankment
crown height; (c) secondary villge roads to be built to estate standards
(secondary estate road) with 3 m width of improved earth surface on an embank-
ment height of 25 cm; and (d) rubber collection tracks with a 2.5 m width of
earth surface would also be built to estate standard and would equal about 25
m per ha of new rubber. Management and supervision of construction of the
road network in the project area is covered in para. 4.11.
2.28      Selection and Recruitment of Smallholders.  New settlements have
been designed to provide for landless participants or those who presently have
small uneconomic holdings. Priority would be given firstly to suitably quali-
fied rural families within the project area, and secondly to those residents
of the Province in which the project is located. It is anticipated that about
25% of the new settlers would be transmigrants from Java who would be recruited
by the Directorate General of Transmigration in coordination with the DGE.
Applicant families would include male heads of households between 20-40 years
and preference would be given to families with incomes below Rp 150,000 (US$360).
/1   The Central Road Research Directorate of Bina Marga, Jakarta, would carry
out these initial stabilization studies.



- 16 -
Preference would be given to applicant families for rubber replanting with
incomes below Rp 200,000 (US$500) (para. 2.21). Recruitment for new settlement
and rubber replanting would be carried out by the Project Manager in cooperation
with the Provincial Coordinating Committee (para. 4.08). Detailed guidelines
for selection and recruitment are available in the Project File.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Summary
3.01      The project areas are outlined in paras. 2.09 and 2.10.  The main projeci
components are summarized below:
3.02      New land settlement and development for smallholders utilizing a
public sector estate as the nucleus:
(a) New settlement in Air Molek, Riau
(i)  block planting of 11,400 ha of rubber with nucleus estate
maintenance for three years;
(ii)  distribution of seeds and fertilizer for food crops for the
first year of each settler family arrival covering 3,420 ha
within an overall available area of 17,100 ha including
1,140 ha of house and garden lots;
(iii)  construction in the new settler areas of eleven central villages
each with a village center, and 18 satellite villages with
houses for 5,700 families;
(iv)  construction and upgrading of 108 km of all-weather project
access road, 56 km of all-weather primary village roads and
73 km of earth surfaced secondary village road and 373 km of
farm roads and tracks;
(v)  construction of school facilities in each central village and
health facilities in all villages; and
(vi)  establishment and staffing of agricultural credit, extension
and cooperative services.
(b) New settlement at Bajubang, Jambi
(i)  block planting of 3,800 ha of rubber with nucleus estate main-
tenance for three years;
(ii)  distribution of seed and fertilizer for food crops for the first
year of each settler family arrival covering 1,140 ha within an
overall available area of 5,700 ha including 380 ha of house
and garden lots;



- 17 -
(iii) construction in the new settler areas of four central villages
each with a village center and eight satellite villages with
houses for 1,900 families.
(iv)  construction of 33 km of all-weather project access road, 10 km
of all-weather primary village road, 36 km of earth surfaced
secondary village road and 96 km of farm roads and tracks;
(v) construction of schools and facilities in each central village
and health facilities in all villages; and
(vi)  establishment and staffing of agricultural credit, extension and
cooperative services.
3.03      Rubber replanting for existing smallholders in each of the project
areas utilizing the nucleus estate for development.
(a) Rubber replanting in Air Molek, Riau
(i) replanting of 3,000 ha of senescent seedling rubber by the
nucleus estate with improved clones to benefit 1,500 families;
(ii)  construction of roads as outlined in 3.02 (a)(iv) to also bene-
fit 1,500 families in the rubber replanting area; and
(iii) establishment of agricultural credit, extension and cooperative
services.
(b)  Rubber replanting in Baiubang, Jambi
(i) replanting of 4,500 ha of senescent seedling rubber by the
nucleus estate to benefit 2,250 families;
(ii)  construction of roads as outlined in 3.02 (b)(iv) to also benefit
2,250 families in the rubber replanting area; and
(iii) establishment and staffing of agricultural credit, extension and
cooperative services.
3.04      Strengthening of the public sector estate group of PTP IV for its
role as the nucleus estate:
(a)  new planting of 3,500 ha of block rubber in Air Molek west in Riau
Province;
(b)  construction of 274 single and double houses for estate employee
families resulting from the employment of about 1,737 laborers and
nucleus estate staff by the end of 1983 as required for both small-
holder and estate development /1; and
/1 The total housing program includes 1,157 single and double houses of which
883 houses mostly for field staff, would be provided under new settlement
development costs at Riau.



- 18 -
(c) construction of buildings for divisional offices, social services,
garages and workshop and technical assistance.
3.05      Program support and technical assistance for smallholder and nucleus
estate development:
(a) technical assistance to the Directorate General of Estates (DGE)
for project preparation, planning, implementation and evaluation:
(i)  a specialist in smallholder coconut agronomy for program
preparation for a period of three years;
(ii)  short-term consultants for quality control inspection
services, pest and disease management, upland soils,
surveying, project preparation, and monitoring and
evaluation;
(b) technical assistance to develop extension and training facilities at
the Dinas Perkebunan Extension Center at Sungai Tiga (Jambi) to facili-
tate extension and training in smallholder rubber management in Sumaterz
and
(c) technical assistance to the Directorate General of Highways for
preparation and supervision of construction of all-weather main
access and primary village roads, and preparation of a road
maintenance program for the project areas.
Detailed Features /1
(a) New Settlement - Riau (IJS$32.1 million)
Physical Development
3.06      Rubber Block Planting (US$13.9 million).  Each settler family would
receive a 2 ha block of rubber in a total land allocation of 5 ha subject to
conditions as detailed in para. 4.14. A total of 11,400 ha would be planted
with rubber in blocks of 500 ha or greater. Land would be cleared by the PTP
IV nucleus estate, who would supply polybag clonal planting material and
fertilizer and employ settlers on contract as trainee rubber farmers, ti)
plant, maintain, fertilize and weed rubber for a period of three years after
field planting. During this three year period, the nucleus estate would have
authority to centrally manage the trainee rubber farmers in a grouped manner,
in accordance with normal estate management practices. After the three year
period, settlers would be responsible for the operation of their individual
rubber areas, but would receive guidance, training and advice through arrange-
ments with the nucleus estate. During years 4-6, up to the production stage,
the nucleus estate would act as procurement agent for on-farm inputs and would
provide processing and marketing services.
/1 Project costs listed in this section are quoted in constant late 1977
prices and exclude price and physical contingencies.



- 19 -
3.07      Food Cropping (US$1.2 million).  Within six months of entry to
settlement project, settlers would receive conditional title to 5 ha, including
3 ha of land, part of which would be used for subsistence food crops. As part
of the total subsistence package to be provided to new settlers, PTP IV would
clear an initial 0.4 ha per settler family (US$0.5 million) to facilitate food
crop establishment, and would provide an initial cash payment to settler fami-
lies of Rp 25,000 (US$60) for food and transportation needs (US$0.3 million).
PTP IV would procure and provide inputs for food crop production and house and
garden establishment including seed and fertilizer at US$48 equivalent per
family (US$0.4 million). Thereafter inputs for food crop production would be
supplied under the National Bimas program (para. 1.15). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that arrangements necessary to extend the provincial
BIMAS program into the project areas would be made by August 1, 1979. An
assurance was also obtained that the nucleus estate would continue to supply
food crop inputs for project settlers and replanters until such time as the
BIMAS program is extended to adequately serve the project areas (para. 8.01(b)
(ii)).
3.08      Village Centers (US$0.4 million).  Eleven central villages, 18
satellite villages would be built in Air Molek west and east to accommodate a
total of 5,700 settler families with between 150-250 families per central and
75-125 families per satellite village. Central villages which would cater to
satellite vil1baaes would include a village office, primary school, village
health post, modque, community center and nursery house (day care center).
Satellite villa&es would include construction of a first aid post, community
hall, mushalla, and a nursery house. Health centers and junior high schools
would be distributed among the central villages in relation to location and
proximity to main access roads. One village center in each scheme would include
buildings for the project office, estate offices, garages and guest house.
3.09      Housing and civil works (US$6.1 million).  In the Riau project area,
PTP IV would provide materials and supervision for work units of settlers to
construct their own houses (US$2.3 million). About 5,700 houses would be
constructed each costing about US$395. Upland and lowland houses have been
designed for lateral expansion and it is anticipated that settlers would expand
on the basic structure using their own resources in later years (para. 2.24).
Initial housing for arriving settlers has been provided with five dormitories
to be constructed by PTP IV to house 60 families each. Additional housing for
foremen, estate managers and labor required for smallholder development, all
requirements for civil works for construction of garages, workshops, and project
buildings (US$3.8 million) would be constructed according to GOI specifications.
3.10      Health (US$0.04 million).  The project's low cost health system
would consist of primary medical care operated under Government standards for
the Second Five Year Plan and coordinated with the higher level facilities of
the administrative region. The health system would include provision of
village health posts, health centers (Puskesmas), and malaria control and
family planning as provided by the Puskesmas.
3.11      Water supply and sanitation (US$0.6 million).  Hydrological informa-
tion indicates that adequate groundwater supplies will be available from
wells. Provision is made for 1,140 wells and hand pumps (1 per 5 families).



- 20 -
Pit latrines would be dug for each family. In the event of water shortages,
standby water equipment for deep well construction has been included in the
machinery of the nucleus estate PTP IV.
3.12      Roads (US$7.2 million).  In the Riau project area 108 km of all
weather main access road, 56 km of primary village road and 73 km of secondary
village road would be constructed. Development of 373 km of rubber collection
tracks is included in the cost of rubber block planting. The road component
for the Riau project area is more extensive than roads required for the NES I
Project (Loan 1499-IND) owing to the extremely poor conditions of existing
roads through the area, the requirement to upgrade the road between Air Molek
west and east, and to provide improvements to the ferry across the Kuantan
River. The road component for Riau also includes some equipment (US$400,000)
to be procured by the Provincial Public Work Services (DPUP) for maintenance
of the project area roads.
3.13      Vehicles (US$0.2).  Vehicles required during project implementation
would include pickup trucks and mobile agricultural equipment. Other transport
vehicles including jeeps, motorcycles, and service cars are to be provided by
the nucleus estate PTP IV.
3.14      Agricultural Services.  Settlers would receive on-the-job training
in rubber husbandry from the nucleus estate. The project manager would arrange
extension services for food cropping activities and after three years for rubber
in cooperation with the nucleus estate. Within the settlement area, BUD/KUDs
would be established during the project. Processing and marketing services
would be provided by the nucleus estate after the project period.
3.15      Project Management (US$2.5).  Central Government responsibility for
project management would be placed upon the DGE. At provincial level the
Chairman of Bappeda would be project coordinator (para. 4.06). The operating
costs of the Dinas Perkebunan Daerah and the staff salaries including the project
manager have been costed in the project (US$0.1 million). Estate management
and overheads would include field and head office overheads (US$2.4 million).
(b) New Settlement - Jambi (US$12.2 million).
3.16      Physical and agricultural standards for development would be similar to
Riau new settlement activities.  The following details the main differences.
3.17      Rubber block planting (US$4.9 million).  A total of 3,800 ha would be
planted in blocks of minimum size of 500 ha by the PTP IV nucleus estate.
3.18      Physical Development (US$2.8 million).  Construction of four central
villages and eight satellite villages to accomodate 1,900 families (US$0.1 mil-
lion). A total of 1,900 settler houses would be constructed (US$0.8 million)
while housing for managers, field assistants, and the building program for
nucleus estate facilities (US$1.9 million) including a watering system for the
nursery and a guest house would also be constructed.
3.19      Health, water supply and sanitation (US$0.5 million).  Improved
water supply and sanitation (US$0.45 million) would be complemented within a
health program (US$0.45 million) as outlined in para. 3.11.



- 21 -
3.20      Roads (US$2.1 million).  In Jambi 33 km of all-weather project
access road and 46 km of all weather primary and earth surfaced secondary
village road would be constructed. Development of 96 km of rubber collection
tracks is included in rubber block planting. As in para. 3.12, some road
maintenance equipment has been included for the DPUP Jambi (US$0.1 million).
3.21      Project management and agricultural services (US$1.9 million).  The
remainder of project costs for Jambi new settlement would include the food
cropping and subsistence package (US$0.6 million), some agricultural vehicles
(US$0.1 million), office equipment (US$0.3 million) and project and estate
management (US$0.9 million).
(c) Rubber Replanting - Riau (US$2.1 million).
3.22      Rubber replanting (US$1.9 million).  A total of 3,000 ha of existing
rubber would be replanted predominantly in the Air Molek west area of Riau
province for 1,500 families. PTP IV would assist in clearing 2 ha of existing
rubber per family and would provide estate labor for survey, chain-saw opera-
tions, lining, lalang eradication and the necessary foremen for supervision.
Smallholders would provide their own family labor for burning and stacking
felled trees, for terracing, holing, planting, establishment of cover crop and
weeding. During project implementation the effectiveness of weeding practices
would be reviewed and if found to be inadequate, Government may wish to
make small incentive cash payments to rubber replanters to ensure proper
weeding during the development period. PTP IV would supply clonal planting
material after land clearing and would provide fertilizers throughout the
development period. Nearing the production stage, PTP IV would provide
processing and marketing facilities.
3.23      Other physical development.  Project area roads (para. 3.12), the
construction of health facilities (para. 3.10) and project and nucleus estate
buildings (para. 3.09), would also benefit the 1,500 families in the rubber
replanting scheme. Since rubber replanting has been phased to begin one year
after the start of new settlement in 1980, and after the extension of the
BIMAS program to the project area, credit for food crop inputs would be available
to also serve the families for rubber replanting.
3.24      Agricultural services and project management (US$0.2 million).  PTP
IV would be expected to provide training in rubber husbandry. This training
and supervision would be provided at the time of initial land clearing and at
the time of fertilizer distribution in each year to maturity. The Project
Manager would arrange for extension services in food cropping. Project manage-
ment costs include head office and field overheads of the nucleus estate.
(d) Rubber Replanting - Jambi (US$3.1 million).
3.25      Rubber replanting (US$2.8 million).  The same strategy for rubber
replanting in Riau would be employed by PTP IV as in Jambi (para. 3.22) to
replant a total of 4,500 ha for 2,250 families.



- 22 -
3.26      Agricultural services and project management (US$0.3 million).
Supervision and training by PTP IV would be provided to 2,250 families in the
Jambi rubber replanting areas (as in para. 3.24). The construction of health
facilities and project area roads would also benefit these 2,250 families
(para. 3.19, 3.20).
(e) Expansion of PTP IV - Riau (US$8.1 million).
3.27      Agricultural development (US$6.0 million).  Rubber development for
the new estate of PTP IV in Air Molek west would support new planting of
3,500 ha as part of an eventual program of PTP IV to expand to 5,000 ha in
this area. Under the project, PTP IV would clear secondary jungle, lalang
grass, and old rubber in the area with mechanical clearing equipment and the
use of herbicides. These operations would be followed by sowing a leguminous
cover crop and planting of polybagged rubber. Total investments for agricul-
tural, power and transport equipment (US$1.8 million) includes transport
vehicles (US$0.6 million) required for estate transport of materials, supplies
and labor for smallholder development.
3.28      Physical developments (US$2.1 million).  Housing would be constructed
for 360 families (274 single and double units) as part of the total 1,157
houses to be constructed by the end-1983 for laborers and nucleus estate staff
as required for both smallholder and estate development.  Other civil works
would include construction of divisional offices, garages and workshops, social
facilities for estate staff, and the civil works required for housing, power and
water. Specifications for the workshop are based on a 1,000 cu m area while
garages would be 240 cu m. One of the three required generators for power
would be provided under PTP IV development costs with a capacity of 400 KVA.
The proposed sheet and crumb rubber factory (US$3.4 million, constant 1977 $)
at Kotamedan would not be provided under the proposed project but in a second
phase development beginning in 1984 when additional maintenance of smallholder
and nucleus estate rubber would be required.
3.29      Corporate operations.  The production and processing units for PTP
IV are located in 13 estates comprising about 30,000 ha with 10 of these
estates situated in Deli Province in North Sumatera. Since estate development
(3,500 ha) and new settlement rubber (11,400) would be 600 kms from present
operations, PTP IV would need to move and recruit a full range of estate
personnel and laborers to implement the project. Although estate facilities
in Riau would be more extensive than in Jambi where PTP IV would not have its
own planting program, PTP IV would also need to provide well qualified estate
managerial personnel to the Jambi project area. To ensure managerial obliga-
tions of PTP IV and monitor the progress of the project with respect to field
conditions, infrastructure, housing, and finance, an assurance at negot4aations
was obtained for the DGE to employ short-term consultants for field inspection
services acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.05 (a) (ii)).



- 23 -
(f) Project Program Support to the Directorate General of Estates
and the Directorate General of Highways (US$2.9 million).
3.30      Directorate General of Estates.
(a)  Bank financed smallholder rubber and tea projects (Credits 358 and
400-IND) and the NES I Project (Loan 1499) have been the responsi-
bility of the DGE. To assist the three Directorates within the DGE
for planning, production and means of operation, technical assistance
was provided under Loan 1499 for two specialists, one in project
preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation and another
for project finance, procurement and administration. Assistance to
the DGE (US$2.1 million) to expand its smallholder development
program is now required in the form of:
(i) a specialist in smallholder coconut agronomy for program
preparation; and
(ii)  short-term consultants for pest and disease management,
upland soils, surveying, quality control inspection services,
socio-economic analysis, subsistence intercrop management and
settlement planning.
(b)  Technical assistance to the DGE would also include support for
development of extension and training facilities at the Dinas
Perkebunan Extension Center at Sungai Tiga in Jambi to facilitate
extension and training in smallholder rubber management in Sumatera
(US$0.6 million). At present there are no extension workers (PPL)
in either the Riau or Jambi project areas specifically trained in
smallholder rubber extension. In order to implement DGE plans
for new rubber and rubber replanting development on the scale
proposed in the next five years significant improvements both in the
number of extension personnel and the training for extension officers
in rubber husbandry would be required. An existing but presently
inadequate facility located about 20 km from Jambi town is well
located to service the training of personnel both in the project
area and those extension officers to be recruited for training from
northern or southern Sumatera. Facilities would be upgraded with
improvements to existing buildings and construction of new dormi-
tories, houses and classrooms to provide training courses for about
two weeks for groups of 20 extension officers. Developments at
Sungai Tiga include establishment of 75 ha of rubber, budwood,
field, and polybag nurseries and a demonstration farm for the new
settlers. The manager of the training center and extension teachers
would be recruited by the DGE (para. 4.12).
3.31      Directorate General of Highways.  As separate from engineering
studies to be carried out by the Central Road Research Institute and the
Directorate of the Bina Program of the DGH, support for preparation of the
project's road component with route locations, cost estimates and location of
materials, and for supervision of construction about 35 man-months of consultant
services would be provided to the DGH (US$0.2 million).



- 24 -
3.32      Project phasing.  The physical components of project phasing are
shown in Annex 2, Table 1. Project implementation schedules for settlement,
rubber replanting activities, and PTP IV rubber development are shown in
Chart 8 and 9 respectively. To facilitate project start-up in 1978-79, the
DGE has ensured the availability of budwood material from the Teluk Kuantan
nursery in Riau province and the pre-project nursery in Jambi for about
50,000 m of budwood from each nursery for the first year of the project. The
requirement for a five-year implementation period necessitates a second-phase
of development to provide additional maintenance for smallholder rubber and
estate plantings. Finance for the construction of PTP IV's rubber processing
facilities in Riau and Jambi is also required in a second phase. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would make funds available to
complete the maintenance program for a total of 26,200 ha of rubber in the
proposed project and for a 120 ton per day sheet and crumb rubber plant in
Riau and a 60 ton per day rubber processing facility in Jambi.
B. Project Costs and Financing Arrangements
Project Costs
3.33      The project would be fully implemented over a ten-year period.  The
Bank loan would assist with the financing over a five-year period. Table 2 on
page 25 summarizes the costs of the project over the first five years of
implementation. Project costs during the period are estimated at US$100.5
million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$50 million (50% of
total cost). Full implementation of the project over a ten-year period is
estimated at about US$155 million. Details of the project costs are presented
in Annex 2, Tables 2-10 and in the Staff Project File.
3.34      Base cost estimates in mid-1977 prices updated to late 1977 prices
were derived from detailed cost analyses of several public sector estates
including the proposed nucleus estate PTP IV and from data gathered at appraisal.
The investment program and all operating costs for project components are
incremental. A physical contingency of 10% is allowed on all investment items
and on the number of man-days of management consultants. The provisions for
expected price increases have been computed and are given in Table I below.
The contingencies for civil works are estimated slightly higher than in other
Bank projects in Indonesia due to the isolation of the project areas, the
small number of contractors in these areas and the expectation of higher
transport costs in Jambi and Riau than elsewhere on Sumatera.
Table 1:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1978       1979        1980        1981        1982-83
Civil works                  15         15           12         12           10
Equipment and services        8          7.5          7          7            7
The estimated schedule of project expenditures is shown in Annex 2, Table 10



Table 2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Rp Million)                 (US$ Million)         % Foreign        % of
Local   Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total        Exchange      Base Cost
Smallholder Development
Riau new settlement               6,716    6,605   13,321    16.18   15.92    32.10               50          53
Jambi new settlement              2,490    2,572    5,062        6.01    6.19    12.20            50          20
Riau rubber replanting               421       466      887      1.01    1.12       2.13          52           4
Jambi rubber replanting              621      670    1,291       1.50    1.62       3.12          52           5
Subtotal                     10,248   10,313   20,561    24.70   24.85    49.55               50          82
II.   Public Sector Estae Development
PTP IV
Riau rubber development             1,803    1,565    3,368       4.35    3.77       8.12          46           13
III.  Technical Assistance, Training
and Supervision                                                                                                        I
Directorate General of Estates          238       636       874     0.57    1.53       2.10          73            3
Sungai Tiga Extension
Training Center                       142        97      239      0.34    0.23       0.57          40            1
Directorate General of Highways          14        73        87     0.03    0.18       0.21          85            1
Subtotal                        394       806    1,200       0.94    1.94      2.88           67           5
Base cost estimates                12,445   12,684   25,129    29.99   30.56    60.55              50         100
IV. Contingencies
Physical                            1,243    1,270    2,513       3.00    3.06       6.06          50
Expected price increases            7,267    6,798   14,065    17.51   16.38    33.89              48
Subtotal                      8,510    8,068   16,578    20.51   19.44    39.95               49
Total expected costs of project   20,955   20,752   41,707    50.50   50.00   100.50                 50          100



- 26 -
Project Financing Arrangements
3.35      The proposed Bank loan of US$65 million would finance for the
first five years of project implementation 65% of total project costs. The
Bank loan would include US$15 million for finance of about 30% of the total
local costs. Local cost financing would be for smallholder development
for which total Bank finance would be about US$56 million. Bank finance
for the expansion of the public sector estate PTP IV and for technical
assistance under the project would be about US$9 million. GOI would finance
about US$35.5 million of the proposed project (35% of total costs). Sources
for all project finance are detailed in Annex 2, Table 11.
3.36      Smallholder development.  The Riau and Jambi smallholder settlement
and rubber replanting components would be financed from both Bank and GOI
sources (US$82.5 million). Noncredit items to smallholders including village
infrastructure, power and water, main access and primary village roads,
health services and management fees would be financed from GOI annual budget
sources and INPRES programs (US$10 million) and from the proceeds of the Bank
loan (US$9.7 million) for the main access and primary village roads. The
flow of funds for noncredit items of expenditure is shown in Chart 6. Credit
items of smallholder development and the provision of materials for housing
would be financed by the Bank (US$46.3 million) and from GOI's Dana Rekening
Investasi (US$16.5 million) or similar sources of finance in the Ministry of
Finance. The flow of funds for credit items of expenditure is shown in Chart 7.
3.37      Bank and GOI finance for credit items to smallholders would be
passed by Bank Indonesia, through BRI, acting as the handling bank, to the
nucleus estate PTP IV on the basis of a Financing Agreement between the three
parties. GOI would bear the risk on all funds passed to PTP IV for smallholder
development. PTP IV would develop each area of block planted rubber and rubber
replanted through Year 3, at which time development expenditures made by PTP
IV would be translated into standardized credit amounts for individual settlers
and rubber replanters in credit agreements with the BRI. The completion of a
satisfactory Financing Agreement between Bank Indonesia, BRI and PTP IV would
be a condition for disbursement for the smallholder project components. Loans
to the smallholders would be for 19 years in the case of new settlers and for
14 years for replanters, both loans including four years grace period, and
repayment starting in the seventh year after planting and four years after
signing of the smallholder's credit agreements. Interest would be at 10.5% p.a.
with capitalization of interest during the grace period.
3.38      Estate component - PTP IV.  The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$6.0 mil-
lion) for development expansion of PTP IV in Riau to serve as a nucleus estate
would be on-lent by Bank Indonesia to PTP IV under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
The total loan of US$13.5 million (including GOI contribution of US$7.5 mil-
lion) would be made for 16 years including 8 years of grace and repayable
in 16 equal semi-annual annuities starting January 1, 1987. Interest would
be 13.5% p.a. and would accrue from January 1, 1979 and be payable beginning
January 1, 1983. In order to facilitate PTP IV's own expansion program at
Labuhan Batu in North Sumatera, all funds for Riau development have been
provided in the form of a loan. On this basis PTP IV would be able to secure
a substantial portion of its program for Labuhan Batu from internally generated



- 27 -
funds. In order to secure the availability of these funds, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that PTP IV would distribute dividend payments based
on annual cash flow analysis and only in the event that such analysis demon-
strated that dividends could be paid without impairing PTP IV's cash balances
required for its investment program and operations. The entering into of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Bank Indonesia and PTP IV would be a condi-
tion of disbursement of the Bank loan.
3.39      The Bank loan of US$65 million will be lent to Government for 20
years, including 5 years of grace at the prevailing interest rate on the date
of circulation of the President's Report to the Executive Directors.
C. Budgeting
3.40      Categories of investment for the smallholder components which would
require GOI budget funds include all noncredit items (e.g., village infrastruc-
ture, power and water, management fees, main access and village roads, health,
etc.). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that budget funds from APBN,
APBD, and INPRES would be made sufficient in size to cover noncredit expendi-
tures during project implementation, and wherever these sources were insuffi-
cient, the Borrower would make timely arrangements from other GOI sources to
meet additional requirements. The Provincial Coordinating Committee for each
project area would submit annual budgets for all noncredit expenditures six
months prior to the start of the fiscal year. The DGE would be responsible
for making its own budget allocation for power and water facilities to
smallholders, and management fees to PTP IV for development of the project
areas. The DGE would also make annual DIP budget requests to the Central
Government including the proposed allocations from the Ministry of Public
Works and Power (MPW) for main access roads, primary village roads and the
technical assistance for roads, and from the Department of Health for construc-
tion of health facilities and provision of health services (para. 3.10).
Since a large portion of the finance for noncredit items would come from
INPRES sources, the Chairman of Bappeda in each of the two project areas
would secure financal requirements with the Provincial Government (para.
4.08). This responsibility would include coordination of finance from the
INPRES Sekoklah for school facilities, the Puskesmas INPRES for village
health, and Gotong-royong for village infrastructure. The Chairman of
Bappeda and the DGE, in cooperation with the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH), would review all annual budget appropriations to coordinate noncredit
development activities with the rubber development as carried out by PTP IV.
Bank supervision missions would review with Government the annual budget
allocation and work program of GOI agencies participating in the implemen-
tation of the project.
D. Procurement
Smallholder Components
3.41      GOI would finance 100% of all noncredit categories of investment
for the Riau and Jambi smallholder components with the exception of main
access and primary village roads for which the GOI contribution would be about



- 28 -
35%. The standards for civil works and equipment would be set by the present
GOI regulations for health, schools, and village development as maintained in
the existing INPRES regulations. In cases where costs or standards required
for the project exceed limits of the present INPRES regulations, INPRES would
be supplemented by APBD and APBN funds (para. 3.40). In cases where the
provincial governments are not capable of fully carrying out the village
and social development, PTP IV would be provided with additional funds from
the Ministry of Finance to carry out these responsibilities. Procurement
guidelines for PTP IV in the credit categories of investment and for the
Directorate General of Highways within MPW for construction of main access and
primary village roads would be as follows:/1
(a) Rubber development (US$46.9 million). Total block planting of
15,200 ha of rubber and 7,500 ha of rubber replanting in both
project areas with maintenance for up to three years would be
carried out under the terms of a Financing Agreement between
Bank Indonesia, the BRI, and PTP IV since it involves the execution
of a specialized, integrated service which cannot be procured
through a competitive bidding process. PTP IV has demonstrated
its ability to carry out such a contract in a cost-effective
manner. Unit cost information for PTP IV is well established and
would be used to monitor financial requirements and guarantee
quality control. Supplies paid in local currency for the execution
of the contract would be procured in accordance with current GOI
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Agrochemicals
(US$6.6 million), including fertilizer for the first year of
subsistence crop development, also procured by PTP IV, would be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines on procurement.
Agrochemicals costing less than US$100,000 annually, would be
procured following prudent shopping procedures with at least three
quotations. Subsistence cash payments (US$0.8 million) have been
costed at Rp 25,000 (US$60) per farm family entering the project.
Cash payments would be made by the nucleus estates to families
approved for new settlement by the Project Manager and Provincial
Coordination Committee. Head office and field overheads for new
settlement and these overheads for rubber replanting (US$6.6 mil-
lion) would be payable to PTP IV at the rate of 15% of the direct
expenditures made for rubber development and machinery and equipment
in the case of new settlement and 12% of same for rubber replanting.
PTP IV would be allowed to draw on the loan funds for these overheads
only at the end of each year based on DGE approval of satisfactory
performance of clearing and planting. Accounts would be maintained
by PTP IV, satisfactory to the Bank, of all development expenditures
for each of the smallholder components;
(b) Agricultural machinery, vehicles and equipment (US$4.9 million). All
agricultural machinery for rubber development, vehicles and equipment
for the construction of secondary village and rubber collection roads
/1 Procurement estimates do not include the noncredit items of village infra-
structure, health services and the overheads of the Dinas Perkabunan Daerah.



- 29 -
to be built by PTP IV would be procured through international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A prefer-
ence limited to 15% of the cif price of the imported goods or the
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. However, procurement
under contracts of less than US$50,000 would be met through prudent
shopping involving the solicitation of at least three quotations.
The total procured in this manner would be limited to the equivalent
of US$250,000 for each of the Jambi and Riau project areas.
(c) Civil works (US$15.0 million). The civil works as part of the
credit component of the project, including construction of housing
and secondary village and rubber collection roads would be carried
out as part of the Financing Agreement between Bank Indonesia, the
BRI and PTP IV, similar to the arrangements for rubber development.
Materials to be provided for settler housing each costing about Rp
165,000 (US$395 constant 1977) for each family would be provided
based on standards for: (i) a core house with minimum area of 35
sq m; and (ii) timber framed or cimva-ram blocks with timber frame
construction with a galvanized sheeting double pitched roof. The
civil works cost of road development undertaken by the estates
would be based on established design of secondary farm roads (3 m
wide) and rubber collection roads (2.5 m wide) as outlined in para.
2.27; and
(d) Road construction (US$13.5 million). Responsibility for construction
and upgrading and awarding of contracts for 141 km of all-weather
main access road (US$10.8 million) in the project areas, 66 km of
primary village roads (US$1.4 million) and improvements to the
ferry at Pasirringit (US$0.6 million) would rest with the Directo-
rate General of Highways in the Ministry of Public Works and Power.
International competitive bidding would not be appropriate for
construction since these roads are located in three separate
locations and the extended phasing of road works timed with village
development is not likely to attract foreign firms. Civil works
would be carried out under unit-price contracts awarded after
domestic competitive bidding. Detailed design standards for these
roads (para. 2.27) would be reviewed and agreed with the Resident
Mission Indonesia prior to submission of proposals by local prequali-
fied local firms. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that the Borrower would cause the Directorate of the Bina Program
within DGH and assisted by consultants to carry out site surveys,
detailed planning of alignments, experimentation for stabilization
and other engineering requirements for the road improvement program
by June 1979. The DPUP for Riau and the DPUP for Jambi would each
procure road maintenance equipment (up to US$0.6 million and
US$0.15 million respectively) during project implementation.
Contracts for this equipment would be met through prudent shopping
involving the solicitation of at least three quotations.



- 30 -
3.42      Estate development component.  Procurement for PTP IV development
in Riau province would be:
(a) Rubber development (US$8.3 million). Total block planting of 3,500
ha of rubber in Air Molek west and maintenance for up to three years
would be carried out under the terms of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Borrower and PTP IV. Most of the work required for
block planting involves the integration of labor and machine services
which cannot be procured through ICB. Supplies paid in local
currency for the execution of the contract would be procured in
accordance with current GOI procedures which are satisfactory to the
Bank. International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines would be used for fertilizers and agrochemicals (US$0.8 mil-
lion) including the purchase of urea (US$0.1 million). Small lots
of chemicals costing less than US$100,000 annually would be procured
following prudent shopping procedures with at least three quotations;
(b) Agricultural machinery, vehicles and equipment (US$2.7 million).
All agricultural machinery, vehicles and equipment would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of
the imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to qualified local manufactureres in the evaluation
of bids. All office equipment (US$0.5 million) and procurement for
contracts of less than US$50,000 would be locally procured through
prudent shopping involving the solicitation of at least three
quotations; and
(c) Civil works (US$2.5 million). All civil works contracts for housing
would be awarded after local competitive bidding among prequalified
contractors in accordance with GOI procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank. Consultants located in the MOA under Loan 1499-IND
would provide recommendations on bid evaluations in cases of local
procurement for construction of garages, workshops and project offices.
Consultant specialists to the Ministry of Agriculture Support Staff employed
under Loan 1499-IND would advise on procurement arrangements.
3.43      Technical assistance (US$4.5 million).
(a) Consultants and technical services to the DGE (US$3.3 million).
Consultant and technical services to the DGE in the proposed project
are detailed in para. 3.05. Consultants would be engaged in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines on terms and conditions approved by the
Bank. Internationally recruited consultants have been costed at
US$70,000 per man-year (including international travel, housing
allowances, and local transportation) on the basis of past experience
in Indonesia;
(b) Extension Training Center - Sungai Tiga, Jambi (US$0.9 million).
All civil works contracts (US$0.2 million) for the training center



- 31 -
including classrooms, houses, garages and workshops, offices and
dormitories would be awarded after local competitive bidding in accord-
ance with GOI procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. All agri-
cultural machinery, equipment and vehicles (US$0.2 million) would be
procured through ICB in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A
preference limited to 15% of the cif price of the imported goods or
the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. The manager selected
for the training center would be assisted with bidding documents and
evaluation of bids by consultants employed by the DGE under Loan 1499-IND.
(c)  Consultants and Technical Services to the DGH (US$0.3 million).
Internationally recruited consultants to the DGH and the Directorate
of the Bina Program for preparation and supervision of road construction
have been costed at US$6,000/month on the basis of past experience
in Indonesia. Consultants would be engaged in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines on terms and conditions approved by the Bank.
E. Disbursement
3.44      An estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 2, Table 12.
Disbursement for the new settlement and rubber replanting components would be
as follows:
(a)  Civil works consisting of housing, estate workshops, garages and
farm roads at the rate of 60%;
(b)  100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported agricultural
machinery, vehicles and equipment, 95% of the ex-factory cost
of equipment manufactured locally and 65% for imported farm equipment,
Disbursements for the cost of a few vehicles procured locally for
project start-up on the basis of prudent shopping [paras. 3.42(b)]
would be at the rate of 40%;
(c)  100% of the cif cost of agrochemicals or 50% of urea procured
locally on the basis of contracts awarded after international
competitive bidding;
(d)  rubber development expenditures other than agrochemicals or vehicles
and equipment procured under (b) or (c) by PTP IV at the rate of 75%
against certified quarterly reports of the nucleus estate; and
(e)  road construction and upgrading for all-weather main accoss roads
and new construction of primary village road at the rate of 65% of
total cost as certified in quarterly reports provided by the DGH to
the DGE.
3.45      Disbursement for the PTP IV estate component would be as follows:
(a)  100% of the cif cost of agrochemicals and 50% of urea procured
locally on the basis of contracts awarded after international
competitive bidding;



- 32 -
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures of agricultural machinery, vehicles
and equipment, 95% of ex-factory cost of equipment manufactured
locally, and 65% of imported farm equipment procured locally.
Disbursements for the cost of a few vehicles procured locally for
project start-up on the basis of prudent shopping [para. 3.43 (b)]
would be at the rate of 40%;
(c) 60% of all civil works costs including estate housing buildings,
garages, workshops and divisional offices; and
(d) rubber development expenditures other than agro-chemicals or vehicles
and equipment procured under (a) or (b) above at the rate of 20%
against certified quarterly reports by PTP IV.
3.46      Disbursement for consultants and technical assistance to the DGE,
the DGH and for technical asistance to the Extension Training Center at Sungai
Tiga are as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign exchange cost of all consultant specialists,
inspection and technical services and 100% of local consultants
fees;
(b) 60% for all civil works for buildings including classrooms, garages,
workshops and housing for the Extension Training Center at Sungai
Tiga, and 100% of all foreign expenditures of agricultural machinery,
vehicles and equipment, 95% of the ex-factory cost of equipment
manufactured locally and 65% of imported farm equipment procured
locally on the basis of contracts awarded after international
competitive bidding. Disbursements for vehicles procured locally
for project start-up on the basis of prudent shopping would be at
the rate of 40%.
Any savings from the project would be made available for financing additional
works. Documents to support claims for rubber development expenditures and
force account work not submitted for reimbursement would be retained in
Indonesia and made available for inspection and review by Bank supervision
missions. It is expected that disbursements would be completed within five
years from loan effectiveness.
F. Quality and Cost Controls
3.47      Rubber development for new settlement and replanting, all civil
works and village development in the project would require quality and cost
control on a regular basis. Rubber development and other works carried out by
PTP IV on a credit basis would be checked for quality and cost control by the
DGE staff assisted by technical advisors appointed under the project (para. 3.30)
as set by their agreed standards. Certification of satisfactory completion of
each year's development objectives for rubber development would be made by the
DGE as a condition to making payments for head office and field overheads to
the nucleus estate PTP IV. Civil works and village development on a noncredit
basis would be monitored for quality and cost control by the Project Manager



- 33 -
and the Provincial Coordinating Committee and reviewed by the DGE. Monitoring
and evaluation of the upgrading and construction of main access and primary
village roads would be carried out by consultants under short-term contracts
[para. 3.05 (a)] employed by the DGH in consultation with DGE. Smallholder
rubber plantings by PTP IV and PTP IV's own rubber expansion would be subject
to quality inspection by independent consulting organizations employed by the
DGE in cooperation with the MOA (para. 3.29).
G. Accounts and Audit
3.48      Smallholder components.  During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the nucleus estate PTP IV in coordination with the BRI would
keep separate accounts of all credit expenditures for new settlement and
accounts for credit expenditures for rubber replanting by year of planting.
The responsible agencies in the Provincial Government in cooperation with the
on-site project managers for Riau and Jambi would be required to keep accounts
of expenditures made under the Inpres program, APBN and APBD funds for the
noncredit categories of investment based on existing regulations. The DGE,
assisted by its technical advisors provided under the project, would receive
and keep all project accounts and consolidated statements of credit and
noncredit expenditures made under the project. These accounts would be in a
form acceptable to the Bank and furnished as part of a quarterly project report
by the DGE to the Bank within 30 days of the close of a quarter. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that these accounts, both separate
and consolidated, would be audited by the State Auditor yearly and the audit
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. The Bank would reserve the right to request an audit from auditors
other than the State Auditors and acceptable to the Bank of either accounts
maintained by PTP IV or project accounts of the DGE if the State Auditors
prove to be unable to submit audits in time or in a form similar to that
agreed between the DGE and the Bank. The BRI, following its normal procedures
of accounts and audit, will report to the DGE on expenditures made by PTP IV
in the quarterly reporting process.
3.49      Estate component.  PTP IV would be required to submit to the Bank
annual audited reports of accounts as carried out by independent private
auditors within six months of the close of the fiscal year. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations. (In order to facilitate further
monitoring and supervision of PTP IV, assurances were obtained that PTP IV
would submit annual budgets of the work program for expansion of the estate
in Riau, each year to the Bank for review and comment before final approval
by their Board of Supervisors.)
H. Cost Recovery
3.50      Credit delivery system.  Project finance and the flow of funds in
the credit delivery system have been described in para. 3.37. Credit delivery
would be simplified with all credit expenditures in Years 1-3 incurred by the
nucleus estate PTP IV for which accounts would be maintained by PTP IV and the
BRI (para. 3.48). Credit agreements between farmers and the BRI at the end



- 34 -
of Year 3 would include provisional estimates of total credit and would be
amended in Year 6 to include the actual funds to farmers for the costs of
establishing rubber to full maturity. Title would be received to 5 ha of land,
"sconditional" Hak Milik, in year 1 by new settlers while rubber replanters
would receive this conditional title to 2 ha of land. At the end of year 3 all
smallholders would receive "full" Hak Milik without conditions. These titles
would be pledged as collateral with the BRI to secure repayment obligations.
3.51      Cost recovery.  Since the BRI has had little experience in lending
for smallholder tree crop development, the GOI has proposed the adoption of a
flexible cost recovery system with repayments by new settlers and rubber
replanters made "in kind" as accepted inTloan 1499-IND. Loan accounts would
be standardized for smallholders and expressed in financial terms while
repayments would be made in kg dry rubber collected weekly by PTP IV for
processing the rubber. Total number of kg to be delivered would initially be
fixed to the loan amount as if calculated on a normal amortization schedule.
The system would be flexible, however, so that the number of kg to be delivered
could be adjusted to reflect possible adverse or favorable rubber price
changes or changes in yields affecting smallholders' incomes. Smallholders
would be required to deliver a predetermined portion of their product for debt
service to PTP IV collection agents, but would be free to sell their remaining
production to any processor. A price formula would be set for rubber sold for
debt service during project implementation, to be agreed by PTP IV, the
Provincial Coordinating Committee and the DGE, in consultation with the Bank.
The price received for the rubber is estimated at about 70% of the fob value
which would cover PTP IV processing, marketing, collection and overhead
charges (para. 5.04). PTP IV would have the incentive to collect smallholder
rubber in order to reduce its own overhead and processing costs. PTP IV would
keep all records of rubber received per smallholder with daily records of
rubber prices. Records and revenue from PTP IV would be sent to BRI weekly
for which accounts would be closed monthly or quarterly by converting the net
amount of rubber collected at the prevailing price minus 30% (estimated
factory, tax and overhead costs).
3.52      The quantity of rubber to be collected would be based on loan
amounts as if calculated at 10.5% on terms of 19 years repayment for new
settlers and 16 years repayment for replanters, both with 4 years grace on
interest. On this basis credit amounts estimated at Rp 3.12 million for new
settlers would be repaid with 25% of annual rubber production, or 9,475 kg
collected over 15 years, while Rp 1.74 million for rubber replanters would be
repaid with 25% of annual rubber production, or 5,100 kg collected over 10
years. Repayments would begin with new settlers and replanters each delivering
about 150 kg per year or 3 kg per week, rising to 800 kg per year at full
development for new settlers and about 700 kg per year for rubber replanters.
3.53      Ability and willingness to repay.  Farmers are not likely to have
any particular problems with depressed cash incomes after repayment. When a
household expenditure allowance of about US$420 is charged against net family
incomes of new settlers and replanters at full development, new settlers would
have net cash incomes of US$475 and replanters, about US$300, sufficient for
more replanting or new planting of rubber or other on farm investments. No
particular risks are associated with recovery since adjustments for adverse
price effects (or lower than expected yields) in the kg of rubber to be



- 35 -
delivered would be immediate, thereby extending the repayment period to full
recovery. Similarly, increases in the price of rubber or increased yields
above those forecast would permit recovery prior to 15 years for new settlers
or 10 years for rubber replanters. It is assumed that recovery of credit in
the proposed project would be high since most settlers would want to sell all
their dry rubber production to PTP IV owing to a more favorable price for
rubber than traditionally received. Prices received by smallholders for
rubber in the Jambi and Riau areas are rarely above 40% of the fob price since
there is price collusion among middlemen and smallholders have no procedures
for representation. The value received by smallholders on rubber delivered
for all farm production minus deduction for debt service would be about 70%
higher than the value received if smallholders were to avoid repayment and
deliver 100% of their production to other processors.
3.54      Rent and cost recovery indices.  Rent and cost recovery indices for
both new settlers and rubber replanters are shown in Annex 2, Table 13. All
figures are in terms of late 1977 constant prices and in incremental present
values, discounted over the project period to reflect an opportunity cost of
capital in Indonesia of 10%.
3.55      An investment cost for 2 ha of rubber for new settlers and for 2 ha
of replanted rubber for existing rubber farmers would provide sufficient
project rent to allow beneficiaries to pay for project costs. Project rent,
net of all costs of family labor, depreciation and allowance for risk, is
about 41% of net cash income for new settlers and 31% for rubber replanters.
The project's target income objectives to provide farm families with about
US$900 at full development are reasonably well correlated with cost recovery
objectives. The cost recovery indices are 55% and 62% for new settlers and
rubber replanters respectively. Although there is some scope for more recovery,
the element of GOI subsidy of 45% and 38% for these two groups of project
beneficiaries reflects the GOI decision to maintain such project costs as
schools, roads and social services as noncredit items in public sector outlays
for nucleus estate and smallholder projects. The proposed project has incor-
porated provision for maximum product pricing for smallholder rubber, about
70% of fob (para. 5.04) within the international market place determination of
this price. Assuming that most prices in Indonesia reflect their value of
scarcity, taxation might be used as a means to achieving greater recovery.
Cost recovery may actually be greater should the GOI introduce its plans for a
rubber replanting tax (CESS) in the course of project implementation. Too
large an increase in present taxes or introduction of new taxes, however,
would not be justifiable since prospective settlers at full development would
not be far above the level of critical consumption (estimated at 50% of
national per capita income) and would still be below national per capita
income. Any increase in the interest rate of 10.5% to increase cost recovery
and eliminate interest subsidy would not be feasible as it would provide
smallholders with incomes below US$900, a target level which should be main-
tained for farm families to remain on their holdings in relation to alterna-
tive employment and provide these families with sufficient resources for
replanting or new planting of rubber.



- 36 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Borrowing/Executive Agency Functions
4.01      The Borrower for the project, including new settlement, rubber
replanting and expansion of PTP IV, would be the Government of Indonesia.
Overall responsibility for execution of the project would rest with the
Director General of Estates while the project would be implemented by existing
central government agencies (para. 1.13) and the Provincal Governments of Riau
and Jambi. The nucleus estate PTP IV would be directly responsible to the
Ministry of Agriculture in Jakarta for its own expansion program under the
proposed project and would ensure its responsibility to the Directorate General
of Estates for the smallholder rubber development components in the project.
4.02      The proceeds of the Bank loan for estate development of PTP IV would
be on-lent to PTP IV under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Finance from the
Borrower including Bank loan proceeds for smallholder development would be
passed through BRI, acting as a handling bank, to PTP IV for the provision of
services to smallholders in Riau and Jambi and would be governed by a Financing
Agreement between Bank Indonesia, BRI and PTP IV. PTP IV would ensure its
services for smallholder development to the DGE under a Rubber Development
Contract (para. 4.09) to be signed by the two parties. BRI would act as a
fiscal agent for cost recovery on behalf of the Borrower with recovery from
smallholders made by PTP IV rubber processors. Additional proceeds of the Bank
loan would be made for main access and primary village road development with
budget funds from the Ministry of Public Works and Power, and for technical
assistance under the project with budget funds from the DGE and the DGH.
New Settlement and Rubber Replanting
4.03      Directorate General of Estates (DGE).  As in Loan 1499-IND, it is
considered essential that overall responsibility for settlement, implementation
and management be located in Jakarta, where a centralized body can more readily
utilize the technical and managerial resources available, organize project
financing and monitor and evaluate project quality and design standards. These
responsibilities would be vested in the appropriate line agency, the DGE. Given
the technical assistance provided in Loan 1499 and in the proposed project, the
DGE would increase its capacity to plan, coordinate and oversee smallholder
project operations. The DGE does not have the capacity however to implement a
large program of land clearing, tree crop establishment, maintenance and infra-
structure. Under present conditions and arrangements, and in the particular
smallholder development areas, these functions would best be fulfilled by the
nucleus estate PTP IV and in the case of infrastructure by the Provincial
Government agencies. Institution building would aim at further developing the
management expertise within the DGE to guide, plan, direct and evaluate the
activities of nucleus estates such as PTP IV. The functions of the DGE for the
proposed project would be:
(a) project and village master planning, preparation of annual budgets
and work programs;



- 37 -
(b) advice to the Project Manager (para. 4.04) and Provincial Coordina-
ting Committees (para. 4.08) for recruitment of new settlers and
selection of rubber replanters, design and supervision of smallholder
participation agreements, crop processing and marketing arrangements;
(c) approval of project budgets, coordination and organization of
project financing arrangements;
(d) advice on project procurement;
(e) formulation and execution of the contract between the DGE and the
PTP IV for new rubber development and rubber replanting, and at a
later date for extension, processing and marketing services;
(f) project monitoring and evaluation in relation to guidelines to
be agreed in consultation with the Bank.
4.04      In carrying out these functions the DGE would coordinate its activi-
ties with members of the Provincial Coordinating Committee for Riau and a PCC
for Jambi (para. 4.08). The Project Manager would have the status of a
provincial department head and would be responsible to the Director General
for preparation of action programs and budgets, supervision and coordination
of all project activities undertaken by PTP IV and the Provincial Coordinating
Committee. The duties of the Project Manager would be:
(a) preparation of an action program, subject to the approval of the
DGE, for implementation of master plans, and annual work programs;
(b) preparation of budgets for all functions other than rubber develop-
ment and functions for which Provincial Government agencies are
responsible;
(c) supervision and coordination of the implementation of project and
village master plans by the nucleus estate PTP IV and Provincial
Government agencies;
(d) design and supervision of settler and rubber replanting participation
agreements, land transfers and allocation of food crop and rubber
areas for new settlers;
(e) recruitment of new settlers and rubber replanters, selection,
administration, and arrangements for smallholder training; and
(f) monitoring and reporting on project progress to the DGE, the Provin-
cial Government and the Bank.
The Government would, in consultation with the Bank, appoint a project manager
for each of the Riau and Jambi areas.
4.05      To further strengthen the DGE, technical assistance would be provided
for a period of three years, through international recruitment of a smallholder
coconut agronomist for project preparation (para. 3.05). Terms of reference for



- 38 -
this specialist are available in the Project File. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that the Bank would be consulted upon the selection of this
specialist and that this appointment would be made by February 28, 1979 on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4.06      The Provincial Governments.  The delegation of much more responsibil-
ity to the Provincial Government for nucleus estates projects is consistent
with the GOI objectives of involving Provincial Governments in area development.
Since the provision of village infrastructure, health, arrangements for food
cropping and social services are complementary and interdependent, organization
of these services must be determined at the Provincial level. The Provincial
Chairman of the Bappeda has been delegated the task by the Provincial Governor
of coordinating the government agencies involved in area development. The
Provincial Government operates in a hierarchy of regency, district and village
organizations with central government departments represented at the Provincial
Government. Organization of the Indonesian Provincial Government system is
shown in Chart 4.
4.07      The organization for the smallholder project components is shown
in Chart 5. The Chairman of Bappeda is responsible to the Provincial Governor
through a Provincial Coordinating Committee of which he would be Chairman.
The Provincial Coordinating Committee would be stationed in the provincial
capital where the headquarters of the provincial government agencies involved
in implementation of the project are located. In addition ot the Chairman of
Bappeda, the Committee would comprise the Bupati, the head of the Dinas
Perkebunan Daerah as Deputy Chairman, the Project Manager, the Nucleus Estates
Manager and representatives of the BRI and provincial government agencies.
4.08      The functions of the Provincial Coordinating Committees of Riau and
Jambi in implementation of the smallholder projects would be:
(a)  preparation of programs and budgets for implementation of Provincial
Government functions in accordance with a master plan;
(b)  coordination and monitoring the activities of the Provincial Govern-
ment agencies concerned with provision of village infrastructure,
main access and village roads, health, educational and community
facilities, and the implementation of food cropping programs;
(c)  advice and assistance to the respective Project Managers in small-
holder recruitment and administration; and
(d)  determination from time to time of the rubber price to be paid
by the PTP IV nucleus estate to participating smallholders in
agreement with PTP IV.
The Nucleus Estate
4.09      The nucleus estate selected for development of the new settlement and
rubber replanting areas is PTP IV. Full authority would be given to PTP IV to
operate resources, machinery, material inputs and finance required to replant
rubber and to develop and hand over to new settlers potentially high yielding



- 39 -
areas of three year old rubber. Under the terms and conditions of a Smallholder
Rubber Development Agreement with the DGE, PTP IV would be responsible for the
following services in the Riau and Jambi project areas:
(a)  for the period up to three years after planting.  In new settlement
areas PTP IV would be responsible for land clearing, planting of
rubber, procurement and the supply of materials for settlers' own
house construction, water supply, rubber planting and maintenance,
construction of secondary village and rubber collection roads,
rubber maintenance, procurement and application of inputs for
rubber development, land clearing for initial settler food crop area
(0.4 ha/family), and provision of food crop seed and fertilizer in
the first year of settler entry. In rubber replanting areas PTP IV
would be responsible for land clearing, the provision of planting
material and all necessary inputs and supervision and organization
of smallholder's own labor for planting, weeding, etc. PTP IV
would be responsible for all smallholder training of settlers and
rubber replanters;
(b)  for the period from three years after planting to production.
Procurement and application of inputs for both new settlers and
rubber replanters, the maintenance of secondary village and rubber
collection roads, smallholder training in rubber tapping and arrange-
ment for extension services;
(c)  during the productive period.  Extension services, organization of
latex collection for cost recovery and the provision of comprehensive
processing and marketing services.
A condition of disbursement would be that the nucleus estate PTP IV would
sign a Smallholder Rubber Development Agreement with the DGE and the contract
would be acceptable to the Bank for provision of the above services.
Bank Rakyat Indonesia
4.10      A description of BRI and its role in the agricultural sector is
outlined in para. 1.15. BRI would act as the handling bank for the Government
to channel funds for rubber development to PTP IV (para. 3.37). BRI would
also provide short-term credit to settlers for food cropping through the BIMAS
program. During the period of cost recovery by the nucleus estate rubber
processors, BRI would maintain settler loan accounts on behalf of the Government
(para. 3.50). The Government would bear all risks in the credit delivery and
cost recovery systems. For administration and handling of settler loans,
however, the BRI would split with Bank Indonesia 1% on the outstanding
balance per annum on all smallholder credit funds.
4.11      Directorate General of Highways.  The project's road component has
been described in para. 3.02 (a)(iii) and (b)(iii) and the design features are
elaborated in para. 2.27. Since PTP IV has the ability to carry out road
construction and maintenance for rubber related farm roads, the program for
construction of earth-surfaced rubber collection and secondary village roads
would be carried out by PTP IV and would be financed as part of the rubber



- 40 -
development costs in smallholder credit arrangements through BRI to PTP IV.
Construction and upgrading of all-weather main access and primary village
roads as part of area development of the provincial road network in Riau and
Jambi would be the responsibility of the Directorate General of Highways
within the Ministry of Public Works and Power (MPW) and would be coordinated
with the DGE. The Borrower would be responsible to ensure that the DGH
would:
(a) direct its Directorate of the Bina Program and the Central Road
Research Institute, assisted by consultants to carry out initial
stabilization studies of base and subbase materials for all-weather
main access and primary village roads by June 30, 1979;
(b) direct the Directorate of the Bina Program, assisted by consultants
to carry out site surveys, plan alignments, design and prepare the
engineering requirements for the road improvement program also by
June 30, 1979;
(c) cooperate with the DGE to prepare all tender and bid documents for
new road construction, upgrading, and ferry improvements to be
provided under the project, and to direct the Directorate of
Construction, assisted by consultants to supervise construction;
(d) ensure that the Provincial Public Work Services (DPUP) of Riau and
Jambi would adequately maintain newly constructed and upgraded main
access and primary village roads./l
Assurances were obtained at negotiations for actions in (a), (b) and (d)
above. Design standards for the main access and primary village roads would be
agreed by the RSI prior to contract bidding procedures. Finance for monitoring
and evaluation of the road works have been included under provision of tech-
nical assistance to the DGH (para. 3.47).
4.12      Extension Training Center - Sungai Tiga, Jambi.  Although PTP IV
would have primary responsibility for smallholder rubber training in the
proposed project, the DGE seeks to assist the Extension Training Center in
Jambi for training of existing and newly recruited extension personnel to
provide for improved smallholder rubber management throughout the proposed
project areas and facilitate through training, improved rubber extension
to other areas of Sumatera. Responsibility for the improvement program to
physical infrastructure and development of training curriculum and techniques
would rest with the DGE. A project manager for the facility would be appointed
by the DGE prior to disbursement of funds for technical assistance at the
facility. Consultant specialists to the DGE under Loan 1499-IND would arrange
for the recruitment of teachers, teacher training, recruitment of extension
personnel, development of the training program, and improvements to the facility.
/1 Maintenance for national roads is covered in budget funds of DGH while
maintenance for provincial roads is covered in budget funds of the Ministry
of Home Affairs.



- 41 -
Expansion of PTP IV in Riau Area
4.13      Ministry of Agriculture.  The MOA has the major role of policy
formulation and coordination responsibilities of the estate group activities,
estate inspection, estate budget approval and control and provision of advice
to the Boards of the PTPs and the Directorate for Government Limited Liability
Companies (Directorate of PTPs) within the Ministry of Finance. Technical
assistance has been provided under Loan 1499-IND to the MOA Support Staff for
Agricultural Enterprises for guidance, monitoring and evaluation of the
operations of the PNP/PTPs. In particular, the MOA has recently initiated
estates inspection services for monitoring performance of the PNP/PTPs. An
assurance, as in para. 3.29, was obtained to provide, under the project,
quality control inspection services to PTP IV.
B. Aspects of Project Implementation
4.14      Settler Selection and Land Title.  New settlers in the project
would be selected on the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank which give
priority to landless farmers in the project vicinity, but when these have
been accommodated, would be extended to transmigrants. New settlers would
have some farm experience, be married, between the ages of 20-40 years, in
good health, with annual incomes of less than Rp 150,000 (US$360). Preference
would be given to applicant families for rubber replanting with incomes
below Rp 200,000 (US$500) with the same age criteria as for new settlers.
Responsibility for settler selection rests with the Project Manager (para.
4.04). Costs of transportation for transmigration to the project site would be
borne by the Directorate General of Transmigration. The issue of Certificates
of Hak Milik (right of ownership) is made by the Directorate General of
Agraria in the Ministry of Home Affairs in Jakarta. Assurances were
obtained that new settlers would receive Certificates of "conditional"
Hak Milik for a five ha land area within six months of entry to the settle-
ment project as a prospective settler. Rubber replanters would receive
"conditional" Hak Milik to two ha of land for rubber to be replanted in the
project. The conditions for new settlers would be that the settler would work
as a laborer in the rubber area developed by the nucleus estate up to three
years after rubber planting and that his performance in this work is judged
satisfactory by a Provincial Committee responsible to the Governor. If such
performance is satisfactory, the settler would receive Certificate of "full"
Hak Milik title without conditions at the end of Year 3. Rubber replanters
would also receive "full" Hak Milik at the time their individual credit
agreement is signed with the BRI. These titles would, however, be retained by
BRI until loan obligations of settlers and replanters had been fulfilled. The
issue of certificate of "'full" Hak Milik requires a detailed plot survey which
is the responsibility of the provincial and district offices of Agraria.
4.15      Settler Training in Rubber Management.  The nucleus estate would
give priority attention to training of settlers in rubber management, initially
during the settlers' period of employment as rubber laborers and later as
independent farmers. Rubber replanters would receive training during the first



- 42 -
year of clearing and planting for new rubber and during maintenance visits by
PTP IV for input applications. To ensure a high standard of rubber development,
the nucleus estate would be responsible for application of fertilizer until
the end of the immature nonproductive phase for both new settlers and replanters.
The nucleus estate would also operate a tapper training program.
4.16      Food Cropping Program.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that GOI would extend the BIMAS programs to cover the food production activities
of new settlers and rubber replanters by August 1, 1979 and that an adequate
number of BRI mobile units or village units would be established to serve
each development area in Riau and Jambi at the commencement of the BIMAS
program. During the first year of a settler's residence, however, inputs for
food crops would be supplied by PTP IV, as part of the settler's credit
package. In the event the BIMAS program is not established in the first year
of project implementation, PTP IV would continue to provide seed and fertilizer
to settlers for subsistence crop development. The DGE would be responsible
for requesting a sufficient number of PPL for food crops to the project area.
The requests would be made yearly to DG Food Crops.
4.17      Annual Work Programs.  Each agency involved in the implementation
of the project would prepare annual work programs including cost estimates for
budget approval which would detail project work for the year ahead, including
the recruitment and training of required personnel. Assurances were obtained
from the Government at negotiations that each agency would prepare a program
by September 30 of each year and submit such programs to the Bank for
review and comment.
4.18      Health and Nutrition.  Arrangements for the project's low cost
health delivery system would be the responsibility of the Director of Develop-
ment in the Provincial Government in each of the two settlement provinces,
Riau and Jambi. Arrangements for primary medical care would be made prior to
the entry of the first group of settlers in each province. The health system at
Riau would consist of one health center (Puskesmas), 11 village health posts
for the 11 central villages and 18 first aid posts for the satellite village.
In Jambi, the health system would consist of one health center, four village
health posts, and eight first aid stations. The Director of Development
for each settlement area would ensure malaria control by the provincial
health administration including supplies of DDT, chloroquine, house spraying
before settler arrival, and malariametric surveys. Under the existing GOI
regulations for the health components, mother and child health care, including
nutrition and family planning, and guidance by traditional midwives would be
provided. Hygiene and sanitation has been included in the project (para. 3.11)
in construction of wells and latrines.
C. The Environment
4.19      The vegetation in the areas for new settlement is either secondary
jungle or coarse lalang grass with only scattered areas of primary forest.
Both the secondary jungle and lalang areas represent an uneconomic form of
land use when these areas can be reforestated with rubber or other tree crops.



- 43 -
Project design calls for rubber to be introduced on the more strongly sloping
areas where the use of standard soil conservation practices, a leguminous
ground cover and the tree canopy, would prevent erosion and build up soil
fertility. Food cropping would be confined to flat and gently undulating
lands on individual farm holdings rather than the poor economic and ecological
pattern of shifting cultivation presently used in the project areas. Fertility
would be improved through establishment of tree crops, crop rotation, fallowing
and provision of adequate inputs.
V. DEMAND AND MARKETING
A. Rubber
Demand and Marketing Arrangements
5.01      Price Projections.  The price for natural rubber in the short-term
is expected to remain favorable. Demand for all elastomers is expected to
increase by 4.5% per annum to 1985. Consumption of natural rubber is expected
to benefit strongly from the growth in elastomer demand and from the limited
projected capacity for the increased production of synthetic rubber. In 1977
US$ terms, the price of RSS I cif New York is projected to increase from
37.6/lb in 1977 to 43.0/lb in 1985.
5.02      In the long run, prices for natural rubber are constrained by those
of synthetic rubbers. The price of natural rubber has to be such that it
competes effectively with the available synthetic substitutes. During the
past ten years, the prices of natural rubber have moved between those of SBR
(styrene butadiene rubber), the floor price for all rubber, and those of IR
(isoprene rubber), the ceiling of the synthetic rubber prices which directly
compete with natural rubber. The long-term price of natural rubber is therefore
forecast on the basis of expected future trends in the cost/price of SBR which
is taken as the floor price below which natural rubber cannot fall for any
protracted period. The projection of the likely future trend in the cost/price
of SBR is based on the relationship between crude oil, chemicals and manufac-
turing costs. The long run equilibrium price of natural rubber in 1990
through 2000 is forecast in Bank Commodity projections to be around 47.04,/lb
in 1977 constant prices.
5.03      Smallholder Rubber Price.  The price structure for smallholder
rubber in Sumatera and around the proposed project areas is difficult to trace
given the wide variation in the dry content of rubber (drc) received, the
number of processors and collecting agents and the extent to which they
manipulate estimates of drc, and the cost of transportation from area to area.
The sequence of marketing is usually from farm to collection agent, about 45%
as unsmoked sheet and 55% as slab and lump, and then to processor. In the
project areas, smallholders have been receiving about 35 to 45% of the fob



- 44 -
value of rubber or about Rp 130-140/kg based on 50% drc of slab. The variations
in margins for middlemen in the procedure account for at least 5-10% of the fob
value of RSS I. Farmers could receive better prices than those presently
obtained with improvement in conditions of marketing their own rubber.
5.04      Under nucleus estate collection and processing where excessive pro-
cessor profits and the additional costs of middlemen are removed it is expected
that farmers would be paid 70% or the fob value of Rp 397/kg drc in 1990 (1977
constant prices) even when depreciation and the capital cost of processing is
included in addition to the normal factory and collection costs. GOI has
indicated for the proposed project that nucleus estate processors should
collect rubber for smallholder repayment obligations and all other rubber that
project farmers choose to sell at a price about 70% fob. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the borrower would cause PTP IV to pay about
70% of the prevailing fob price for rubber produced by smallholder project
farmers, excluding cases of large variation in the dry rubber content received,
or significant reduction in the fob price, or significant changes in processing
or marketing charges of the nucleus estate processor.
5.05      Marketing of Rubber.  Production of rubber by PTP IV from expansion
of the estate in the Riau area would be sold through the existing and well-
established marketing organizations including regulation and sales determination
under the Joint Marketing Office, Medan. New settlers and rubber replanters
in Riau and Jambi are expected to produce lower grades of rubber and some
latex, and would be free to sell to any dealers/exporters in the project area.
However, PTP IV would process and market the amount of latex or slab required
for debt repayment (para. 3.51). Owing to favorable prices predetermined and
paid to smallholders on the amount of rubber collected for debt repayment, it
is expected that most smallholders would also sell their additional rubber
production to the nucleus estate. The requirements for processing facilities
for both smallholder and estate rubber to be financed in a second phase to the
proposed project would be determined in the project Year 3 when expected
yields, production, and the desirability for sheet versus crepe rubber would
be more certain.
B. Food Crops
5.06      The farm plan proposed for project new settlers and existing
farmers is primarily based on rubber and further farm expansion is expected to
be in tree crops. Food crop production by rubber smallholders in the project
would largely be limited to such staple crops as upland rice, groundnuts,
cassava, and beans, with some fruit tree crops, and vegetables from garden
lots. With the limited amount of production from these crops, farm families
are expected to consume most of their food crop production. No special
marketing arrangements are therefore required for food crop production.
Should family surpluses in food crops develop in later years of the project,
food crop marketing is well established throughout both project areas.
Food crops are marketed by the farmers themselves in Jambi, along the northern
and southern roads to the Bajubang project site and are also taken to Jambi
town, less than 40 km away. In Riau families have no particular difficulty
marketing their food crops in Air Molek or in Rengat town.



- 45 -
VI. PRODUCTION ASPECTS, TECHNOLOGICAL FACTORS, AND FARM INCOMES
A. General
6.01      Rubber would be the main crop cultivated in the Riau and Jambi
project areas with food crops (upland rice, cassava, sweet potato, groundnuts,
beans and vegetables) being grown to meet the smallholder's food requirements.
6.02      Smallholder Rubber Production.  Smallholder rubber establishment,
upkeep and production techniques are underdeveloped in Indonesia. The
appropriate technology and economics of rubber production are well established
but this knowledge is mainly confined to the public sector estates. Smallholder
rubber has traditionally been grown under a regime with a low level of farm
inputs and smallholder management. Land in smallholder areas is generally not
properly cleared causing a high incidence of white root disease in the rubber
trees. Inferior, unselected seedlings are used, resulting in widely fluctuating
growth and rubber production, and a relatively low stand of medium to high
producing trees. Fertilizers are rarely applied. Weeding and maintenance
standards during the immature period are low, resulting in very slow growth
of the rubber trees and substantial delays in rubber maturity, and soil conser-
vation is not practiced. Smallholder rubber trees are overtapped and many dry
up. In Jambi and Riau the trees are often tapped four days per week during nine
months per annum with no stimulation techniques. Tapping standards such as bark
conservation, slope of cut, and wounding are inadequate and cause heavily
callused trees with incomplete bark renewal.
6.03      Soils.  Apart from some alluvial soils prone to flooding in southern
portions of Air Molek west, the soils in the Riau and Jambi project areas
are classified as red-yellow podzolics. These soils were mainly derived from
weathering of residual Darent material, primarily sandstone. The soils are
heavily leached and are free draining depending on location and topography.
Water holding capacity is moderate to good but the nutrient status of these
soils is poor while acidity is high. The agricultural system employed by
smallholders in the Riau and Jambi areas reflects the low fertility of the
soils and the need to re-establish a crop after clearing the forest. Rubber
is the preferred, best adapted, and dominant crop in the project areas. Annual
subsistence crops are grown in these areas but usually in a system of shifting
cultivation or in small house and garden lots. Low lying areas prone to
water collection are often cultivated with wet land padi rice. Agricultural
practices in the project area are traditional but risks are reduced with
farm families dependent on both rubber and food crops.
B. Crop Recommendations
6.04      Rubber.  In the new settlement areas, land clearing would be done
mechanically and by using herbicides. Land clearing in rubber replanting
areas would be carried out with chain saws and by hand. The clone GTI would
be the dominant material used, especially in the new settlement and rubber
replanting areas. PTP IV in its own expansion program would plant a wider
selection of clones based on the recommendations of the Rubber Research
Institutes in Medan and Bogor and the Rubber Research Center in Tanjung



- 46 -
Morawa. The approximate composition of the PTP IV planting program is esti-
mated to be: GTI - 40%; RRIM 600 - 20%; AVROS 2037 - 10%; PR 255 - 5%; PR 261 -
5%; PR 107 - 5%; PR 300 - 5%; PB 5/51 - 5% and GYT 577- 5%. Planting material
would be raised in PTP IV managed nurseries. Bare-root, budded stumps would
be used for the initial planting and supplying would be done by using 2-3
whorl polybag budded stumps. Planting density would be 500 trees/ha; the
spacing could vary from 8 x 2.5 m to 5.5 x 3.6 m depending on the growth
characteristics of the clone. In the latter case, trees tend to develop more
uniformly than in the typical avenue spacing of 8 x 2.5 m and the canopy
tends to close at an earlier date.
6.05      The shortening of the period of immaturity would be emphasized
by using advanced planting materials, by establishing a leguminous cover crop
after land clearing, by adequate weed control and upkeep by the use of herbi-
cides, preventing water and nutrient competition between rubber and the
cover crop, and by adequate fertilizer applications based on soil and leaf
analyses.  Attention would be given to adequate white root disease control by
Doisoning the tree stumps left in the field, and removing and burning infected
wood during land clearing.
6.06      Modern tapping systems with the emphasis on low tapping frequency
combined with Ethrel stimulation would be introduced with the objective of
obtaining large increases in productivity per tapping and satisfactory bark
conservation. Details of the tapping system are available in the Project
File.
6.07      For well managed rubber production, PTP IV must closely supervise
lalang and mikania control and give attention to weeding practices, pest and
disease control, and the rate of fertilizer application. One of the most
important prerequisites for sound rubber management is the proper oranization
of training for tapping and stimulation techniques including the supervision
of exploitation, such as monthly control of bark consumption and tapping
quality. PTP IV has proved its ability to supervise rubber establishment and
exploitation. Details of all recommendations for land clearing, land prepara-
tion and maintenance techniques are also available in the Project File.
6.08      Food Cropping.  Input requirements and production levels of rubber
can be estimated with considerable confidence, but to date there is incomplete
knowledge of the optimum choice of food crops and the optimum use of inputs
including fertilizers for sustained annual food cropping on the red-yellow
podzolic soils. In the shifting cultivation system practiced at present in
the project areas the allowance for regeneration period is kept at 15 to 20
years between 2-year periods of cultivating food crops, and although this
system is ecologically damaging, it is economically sound and has allowed a
few farmers to satisfy their food requirements and earn some cash from surplus
sales. The disadvantages of this system are in poor soil conservation, and
poor land use. Yields remain low while the main inDuts are planting materials
and the farm family's own labor.



- 47 -
6.09      The main ingredients for a technical package for improved food
cropping have been established in qualitative terms: high yielding plant
materials, fertilizer, weed control, pest and disease control, soil conserva-
tion, and rotation requirements between the various crops. In quantitative
terms, however, the data base, although expanding quickly, requires improvement
regarding types and varieties, quantities, frequencies and methods of applica-
tion. In addition to a review of the present research being undertaken in
Indonesia, close liaison during the project would be maintained with the
Bank's first Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND) and
the first Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project (Loan 1499-IND) to monitor
the technical feasibility, the input-output relationships and labor requirements
of sustained annual food cropping on the red-yellow podzolic soils.
6.10      In the project areas adequate attention would be given to food crop-
ping activities. The first year package of food crop inputs for each small-
holder family is to be supplied by the nucleus estate PTP IV (para. 3.07).
Successive food crop inputs would be supplied through the BIMAS program, but
would continue to be provided by PTP IV in the event of delays in organization
of the BIMAS program. It is also assumed that many smallholders would purchase
seed and fertilizer without the need for credit since incomes from estate
employment would be sufficient to meet input requirements.
C. Yields and Production
6.11      Rubber.  Smallholder rubber yields in the Riau and Jambi project
areas are rarely above 300-400 kg/ha per annum and 3 kg per tapper. With
nucleus estate management, improved practices, and good settler response, peak
yields for new settler rubber farmers should reach 1,600 kg/ha per annum while
peak yields for rubber replanters should reach about 1,400 kg/ha at full
development. Rubber yields for smallholders are shown in Annex 4, Tables 7
and 11. The expansion of PTP IV in the Riau area should produce rubber
with peak yields of 2,700 kg/ha or average rubber yields over a 25-year
tapping period of 1,750 kg/ha.
6.12      Food Crops.  Garden crops consisting of fruit trees, vegetables, and
small amounts of cash crops for each new settler family (0.15 ha) would be
continuously and intensively cropped. The yield for padi rice is expected
to reach 1.6 tons/ha at full development and a yield for cassava of 12 tons/ha wet
roots has been projected for the garden areas also by year 15. On the subsis-
tence food crop area (2.8 ha), with much less intensive cropping, yields are
expected to reach 1.3 tons/ha by year 9 for padi, 0.45 tons/ha for beans and
groudnuts, while 12 tons/ha for wet cassava should also be obtained. Inorganic
fertilizers (100 kg/ha urea and 50 kg/ha triple superphosphate) and compost
would be used to obtain the projected yields. Farm plans (para. 6.13) show
that both new settlers and rubber replanters in the proposed project would be
able to supply food crop subsistence needs for their own families. A small
marketable surplus of beans and groundnuts may be generated.
D. Farm Plans
6.13      Farm planning for new settlement components in Riau and Jambi has
focused on development of an income base for project settlers to be derived



- 48 -
from rubber. The physical allocation of the 5 ha farm model with the initial
development of 2 ha of rubber has been described in para. 2.20, and would be
identical for new settlement in Riau and Jambi. Clearing and planting of
garden and subsistence food requirements for rice, beans/groundnuts and
cassava, have been phased to account for other labor requirements on the farm
family including their house construction. Given the emphasis on developing
an established base for rubber production as well as an assured income of one
settler family member employed as an estate laborer, additional clearing
of 0.2 ha per year in the 2.8 ha total subsistence food crop area would not
be complete in the first full rotation until year 9. It is expected that
in addition to the 2 ha of block planted rubber, the farmer will eventually
plant an additional ha of tree crops within the 2.8 ha of available crop area.
Based on additional man-days and sufficient income, this would be possible by
year 8. The crop planting summary for new settlers is shown in Annex 4,
Tables 1-2.
6.14      The farm plan for existing rubber smallholders in Riau and Jambi
envisions rubber replanting on 2 ha to be carried out with nucleus estate
labor and the smallholders own family labor. Since each family would require
about 252 man-days of their own labor in the clearing and planting stage for
new rubber (year 0), in addition to nucleus estate labor of 70 man-days
in this period, only one ha of rubber would be established in the first year
with a second ha established about two years later in order to permit full
utilization of family labor and shorten the period of reduced family income
while the first ha reaches maturity. Provided sufficient family labor is
available on some holdings, a few families for rubber replanting may elect to
have two ha established simultaneously. It is expected that food cropping
would continue on existing family food crop areas and with the introduction of
the BIMAS program in the project area, food crop yields would be moderately
increased from about 7 tons/ha wet cassava at present to 12 tons/ha and 0.7 tons
padi rice at present to 1.3 tons at full development under the project.
6.15      Prices.  The smallholder rubber price has been discussed in para. 5.03.
Other prices used to estimate farm incomes are described as follows:
(a) Rice: Rice is bought and sold by BULOG, the GOI agency for rice
purchasing, at prices below the world market price. The GOI has
substantially raised domestic padi prices to encourage rice produc-
tion. At the same time there has been a fall in world prices for
rice which has brought farmgate prices closer to world levels. The
floor price for padi is now set at Rp 70/kg while an imputed economic
price would be about Rp 72/kg. The financial price used in analysis
however is based on the padi price in the project area of Rp 130/kg.
Riau and Jambi are rice deficit areas in which farmers traditionally
receive higher prices for padi than in other parts of Sumatera or
Java.
(b)  Cassava, groundnuts and garden crops:  The current farmgate prices
in the project area for wet root cassava, Rp 15/kg, and unshelled
beans/groundnuts, Rp 100/kg, have been used in projections and are
expected to remain constant over the life of the project. Other
prices assumed in the analysis are Rp 25/kg for sweet potato, Rp 40/kg
for rambutan, Rp 300/kg for coffee and Rp 1,000/kg for cloves.



- 49 -
(c)  Fertilizers:  For urea and TSP, applied to food crops the BIMAS
prices of Rp 70, and Rp 85 respectively were assumed to remain
constant throughout the project life. Farm models have used prices
for fertilizer required in rubber production based on IBRD commodity
forecasts and converted to farmgate prices. Fertilizer prices in
rubber development costs have been kept constant at their late
1977 price with adjustments made for price contingecies.
E. Farm Incomes
6.16      Farm Incomes.  Incomes for new settlers and rubber replanted in the
"with project" case are based on the farm plans as described in para. 6.13
and 6.14 and from the physical farm plans in Annex 4. Family incomes are
shown in current terms and in constant late 1977 prices to reflect the projected
payments for debt service and the relative price changes between rubber and
the costs of on-farm produc-tion. Income statements for new settlement in Riau
and Jambi are identical as are income statements for rubber replanting in the
two areas.
Table 3: FARM INCOME - NEW SETTLEMENT
Year
3       10        15        20        25
------------ (Current $) -----------
Net value /a of:
Food production                271       933    1,310    1,837    2,574
Rubber from 2 ha                 -    2,329    4,947    8,047    8,167
Total on-farm income             271    3,262    6,257    9,884   10,741
Total off-farm income            968         -         -         -         -
Total income                   1,239    3,262    6,257    9,884   10,741
Debt repayments                    -       726    1,460    2,339           -
Incremental net income         1,239    2,536    4,797    7,545   10,741
Incremental net income
(constant 77$)                 713       731       894      921       868



- 50 -
Table 4:  FARM INCOME - RUBBER REPLANTING
Year
3       10        15       20       25
------------ (Current $) -------------
Net value /a of:
Food production                      293       536      752    1,054    1,479
Existing rubber                      115         -        -         -         -
Rubber from 2 ha replanting            -    2,210    4,533    7,455    6,736
Total on-farm income                   408    2,746    5,285    8,509    8,215
Total off-farm income                   50         -         -        -         -
Total income                           458    2,746    5,285    8,509    8,215
Debt repayments                          -       694    1,351         -         -
Net Income                             458    2,052    3,934    8,509    8,215
Net income (constant 1977$)            232       539      669       948       653
Incremental net income
(constant 1977 $)                     70      459       601       874      520
/a After IPEDA taxes.
6.17      New Settlement.  The farm plan for new settlement with net family
incomes shown from US$700 to US$900 (constant 1977$) over the course of the
project has been specifically designed to provide continuity of income to
settlers with estate wages paid until the rubber reaches maturity and thereafter
from their own farm production based largely on rubber. Incomes during the
development period would never be greatly depressed in the event of food crop
failures since off-farm employment would constitute over 75% of net family
income. Even after repayment of debt obligations at about 25% of total income,
net family incomes are sufficient to provide for subsistence costs (food,
shelter, clothing) estimated at about US$420 per family, and would provide a
net cash surplus of about US$293 in year 3 rising to a surplus of US$501 in
year 20, sufficient for farmers' own planting of an additional 0.5 ha of
rubber or other tree crops in any one year. The family income effect as
measured would represent an increased income from US$360 or less to about
US$900 at full development.
6.18      Rubber Replanting.  Family incomes for rubber replanters would rise
from about US$232 in year 3 when these families would still be dependent or
at least one ha of existing rubber to US$669 in year 15, and to US$948 in
the period after these families have completed debt repayments for their rubber
replanting. By year 10, most families would have sufficient incomes to initiate
further replanting on small areas. Although rubber replanters would have
reduced incomes in the early years of the project, family incomes of US$500 or
less of those replanters entering the project would be increased to about
US$900 at full development.



- 51 -
VII. COST, BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits and Justification
7.01      Smallholder Components.  With the nucleus estate strategy for new
and replanted rubber development and provision of inputs and service for
food cropping, the proposed project would increase rubber production and food
crop yields on a total of 49,050 ha of which 41,550 ha would represent new
land development on unutilized and heretofore uneconomic lalang and scrub
forest areas. The project would directly benefit some 11,350 smallholder
families or 56,750 people in the rural target pouplation and through expansion
of PTP IV in Riau would provide employment opportunities for another 2,000
families. Increased regional employment in the project areas as a result of
spread and multiplier effects in the regional economy has not been analyzed,
but using a conservative estimate of 50% of the permanent jobs created, it can
be assumed that an additional 12,350 rubber related, secondary service and
tradesmen jobs would result from the project.
7.02      Expected future yields and the cropping pattern for rubber and
food crop development are discussed in paras. 6.11-6.14. Gross returns,
production costs and net returns (without accounting for labor costs) are
given in para. 6.16 and are shown in detail in Annex 4, Tables 8-9, 12-13.
The estimated income effects as measured for the project represent increases
in per capita incomes from US$70 to about US$180 (constant 1977 dollars) at
full development for 38,000 beneficiaries of new settlements and from US$100
to US$180 at full development for about 18,750 beneficiaries of rubber replant-
ing. Other benefits which have not been quantified include improved health
and sanitation, the nutritional status of smallholders, improved transportation,
and the multiplier effects on the regional economy of local capital formation
and increased levels of consumption expenditure.
7.03      PTP IV Development.  PTP IV in the expansion of its existing estate
of 30,000 ha of rubber, plans to diversify and develop about 17,000 ha in
Labuhan Batu including rubber, oil palm and cocoa. Provided the program is
implemented on schedule and external borrowings are secured for the Labuhan
Batu program, PTP IV's net income would increase from its present level of
Rp 1.3 billion (US$3.2 million) to about Rp 30.5 billion (US$73.5 millior) at
full development in 1996. With the proposed expansion of PTP IV in the Riau
area, net income would be about Rp 36.6 billion (US$88.2 million), or a net
incremental benefit from the project of about Rp 6.1 billion (US$14.7 million)
per annum at full development. Incremental income generated by PTP IV from
Riau is estimated to accrue benefits over the life of the project to the Govern-
ment from corporation and other taxes, amounting to Rp 91.2 billion (US$220
million) and from dividends, estimated to total Rp 45.1 billion (US$109 million).
With the Riau developments in the proposed project and expansion at Labuhan Batu,
the GOI is estimated to become owner of a debt-free estate after 1996 with assets
at over Rp 170 billion (US$410 million). All figures have been expressed in
current terms.



- 52 -
B.  Costs
7.04      GOI investment costs per family have been computed as shown in
Annex 2, Table 14. With the exception of main access and primary village
road development costs, which would provide regional development and benefits
to at least twice the number of direct beneficiaries in the proposed project,
all costs of development have been attributed to new settlers (US$5,839 per
family, constant 1977) and rubber replanters (US$2,949). Credit costs
for all farm development, housing and necessary estate buildings are about
US$5,119 for each new settler family and about US$2,442 for each family for
rubber replanting. These costs formed the basis for loan and cost recovery
analyses as shown in para. 3.52.
7.05      About 2.0 permanent jobs would be directly created on each small-
holding. Job creation per smallholding would increase to 3.0 persons through
farmers' own planting of an additional one ha of rubber or other tree crops.
On the basis of 2.0 jobs created, however, the cost of individual job creation
by GOI would be about US$2,920 for new settlement and about US$1,475 for
rubber replanting. These costs include infrastructure development and road
construction costs which might be legitimately charged to regional development.
This cost compares favorably with job creation in average small-scale industry
in Indonesia estimated at about US$6,500 and in medium to large industry at
about US$17,000. Permanent job creation at PTP IV-Riau in the initial years
of the project would include about 2,000 employees for which the average cost
of job creation would be about $4,057. This cost of job created would actually
be reduced in the later years since a large part of the investment is allocated
to the sunk costs of establishing a new estate.
C. Financial Results
7.06      Smallholder Components.  Results of financial cost-benefit analyses
are summarized below and in Table 5. The incremental financial rates of
return for smallholders in new settlements in Riau and Jambi are estimated to
be 15% and for rubber replanting 16% in the project areas. In the absence of
the project, it was assumed that smallholders for new settlement would
continue to earn US$350 while rubber replanters would earn between US$550 and
US$300 dependent on the decline in production on their existing holdings.
This income was treated as a cost to derive net incremental benefits.
Investment items included only credit items of expenditure that smallholders
would repay, and as such, do not include village and social infrastructure.
7.07      PTP IV Riau Estate.  The overall incremental financial rate of
return for PTP IV in Riau is etimated at 20% (after taxes). This rate of
return is considered to be excellent owing to the large capital outlays
which must be made for buildings, housing and civil works to establish the
new estate in Riau and the long development period before benefits would be
obtained.



Table 5: RESULTS OF FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
(%)
Investment costs
Financial      Rubber price/    Investment        price/yields
rate of       yield changes        cost          -25        +25
return    -20  -10  +10  +20   -25  +25    -10  +10  -10  +10
Estate Development
I. PTP IV
Riau Estate              20        14   18   22   24    25   17        21   29   11   20
Il
Investment Costs
Financial                                              Investment       price/yields
rate of      Rubber price         Food crop yield         cost         -25        +25
return    -20  -10  +10  +20  -25  -50  +25  +50   -25  +25    -10  +10  -10  +10
Smallholders Development
II.  Rubber New Settlement       15        13   14   17   18   14   12   17   19    20   13         19   21   12   14
III.  Rubber Replanting           16        12   14   17   18   15   14   17   18    18   14         16   20   12   15



- 54 -
7.08      Sensitivity Analysis.  The effects on the financial rates of return
based on changing prices, yields and investment costs are indicated in Table 5.
The effects of project delays estimated to increase investment costs by
about 25% would not have serious adverse effects on the project components
as new settlement and rubber replanting would have rates of return of 13% and
14% respectively while the rate of return for PTP IV would be reduced to 17%.
Smallholder components would be fairly insensitive to changes in yields and
levels of production in food crops. Even in the case of a drop in production
in food crops by 50%, the rates of return would be satisfactory at 12% for new
settlers and 14% for rubber replanters. Project risks including those of a
financial nature are discussed in para. 7.12.
D. Economic Results
7.09      The estimated economic rate of return for the project (discounted
over 32 years) is 15%. The economic evaluation of all project components is
summarized in Table 6 below.
Table 6: RESULTS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Economic rate
Component                                of return
Smallholder Development
I.  New Settlement                     14
II.  Rubber Replanting                   16
Estate Development
III.  PTP IV:  Riau Estate                19
Total Project                      15
Since the rates of return are above the accepted cut-off rate for Bank
projects in Indonesia (12%), they are satisfactory for all project components.
The higher economic rate of return for rubber replanting than new settlement
reflects the lower GOI investment costs required in rubber replanting and in
particular, the lower GOI requirements for social services and village
infrastructure.



- 55 -
7.10      Assumptions used for the economic analysis are:
(a) Foreign Exchange. Due to the existence of import and export taxes,
quantitative restrictions and export subsidies, the official
exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1.00 is not an accurate representation
of the economic value to the economy of foreign exchange used in
implementing the project and from savings through increased food
production. Using the Squire-van der Tak approach,/l the estimated
standard conversion factor for Indonesia is 0.8;
(b) Taxes. Corporation taxes and duties were eliminated from the estate
component whereas the export taxes for rubber were added to the net
value of smallholdings and estate output. IPEDA taxes were also added
back to the value of production in the smallholder components;
(c) Labor Pricing. Because of the low productivity of most family operated
rubber smallholdings in the project areas, and the.considerable number
of landless families in Central Sumatera whose major income source is
farm labor, considerable unemployment and underemployment exists in the
project areas. Additionally, farm labor requirements are seasonal with
heavier demands occuring during the wet season. In the project, the
financial wage to be paid to smallholders by the nucleus estates and
the available wage paid to laborers in the area when work is available
is about Rp 650/day. Labor utilization of most prospective new settlers
and families eligible for rubber replanting is only about 50% on their
Present holdings or as laborers in the project area. In estimating the
marginal value of labor to the economy for this project, a shadow wage
rate of Rp 325 has been used to reflect the value of labor to the
economy. This wage rate is based on a marginal analysis of the monthly
demand for labor generated by the project over the 10 years to full
employment and at full development. It takes into account the manpower
requirements for subsistence food cropping and likely present and
future employment opportunities in and around the project area. Based
on available man-days of labor for farm families of about 450 after
allowing for requirements of 150 man-days for food cropping, available
labor at the shadow wage rate of Rp 325/day is equivalent to the
minimum subsistence level of Rp 145,000/annum per family.
(d) Investment Costs. Investment costs are net of taxes and transfer
payments. In determining their economic cost, local costs were
adjusted using the standard conversion factor of 0.8. Investment
costs have been adjusted to reflect the economic value of unskilled
casual labor in rubber development and maintenance. Costs include
an allowance of 10% for physical contingencies, but exclude price
contingencies; and
(e) Road, Village and Social Infrastructure were fully costed in the
economic rate of return.
/1 L. Squire and H. G. van der Tak, Economic Analysis of Projects, Baltimore
and London, the Johns Hopkins University Press, 1975.



- 56 -
Sensitivity Analysis
7.11      Cost overruns and lower than expected rubber yields or prices are
the most likely constraints to achieving these economic rates of return.
Thus, the sensitivity of the rates of return were tested to these variables
including a 20% reduction and a 20% increase in investment costs, the latter
reflecting about a one year delay in project implementation, and a 10% reduction
and a 10% increase in the total value of production reflecting principally a
10% increase or decline in rubber yields or a 10% increase or decline in the
fob price of rubber. Table 7 shows the results of the analysis. With the
exception of the new settler component adjusted for investment cost increases
of 20% and an unlikely decline in rubber prices by 10% over the life of the
project (about 11%) all rates of return are about 12%. The sensitivity of the
rates of return to labor valued without shadow pricing at financial price of
Rp 650/day, indicated that, although lower for new settlement (10%), all rates
of return are satisfactory.
Table 7: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Investment -20 Investment costs +20
Full wage       cost          Income from prod.
rate      -20   +20   -10    +10    -10    +10
Smallholder Development
I.  New Settlement              10         17    12    15       18      11     13
II.  Rubber Replanting           15         18    15    17       19      14     16
Estate Development
III.  PTP IV:  Riau Estate        17         21    17    20       23      16     18
Total Project            12
E. Project Risks
7.12      Although the Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I Project has not been
sufficiently implemented to evaluate project risks for the proposed project,
no particular risks of a technical or economic nature are foreseen. Since
the project would rely heavily on the management and technical capabilities
of the PTP IV which has demonstrated its ability in rubber development, risks
in the development period of all project rubber is minimized. Risks in
obtaining projected food crop benefits would not be significant since project
management, improved technical practices and the availability of seed and
fertilizer have been designed into the project and should be sufficient to
obtain the conservative food crop yields as projected.



- 57 -
7.13      Some oi the organizational and financial approaches employed in
this project, as in Loan 1499-IND, are of necessity, innovative and have not
yet been fully tested. Although no particular risks are envisioned in the
flow of funds for credit items and the design of the credit delivery system
(para. 3.37, 3.50))cost recovery on the "in kind" basis has not been tested in
Bank-assisted projects in Indonesia nor has it been used by the BRI (para. 3.51).
Since smallholders would have the ability to repay (para. 3.53) and a price
incentive has been introduced to influence smallholders to repay, the
element of risk rests in the responsibility of PTP IV as a collection agent
to ensure recovery long after their development work for new settlers and
rubber replanters. The GOI has requested this method of cost recovery and
is confident that the nucleus estate will collect smallholder rubber for debt
repayment in order to reduce their own operating and overhead costs by
increased throughput.
7.14      The management capability of the Provincial Governments in the
extensive role of settlement planning, arrangements for recruitment of settlers
and rubber replanters, budgeting and implementing village construction, and the
provision for health services for vast numbers of families would require their
closest attention. To minimize risks in management at this level, and to super-
vise the integration of such components as rubber and food crop development
with village development and road construction, close guidance by the DGE and
the technical assistance provided under this project will be necessary. It is
anticipated that project management at the provincial level with supervision
from the DGE will be proven capable of successfully implementing all of its
project responsibilities and serve institution building needs at the provincial
level, thereby providing the direct benefit of reducing the otherwise high cost
of centralized management for smallholder development.
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a) the DGE will appoint by February 28, 1979 one consultant specialist
in smallholder coconut agronomy for project preparation, acceptable
to the Bank and on terms satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.05):
(b)  (i)  arrangements to extend the BIMAS program coverage to new
settlers and rubber replanters in Air Molek west and east,
Riau, and in Bujubang, Jambi will be made by August 1, 1979
(para. 3.07);
(ii)  PTP IV will continue to procure and supply food crop inputs
for project new settlers and replanters until such time as the
BIMAS program is fully established (para. 3.07); and
(iii)  an adequate number of BRI mobile units or village units will
be established at the commencement of the BIMAS program
(para. 4.16);



- 58 -
(c)  (i)  the Provincial Coordinating Committees will submit annual
budgets for non-credit expenditures six months prior to the
start of each fiscal year and will maintain appropriate cost
accounts acceptable to the DGE and the Bank in respect of such
expenditures (para. 3.40);
(ii) whenever budget funds from APBN, APBD and INPRES sources are
insufficient to cover non-credit expenditures, the Borrower
will make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to meet
additional requirements (para. 3.40);
(iii) the accounts of all agencies of the Borrower participating in
the implementation of the project will be audited each fiscal
year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.48).
(d) the Borrower will cause the nucleus estate PTP IV processors to
pay about 70% of the fob price for rubber produced by smallholder
project farmers, except in cases of:
(i)  significant reduction in quality of rubber received, or a signi-
ficant reduction in the fob price from that prevailing at the
date of the Loan Agreement (para. 5.04); or
(ii) significant increase in collection, processing and marketing
charges of the nucleus estate processor from those prevailing
at the date of the Loan Agreement (para. 5.03).
(e)  (i)  certificate of "conditional" Hak Milik for a 5 ha land area
will be received by each new settler family and the same land
title would be received by rubber replanters for a 2 ha land
area, both within six months of entry to the project (para. 4.14);
and
(ii) this certificate will be converted to full Hak Milik within
three years after entry to the project subject to review of
settler performance (paras. 4.14);
(f)  the nucleus estate PTP IV will maintain separate accounts for
expenditures in connection with the settlement components and rubber
replanting components (para. 3.48).
Expansion of PTP IV
(a)  the DGE will employ consultants providing inspection services acceptable
to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
for short term assignments, to monitor the progress of the project
with respect to field conditions, housing, infrastructure, and
finance of PTP IV, as well as other consultants on short term
assignments (para. 3.29);
(b) PTP IV will be required to submit annual budgets each year of the
work program for expansion of the estate in Riau to the Bank for



- 59 -
review and comment before adoption by PTP IV's Board of Supervisors
(para. 3.49); PTP IV would have its accounts for each fiscal year
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para.
3.49);
(c) the Borrower will review the cash flow of PTP IV each year
and shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to insure that
PTP IV distribute dividends only in the event that such review
demonstrates that such dividends may be distributed without impairing
PTP IV's ability to carry out its investment program, expected
to be completed by 1987, and its operations with adequate cash
balances (para. 3.38).
General
(a) the DGE will provide to the Bank for review by September 30 of each
year an annual work program showing in detail the program of work
to be undertaken by each agency included in the project (para.
4.17);
(b) the Borrower will cause the Directorate of the Bina Program of DGH
to carry out site surveys, plan alignments, and complete all
engineering work required for the road improvement program by
June 30, 1979 (para. 4.11).
(c) the Borrower will cause the roads and bridges included in the
project to be maintained in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices and shall make available sufficient funds and
facilities for that purpose (para. 4.11); and
(d) the Borrower would make funds available to complete the maintenance
program for a total of 26,200 ha of rubber in the proposed project
and would provide additional finance to PTP IV for construction of
one or more rubber processing facilities in each of the project
areas of Riau and Jambi (para. 3.32).
8.02      The following are conditions for disbursement for the respective
components of the project:
New Settlement and Rubber Replanting
(a) signing of a Smallholder Rubber Development Agreement between the
DGE and PTP IV to specify work to be carried out for new settlement
and rubber replanting in Riau and in Jambi, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.09);
(b)  signing of a Financing Agreement between the Borrower and BRI and a
Subfinancing Agreement between BRI and PTP IV in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.37);



- 60 -
PTP IV Estate Development
(c) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
PTP IV in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.38).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project will be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$65.0 million, with repayment over 20 years
including 5 years of grace. The Borrower will be the Government of Indonesia.



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Mean Monthly Rainfall in the Jambi Area
(mm)
Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Total
Jambi province
Jambi (10 km E)  256  216  300  282  227   144   129  161   163  266  319  298  2,761
Paalmerah          209  182  246  247  178   114   120  122   112  196  248  249  2,223
Bagantemasu        160  163  208  207  206   121    86  126   142  239  314  256  2,228
Pondokmeja         186  182  194  243  207   121    78  162   151  312  311  261  2,408
Sungaitiga         211  182  244  269  209   143    87  142   138  215  256  249  2,345
Kenaliasem         223  101  276  238  149    95   116  152   135  195  260  261  2,352
Lubukrusa          211  210  232  243  168   105    80  115   129  193  260  261  2,207
Muaratembesi       291  237  272  278  187   127   110  131   177  243  291  280  2,624
Mersan             244  236  250  258  191   113    90  137   142  229  269  309  2,368
Tempino            210  199  262  272  209   120   103  141   167  232  292  255  2,462
Bajubang           290  245  359  338  226   132   172  173   196  232  376  329  3,068
Average            277  196  258  261  196   121   107  142   150  232  291  287  2,468



-62-                                                      ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Mean Monthly Rainfall in the Riau Area
(mm)
Observation No. years
period      observed   Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  June  July  Aug  Sept  Oct  Nov  Dec  Total
Riau province
Telok Kuantan  1910-41            32      259  238  281  351  242   137   107   128  197  290  355  355  2,920 /a
Telok Kuantan  1931-60            20      302  292  328  343  275   144   148   156  188  263  341  332  3,112 /b
Air Molek       1927-41           14      235  190  241  222  240   121   104   131  179  230  384  327  2,604 /a
Air Molek       1931-55           13      260  196  247  232  225   121   123   149  168  224  345  341  2,631 lb
Sungai          1923-41           18      236  200  244  218  231   106   110   138  193  258  358  289  2,581 /a
Sago Estate
Rengat          1888-1941         53      208  170  210  213  170   109    93   127  155  217  244  205  2,121 /b
Rengat          1931-59           19      257  190  249  232  195   130   115   143  166  240  274  235  2,426 /b
Source:
/a Verhandelingen No. 37, "Rainfall in Indonesia," by professor Dr. H.P. Berlage Jr.
/b Meteorological Note No. 8, Part II.



-63 -                                                     ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Temperature, Relative Humidity, Sunshine, Evaporation
and Rainfall for PalembanR
Total
or
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May   June   July    Aug   Sept    Oct    Nov    Dec           mean
Air temperature (0C)
Palembang (1972)
Mean               26.0   26.4   26.7   27.0   27.6   26.8   26.4   26.6   26.8   27.1   26.7   26.4             26.7
Maximum            30.6   31.4   31.8   32.1   32.4   31.7   31.9   32.1   32.5   32.7   31.9   31.1             31.9
Minimum            23.0   23.0   23.2   23.5   23.9   23.0   22.5   22.5   22.7   23.2   23.0   23.0             23.0
Relative
humidity (%)
Palembang (1972)
Mean               83     83      84     82      83     82      78     80      80      80     81      84         82
Maximum            97     97      98     97      98     97      98     97      97      97     97      97         97
Minimum            60     60      61     59      61     59      57     55      53      53     57      62         58
Sunshine (%)
Palembang (1972)    31      32      37     47      36     47      32     39      54      54     32      23          _
Evaporation (mm)
Tjintamanis         145.8  190.4  190.7  178.8  165.1  156.5  204.8    -          -       -      -    142.5         -
Average monthly
rainfall
Sungai Gerong       278    231    301    251    190    107    121    104         84    178    227    293        2,365



ANNEX 2
- 64 -                              Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Project Phasing
            -----Year-----                    
1      2        3        4       5    Total
I.   Air Molek Settlement - Riau                      .- 2-3_                      5    Total
1. Rubber planted (ha/yr)                 750   1,500   2,250   3,000   3,900  11,400
2. Total Settler families                 375      750   1,125   1,500   1,900   5,700
3. Central villages (units)                 1        1        2        3       4       12
4. Satellite villages (units)               -        3        3        5       7       18
II.  Bajubang Settlement - Jambi
1. Rubber planted (ha/yr)                 700      700      800     800      800   3,800
2. Total settler families                 350      350      400     400      400   1,900
3. Central villages (units)                 1        2        1        -       -        4
4. Satellite villages (units)               2        2        2        1       1        8
III. Air Molek Rubber Replanting - Riau
1. Rubber replanted (ha/yr)                 -      500      750     750   1,000   3,000
2. Number of families                       -      500      750     250        -   1,500
IV.  Bajubang Rubber Replanting - Jambi
1. Rubber replanted (ha/yr)                 -      500      900   1,400   1,700   4,500
2. Number of families                       -      500      900     850        -   2,250
V.   Estate Development - PTP IV - Riau
1. Rubber planted (ha/yr)                 250      500      750   1,000   1,000   3,500



ANNEX 2
-    -                                                                    Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMlALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Project Costs - New Settlement
RIAU
(Rp million)
1978              1979              1980               1981              1982               1983                Total costs
Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign                    Local  Foreign  Total
A. lnvestment Costs
Rubber Development
Wages                                -        -    134.4          -    311.3        -    514.4         -     742.3       _  1,020.1         -   2,722.5          -   2,722.5
Urea                                 -        -         -         -       1.0       1.0      6.4      6.4     14.0    14.0      25.0    25.0        46.4      46.4       92.8
Other fertilizers, chemicals         -         -        -       14.5       -      41.1        -      79.6       -    130.7         -     197.1        -      463.0    463.0
Agric. & machine services            -         -     59.1       59.1   119.0    119.0   180.4   180.4   243.2   243.2   319.3   319.3    921.0    921.0  1,842.0
Subtotal                          -        -     193.5      73.6   431.3    161.1   701.2   266.4   999.5   387.9 1,364.4   541.4  3,689.9  1,430.4  5,120.3
Machinery & Equipment
Agricultural machinery /a            -        -       13.7     155.2      6.9    73.8       12.7   130.6      11.8   115.6    14.8   137.7          59.9    612.9    672.8
Power and water /b                   -        -        2.5      34.7       -        -        2.5     37.5       -        -        -         -        5.0      72.2       77.2
Subtotal                        _          -      16.2     189.9       6.9     73.8     15.2   168.1      11.8    115.6      14.8   137.7       64.9      685.1     750.0
Road Development
Kain access, primary village         -        -    209.6       389.3   231.4   429.6   135.3   251.2   150.4   279.2   190.9   354.9    917.6  1,704.2  2,621.8
Secondary estate-built roads         -        -        1.9       3.6     16.4    30.5      22.7    42.1        9.3     17.3     13.2      24.4      63.5     117.9    181.4
Maintenance/equipment (DPUP)         -        -        6.7      39.8      6.7    39.8        6.7     39.8      3.4    20.0         -        -       23.5     139.4    162.9
Subtotal                          -        -    218.2      432.7   254.5   499.9   164.7   333.1   163.1   316.5   204.1   379.3  1.004.6  1,961.5  2,966.1
Housing and Project Buildingn
Settler hoas. ing                         -          24.8       37.1    49.5    74.3    74.2   111.4    99.0   148.5   128.7   193.1               376.2     564.4    940.6
Carages, workshop /c                 -         -       0.2       0.3      0.2      0.3       0.4      0.7      0.4      0.7        -        -        1.2        2.0       3.2
Building program /d                 6.4      9.7    1'2.9      169.4   118.4   177.7   163.8   245.6   107.6   161.5   117.7   176.5    626.8    940.4  1,567.2
Subtotal                         6.4      9.7   137.9      206.8   168.1   252.3   238.4   357.7   207.0   310.7   246.4   369.6  1.004.2  1,506.8  2,511.0
Subsistence PackaRe
Initial land clearing                -        -      13.3        6.8    26.8      13.7    40.1    20.5        53.5     27.3     69.5     35.5    203.2    103.8    217.0
Seed f fertilizer                    -         -       3.0       6.4      5.9     12.9       8.9     19.4     11.8     25.8      15.4     33.5      45.0      98.0      143.0
Cash payments                        -        -        4.7       4.7      9.4      9.4      14.1     14.1     18.7    18.7    24.4        24.4      71.3       71.3     142.6
Subtotal                          =       _       21.0       17.9     42.1     36.0     63.1     54.0    84.1       71.8    109.3     93.4     319.5      273.1     502.6
Villa.e  Infrastructure                 -        -       4.4       6.7       7.6     11.5     11.8     17.6    14.4       21.5    18.9    28.4        57.1       85.7     142.8
Health Services
Water 6 sanitation /e                -         -       5.6       5.6     11.2     11.2      16.8    16.8      22.4     22.4     29.1      29.1      85.1      85.1      170.2
Village health facilities            -         -       0.5       0.9      0.5      0.9       1.0      1.8      1.5      2.7       2.0      3.6       5.5        9.9      15.4
Subtotal                         =         -       8.1       6.5      11.7     12.1     17.8     18.6      23.9     25.1     31.1     32.7      90.6       95.0     185.6
Total Investrent Costs             6.4      9.7   597.3    934.1   922.2 1.046.7  1,212.2 1,215.5 1,503.7  1,249.1 1,989.0 1,582.5  6,230.8  6,037.6 12,268.4
B. Operating Costs
Project Office ()PR)                   5.8       -      10.1        -       10.1       -      10.2       -      10.2        -      10.2       -       56.6         -       56.6
Estate overheads                     -        -        9.0      13.5     27.0    40.5    54.0        81.0     81.0   121.5   109.8   164.7         280.8     421.2      702.0
Management costs                      -        -      11.8      11.8    16.8    16.8    28.8    28.8    37.9    37.9             51.5     51.5     146.8    146.8    293.6
Subtotal                         5.8       -      30.9      25.3    53.9       57.3    93.0   109.8   129.1   159.4   171.5   216.2    484.2    568.0  1,052.2
C.  Total Base Costs                         12.2      9.7   628.2      959.4   976.1 1.104.0 1,305.2 1,325.3 1.632.8 1.408.5 2.160.5 1,798.7  6.715.0  6.605.6 13.320.6
D. tOntineencles
Physical                               1.2      1.0    62.9       95.9    97.5   110.3   130.6   132.6   163.2   140.9   216.1   179.9    671.5    660.6  1,332.1
Expected price                         1.7      1.4   158.9    242.9   365.0   412.9   674.7   685.2 1,077.6   929.7 1,713.9 1,455.0  3,991.8  3,727.1  7, 718.9
Subtotal                         2.9      2.4   221.8    338.8   462.5   523.2   805.3   817.8 1,240.8 1,070.6 1.930.0 1.634.9  4,663.3  4,387.7  9,051.0
E. Project Costs for New
Settlement - RIAU                     15.1    12.1   850.0  1.298.2 1,441.6 1.627.2 2,110.5 2,143.1 2,873.6 2.479.1 4,090.5 3,433.6 11,378.3 10,993.3 22,371.6
/a  Includes some transport vehicles; other vehicles charged to the nucleus estate.
/b  Includes deep well construction.
Xc  Civil works for power,  oater and workshop.
/d  Building program includes initial housing for settler arrival, estate housing for smallholder development and other civil wcrks.
/e Includes water pumps, 1 per 5 families and latrines.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
- 66 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Proiect Costs - New Settlement
JAMBI
(Rp million)
1978             1979              1980             1981              1982             1983                Total costs
Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign              Local  Foreign  Total
A. Investment Costs
Rubber Development
Wages                               -       -    125.5         -    165.1        -    207.6       -    236.2        -    261.1       -      995.5        -      995.5
Urea                                -       -        -         -       1.8      1.8     4.2      4.2      7.4      7.4    10.7    10.7       24.1      24.1      48.2
Other fertilizers, che.icals        -       -        -       13.5       -      24.8      -      37.9       -      51.4       -     64.5         -     192.1    192.1
Agric. 6 machine services           -       -      55.2      55.2    56.0    56.0    65.1    65.1    66.6    66.6    68.2    68.2    311.1    311.1    622.2
Subtotal                        -        -    180.7       68.7   222.9    82.6   276.9   107.2   310.2   125.4   340.0   143.4  1.330.7    527.3  1,858.0
Machinery 6 EquiPment
Agricultural machinery {a           -       -      13.0    146.6        -        -       1.8     6.3       -        -       1.8     6.3      16.6    159.2    175.8
Power and water |b                  -       -       3.5      74.4       -      12.6     2.5    37.5        -        -        -       -        6.0    124.5    130.5
Subtotal                       _         -      16.5    221.0       _      12.6      4.3    43.8       _         _      1.8      6.3      22.6    283.7    306.3
Road Development
Main access, primary village        -       -    119.6    221.9    56.7   105.5    21.4    40.0    22.3    41.2    33.5    62.1    253.5    470.7    724.2
Secondary estate-built roads        -       -        -         -       8.6    15.9    12.8    23.7        8.7    16.1       1.7     3.3      31.8      59.0      90.8
Maintenance/equipment (DPUP)        -       -       1.7      10.0      1.7    10.0       1.7    10.0      0.8      5.0       -       -        5.9      35.0      40.9
Subtotal                        -        -    121.3    231.9    67.0   131.4    35.9    73.7    31.8    62.3    35.2    65.4    291.2    564.7    855.9
Housing and Project Buildings
Settler housing                                    23.0      34.7    23.0    34.7    26.4    39.6    26.4    39.6    26.4    39.6    125.2    188.2    313.4
tarages, workshop /c                -        -     12.1      18.4      0.3      0.5      _        -        -        -        -       -       12.4      18.9      31.3
Building program                  32.4    48.7    96.4    144.5    28.1    42.1    63.8    95.6    42.7    64.1    28.0    42.0    291.4    437.0    728.4
Subtotal                      32.4    48.7   131.5    197.6    51.4    77.3    90.2   135.2    69.1   103.7    54.4    81.6    429.0    644.1  1.073.1
Subsistence Package
Initial land clearing               -       -      12.5       6.4    12.5      6.4    14.3       7.3    14.3       7.3    14.3      7.3      67.9      34.7    102.6
Seed 6 fertilizer                   -       -       7.1      10.4      7.1    10.4      8.2    11.9       8.2    11.9      8.2    11.9       38.8      56.5      95.3
Cash payments                       -        -      4.3       4.3      4.4      4.4     5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      23.7      23.7      47.4
Subtotal                       _         -      23.9      21.1    24.0    21.2    27.5    24.2    27.5    24.2    27.5    24.2    130.4    114.9              IC
VillaRe Infrastructure                -        -      4.7       7.1    10.5    15.7       4.8      7.3      1.2      1.8      0.5     0.8      21.7      32.7      54.4
Health Services
Water h     sanitation  /d          -               5.2       5.2      5.2      5.2     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      28.4      28.4      56.8
Village health facilities           -       -       0.5       0.9      0.5     0.9      0.5      0.9      0.5     0.9       -        -        2.0       3.6       5.6
Subtotal                        -        -       5.7       6.1     5.7      6.1      6.5      6.9     6.5      6.9      6.0      6.0      30.4     32.0      62.4
Office equipment (Nucleus)            -        -      2.7    111.0       2.9      0.6     0.5    22.5       3.0      0.6      1.0     2.0      10.1    136.7    146.8
Miscellaneous investments /e          -        -     15.0      35.0       -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -       15.0      35.0      50.0
Total Investment Costs           32.4    48.7   502.0    899.5   384.4   347.5   446.6   420.8   449.3   324.9   466.4   329.7  2,281.1  2.371.1  4,652.2
B. Operating Costs
Project Office (DPR)                 5.8       -     10.1        -      10.1       -     10.2       -      10.2       -     10.2       -       56.6        -       56.6
Estate overheads                    -       -       8.4      12.6    16.8    25.2    26.4    39.6    27.2    40.8    19,2    28.8            98.0    147.0    245.0
Management costs                    -        -     12.2      12.2      8.0      8.0    10.8    10.8    10.9    10.9    12.3    12.3          43.2      43.2      86.4
Subtotal                       5.8       -      30.7      24.8    34.9    33.2    47.4    50.4    48.3    51.7    41.7    41.1    197.8    190.2    388.0
C. Total Base Costs                       38.2    48.7   532.7    924.3   419.3   380.7   494.0   471.2   497.6   376.6   508.1   370.8  2.489.9  2.572.3  5,062.2
D. Contingencies
Physical                             3.8     4.9    53.2       92.4    42.0    38.1    49.3    47.1    49.8    37.7    50.8    37.1    248.9    257.3    506.2
Expected price                       1.6      6.9   134.7    233.8   156.8   142.3   255.4   243.5   328.5   248.6   413.6   301.8  1,290.6  1,176.9  2,467.5
Subtotal                       5.4    11.8   187.9    326.2   198.8   180.4   304.7   290.6   378.3   286.3   464.4   338.9  1,539.5  1,434.2  2,973.7
E. Project Costs for New
Settlement - JAM8I                  43.6    60.5   720.6  1,250.5   618.1   561.1   798.7   761.8   875.9   662.9   972.5   709.7  4,029.4  4,006.5  8,035.9
/a  Includes some transport vehicles; other vehicles charged to the nucleus estate.
Lb Includes deep well construction.
c  Civil works for power, water and workshop.
/d Includes water pumps, I per 5 families and latrines.
T. Includes watering system for nursery, guesthouse, etc.



- 67                                                             AA  4
Table 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE  AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Project Costs - Rubber Replanting
(Rp - Million)
RIAU
1980              1981                1982               1983            Total Costs
Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign  Total
A. Investment Costs
Rubber Replanting
Wages                          30.8       -       51.1      -         56.9     -        77.5      -       216.3     -       216.3
Urea                             -        -        1.3      1.3        3.7     3.7       6.6      6.6      11.6    11.6      23.2
Other Fertilizers, Chemicals     -      28.0        -      50.2        -      61.5       -       86.9       -     226.6    226.6
Agricultural and Machine
Services                     23.7    23.7       36.1     36.1      37.2    37.2       50.5    50.5      147.5   147.5    295.0
Sub-total                 54.5    51.7       88.5     87.6      97.8   102.4      134.6   144.0      375.4   385.7    761.1.
Machinery and Equipment            0.7      9.6       0.2      2.0        0.2     4.0       0.7      9.6       1.8    25.2      27.0
Total Investments                 55.2    61.3       88.7     89.6      98.0   106.4      135.3   153.6      377.2  410.9    788.1
B. Operating Costs
Estate Overheads                  1.9      2.9       4.8      7.1       7.6    11.4        9.5    14.3       23.8    35.7      59.5
Management Costs                  2.9      2.9       4.5      4.5       5.1      5.1       7.2      7.2      19.7    19.7      39.4
C. Total Base Costs                   60.0    67.1       98.0    101.2      110.7   122.9     152.0   175.1      420.7   466.3    887.0
D. Contingencies
Physical                          6.0      6.7       9.8     10.1      11.1    12.3       15.2    17.5       42.1    46.6      88.7
Expected Price                   22.4    25.1       50.7     52.3       73.1    81.1     123.7   142.5      269.9   301.0    570.9
Sub-total                  28.4    31.8       60.5     62.4     .84.2    93.4      138.9   160.0      312.0   347.6    659.6
E. TOTAL COSTS                        88.4    98.9      158.5    163.6     194.9   216.3      290.9'  335.1      732.7   813.9  1,546.6



-68-                                                           ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Project Costs - Rubber Replantin8
(Rp Million)                             -
JAMBI
1980              1981               1982              1983                Total Costs
Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign  Total
A. Investment Costs /a
Rubber Replanting
Wages                           30.8      -         60.4     -         98.4     -       128.1      -        317.2     -       317.7
Urea                              -       -          1.3     1.3        4.1     4.1        8.8     8.8       14.2    14.2      28.4
Other Fertilizers, Chemicals      -     28.0         -      58.6        -     100.3        -     138.8        -     325.7    325.7
Agricultural and Machine
Service                       23.7    23.7        43.2    43.2      68.2    68.2       84.8    84.8      219.9   219.9    439.8
Sub-total                   54.5    51.7       104.9   103.1     170.7   172.6      221.7   232.4      551.8   559.8  1,111.6
Machinery & Equipment                1.7      9.6        0.9      3.1       2.9    13.6        1.6     5.4        7.1    31.7      38.8
Total Investments Costs             56.2    61.3       105.8   106.2      173.6   186.2      223.3   237.8      558.9   591.5  1,150.4
B. Operating Costs
Estate Overheads                   1.9     2.9         5.3     8.0       10.6    16.0       15.2    22.8       33.0    49.7      82.7
Management Costs                   2.9     2.9         5.3     5.3        9.0     9.0      11.5    11.5        28.7    28.7      57.4
C. Total Base Costs                    61.0    67.1       116.4   119.5      193.2   211.0      250.0   272.1      620.6   669.9  1,290.5
D. Contingencies
Physical                           6.1     6.7        11.6    11.9       18.3    21.1       25.0    27.2       62.0    66.9    128.9
Price                             22.8    25.1        60.2    61.8      127.5   139.3     203.5 . 221.4      414.0   447.6   .861.6
Sub-total                   28.9    31.8        71.8    73.7     146.8   160.4      228.5   248.6      476.0   514.5    990.5
F.  TOTAL COSTS                        89.9    98.9       188.2   193.2      340.0   371.4     478.5   520.7   1,096.6 1,184.4  2,281.0
/a Does not include investment in power and water, building program, health services, and roads
which have been included in investment costs for new settlement.



- 69 -                                                           ANNEX 2
-  69                                                               Table  6
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALtHLDERS II PROJECT
Pro ,let Costs - PT I; Riu Developaent
REAU
1978               1979                1980                1981                19U2                 1983                  Total Costs
Local   Foreign    Local   ForciRn    Local      oreign    Local   Foreizn    Local   ForeiRn    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign   Total
Rubber Planting
Wages                                  -        -         44.8       _       103.8       -       171.5       -       247.4       -        286.2       -       853.7       -      853.7
Urea                                   -        -                    -         0.6       0.7       2.1      2.2        3.0      3.0         6.2     6.2        11.9      12.1     24.0
Other Fertilizers and Chedieala        -        -           -      4.8         -        13.7       -       26.5        -       43.6         -      59.9         -       148.5    148.5
Agricultural and Machine Servicea    -          -         19.7    19.7        39.7      39.7      60.1    60.1        81.1    81.1         82.8    82.8       283.4    283.4    566.8
Sub-total                                             64.5    24.5       144.1     54.1      233.7    88.8       331.5   127.7       375.2   148.9    1.149.0    444. 0  1.593.0
General Charges and Start-up Li          -         -        48.0       -        23.8       -        45.5       -        78.8       -        105.7       -       302.0       -      302.0
Agricultural Equipment                   -         -         6.2    69.2         3.1      36.0       4.2    44.1         6.1    65.2          1.2     4.0        20.8    218.5    239.3
Housing and Buildings                   31.7     47.5       t7.2   115.8        37.5      56.3      49.8    74.8        35.1    52.7         34.6    52.0       265.9    399.1    665.0
Transport Equipment:  Riau               3.1     27.4        1.3    12.8         1.6      12.7       2.9    25.8         3.6    32.0          2.9    25.6        15.4    136.3    151.7
Jaibi             2.6     23.9        1.4    13.7         1.2      10.0       1.4    13.7         1.0      8.3         3.9    27.2        11.5      96.8    108.3
Pover, Water, Workshop
Equipment and Tools                     -       -          1.0    66.9          -       12.6        -        -          -        -           -       -          1.0     79.5      80.5
Buildings                               -       _         12.0    18.2         0.4       0.6        -        -           -       -           -        -        12.4      18.8     31.2
Office Equipment                          _        _         2.7   111.0         2.9       0.6       0.5    22.5          3.0     0.6         1.0      2.0       10.1    136.7    146.8
Miscellaneous Investmnts lb                                 15.0    35,0          _                                                                              15.0      35.0      50.0
TOTAL BASE COSTS                    37.4    98.8       229.3   467.7       214.6    182.9      338.0   269.7       459.1   286.5       524.7   259.7    1.803.1  1.564.7  3.367.8
Contingencies
Physical                               3.7     9.9        22.9    46.7        21.5      18.3      33.8    27.0        45.9    28.6         52.5    26.0       180.3    156.5    336.8
Expected Price                         5.3    14.1        58.0   118.2        80.3     68.4      174.7   139.4       303.0   189.1       500.4   247.5    1.121.7    776.7  1,898.4
Sub-total                         9.0    24.0         80.9   164.9       101.8     86.7      208.5   166.4       348.9   217.7       552.9   273.5    1.302.0    933.2  2.235.2
IDTAL COSTS                           46.4   122.8        310.2   632.0       316.4    269.6      546.5   436.1       808.0   504.2    1.077.6   533.2    3.105.1  2.497.9  5.603.0
/a  Includes Rp 40 million for survey and other start-up expeeses in 1978
in addition to Rp 8 million for estate overheads.
Lk Includes vatering system, guest house equipment, landing strip and
site preparation for offices.



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
INDONESIA                                                                  Table 7
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Directorate General of Estates
(Rp million)
1979              1980              1981              1982               1983               Total Costs
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign  Total
A. Technical Assistance
Smallholder coconut program advisor               4.2    24.9        4.2    24.9      4.2    24.9        2.1    12.5                   -       14.7    87.2   101.9
Short-term consultants (200 m/months) 1/         16.6    83.0       20.8   103.8    20.8   103.8        12.4    62.2        12.4   62.2        83.0   415.0   498.0
Consultants for inspection (60 m/months) 2/    4.2    24.9           4.2    24.9       4.2    24.9       4.2    24.9         4.2   24.9        21.0   124.5   145.5
Subtotal                                       25.0   132.8      29.2   153.6    29.2   153.6         18.7    99.6        16.6   87.1      118.7   626.7   745.4
B. Staffing and Operations
T.A. counterparts (3)                            3.6                3.6               3.6               1.8                                   12.6             12.6
Secretaries (3)                                  0.6                0.6              0.6                0.3                                    2.1              2.1
Clerks (3)                                       1.1                1.1               1.1               0.6                                    3.9               3.9
Drivers (3)                                      0.4                0.4               0.4               0.2                                    1.4               1.4
Operations/travel                               28.0               28.0             28.0               14.0                                   98.0             98.0
Subtotal                                      33.7              33.7              33.7               16.9                                 118.0             118.0
C.  Vehicles                                            1.2      9.5         -        -            -         -         -              -      -        1.2      9.5    10.7
D.  Total Base Cost                                    59.9   142.3       62.9   153.6    62.9   153.6        35.6    99.6        16.6   87.1       237.9   636.2   874.1
E. Contingencies
Physical                                          6.0    14.2        6.3    15.4       6.3    15.4       3.6    10.0         1.7    8.7        23.9    63.7    87.6
Price                                            15.1    35.9       23.5    57.5    32.5    79.4        23.5    65.7        13.5   70.9       108.1   309.4   417.5
Subtotal                                       21.1    50.1      29.8    72.9    38.8    94.8         27.1    75.7        15.2   79.6       132.0   373.1   505.1
F.  Total Costs - DGE                                  81.0   192.4       92.7   226.5   101.7   248.4        62.7   175.3         31.8  166.7      369.9 1,009.3 1,379.2
1/ For advisors in pest and disease management, upland soils, surveying, extension
and training, project preparation.
2/ Inspection of rubber plantings at PTP IV, and in Jambi and Riau.



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
INDOuESLA                                                                                 Table  8
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SIA Ld0LDER  I PROJICT
Technical Assistance - Investzment Costs' Sungei Tiga Training Comer
(Rp O00)
1979                1980                 1981                 1982                  1983                     1984                       Total Costs
Local Foreign       Local    Foreiggn   LLcal       errags    Local       ForsSgn    Locel     Feign        Local      Foreign        Local   Forein        Total
luildings (sq a)
Dormitory block, 300                  4,000    2,000               -                                                                                                         4.ooo       2,000      6,000
Dining * recreation foe., 250          2,500    1,250                                                                                                                        2,500       1.250      36750
Library 6 study/demonotr.
area, 100                            1.000       500                                                                                                                        1.000         500      1.500
Classroom  & offices, 400             5,330    2,670                                                                                                                         5,330       2,670      8,000
Godown (fertilizers, etc.) 150         1,508      742                                                                                                                        1,508         742      2,250
processing shed, 250                                        3,350      1,650                                                                                                 3.350       1.650      5.000
Eoeses - Atanagers, 300               8,000    4,000                                                                                                                         8.000       4,000    12.000
- Aast Mgrs. 250               6,667    3.330                                                                                                                        6,667       3.330      9,997
- Caretaker, 200               5,330    2,670                                                                                                                        5,330       2,670      8,000
- Labor bouses (4), 102        4,100    2.020                                                                                                                        4,100       2,020      6.120
Garage & workshop, Z00                 3,350    1,650                                                                                                                        3,350       1,650      5,000
Subtotal                        41.785   20.832        3.3S0      1.650                                                                                               45,135      22.482    67.617
Vehicles & Machinery
L.ndro"er hog wh-al basa  (1)            470    5,400                                                                                                                                               S,870
Toyota hardtop (1)                       560    4,700                                                                                                                          560       4,700      5,260
Bus                                     sao    5,500                                                                                                                           500       5.500      6,000
Motorcycles (2)                          110      900                                                                                                                          110         900      1,010
Tractor 65 hp (1)                        400    3,900                                                                                                                          400       3.900      4,300
Tractor trailer (1)                      116    1,500                                                                                                                          116       1,500      1,616
Truck (5 to) (1)                         470    4,950                                                                                                                          470       4,950      5,420
Tonk (2.5 St7(1)                                                                                     1,200       300                                                         1,200         300      1,500
Plough                                   67       780                                                                                                                           67         180        847
Water tank & pump * piping 25 at    8.000    4,000                                                                                                                           8,000       4,000    12,000
Generator * wiring                             11,250                                                                                                                           _       11,250    11,250
Processing equipment                              240                                                                                                                           -          240        240
Subtotal                        10.693   43.120                                                 1.200       300                                                       11J893      43.420    55.313
lubber Development
8udvood nursery (0.2 ha)              212.0      229.0      41.3       44.7       32.2       34.8       44.6      48.4       44.6        48.4        44.6        48.4          419.3       453.7      873.0
Field nu-sery (2.5 ba)                923.3      189.1  1,834.6   1,693.4   1.834.6   1,693.4    1,834.6  1,693.4   1,834.6    1,693.4    1,834.6    1,693.4                10,096.3    8,656.1  18,752.4
Polybag nursery (2.5 ha)                  -         -   3,001.3       333.7   3,001.3      333.7    3,001.i    333.7   3,001.3          333.7    3,001.3        333.7       15,006.5    1,668.5  16,675.0
Field establishaent &
-aintenance (75 ha)              13,492.1  10,178.3  4,270.4   1,744.2   2,624.7   1,980.0    2,511.3  2,139.2   2,414.2    2,145.9    2,116.9    2,116.9                27,429.6   20,304.5  47,734.1
Subtotal                      14.627.4  10.596.4  9.147.6   3.816.0   7.492.8   4.041.9    7.391,8  4.214.7   7.294.7    4.221.4    6,997,4    4.192,4                52.951,7   31,082.8  U.034.5
D ~ n.tratli- Form
Plantfog 4 iaintenance 2 ha rubber  359.8        271.4    113.9        46.5       70.0       52.8       67.0      57.0       64.4        57.2        56.4        56.4          731.5       541.3   1,272.8
Foodcrop area                            7.8      18.2                                                                                                                            7.8       18.2       26.0
nouse                                  82.5       82.5                                                                                                                          82.5        82.5      165.0
Subtotal                         450.1      37ZL1    113,9                  y 70.0     5.          670       57.0       64.4        kFjI        56A         56.4          821.8       642.0   1.463.8
Mnager                              2,500                2,500                2,500                  2,500                2,500                   2,500                     15,000                 15.000
AssIstant Manager (1)               1,500                1,500                 1,500              -  1,500                1,500                   1,500                      9,000                  9,000
Laborers (Rp 200,000/yr) (4)           800                 800                   800                    800                 800                      800                     4,800                  4,800
Mechanic (1)                           360                 360                   360                   360                  360                     360                      2,160                  2,160
Subtotal              ~~~~5.160            5.160                 5.160                  5.160                5.160                   5.160                     3096                   30.960
Total base costs                    72,715.5  74.920.5 17.771,5   5,512.5  12,722.8   4.094.7   13.818.8  4.571.7  12.519.1    4,278.6   12,213.8    4.248.8    141,761.5   97.626.8 239.334.3
Contineenciev
P1hy. icI (10)                    7,271.6   7,492.1  1,777.2        551.3   1,272.3      409.5    1,381.9    457.2   1,251.9          427.9    1,221.4         424.9      14,176.2    9,762.9  23,939.2
Price                             18,397.0  18,954.9  6,646.5   2,061.7   6,577.7   2,116.9    9,210,4  3,017.3  10,190.5    3,482,8   13,032.1    4,533,5                 63,964.2   34,167.1  98,131.3
Total contineencies            25,668.5  26,447.0  8,423.7   2,613.0   7,850.0   2,526.4   10,502.3  3,474.5  11,442.4    3,910.7   14,253.5    4,958.4                 78,140.4   43,930.0 122,070.4
TOTAL COST                          98.384.0 101,367.5 26,195.2   8,125.5  20.572.8   6.621.1   24.321,1  8,046.2  23,961.5    8,189.3   26,467.3    9.207.2    219,901.9  141.556.8 361.458.7



ANNEX 2
- 72 -                                                Table 9
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Directorate General of Highways
(Rp Million)
1979             1980             1981          Total Costs
Local Foreign   Local Foreign   Local Foreign   Local Foreign    Total
A. Technical Assistance
Consultant Specialists -
road engineering - 35
man/months                       6.2   31.1       4.2   20.8       4.2   20.8      14.6   72.7        87.3
B. Contingencies
Physical                         0.6    3.1       0.4    2.1       0.4    2.1       1.4    7.3         8.7
Price                            1.6    7.9       1.6    7.8       2.2   10.8       5.4   26.5        31.9
Sub-total                     2.2   11.0        2.0    9.9       2.6   12.9       6.8   33.8       40.6
C. Total Costs - DGH                  8.4   42.1       6.2   30.7       6.8   33.7      21.4  106.5       127.9



ANNEX 2
73 _                                            Table 10
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Project Expenditures /a
(Rp million)
Total costs
1978     1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     (Rp M)   (US$ K)
I. Smallholder Development
A. New Settlement - Riau
1. Investment Costs
Rubber development                  -        361       873    1,565    2,442    3,668      8,909        21.5
Machinery & equipment               -         279      119      296       224      292     1,210          2.9
Road development:
- Main access, primary             -        810       974      625      756   1,045       4,210        10.1
- Estate-built, secondary          -           7       69      105        47       72       300         0.7
- Maintenance (DPUP)               -         63        69       73        43        -       248         0.6
Housing & project buildings    20            466       565      964       911    1,179     4,105         9.9
Subsistence package                 -          53      115      172       274      388     1,002         2.4
Village infrastructure              -          15       28       47        63       91        244        0.6
Health services                     -          17       35       59        86      122        319        0.8
2. Operating Costs
Project office (DPR)                7          14       15       16        18       20         90        0.2
Estate overheads and
management fees                   -         62       149      311      490       723     1,735         4.2
Subtotal                       27       2,147   3.011   4,233   5.354    7,600   22,372              53.9
B. New Settlement - Jambi
1. Investment Costs
Rubber development                  -        337       450      621       767      925     3,100          7.5
Machinery 6 equipment               -        321        19       78         -       15        433         1.0
Road development:
- Main access, primary             -        462       239       99      112       183     1,095         2.6
- Estate-built, secondary          -           -       36       59        44       10        149        0.4
- Maintenance (DPUP)               -          16       17       19        10        -         62        0.2
Housing & project buildings   101            445       190      364       304      256     1,660         4.0
Subsistence package                 -          61       67       84        91       99        402        1.0
Village infrastructure              -          16       39        20        5        2         82        0.2
Health services                     -          16       17        22       23       23        107        0.2
Others                              -         221        5       37         6        8        277        0.7
2. Operating Costs
Project office (DPR)                7          14       15        16       18       20         90        0.2
Estate overheads and
management fees                   -         61        85      142      158       139       585         1.4
Subtotal                      108       1,970    1.179    1,561    1,538    1,680       8.036        19.4
C. Rubber Replanting - Riau
1. Investment Costs
Rubber development                  -           -      157      285       352      533     1,327         3.2
Machinery & equipment               -           -       15         4        7       20         46         0.1
2. OPerating Costs
Estate overheads and
management fees                   -          -        16       34        51       73      174          0.4
Subtotal                        -           -      188       323      410      626      1,547         3.7
D. Rubber Replanting - Jambi
1. Investment Costs
Rubber development                  -           -      157      336       604      869     1,966         4.7
Machinery & equipment               -           -       17         6       29       13         65        0.2
2. OPerating Costs
Estate overheads and
management fees                   -          -        16       39        78      117      250          0.6
Subtotal                        -           -      190       381      711      999      2.281         5.5
II. Estate Development
PTP IV - Riau
1. Investment Costs
Rubber development                  -        120       292      521       808    1,113     2,854         6.9
Machinery & equipment              71         387      119      186       211      130      1,104         2.7
Civil works                        98        302       140      201       155      166     1,062         2.5
General charges, start-up &
misc.                             -        133        35       75       138      202       583         1.4
Subtotal                      169         942      586       983    1,312    1,611      5,603        13.5
III. Technical Assistance
Technical assistance - DGE                -        273       319      350       238      199     1,379         3.3
Sungai Tiga Extension Trg Ctr             -        200        34       27        32       68        361        0.9
Technical assistance - DGH                -          49       37       42         -        -        128        0.3
Subtotal                        -         522      390       419      270       267     1,868         4.5
Total Costs                              304      5.581    5.544    7.900   9X595  12.783    41,707           100.5
(US$ M)                    0.7        13.5      13.4     19.0      23.1     30.8     100.5
/a Including physical and price contingencies.



- 74 -                                          ANSSM 2
TabIMle 11
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Sources of Finance - Project Costs
Total Costs            2 of
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983        Rp         USS       Total Costs
(rillion) (million)
A. Smallholder Co-ponents
New Settlement - Riau
Credit on-farm development and housing; overheads:
TBRD contribution                           12    854  1,275  2,316  3,039  4,247   11,743          28.30          28
G00  contribution                            8    284    496    832  1,330  1,842    4,792          11.55          12
Non-Credit:  village infrastructure, access and village
roads, social services, managesent fees, power
and water:
IBRD contribution                            -    585    737    539    557    726    3,144           7.58           8
GO1 contribution                             7    424    503    546    428    785    2,693           6.48           6
Subtotal                                 27  2.147  3,011  4.233  5.354  7.600   22,372         53.91           54
Sev Settlsent - Jambi
Credit on-farn development and housing; overheads:
IBRD contribution                           61  1,012    571    928    928  1,009    4,509          10.86          11
GOI contribution                            47    130    195    261    353    380    1,366           3.29           3
Non-Credit: village infrastructure, access and village
roads, social services, management fees, power
nd  ater:
I8RD contribution                            -    314    194    119    110    125          862      2.08            2
OI contribution                             -    514    219    253    147    166    1,299           3.13           3
Subtotal                               108  1,970  1.179  1,561  1.538  1.680    8,036          19 36           19
Rubber Replanting - Riau
Credit: rubber replanting, machinery, overheads
1BRD contribution                            -       -    147    252    320    488    1,207          2.91           3
00I contribution                             -       -     32      56      72    111       271       0.65           1
Non-Credit: pover and water, management fees:
G0I contribution                             -       -      9      15     18      27        69       0.17           -
Subtotal                                         -    188    323    410    626    1.547          3.73           4
Rubber Replanting - Janbi
Credit: rubber replanting, machinery, overheads:
IBRD contribution                            -      -    146    293    547    769    1,755          4.23           4
GOI contribution                             -       -     35      71    132    186        424      1.02            1
Non-Credit: power and water, management fees:
GOI contribution                             -       -      9      17     32      44       102      0.25            -
Subtotal                                 _       -    190    381    711    999    2.281          5.50           5
Total Snallholder Components                 135  4.11   4.568  6.498      013 10905   34236          2.50          82
B. Estate Development
PTP IV - Riau Area
IBRD contribution                          123    632    270    436    504    533    2,498          6.02           6
GO  contribution                           46    310    316    547    808  1.078    3,105          7.48            7
Subtotal                                169    942    586    983  1.312  1.611    5.603         13.50          13
C. Technical Assistance
IBRD contribution                            -    336    265    289    183    185    1,258          3.03           3
GO0  contribution                            -    186    125    130       87      82      610       1.47           2
Subtotal                                  -    522    390    419    270    267    1,868          4.50           5
D.  Total Sources of Fi,nance                    304  5.81 5,544  7.900  96595 12783   41707    100.50                  100
of which:  IBRD loan                         196  3,733  3,605  5,172  6,188  8,082   26,976         65.00          65
GOI credit funds                  55    414    758  1,220  1,887  2,519    6,853         16.52          16
GOI non-credit funds               7  1,124    865    961    712  1,104    4,773         11.50          11
of which:  nGE DIP /a              -    397    116    328    230    321    1.362          3.33            3
GOI portion of loan to PTP IV   46    310    316    547    808  1,078    3,105            7,48            7
Total GOI Contribution                       108  15848  1.939  2,728  3 407  4.701   14,731         35.50          35
/   DGE DIP in non-credit expenditures includes garages and  arehouses, power and water, management
fees and office equipment.



ANNEX 2
TabLe 12
-75-
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Quarter             Quarterly              Cumulative                % of
Year            Ending           Disbursement            Disbursement            Total Loan
------------US$ million-----------
1978         December                0.5                      0.5                     1
1979         March                   1.5                      2.0                     3
June                   2.5                      4.5                     7
September              2.5                      7.0                    11
December               2.5                      9.5                    15
1980         March                   2.5                     12.0                    18
June                   2.0                     14.0                    22
September              2.0                     16.0                    25
_               December               2.5                     18.5                    28
1981         March                   2.5                     21.0                    32
June                   3.0                     24.0                    37
September              3.0                     27.0                    42
December               3.5                     30.5                    47
1982         March                   3.5                     34.0                    52
June                   3.5                     37.5                    58
Septemnber             4.0                     41.5                    64
December               4.5                     46.0                    71
1983         March                   5.5                     51.5                    79
June                   6.5                     58.0                    89
September              7.0                     65.0                   100
Closing date: December 1983



ANNEX  2
Table 13
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery
(Constant 1977 Rp '000) /a
Total project
New settlement   Rubber replanting
1.  Gross value of farm production                     3,157.1             1,881.4
2.  Less:  production (cash) costs                       610.2               299.9
3.  Equals net cash income                             2,546.9             1,581.5
4.  Less:  depreciation                                  362.7               166.0
5.  Less:  imputed value of family /b labor              603.6               550.0
6.  Less:  allowance fo risk/uncertainty /c              538.9               368.3
7.  Less:  general taxes                                  -                   -
8.  Equals project rent                                1,041.7               497.2
9.  Rent as % of net cash income                          41.0                31.0
10.  Debt recovery /d                                     435.1               238.3
11.  Benefit taxes /e                                     331.3               218.2
12.  Total direct recovery/taxes                          766.4               456.5
13.  Rent recovery index (121.8)                           74.0                92.0
14.  Public sector outlays                              1,389.6               735.5
15.  Cost recovery index (12tl4)                           55.0                62.0
16.  Farmers income per capita (year 17)                   82.0                90.0
17.  Estimated critical consumption level (CCL) /f         49.8                49.8
18.  Estimated national per capita /R income               99.6                99.6
/a  All values in lines 1015 discounted at opportunity cost of capital for
Indonesia of 10%; values represent incremental benefits and costs.
/b Discounted value of MSL of Rp 128,650 per family or US$62 per person.
/c Fifteen percent of the gross value of production.
/d Discounted values of recovery at 25% of annual rubber production for 10 years
for replanters and 15 years for new settlers.
/e Ipeda tax and rubber taxes as direct benefits of recovery from project.
/f Valued at 1/2 of national per capita income.
/g National per capital income of US$240 (1977 constant dollars).



- 77 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 14
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Comparison of Development Costs per Family
(Constant 1978 US$)
New Settlement             Rubber Replanting
Riau & Jambi                Riau & Jambi
Non-   Total                 Non-   Total
Credit  Credit  Costs    Credit    Credit  Costs
Rubber Develpment
Direct costs                   2,974        -   2,974    1,613           -   1,613
Machinery/a                      256       28      284        50         -       50
Overheads                        434        -      434       137         -      137
Subtotal                     3,664       28   3,692    1,800           -   1,800
Subsistence Package
Initial land clearing            130        -      130        -          -        -
Cash payment                      60        -      60         -          -        -
Seed fertilizer                   48        -       48        -          -        -
Subtotal                       238        -     238         -          -        -
Roads
Main access, village roads         -      353      353         -       353      353
Farm roads & track /b              -        -        -        -          -        -
Subtotal                         -      353     353        _         353      353
Settler Housing                    397        -      397       -           -        -
Village Infrastructure
Community buildings                -       31       31        -          -        -
Schools                            -       23       23        -         23       23
Subtotal                         -       54      54        _          23       23
Health Services
Water & sanitation                 0       71       71         -         -        -
Health facilities                  -        7        7        -           7       7
Subtotal                         -       78      78         -          7        7
Others
Building & civil works/c         642       20      662      642         20      662
Equipment & some vehicles        178        -      178        -          -        -
Subtotal                       820       20     840       642         20      662
Project Management
Project office (DPR)               -       24       24        -         24       24
Management fee                     -      163      163         -        80       80
Total                        5,119/d   720   5,839/e  2,.442/f       507   2,949/g
/a  Machinery for power and water is on a non-credit basis from DGE sources.
/b  These roads included in direct costs of rubber development.
/c  Garages and workshops are provided on non-credit.
/d  In current terms, this equals loan amount of US$7,525, or Rp 3.12 million.
/e  In current terms, this equals total development cost per family of US$8,583
or Rp 3.56 million.
/f  In current terms, this equals loan amount of US$4,200, or Rp 1.74 million.
a   In current terms, this equals total development cost per family of US$5,072,
or Rp 2.10 million.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
- 78 -
i N fS IA
NICI.F.tlI  STT t AN1 SMA  tII IT. 0S t I    FCT /a
StrcLctore of Rg1.d Pro[rrum Ut111it_(Csta
(lip tlOV1
Comp;lction E          Formation of sub-base
Clcarins; 6 orubblbt      _ fECAV.tton to enankssnt             dressin        ub ofsbcrAde     & bise courses            Cement sthbllHZ.tLon
Specificatlon   Cost/km          SpeciFication          Cost/km  SpecIficatijn  C.st/km    cpLcliication   Cost/knm    Specificatl.-n   C-st/km
Main access    over 16,000 .2    1.280   to crown height 0.45 m,   1,920   over 9,000 m2   1,260   25 cm laterite                   9.275   5X by volu.w           2,320
road          per km at                    carriageway 4.5 n,                     per km on                  over central                  portland cemont
Rp 80 per m2                 shoulders I m and side                average at                  4.5 m plus                   to 10 cm depth
slopes 1:4.  3,490 m3                 Rtp 140/,2                 10 cm laterite                over 7.5 m width
per km at Rp 550 per m3                                          over shouldera.               at Rp 4,640 M
1,325 m3 per km              per km (but
at Rp 7,000 per m3           required only
including transport          on 50% of road
length)
Primary         over 9,OOD a2          720   to crown height 0.22 m,         653   over 5,500 m2        412   7 cm laterite         2,015   5% by volume             260
village       per km at                    carriageway 3.0 a,                     per km on                  over central                  portland cement
road          Rp 80 per m2                 shoulders I m and side                 average at                 3.0 m plus                    to 7 cm depth
slopes 1:4.  1,187 m3                 Rp 75/m2                   5 cm laterite                 over 6 m width
per kn at Rp 550 per m3                                          over shoulders.               at Rp 2.6 M
310  t3 per km               per km (but
including                    required only
transport at                 on 102 of road
Rp 6,500 per m3              length)
total
Secondary       over 7,000 m2          560   to crown height 0.25 m,         460   over 4,000 m2        300           -                 _            _
village       per km at                     carriageway 3.0 m,                    per km on
road          Rp 80 per m2                 no shoulders and side                  average at
slopes 1:4.  835 n3                   Rp 75/m2
per km at Rp 550 per m3
Rubber          over 5,000 n2          400   excavation to form              308   over 2,500 m2         188
collection    per km at                    drainage channela.                     per km on
track         Rp 80 per m2                 560 m3 at Rp 550 per m2                *verage at
Rp 75/12
Miscellaneous       Total cost       Surface        Total cost
(mobilization       per km for       dressing       including
Bridge structures                       Culverts                      m naintainance      basic         additional       surface
Specification           Cost/km        Specification        Cost/km        of traffic)        formation        costs/km        dressing
Main access    4 m length per km.                 1,668   25 m length per km of    625                  550              18,898           1,800          20,698
road          4.5 m wide.  33% steel at                  0.8 u pc pipe culvert
-Rp 560,000 per m:  67Z                   at Rp 25,000 per m.
timber at Rp 345,000 per m.
Equivalent rate Rp 417,000
per *.
Primary         3 a length per km timber            930   20 m length per km of    500                  110               5,600
village       bridges 4.0 m wide at                      0.8 m pc pipe culvert
road          Rp 310,000 per m.                          at Rp 25,000 per m.
Secondary       3 a length per km timber            840   15 a length per km of    375                    -               2,535
village       bridges 3.0 m wide at                      0.8 a pc pipe culvert
road          Rp 280,000 per a.                          at Rp 25,000 per m.
Rubber          2.5 a length per km timber          500   10 m length per km of    250                    -               1,646
collection    bridges 3.0 m wide at                      0.8 m pc pipe culvert
track         Rp 200,DOO per m.                          at Rp 25,000 per m.
/a Main access and primary village roads are the responsibility of DCH while secondary
village roads and rubber collection tracks arc to be constructed by rITP IV.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
- 79 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Road Construction and Improvement Programme - Physical Phasing - Riau
(kilometers)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   Total
Air Molek West
Main access road
(i)  Basic formation                  15.1.  17.0    4.1    2.6    8.7    47.5
(ii)  Upgrading (surface dressing)        -       -   11.0   11.0   11.5    33.5
Primary village roads                    2.2    8.6    7.1    3.6    4.7    26.2
Secondary village roads                  2.2    6.1   15.1    5.2    8.4    37.0
Rubber collection tracks                15.0   30.0   45.0   60.0   70.0   220.0
Air Molek East
Main access road
(i)  Basic formation La               13.3   12.7   10.5   15.5    8.0    60.0
(ii)  Upgrading (surface dressing)        -       -    9.0    9.0    9.6    27.6
(iii)  Ferry improvement                   -       -      -       -      /b       -
Primary village roads                    8.9    9.2    6.2    5.6         -    29.9
Secondary village roads                    -   12.7   10.8    5.4    6.6    35.5
Rubber collection tracks                10.0   20.0   30.0   40.0   52.5   152.5
Total
Main access road
(i)  Basic formation                  28.4   29.7   14.6   18.1   16.7   107.5
(ii)  Upgrading (surface dressing)        -      -   20.0   20.0   21.1    61.1
(WIi)  Ferry improvement                   -       -      -       -               -
Primary village roads                   11.1   17.8   13.3    9.2    4.7    56.1
Secondary village roads                  2.2   18.8   25.9   10.6   15.0    72.5
Rubber collection tracks                25.0   50.0   75.0  100.0  122.5   372.5
La  Including 22 km link road between east and west blocks.
Lb Sce table showing financial phlasing.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
- 80 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Road Construction-and Improvement Programme - Physical Phasing - Jambi
(Kilometers)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   Total
Hain access road
Mi)  Basic formation                   17.0    6.6    27        2.5    4.2    33.0
(ii)  Upgrading (surface dressing)         -       -    5.8    9.0    9.0    23.8
Primary village roads                     3.6    6.7        -       -       -    10.3
Secondary village roads                     -    9.8   .14.6       9.9   2.0    36.3
Rubber collection tracks                 17.5   17.5   20.0   20.5   20.5    96.0



- 81                                                                       ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Road Construction and Improvement Programme - Financial Phasing - Riau
(Rp million)
1979             1980              1981             1982              1983                   Total
LC     FX        LC      FX        LC      FX       LC      FX        LC      FX         LC        FX      Total
Air Molek West
Main access road
(i)  Basic formation                  99.9  185.5    112.5  208.8        27.1   50.4       17.2   31.9       57.5  106.9      314.2    583.5    897.7
(ii)  Upgrading (surface dressing)        -       -         -       -      6.9   12.9        6.9   12.9        7.2   13.5        21.0      39.3      60.3
Primary village roads                    4.3    8.0       16.9   31.3       13.9   25.8       7.1   13.1        9.2   17.1        51.4      95.3    146.7
Secondary village roads                   1.9    3.6       5.3    9.9       13.2   24.5       4.6    8.5        7.4   13.7        32.4      60.2      92.6
Rubber collection tracks /a              8.7   16.1       17.3   32.2       26.0   48.3      34.7   64.4       40.4   75.1       127.0    236.1    363.2
Air Molck East
Main access road
ti)  Basic formation                  88.0  163.4       84.0  156.0      69.5  129.0    102.5  190.4         52.9   98.3       396.9    737.1  1,134.0
(ii)  Upgrading (surface dressing)        -       -         -       -      5.7   10.5        5.7   10.5        6.0   11.2        17.4      32.2      49.6
(iii)  Ferry improvement                   -       -         -       -         -      -         -       -      58.1  107.9        58.1    107.9    166.0
Primary village roads                    17.4   32.4      18.0   33.5       12.2   22.6       11.0   20.4          -      -       58.6    108.9    167.5
Secondary village roads                     -      -      11.1   20.6        9.5   17.6       4.7    8.8        5.8   10.7        31.1      57.7      88.8
Rubber collection tracks /a               5.8   10.7      11.6   21.5       17.3   32.2      23.1   42.9       30.3   56.3        88.1    163.6    251.7
Total
Main access road
(i)  Basic formation                 187.9  348.9    196.5  364.8        96.6  179.4    119.7  222.3    110.4  205.2           711.1  1,320.6  2,031.7
(ii)  Upgrading (surface dressing)        -       -         -       -     12.6   23.4       12.6   23.4       13.2   24.7        38.4      71.5    109.9
(iii)  Ferry improvement                   -       -         -       -         -      -         -       -      58.1  107.9        58.1    107.9    166.0
Primary village roads                   21.7   40.4       34.9   64.8       26.1   48.4      18.1   33.5        9.2   17.1       110.0    204.2    314.2
Secondary village roads                   1.9    3.6      16.4   30.5       22.7   42.1        9.3   17.3      13.2   24.4        63.5    117.9    181.4
Rubber collection tracks /a              14.5   26.8      28.9   53.7       43.3   80.5      57.8  107.3        70.7  131.4      215.2    399.7    614.9
Maintenance/equipment (DPUP)              6.7   39.8       6.7   39.8        6.7   39.8        3.4   20.0         -       -        23.5    139.4    162.9
Total base costs                  232.7  459.5    283.4  533.6    208.0  413.6    220.9  423.8    274.8  510.7   1,219.8  2,361.2  3,581.0
Contingencies
Physical                                23.3   45.9       28.3   55.3       20.8   41.4       22.1   42.4       27.5   51.1       122.0    236.1    358.1
Price                                   58.8  116.4    106.0  207.1    107.5  213.9    145.8  279.8    223.7  415.7              641.8  1,232.9  1,874.7
Total contingencies                82.1  162.3    134.3  262.4    128.3  255.3    167.9  322.2    251.2  466.8              763.8  1,469.0  2,232.8
Total cost                        314.8  621.8    417.7  816.0    336.3  668.9    388.8  746.0    526.0  977.5   1,983.6  3,830.2  5,813.8
/a  Included in rubber development costs in total project costing.



-82 -                                                                     ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Road Construction and Improvement Programme - Financial Phasing
JAMBI
(Rp million)
1979             1980              1981              1982              1983                   Total
LC     FX        LC      FX        LC      FX        LC      FX        LC      FX         LC       FX      Total
Main access road
(i)  Basic formation                    112.5  208.8      43.6   81.1        17.8   33.2      16.6   30.7       27.8   51.6    218.3   405.4    623.7
(ii)  Upgrading (surface dressing)           -       -         -       -       3.6    6.8       5.7   10.5         5.7   10.5       15.0    27.8       42.8
Primary village roads                       7.1   13.1       13.1   24.4          -       -         -       -         -      -       20.2    37.5       57.7
Secondary village roads                       -       -       8.6   15.9       12.8   23.7        8.7   16.1        1.7    3.3       31.8    59.0       90.8
Rubber collection tracks /a                10.1   18.8       10.1   18.8       11.5   21.5       11.8   22.0       11.8   22.0       55.3   103.1      158.4
Maintenance/equipment (DPUP)                1.7   10.0        1.7   10.0        1.7   10.0        0.8    5.0          -       -       5.9    35.0       40.9
Total base costs                  131.4  250.7       77.1  150.2       47.4   95.2       43.6   84.3       47.0   87.4    346.5   667.8  1,014.3
Contingencies
Physical                                 13.1   25.1        7.7   15.0        4.7    9.5        4.4    8.4        4.7    8.7       34.6    66.7      101.3
Price                                    33.2   63.4       28.8   56.1       24.5   49.1      28.9   55.6        38.3   71.1      153.7   295.3    449.0
Total contingencies                46.3   88.5       36.5   71.1       29.2   58.6       33.3   64.0       43.0   79.8      188.3   362.0    550.3
Total cost                        177.7  339.2    113.6  221.3         76.6  153.8       76.9  148.3       90.0  167.2    534.8 1,029.8  1,564.6
/a  Included in rubber development costs in total project costing.



- 83 -                                                                     ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Road Construction and Improvement Programme - Financial Phasing - Riau and Jambi
(Rp million)
1979               1980               1981              1982               1983                      Total
LC      FX        LC      FX          LC      FX        LC      FX        LC      FX            LC        FX      Total
Main access road
(i)  Basic formation                   300.4  557.7      240.1     445.9     114.4  212.6      136.3  253.1      138.2      256.8      929.4  1,726.1  2,655.5
(ii)  Upgrading (surface dressing)          -       -         -         -      16.2   30.2       18.3   33.9        19.0      35.2       53.5       99.3     152.8
(iii)  Ferry improvement                     -       -         -          -         -       -         -       -      58.1     107.9       58.1      107.9     166.0
Primary village roads                     28.8   53.5       48.0      89.2       26.1   48.4       18.1   33.5        9.2      17.1       130.2    241.7      371.9
Maintenance/equipment (DPUPs) /a            8.4   49.8        8.4      49.8       8.4   49.8        4.2   25.0          -          -       29.4     174.4     203.8
Total base cost                     337.6  661.0    296.5    584.9        165.1  341.0      176.9  345.5      224.5    417.0   1,200.6  2,349.4  3,550.0
Contingencies
Physical                                33-7   66.1       29.6      58.4       16.5   34.1       17.7   34.6       22.5      41.7      120.0    234.8       354.8
Price                                   85.5  167.3      110.8    218.7       85.3  176.2      116.8  228.2       182.8     339.4      581.2  1,129.8  1,711.0
Total contingencies                 119.2  233.4      140.4    277.1      101.8  210.3    134.5  262.8    205.3          381.1      701.2  1,364.6  2,065.8
Total cost                          456.8  894.4    436.9    862.0    266.9  551.3    311.4  608.3    429.8    798.1    1,901.8  3,714.0  5,615.8
Secondary village roads                     1.9    3.6      25.0      46.4       35.5   65.8       18.0   33.4       14.9      27.7        95.3     176.9     272.2
Rubber collection tracks /b               24.6   45.6        39.0      72.5      54.8  102.0       69.6  129.3       82.5     153.4       270.5    502.8       773.3
Total base cost                      26.5   49.2       64.0     118.9      90.3  167.8       87.6  162.7       97.4      181.1      365.8    679.7  1,045.5
Contingencies
Physical                                 2.7    4.9        6.4      11.9        9.0   16.8        8.8   16.3        9.7      18.1        36.6      68.0     104.6
Price                                    6.7   12.4       23.9      44.5      46.7   86.8        57.8  107.4       79.3     147.4      214.4    398.5       612.9
Total contingencies                   9.4   17.3       30.3      56.4      55.7  103.6       66.6  123.7        89.0     165.5      251.0    466.5    717.5
Total cost                          35.9    66.5       94.3    175.4      146.0  271.4      154.2  286.4       186.4    346.6       616.8  1,146.2  1,763.0
Grand total
Base cost - all roads               364.1  710.2    360.5       703.8    255.4  508.8    264.5  508.2         321.9      598.1     1,566.4  3,029.1  4,595.5
Contingencies
Physical                          36.4   71.0        36.0      70.3      25.5   50.9       26.5   50.9       32.2       59.8       156.6    302.8       459.4
Price                              92.0  179.7      134.7    263.2    132.0  263.0    174.6  335.6          262.1      486.8       795.6  1,528.3  2,323.9
Total contingencies                 128.4  250.9      170.7    333.5      157.5  313.9    201.1  386.5         294.3     546.6        952.2  1,831.1  2,783.3
GRAND TOTAL COST                    492.5  961.1    531.2  1,039.3    412.9  822.7    465.6  894.7             616.2  1,144.7      2,518.6  4,860.2  7,378.8
/a For the DPUPs of Riau and Jambi.
lb Included in rubber development costs in total project costing.



ANNEX 3
-84 -                                                          Table  7
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SNALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Cost Structure of the Basic Upland and Lowland House Types
Upland house type                                  Lowland house type
Quantity    Units    Unit rate       Total         Quantity    Units    Unit rate        Total
(Rp)                                               (RP
Materials
Cimva-Ram blocks                           180       pcs             70    12,600           -
Sand for floor base                       0.7        cu m         2,500      1,750
Cement floor screed                        1.05      cu m        15,500    16,275
Concrete piles                            -          -                 -         -            0.18       cu m        24,000      4,320
Timber (red meranti or similar)            2.12      cu m        20,000   -42,400             3.45       cu m        20,000    68,980
Roofing BWG 34, galvanized sheet           52        sheets       1,050    54,600             52         sheets       1,050    54,600
Rumbia fronds                             268        pcs             20      5,360            -          -                -          -
Paint                                      16.4      lbs            500      8,200            -          -                -          -
Preservative                              -          -                -          -            20         lbs            450      9,000
Nails                                       7        kgs            300      2,100            10         kgs            300      3,000
Fittings                                  -          -                -      3,500                                               3,500
Subtotal                                                               146,785                                             143.400
Subtotal, excluding timber  a                                          104.385                                              74.420
Labor /b                                     28        man-days        650    18,200                      man-days                20,800
Total base cost. excluding timber                                            122.585                                              95,220
Total base cost. including timber                                            164,985                                             164.200
'/a  To be applied to materials package if timber is made available free of charge through PTP IV operation of a saw mill
after land clearing.
/b Labor inputs 'assumed slightly higher for lowland house owing to addltional c'rpentry work.



-85-                                      ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE ANID SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
New Settlement Five ha Farm Model
Farm Development and Crop Production - Field Food Crops
RIAU and JAMBI
0 /a        1        2        3       4        5        6        7        8        9
A. Land Clearing (ha)
Mouse lot                          0.05
Garden lot                         0.1.5
Field crop area                    0.4          -       0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2       -
Rubber                             2.0
Total developed                   2.6         2.6      2.8      3.0      3.2      3.4      3.6      3.8     4.0      4.0
undeveloped                2.4          2.4     2.2      2.0      1.8      1.6      1.4      1.2      1.0      1.0
B. Field Food Crop Development (ha)
_    Rice                                  -          0.4      0.4      0.4      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
Cassava                             -          0.4      0.4      0.4      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5
Z     Groundnuts/beans 1:1 mixture         -           -       0.4      0.4     0.4      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
Pasture/cover crop                  -           -       0.2      0.4      0.5      0.7      0.9      1.0      1.0     1.0
Fallow                              -           -        -        -        -        -        -       0.1     0.3      0.3
C. Yield Estimates (kg/ha)
Rice                                -          750       750      850      950   1,050   1,200   1,300   1,300   1,300
Cassava (wet)                       -           -      7,000   8,000   8,500   9,000   9,500  10,000  11,000  12,000
Groundnuts (wet)                    -           -        500      500      800   1,000   1,200   1,500   1,500   1,500
Beans                               -           -        200      250      300      350      400      450     450      450
Rubber                              -           -        -        -        -        -        300      500      800      900
D. Crop Production (kg)
Rice                                -           -        300      340      380      525      600      650      650      650
Cassava:  field crop area           -           -      2,800   3,200   3,400   4,500   4,750   5,000   5,500   6,000
Groundnuts                                      -        100      100      160      200      240      300      300      300
Beans                               -           -         40       50       60       70       80       90       90       90
Total                  -           -      3.240   3.690   4,000   5,295   5,670   6,040   6,540   7,040
Rubber                                                   -        -        -        -        600   1,000   1,600   1,800
/a Land clearing done by PTP IV or its contractors.



8 86 -
ANNEX 4
INDONESIA                                          Table  2
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND'SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Production Value and Production Costs for Trees. Venetables and Poultry from a 0.15 ha Garden Lot
RIAU and JAMBI
Area           Unit   Price                                        YE A R S  /a
Crop                   (ha)   Unit   range  per kg                 1          2           3           4           5            6-30
(R,p)                                              (RpB4) -     -   --
Fruit Trees
Banana                       bunches    5         100               -       500         500         500         500           500
Papaya                       fruit      50         30               -     1,500       1,500       1,500       1,500         1,500
Pineapple                    fruit      10         40               -         -         400         400         400           400
Citrus                       fruit    100          10               -         -           -         500       1,000         1,000
Ranbutan                     fruit      25         40               -         -           -           -       1,000         1,000
Jack fruit                   fruit      10        80               -          -           -           -           -           800
Subtotal                                                        -      2.000       2.400       2,900      4.400         5.200
Vegetables
Cassava                .03   kg      180-360       15          2,700      3,150       3,600       3,825       4,050         4,275
Sweet potato           .02   kg       80-200       25          1,760      2,200       2,640       3,080      3,520         3,960
Rice                   .10   kg       75-130      130          9,750      9,750      11,050      12,350      13,650        15,600
Peanuts/beans          .10   kg    2-4.5/5-15   100            2,000      2,000       2,500       3,000      3,500         4,000
Subtotal                                                   16,210    17.100       19,790     22,255      24.720        27.835
Cash Crops
Coconuts                     nuts       75         20               -         -           -           -           -         1,500
Coffee                       kg          5        300               -         -           -       1,500       1,500        1,500
Cloves                       kg          2      1,000               -         -           -       2,000       2,000        2,000
Subtocal                                                                   -           -      3.500       3 500         5 000
Total gross Production value
from crops                                                    16.210    19,100       22.190     28.655      32,620        38.035
Production costs for crops                                       6,200      6,100       6,000       6,000      6,000         6,000
Net production value from crops                                  10,010    13,000      16,190      22,655     26,620        32,035
Foultry
Chickens                    no.        2-10      500           1,000      2,500       3,000      4,000       5,000         5,000
Ducks                       no.        2-4        S50           1,100     1,100       1,650       2,200      2,200         2,200
Eggs                        no.      100-300       30          3,000      4,500       6,000      7,500       9,000         9,000
Total gross production value
from livestock                                                 5.100      8.100      10.650     13.700      16.200        16.200
Production costs for livestock                                      900     1,800       2,800      2,800       2,800         2,800
Net production value from
livestock                                                      4.200      6,300       7.850     10,900      13.400        13.400
Total gross production value from
0.15 ha garden lot                                            21.310    27,200      32.840      42.355      48,820        54.235
Total production costs                                           7.100      7.900       8.800      8.800       8.800         8.800
Total net production value from 0.15 ha
garden lot                                                   14.210    19.300      24.040      33.555      40.020        45.435
/a  Farmer assumed to arrive midyear of Year 0 and plent rice and cassava.



- 87 -
-                                       ~~~~~~~~~~IIDNFHSIA
XUCLNUS JSTFr.s AIID SMALLIIOI DE1S It PROJECT                                             Table  3
Production Coatr for Uplaind Crops Per Hacter.
-    RAU and JA4I6I
kallholder                                                       Total         1.1.   F.e.   L.c.
Crop            Activity                  Labor(man-days)   Hatarials and Unit Costs                       Costs (lRp)      ()    (lp)   (Rp)
lice       Land preparation                     12
Planting                            12           Bead:  802 of 65 kg/ha - 50 k   lp L50           7.500          0      -    7.500
Wbeeding A maintenance              29
Fertilizers:  labor                  a
Urea                              150 kg 0  p 70                                  10.500         50   5,250  5,250
TS?                                75 kg 0 Rp S5                                   6.375        100   6,375        -
MD?                                50kg 4  Rp 4*                                   2,400        100   2,400        -
Peat C dtiease control               3           Cbodcals                                         3,000        100   3,000        -
Harvest (inl. post-                3?
harvyst vork)
Total cost                    100                                                         239775           57   17.025 12.750
Cassava    Land preparation                     10
Preparation of cuttings a           13           Cuttings:  1.25 ton 6 Itp 1,5001ton              1,875          0         -  1.875
planting
Weeding & maintenance                17
Fertilizers:  labor                  5
SA                                loo k     Rp 77                                  7.700        100    7,700       -
TSP                                45 kg 6 fp 85                                   3,825        100    3,825        -
mP                                 70 kg I Ip 46                                   3,360        100    3,360        -
Pest & dianste control               3           chemicals                                        1,500        100    1.500        -
Harvest & transport                 30
Total cost                     7S                                                          18.260         90   16.385  1.875
Groundnuts Land preparation                     11
Planting                             8           Seed:  75S of 70 kg/ha-66.5 kg   f kp 150        9,975          0         -  7,875
'Weeding & maintenakce               23
Pertilizers:  labor                  4
SA                                 75 kg 0 p  77                                  5,775         100    5,775       -
TUP                                65 kg4     p es                                5,525         100    5,525       -
OP                                 4o kg Q Rp 52                                   1,480        100    1,480       -
Pest & disease control                3          Cbheicals
Harvest (irl. post-                 45
barvest work)
Total cost                     94                                                          22.755         65   14.880  7.875
Beans      Land preparation                     11
Planting                             S           Bed:  752 of 40 kglha   30 kg It p 130          3,900          0         -  3,900
'beding & maintenanee                23
Fertilizers:  labor                  4
IA                                 75 4kg  Itp 77                                 5,775        100    5,775        -
TSP                                45 kg    p 85                                  3,825        100    3,825        -
P                      -60 4kg Ip 52                                              3,120        100    3,120        -
Peat & disease control               3           Chnmicals                                       1,500        100    1,500        -
Harvest (inel. post-                41
harvest work)
total cost                                                                                 18.120         78   14.220  3.900
Sveat      Lend preparation                     13
potato     Preparation of cuttings              17           Cuttings:  400 kg 6 fp 15                       6,000          a         -  6000
and planting                      22
Weeding & naint_Cgcs                 5
rertilizers: labor
A                                  *0 4kg        77                               6,930        100    6,930       -
TSP                                40 kg 9 Rp 85                                  3,400        100    3,400       -
SOP                                60 kg B Rp 52                                  3.120        100    3,120       -
Pst & disease control                4           Chals                                           1,0          100oo   1,000      -
Harvest (inol. poet-                39
harvest work)
Total cost                                                                                20.450         86   14 450  6.000
PFature/   Land preparstion                       5
cover      Planting                               3          Bead:  6k4 0 ftp 900                           5,400          0         -  S,400
crop       Weeding &  intennce                   25
Lalang control                       10          CQemicals:  55 1 f Ip 25+                       1,630       100    1,630        -
I 1 I tp 255
Fertiliter,s  labor                   3
T8P                               200 kg4  Rp 85                                17,000        100   17,000        -
Harvest/transport                    34
Total                                                                                     24.030         78   18.630  540o
lotes:  I  In the field crop area rice and cassava are intercroppsd; the rice are  after harvest planted to a 1:1  ixtora of beans
and groundnuts. The totaI labor requirements per intereropped hs are 100 + 78 + 47 + 45 - 270 man-days. The production
costs are Rp 29,775 + 16,260 + 1,1378 + 9,060 - ftp 68,473 per intercropped ha-
2  In the tield crop ares in the garden lOt swet potato sod cassav  era intercropped.  The total labor requfremnte per
intercropped ha are 100 + 76 - 17B saf-day"   The production costs are Itp 20,450 + 186260 - 4p 38,710 per iatercropped ha.



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
IN! 0NI:S IA
bOLl.! F;O:'il'61U   ANS  SNAIlIlI:!;. 1  I'S'. I(:'
L..Lh'r AnilaAys.s oit   Smal ,'lldi  5 1  i1armn MoLdel
RiIAU __vrd l .!A5PI
Year     Activity                          Md/A-      lia      Md       3in     Fo eb   lar    Alr    lay        Jui    Ju I    At Ig    Sup       Oct     Nov      Doc
5        Land clearisg                                0.2        38      -       -        -       -        -      15       15       8       -        - _       _
Rice                                        0.5        50      5        3      17   1 -          -        -       -       -        -      i         5        5
Cassava                                     0.6        47      2        2       2        2       1        1       -      12        6      15        2        2
Croundnuts/beans                            0.5        46      -        -       5       10       5       17       9       -        -       -        -        -
Sweet potato                                0.1        10      1        -       1        3       1       -        -       -        -       -        2        2
Pasture/cover crop                          0,7        48      3        4       2        1       5        2       1       4        8       8        4        r
Trees/vegetables/poultry                    0.05        5      -        1       -       _        I       -        I       -        I       -        I
Subtotal                                       244      11       10      27      16       13      35       26      24       15      38       14      15
Rubber                                      2.0         -      -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Total                                           244     11       10      27       16      13      35       26      24       15      38       14       15
6        Land clearing                               0.2        38       -       -        -       -        -      15      15        8       -        -       -        -
Rice                                        0.5        50      5        3      17       -        -       -        -       -        -      15        5        5
Cassava                                     0.6        47      2        2       2       2        1        1       -      12        6      15        2        2
Groundnuts/beans                            0.5        46      -        -       5       10       5      17        9       -        -       -        -        -
Sweet potato                                0.1        10      1       -        1       3        1       -        -       -        -       -        2        2
Pasture/cover crop                          0.9        62      4        6       2       2        6       2        2       6       10      10        5        7
Trees/vegetables/poultry                    0.05        5      -        I       -       -        I       -        I       -        I       -        I       -
Subtotal                                       258      12       12      27      17       14      35       27      26      17       40       15      16
Rubber                                      2.0      286      24      23       24      24       24      24       24      24      24       23       24      24
Total                                           544     36       35      51      41       38      59       51      50       41      63       39      40
7        Land clearing                               0.2        38      -        -       -        -       -       15      15        8       -        -       -        -
Rice                                        0.5        50      5        3      17       -        -       -        -       -        -      15        5       5
Cassava                                     0.6        47      2        2       2       2        1       1        -      12        6      15        2       2
Croundnuta/beans                            0.5        46      -       -        5      10        5      17        9       -       -        -        -       -
Sweet potato                                0.1        10      I       -        1       3        1       -       -        -       -        -        2       2
Pasture/cover crop                          1.0        76      5        7       3       3        8       3        3       8      11       11        6       8
Trees/vegetables/poultry                    0.05        5      -        I       -       -        I       -        I       -        I       -        I       -
Subtotal                                       272      13      13       28      18       16      36       28      28      18       41       16      17
Rubber                                      2.0      286      24      23       24      24       24      24       24      24      24       23       24      24
Total                                          558      37      36       52      4~   40          60       52      52      42       64       40      41
8        Land clearing                               0.2        38      -        -       -        -       -       15      15        8       -        -       -        -
Rice                                        0.5        50      5        3      17       -        -       -        -       -        -      15        5        5
Cassava                                     0.6        47      2        2       2       2        1       1        -      12        6      15        2       2
Groundnuto/beans                            0.5        46      -       -        5      10        S      17        9       -       -        -        -       -
Sweet potato                                0.1        10      1       -        1       3        1       -       -        -       -        -        2       2
Pasture/cover crop                          1.0        80      6       8        3       3        9       3        3       9      11       11        6       8
Trees/vegetables/poultry                    0.05        5      -        I       -       _1       I       -        I       -        I       -        I       -
Subtotal                                       276      14      14       28      1.8      i       36       28      29      18       41       16      17
Rubber                                      2.0      286      24      23       24      24       24      24       24      24      24       23      24       24
Total                                           562     38      37       52      42       41      60       52      53      42       64       40      41
9        Land clearing                                -          -      -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Rice                                        0.5        50      5        3      17       -        -       -        -       -        -      15        5        5
Cassava                                     0.6        47      2        2       2       2        1       1        -      12        6      15        2       2
Gro.ndnats/beans                            0.5        46      -        -       5      10        5      17        9       -        -       -        -       -
Sweet potato                                0.1        10     .1       -        1       3        1       -       -        -       -        -        2       2
Pasture/cover crop                          1.0        80      6        8       3       3        9       3        3       9      11       11        6       8
Trecs/vegetables/poultry                    0.05        5      -        I       -       -        I       -        I       -        I       -        I       -
Subtotal                                       238      14       14      28      18       17      21       13      21      18       41       16      17
Rubber                                      2.0       286     24      23       24      24       24      24       24      24      24       23       24      24
Total                                           524     38       37      52      42       41      45       37      45       42      64       40      41



ANNEX 4
INDONESIA                                                                                                   Table 5
NUCLEUS ESTATE  AND SKALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Labor Analysis of a Smallholder 5 ha Farm Model
RIAU and JAMBI
Year    Activity                         Md/ha      Ha      Hd      Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    Kay    Jun          Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec
I       Land clearing                     188       -         -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
Rice                             100      0.4       20      -       -       -       -       -       _ -         -            -      12       4       4
Cassava                           78      0.5 -     16      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -      13       1       2
Grouudnuts/beans                  92       -         -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
Sweet potato                     100      0.1        4      -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       2       2
Pasture/cover crop                80       -         -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
Trees/vegetables/poultry         100      0.05       3      _       -       -       -       -           -           -        1       1_      1       -
Subtotal                                      43      _       _       _       _       _       _       _        -       1      26       8       8
Rubber                                    2.0        -                                  -       -       -        -
Total                                          43     _       _       _       _       _       _        -       -       1      26        8       8
2       Land clearing                              0.2       38      -       -       _       _       _      15      15       8        -       -       -
Rice                                      0.4       40      4       2      14       -       -       -       -        -       -      12       4       4
Cassava                                   0.5       39      1       2       1       2       1       1       -       10       5      13       1       2
Groundnuts/beans                          0.4       37      -       -       4       8       4      14        7       -       -       -       -       -
Sweer potato                              0.1       10      1       -       1       3       1       _ -         -            -       -       2       2
Pasture/cover crop                        0.2        7      -       -       -       -       -       -       -                2       2       1       2
Trees/vegetables/poultry                  0.05       5      -       1       -       -       I       -        I       _       -       1       -                              I
Subtotal                                     176      j       5      20      13        7     30       23      18       8      27       9      10
Rubber                                    2.0        -      -       - 0-
Total                                        176      6        5     20      13        7     30       23      18       8      27       9       10
3       Land clearing                              0.2       38      -       -       _ -         -          15      15        8       -       -       -
Rice                                      0.4       40      4       2      14       -       -       _        -       -              12       4       4
Cassava                                   0.5       39      1       2       1       2       1        1      -       10       5      13       1    2
Grouadnuts/beans                          0.4       37      -       -       4       8       4      14        7               - -     -               -
Sweet potato                              0.1       10      1       -       1       3       1       -       _       _        _       _       2       2
Pasture/cover crop                        0.4       23      1       2       1       -       2       _        1       2       4       4       2       4
Trees/vegetables/poultry                  0.05       5      -       I       -       -       I                1       - I             -       1 I
Subtotal                                     192      7       7      21      13       9      30       24      20      10      29      10       12
Rubber                                    2.0        -      -       -
Total                                        192       7       7     21        3                                      10      29       10      12
4       Land clearing                              0.2       38      -       -       -       _       _      15      15        8       -       -       -       -
Rice                                      0.5       45      4       2      14       -       -       -        -       -       -      15       5        5
Cassava                                   0.6       42      1       2       1       2       1       1       -       10       5._  15         2       2
Groundouts/beena                          0.4       37      -       -       4       8       4      14        7       -       -       -       -       -
Sweet potato                              0.1       10      1       -       1       3       1       _       _       _        _       _       2       2
Pasture/cover crop                        0.5       36      2       4       1       1       4       1        1       4       6       5       3       4
Trees/vegetables/poultry                  0.05       5      -       I       -       _       - I              1       _       I               I _  
Subtotal                                     j}       I              U       II 2i                U   A      .        L
Rubber                                    2.0
12"L                            ~~~~~ia   I         L             U ii            u Li            IL    i   Uk   A   I



- 90                                                                             ANNEX 4
Table 6
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE A-NO SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Family Labor Availability and Labor Requirements of a Five ha Farm
RIAU and JA.IBI
1           2           3           4          5           6           7          8            9
A. Family Labor Availability
Age
Husband          32                      1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0       1.0         1.0         1.0        1.0
Wife             26                      0.5        0.5         0.5         0.5       0.5         0.5        0.5         0.5
Child             8                       -         0.1         0.2         0.2       0.2         0.3         0.4        0.5
Child             6                       _-                     -          0.1       0.2         0.2        0.2         0.3
Child             4                       -          -           _           -         -          0.1        0.2         0.2
-   Total family labor limits            1.5         1.6        1.7         1.8       1.9         2.1         2.3        2.5
Total man-days per family                450        480          510         540        .570        630         690          750         750
(1 labor unit - 300 man-days)
B.                                /a (md)  ha    md   ha    md   ha   md   ha   md   ha   md   ha   md   ha   md                 ha   md   ha   md
Land clearing (188 md/ha)             -      -   0.2   38   0.2  38   0.2  38   0.2  38   0.2  38   0.2_-38    0.2  38   -                   -
Rice (100 nd/ha)                     0.4   20   0.4   40   0.4  40   0.5  45   0.5  50   0.5  50   0.5  50                0.5  50   0.5  50
Cassava (78 md/ha)                   0.5   16   0.5   39   0.5  39   0.6  42   0.6  47   0.6  47   0.6  47                0.6  47   0.6  47
Groundnuts/beans 1:1 mixture
(92 md/ha)                          -      -   0.4   37   0.4  37   0.4  37   0.5  46   0.5  46   0.5  46               0.5  46   0.5  46
Sweat potato (100 md/ha)             0.1     4   0.1   10   0.1  10   0.1  10   0.1  10   0.1  10   0.1  10    0.1  10   0.1  10
Pasture/cover crop (80 md/ha)         -      -   0.2      7   0.4  23   0.5  36   0.7  48   0.9  62   0.1  76             1.0  80   1.0  80
Trees/vegetajles/poultry            0.05     3  0.05      5  0.05    5  0.05   5  0.05   5  0.05    5  0.05    5   0.05   5  0.05   5
(100 mu/~,)
Subtotal                               43         176         192        213         244        258         272          276         238
Rubber                               2.0      -  2.0   -    2.0  -    2.0  -    2.0  -    2.0 286   2.0 256               2.0 286   2.0 286
Subtutal                               43         176        192         213         244        544         558          562         524
Off-farm:  NES rubber area                  285         285        285         285        285          -           -            -
Total                                 328         461        477         498         529        544         558          562         524
Family labor surplus                        122          19         33          42         41          86         132          188         226
/a  Growing seasons of the crops do not coincide with the calendar year.



-91-                                   ANNEX 4
- 9l                             ~~~~~~~~Table 7
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE  AND S4ALILHOLDERS II PROJECT
Smallholder Rubber Yield Projections for New Settlement Rubber /a
.RIAU and JAMBI
Planting  Tapping       Density          Tapping days   Grams per tree   Yield   Cumulative
year       year   (No. trees/ha)   (No. days/annum)   per tapping    (kg/ha)  yield(kg/ha)
6          1           350                85                 10            300          300
7          2           400                85                 15           500           800
8          3           410               113                 17           800         1,600
9          4           400               113                 20            900        2,500
10          5           390               113                 22         1,000         3,500
11          6           380               113                 26         1,100         4,600
12          7           370               113                 29         1,200         5,800
13          8           360               113                 31         1,250         7,050
14          9           350               113                 33         1,300         8,350
15         10           340               113                 36         1,400         9,750
16        11            330               113                 40         1,500        11,250
17         12           320               113                 44         1,600        12,850
18         13           310               113                 46         1,600        14,450
19         14           300               113                 47         1,600        16,050
20         15           290               113                 49         1,600        17,650
21         16           285               113                 50         1,600        19,250
22         17           280               113                 47         1,500       20,750
23         18           275               113                 45         1,400       22,150
24         19           270               113                 43         1,300       23,450
25         20           265               113                 40         1,200       24,650
26         21           260               113                 37         1,100       25,750
27         22           255               113                 35         1,000       26,750
28         23           250               113                 32           900       27,650
29         24           245               113.                29           800       28,450
30         25           240               113                 26           700       29,150
wverage annual yield - 29,150 = 1,166 kg/ha
25
a  These yields are estimated under good smallholder management and control conditions.
The tapping system S/2.d/4.50% is assumed for the first two years, followed by
S12.d/3.67%. In tapp.ing year 12 (after having finished the virgin bark on both low
panels) it is assumed that a cut will be opened just above the renewed bark on
panel B which cut will be tapped upwards. On panel C, a cut is opened at the same
height as at opening which cut will be tapped downwards. It is assumed that after
3 months tapping the high panel upwards, tapping will be continued for 3 months on
the low panel downwards, after which the panel will be changed again. This tapping
system is coded S 2.d/3 (2x3 mo/12) (2x3 mo/12).67%.  It is assumed that Ethrel 2-1/2%
(in palm oil) will be applied about 10 times a year on a band of lightly scraped bark
about 1.8 cm wide.



INDUNEOlA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMAILLIULDERS 01 PROJECT
income Statonot for New Settlement 5 ho Farm Mo.del
Lau. as4d Jan6i
(Constan.t 1977 Rp'0007
Yer:     0/     0        2         3        4        5        6        7        d        9        10      11       12       13       14       12       1b       17       18       19       20       21        22       23       24       25
Gardos area                                 -      21.3    27.2    32.8    42.4        48.8    54.2    54.2    54.2    54.2    54.2    24.2    54.2    54.2    54.2    54.2    54.2    54.z                 54.2    54.2    54.2    54.2         54.2    54.2    54.2    54.2
Food .rop                                                                                                                                                                                                                              845       85P45             845      8.
floe 0 RIp 13f/kg                         -        -     39.0    44.2    49.4        68.3    78.0    84.5    84.5    84.5    84.5    84.5    44.5    84.5    84.5    84.5    84.5    d4.5    84.5    84.5    84.5    8.                         45      8.        45     8.
Case.. -9 Rp 9/kg                         -       -      19.6    22.4    23.8        31.5    33.3    35.0    38,5    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0                     42.0    42.0    42.0    42.f
Feaootn/boo-  8 lRp 130/kg                -       -      18.2    19.5    28.8        35 .1    41.6    50.7    50.7    50.7    50.7    5n.  0.7    50.7    50.7                SE.7 50.7         50 . 7    50.7    50.7    50.7    50.7        50.7    50.7    50.7    50.7
Onlitotal                              -      21.3   104.0   118.9  144.2    183.7   207.1   224.4   27.9   231.4   231.4   231.4   231.4   231.4  231.4   231.4   231.4   231.4   231.4  231.4   231.4   231.4    23J1. 4   231.4   231.4   231. 4
Robber                                    -        -       -        -        -         -    146.2   242.4   396.8   456.5   517.0   581.0   647.3   674.3   17.2   750.2  809.1   863.0   883.0   883.0   883.0   863.0    009.1   755.2   700.2   647.3
Ioa                                 -      21.3   10D4.0   118.9   044.2    183.7   353.3  466.8   824.7   887.9   748.4   812.4   878.7  905.7  932.6  986.6 1040.5 1094.4  1094.4 1094.4 1094.4 1094.4   1040.5   986.6   932.6   878.7
Gardee  area Lb                             -        -       7.9      8.8      8.8       8.8      8.8      8.8      0.8     8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8       8.8      8.8      8.8      8.8
Food orops
fins  8 Rp 29,775/ha /b                   -       -      11.9    11.9    14.0        14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9                14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9          14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9
Tas... -    N p 18.380/ha /b              -        -      7.3      7.3      9.1       9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1     9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1       9.1      8.1       9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1
Fea..ots/bh.a.s 9 Np 22,755
& ROp 18,120/ho                        -        -       8.2      8.2     8.2      10.2    10.2    10.2    10.2    10.2    10.2    10.2    14.2    14.2    14.2    00.2    10.2    10.2                 10.2    10.2    10.2    10.2         10.2    10.2    10.2    10.2
8Rp 24,030/ha                         -        -      4.8      9.6    12.0       16.8    21.6    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0                24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0          24.0    24.0    24.0    24.80
SobtetL1                              -        -     40.1    45.8    53.0        59.8    64.6    67.0    67.0    67.0    67.0    6_7.0    47.0    67.0    67.   0  67              67.0    67.0    67.0    67.0    67.   0  67     6k7.0    67.              67.0    670 0
Robber mltan/oon                          -        -         -        -        -         -    37.7    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5    75.5                     75.5    75.       755      7.
TotL1 neStS                                    -     40.1    45.8   _53. 0       59.8   102.3  1L42. 5   142.5   142.5   142.5   142.5   142.5   142.5   142. 5   142.5   142.5   142.5   142.5   142. 5   142.5   142.5    142.5   142.5   142.5   142.5
Nr melee of prodantien                               21.3    63.9    73.1    91.2    125.9   251.0   324.3  482.2   545.4   605.9   669.9   736.2   763.2   790.1   844.1   898.0   951.9   951.9   951.9   951.9   951.9    890.0   844.0   790.1   736.2
Other Inno,e
S'b.ist....nash payment                   25.0       -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -                  --
0ff-Care employment /. Ld
NE labor                               92.6   0835. 3   185.3   085.3   185.3    185.3          -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -         -        -        -        -        --                 --
Cannel Imbor                           162.3   117.      58.      75.6   267.        89.6       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -         -        -        -        -        --                 -
Sobtotal                           179.9   303.92  243.4,  260.9   252.03   274.9             -        -       -         -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        --                  --
Total leoine 1._79. 9   318.5   30O7. 3   334.0   343.5    398.8   251.0   324.3   482.2  5145. 4   605.9   505.9   736.2   763.2   790.1   8 44.1   898.0   921.9   951.9   951.9   951.9   851.9   898.0    84.                                             9.       3.
Lens:   Ipedo tan (520                         -        -        -        -       -         -        -      16.2    24.1    27.3    30.3    33.5    36.8    38.2    39.5    42.2    44.9    47.6    47.6    47.6    47.4    47.6    44.9                     42.2    39.5    36.8
inton   hefere doht enoe                   179.9   319.5   307.3   334.0   343.5    398.9   251.0   308.1  458.1   518.1   575.6   636. 4   699.4   725.0   750.6   801.9   853.1   904. 3   904.3   904.3   904.0   904.3   853.1    801.8   750.6   688.0
Lens :   aie..a.n. for rink Je                 -       3.2    15.6    17.8    21.6        27.6    53.0    70.0    93.7   103.2   112.3   121.9   131.8   135.8   139.8   148.0   156.1   164.2   164.2   164.2   164.2   164.2   156.1    148.0   139.9   131.8
NoL i-nom   before debt n-rine             179.9   316.3   291.7   316.2   321.9    37 1. 2   198.0   238.1   364.4   414.9   463.3   514.5   567.6   589.2   610.7   653.9   697.0   740.1   740.1   740.1   740.1   740.1   697.0    653.8   610.7  567.6
US0$                     434      762      704      762      776       894      477      573      877   1,000   1,116   1.239   1,369   1,419   1,472   1,576   1,680   1,783   1,783   1,783   1,783   1,703   1.679    1,575   1.471   1,367
Yh Ter 0 eqoal to sic smotbo
Lb   Fin.t year sen d and fertiltzer reqoireroet for non,.  n.s..    ae-d garden precEded no  -dnir  by ..anIem  enCore.
L]   Fe.-I. is Tear 0 werks  139 doye  0 lRp 450.
/d  Hlsl  is Year 0 works  143 days 0 Rp 650.
ft 15% of gross.  aine of prednotin..



1IDNEOSDIA
00110DUb LSLATE AND D7MA1100101DUII P8OJECT
eo-sStatemet for New Settlemet - S So Fac  Nodal
RlAUl and 2AL101
Otarrot tho..sa.d Rp)
Year       2/         1         2          3          4          5          6          7          8          8          id         18         12         13          14         15         16         17         18         19         20         21          22         23         24         25
Dardocara                                            28.3       39.2      50.5       70.0       86.4      102.4      [10.0      117.b      125.7      134.4      143.6      153.9      164.8        176.1      189.6      201.8      215.7      220.9      247.2      264.5       282.9      303.8      323.6      346.9      370.7
race                         ..        ~~      ~~~~~     ~~~~~      ~~- 76.2  86.1  80.0  120.9  147.4  171.3   183.4      196.0      209.5      223.9      240.8      25c.9        274.6      294.1      318.3      336.3      360.0      385.3      412.4      44i.1       422.4      504.5      560.8      578.0
-  28.2       34.4       39.3       55.8       b2.9       21.1       83.0       97.4      104.a     111.3       119.3     127.2         138.5      146.2      156.2      167.2      178.9      191.5      205.8      219.2      234.8       258.8      268.8      267.3
Peanuts./bau                               -                 2.2        38.8       47.2       82.1       78.6     182.9      110.0      10L7 .6    125.7      134.3      144.0      154.0         164.8      176.4      188.6     281.8       216.8      231.2      247.4      264.6      283.4      302.7      324.5      346.8
Sabt.tal                             -      28.3      149.8     183.8      238.0      325.2      396.3      4_55.5     494.5      538. 7     073,7      613.1      65 7. 2    703.5        752,8      805.3      860.7      901.8      98_5.8   1,855.2  171i9.3  1420./g         1.293.6  13-81.6   1A481.0  1a582.8
R.bb-r                                       -          -          -          -          -          -     253.3      463.4      818.2      996.4   1,204.8   1,449.0   1,788.8   1,937.8          2,183.6  2,473.6  2,775.8   3,176.8   3,391.4   3,633.2   3,883.6   4,142.4  4,166.8   4,168.0   4,136.8   4.084.0
Total                     -     ~~~~~     ~~~~~~28.3  149.8  183.0  238.0  325.2      644.86    916.9   1,3d4.7   1,533.1   1.778.5  2,062.1   2,446.0  1~2,61.               2,855.6  3,2_28.9  3,8_35.7  4S_097.0  4.377.2  4.688.4   5,022.9  3,350.2   5,460.4   5.549.6  5,617.8   5.666.8
lost of reodacctn Lb
Dordenara                                                       11.4      13.5       14.5       15.6       16.6       17.8       19.1       28.4       21.8       23.3       25.0       26.7         28.6       38.6       30.7       35 .8      37.3       48. 1      42.9       45.9        49.2       52.3       56.3       60.2
RAce-                                                           17.1       18.3      24.6       76.4       28.2       38.2       32.3       34.6       36.8       38.5       42.3       45.3         48.4       51.8       55.4       59.3       63.5       67.9        72.7       27.8       83.3       88.9       93.4      181.9
laave                                                   -       10.5      11.2       15.0       16.1       17.2       18.5       19.7       21.1       22.6       24.1       05.8       27.7         29.6       31.7       33.9       36.2       38.8       41.5       44.4       47.5        58.9       34.3       38.2       62.2
Peaat/beae                                   -                 11.8       12.6       13.5       18.8       19.3       28.7       02.1       03.7       25.2       27.0       29.0       31.0         33.2       35.5       37.9       40.6       43.4       46.5       49.8       33.2       57.0        60.9      83.3        69.8
Pastur, cove   crp-                                     -       6.9       14.8       18.8       78.7       40.8       49.7       32.1       55.7       59.5       63.6       68.2       73.0         78.0       83.5       89.3       95.5      122.2      109.4      117.6      123.3      134.1       143.3      153.6      164.2
Subtotal                             -          -       7. 7      70. 4      87.4      185.8     122.1      135.9      145.3      155.5      166.1      177.5      690.3      203.7        217.8      233.1      249.2      266.6      285. 4      305.4     326.9       349.7      374.3      399.9      426.8      458.3
Robber eiatononoc.  co-1-                                          -          -          -          -      71.2      153.2      163.8      175.2      102.2      208.1      214.4      229.5        245.4      06 2.27    280.9      308.5      321.6    .344.3       368.4      394.0      422.0       458.7      483.2      516.4
To.tal cots                                            57.2       70.4       07.4      103.8      193.3     289. 1     389.1      338.7      353.3      377.6      484.7      433.2         463.2      495.8      530.1      562.1      607.8      849.2      695.3      243. 8     296 .3     850.6      912.8      974.7
Net Veins of Iron Peeduetlon       ~~-    28.3        92.5      112.6      150.6     219.4      451.3      629.6      995.6   1,202.4   1,425.2   1,684.5   2,041.3  2,280.1            2,392.4   2,733.1   3,105.8   3,529.8   3,770.7   4,038.7   4,317.6   4,806.4   4,663.9   4,699.0   4,705.8   4,692.1
Otben loa.m.
Sabsi.t-uropaymet                         30.5          -          -          -          -          -          -         -           -         -          -          -          -          -             -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Off-fano   employmet:
81 labor                              112.9      246.4      266.8      285.4      305.7      328.0          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -            -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          - 
Casaul labor                           76.0      156.8       03.7      116.4      110.6      151.6          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Subtota1                        188. 9     483.2      350.3     481.8      416.3     486.6           -          -                     -          -          -          -          --                      -----------
Total Income.                              219.4      431.5     442.8      514.4      566.9      696.8      451.3      629.8      995.6   1,202.4   1,425.2   1,684.5  2,041.3  2,208.              2a,392.4  2,2_33.1  3,1_05.8  3h529.9  3,7-70.2   4,_038.7  4,317.6  4,6_06.0   4,663.94 f6_995 0  4,705.8   4,692.1
Lea.:  IPE8A Toe                                -         -          -          -          -          -          -      31.5       49.8       80.1       71.3       84.2      182. 1     119.4        119.6      136.6      155.3      176.5      188.5      201.9      215.9      238.3      233.2      234.9      235.3      234.6
INCOME                                     219.4      431.5     442.8      414.4      566.9      656.0      451.3      596.3      945.8   1,142.3   1,353.9   1,600.3  1.9-39,2   2,887.7           2,272.8  2.596,5  2,950.3  3,333.4   3,581.7  3.8a36,8  4,101.7   4,376.1  4,430.    4.464,1  4,478.5  4,657.5
(Coerot DS$)                            529.0   1,040.0   10,67,0   1,240.0   1,366.0   1.622,0   1,007,0   1,142.0   2,279.0  2,753.0  3,262.0   3,656.0  4,673.0   5,835.8                     3,077.0  6,237.0   7,109.0  8,280.8   8,631.8   9,245.0   9,884.0 10,545.0 10,626.0 10,757.0 10,772.8  10,741.0
L..n:   Dubtr-pay-ot-                                     -          - -   -          -          -                     115.8      202.6      249.0      301.2      362.3      447.2      684.5        526.9      605.8      693.8      796.0      847.8      908,3      970.9   1,035.6----
(loo-et US$)                                 -          -          -          -         -                     -     279.0      488.0      600.2      726.0      873.0   1.078.0  1,187.8         1.267,8   1,4668.0   1,672.0   1,813.0  2,043.0   2,189.8   2,339.0   2,493.0--                                                 -
NET INCOME                                 219,4      431.5     442.0      5014.4     566.9      696.0      451.3      480. 4     743.2      893.2  6,_052.7   1,238.0  1,4-92.0   1,613.2          1.745,9  1,998.6  2,256.5  2,559.4   2,733.9  2,9_28.3   3,130.8  3,340.5  4,430,7  4,484.1  4,470.5   4,457.5
(lorrut 005$)                           529,0   1,000.0   1,067.8   1,240.3   1.366,0   1,677.0   1,867.0   1,182.0   1,791.0   2,153.0   2,536.0   2,983.0   3,595.0  3,000.0                   4,210,0  4,797.0  3478 6,167.0  6,588.0   7,036.8   7,545.0   8,050.0 10,676.8  10,737.8  10,772.0 100,741.0
OfET 18C001  (Ce...tan  0557               3-94,8     707.0      667.8      713.8      693.0      752.0     440.0      440.       620.8      679.0      731.0      783.0      883. 0     872.8        860.0      894.8      926.0      981.0      966.8      945.0      921.0      896.0  1J4,13.   1,0-44.8        954.8      866.0
/A Doauw   a Year 0 of  iSa  -th.l peter  to yo.r  1.
/b  Seed  -,d f-etiliee-  p-idhOd fan  fad-rcps Oc-  firet yna  of p-odctic-






INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDEIS II PROJECT
Phbysical Description - Rubber Reelecting Nodel.
yesrg          0      1      a        3      4       5      6       7      8       9      10     11      12     13      14     15      16     17      is      19     20      21     22       23      24     25
Witbout Prolect
Food Crops
Area planted (ha) /a              0.75   0.75   0.75   0.135  0.75    0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.73   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.75    0.75   0.75   0.75
Yields; rice          Ckfg/ha)     700    700    700    700    700       700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700    700              700    700    700
cassava (vet)          7,000  7,000  7,000  7.000  7,000   7.000  7.000  7,000  7.000  7.000  7.000  7.000  7.000  7,000  7.000  7,000  7,000  7.000  7,000  7,000  7.000  7.000  7,000   7,000  7.000  7.000
PeAusor                  425    425    425    425    425        425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425              425    425    425
besos                    1S0    150    150    150    150        150    150    130    150    150    150    150    I50    150    250    150    250    130    150    150    150    150    150               150    IS0    150
sweet potatoes"        3.000  3.000  3.000  3,000  3.000   3.000  3.000  3.000  3.000  3.000  3.000  3.000  3.000  3,000  L,000  3.000  3,000  3,000  3,600  3.000  3.000  3.000  3,000   3,000  3.000  3,000
corn (cobs/ha)         8,000  6.000  8.000  6,000  6,000   8.000  8.000  8,000  8.000  8,000  8.000  8,000  8.000  6.000  8.000  8.000  8,000  6.000  8.000  8.000  8.000  8.000  8,000   8.000  8.000  8.000
Existing Rubber
Axeaunderrubber                     31      3       3      3       3       3       3      3       3      3      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -        -      -
Yield (kg/ha)                      350    350    300    275    250       225    200    175    150    100        -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -        -       
Total production               1.0s0    975     M             f2l75    675    600l   5.5       50    30        -      -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -        -
With Lroject
Food Crops"
Area planted (ha) 1k               0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7       0.7    0.3    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.3    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5                 3'S
Yields, 'rice         (kg/ha)      700    700    750    850    950   1,050  1,200  1,300  1,300  1,300  1,300  1,300  1,300  1,300  1,300  1.300  1,300  1.300   1.300  1.300  1.300  1.300  1.300  1.500  1.300  1,300~ 
cassava (wet)          7.000  7,000  7,500  8,000  8.500   9.000  9.500 10,000 21.000 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000O 12.000 12.000 12.000 12,000 12,000 12.000 12.000 12.000 12.000
peanuts                  425    425    300    500    800   1,000  1,200  1,500 -1.500  1,500  1.500  1,500  .1.500  1,500  1.500  1.500  1,500  1,500   1,500  1,300  1,300  1,500  1,500  1,500  1.500  1,500
beans                    150    150    200    250    300        350    400    450    450    450    450    450    450   .450    450    450    450    450        450    450    450    450    450    450    450    450
sweet potatoes         3,000  3,000  4,000  5,000  6.000   7.000  8.000  9.000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 L0.000 10,000 10,000 10.000 10.000 10.000 10.000 10,000 10.000 10.000 10,000 10,000 10.000 10.000
corn (cobs/ha)         8,000  8,000  8,500  9,000  9,500  10,000 10,000 10.000 10,000 10.000 IOn000 10,000 10,000 10.000 10,000 10.000 10,000 10.000  10.000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10.000 10,000
Zsiting area rubber                    2      2       1      1       1        1      L       1      I      1       0      0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0
Now *re* of ubber                      I       I      2      2       2        2      2       2      2      2       2 .   2        2      2       2      2   .2         2       2       2       2      2       2      2       2       2
Yields - existing rubber (kg/ha)   350    325    300    275    250         225    200    175    150    100         -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
- new rubber lot ha-                   -       -      -       -       -    300    500    800    900    950  1,000  1,100  1,150  1.200  1,275  1.350  1,400  1,400  1.400  1,400  1,400  1,300  2,100    900    800
2hd ha            -      -       -      -               -       -      -    300    500    800    900    950  1,000  1,100  1.150  1,200  1,275  1,350  1.400  1,400  1.400  1,400  1,400  1,300  1,100
Total existing rubber Production    700    650    300~              250     225    200    175    150    100         -      -       -      -       -      -       - I -          -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -
Total oew rubber production-  -                    -       -          -        -    300    500  1.100  1.400  1.750  1.900  Z.050  2.150  2.300  2.475  2.550  2.675  2.150  2.800  2.800  2_800  2.700  2.600  2.200  1.900
Total rubber oroduction               70       j    NO    273    250        225    500    675  L 250  I.500  A 750)  1.900  2.050  2.150  2.300  2.475  2.550D  2.675  2.750  2.800  2.800  2_0   2.700  2.600  2.200  IJO
j   Rice 0.5 ha; beans/groundouts 0.13 ha; Corn 0.05 ha; cassava 0.25 ha-, seet potatoes 0.05 ha.
Lb In years 0-6. rice 0.5 ha; beass/groundnuts 0.15 ha. cassava 0.2 ha; corn 0.05 ha. sweet potato 0.05 ha.
In years 6-25, rice 0.4 ha, beaos/grouodnuts, 0.2 ha; cassava 0.1 ha.
,-f.p



ANNEX 4
Table 11
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Smallholder Rubber Yield Projections for Rubber Replanting /a
RIAU and JAMBI
Planting  Tapping      Density          Tapping days   Grams per tree   Yield   Cumulative
year      year   (No. trees/ha)  (No. days/annum)   per tapping   (kg/ha)  yield(kg/ha)
6         1           350                85                10            300          300
7         2           400                85                15           500           800
8         3           410               113                17            800        1,600
9         4           400               113                20            900        2,500
10         5           390               113                21            950        3,450
11         6           380               113                23         .1,000        4,450
12         7           370               113                26         1,100         5,550
13         8           360               113                28         1,150         6,700
14         9           350               113                30         1,200         7,900
15        10           340               113                33         1,275        9,175
16        11           330               113                36         1,350       10,525
17        12           320               113                39         1,400       11,925
18        13           310               113                40         1,400       13,325
19        14           300               113                41         1,400       14,725
20        15           290               113                43         1,400       16,125
21        16           285               113                44         1,400       17,525
22        17           280               113                41         1,300   -  18,825
23        18           275               113                35         1,100       19,;25
24        19           270               113                29           900       20,825
25        20           265               113                27           800       21,625
26        21           260               113                24           700       22,325
27        22           255               113                21           600       22,92>
28        23           250               113                18           500       23,425
29        24           245               113                15           400       23,825
30        25           240               113                13           350       24,175
Average annual yield   24,175   967 kg/ha
25
/a  These yields are estimated under good smallholder management and control conditions.
The tapping system St/2.d/4.50% is assumed for the first two years, followed by
S/2.d/3.67%. In tapping year 12 (after having finished the virgin bark on both low
panels) it is assumed that a cut will be opened just above the renewed bark on
panel B which cut will be tapped upwards. On panel C, a cut is opened at the sase
height as at opening which cut will be tapped downwards.  It is assumed that after
3 months tapping the high panel upwards, tapping will be continued for 3 months on
the low panel downwards, after which the panel will be changed again. This tapping
system is coded S 2.d/3 (2x3 mo/12) (2x3 mo/12).67%.  It is assumed that Ethrel 2-1/2%
(in palm oil) will be applied about 10 times a year on a band of lightly scraped bark
about 1.8 cm wide.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IT PROJECT
Income Statement for 2 be Rubber Replasting Model
RIAU AND JA1BI
(Coostant 1977 Rp'000)
Year:         0      1      2       3       4      5       6      7      8       9      10      11     12     13      14     15    16    17         18     19      20      21     22      23     24    25
Without Project
Cross value of production
Field crops/vegetables/
livestock /a                    80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1    80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1    80.1   80.1   80.1
Rubber (3 ha)                    148.2  142.5  131.0  119.5  108.0    96.7   85.6   76.6   67.1   45.6         -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -        -       -      -
Subtotal                     228.3  222.6  211.1  199.6  188.1   176.8  165.7  156.7  147.2  125.7   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1  80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1   80.1    80.1   80.1   80.1
Cost of production
Food crops Lb                    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5       4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4'5    4-5             4-5    4-5    4
Rubber /c                       11.7   11.7   11.7   11.7   11.7    11.7   11.7   11.7   11.7   11.7         -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -               -       -
Subtotal                      16.2   16.2   16.2   16.2   16.2    16.2   16.2   16.2   16.2   16.2    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    45    45    4.5    45    4                  4-5      4-5    4-5    4.5
Net value of crop production    212.1  206.4  194.9  183.4  171.9   160.6  149.5  140.5  131.0  109.5   75.6   75.6   75.6   75.6   75.6   75.6   75.6   75.6   75.6   75.6   75.6   75.6   75.6    75.6   75.6   75.6
Off-fare incore /d                37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5    37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   48.3   48.3   48.3   48.3   48.3   48.3   48.3   48.3   48.3   48.3   48.3   48.3   48.3    48.3   48.3   48.3
Total income                249.6  243.9  232.4  220.9  209.4   198.1  187.0  188.0  168.5  147.0  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9  123.9   123.9  123.9  123.9
Lse. Ipeda tacos (5x)              12.5   12.2   11.6   11.0   10.5      9.9    9.3    9.4    8.4    7.3    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2             6.2    6.2    6.2
Net incore                       237.1  231.7  220.8  209.9  198.9   188.2  177.7  178.6  160.1  139.7  117.7  117.7  117.7  117.7  117.7  117.7  117.7  117.7  117.7  117.7  117.7  117.7  117.7   117.7  117.7  117.7
With Project
Gross value of production
Food crops                        77.0   77.0   83.7   92.9  105.1   116.3   98.2  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8  108.8   108.8  108.8  108.8
Existing rubber                   98.8   95.0   43.6   39.8   36.0    32.2   48.5   43.4   38.0   25.9         -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -       -      -
New robber (2 ha)                   -       -      -      -       -       -    72.7  124.0  279.0  361.9  462.2  512.4  552.9  579.8  620.3  654.0  687.7  721.4  741.6  755.2  755.2  755.2  728.2   701.2  593.3  512.4
Subtotal                     175.8  172.0  127.3  132.7  141.1   148.5  219.4  276.2  425.8  496.6  571.0  621.2  661.7  688.6  729.1  762.8  796.5  830.2  850.4  864.0  864.0  864.0  837.0  .810.0  702.1  621.2
Cost of Productio
Food crops                       4.5    4.5   10.0   14.5   19.0    23.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5   20.5    20.5   20.5   20.5
ERisting robber                 11.7    7.7    7.7    3.8    3.8       3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8        -      -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -       -      -
New rubber (2 ha)                 -       -      -      -       -       -    18.8   37.5   56.3   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5   75.5    75.5   75.5   75.5
Subtotal                      16.2   12.2   17.7   18.3   22.8    27.3   43.1   61.8   80.6   99.8   99.8   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0   96.0    96.0   96.0   96.0
Net value of crop production    159.6  159.8  109.6  114.4  118.3   121.2  176.3  214.4  345.2  396.8  471.2  525.2  565.7  592.6  633.1  666.8  700.5  734.2  754.4  768.0  768.0  768.0  741.0   714.0  606.1  525.1
Off-farm income /                   -       -      -    12.5   12.5    12.5       -      -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -
Total icore                 159.6  159.8  109.6  126.9  130.8   133.7  176.3  214.4  345.2  396.8  471.2  525.2  565.7  592.6  633.1  666.8  700.5  734.2  754.4  768.0  768.0  768.0  741.0   714.0  606.1  525.1
Less Ipeda taxes (5%)              8.0    8.0    5.5    6.3    6.5       6.7    8.8   10.7   17.3   19.8   23.6   26.3   28.3   29.6   31.7   33.3   35.0   36.7   37.7   38.4   38.4   38.4   37.1    35.7   30.3   26.3
Isrore before debt service       151.6  151.8  104.1  120.6  124.3   127.0  167.5  203.7  327.9  377.0  447.6  498.9  537.4  563.0  601.4  633.5  665.5  697.5  716.7  729.6  729.6  729.6  703.9   678.3  575.8  498.8
Lesa allowance for risk /f        26.4   25.8   19.1   19.9   21.2    22.3   32.9   41.4   63.9   74.5   85.6   93.2   99.3  103.3  109.4  114.4  119.5  124.5  127.6  129.6  129.6  129.6  125.6   121.5  105.3   93.2
Net iscore before debt service  125.2  126.0   85.0  100.7  103.1   104.7  134.6  162.3  264.0  302.5  362.0  405.7  438.1  459.7  592.0  519.1  546.0  573.0  589.1  600.0  600.0  600.0  578.3   556.8  470.5  405.6
(US0)                  302    304    205    241    248      250    325    390    636    728    872    978  1,055  1,108  1,426  1,250  1,316  1,380  1,419 14,458 14,458 14,458  1.392   1,342  1,132    978
/a  Rice Rp 45,500 (Rp 130/kg); cassava Rp 15,750 (Rp 9/kg wet); peanuts Rp 4,144 (Rp 130/kg); beaus Rp 1,463 (Rp 130/kg)- sweet potato Rp 3,300 (Rp 22/kg);
co-t Rp 4,000 (Rp 10/cob); fruit trees and vegetables Rp 3,000  poultry and eggs Rp 3,000.
lb  Rice Rp 2.000; peanuts Rp 1.500  cassava and sweet potato Rp 1,000, narely for tools, chemicals amd seed.
c  Cost of rented  Rangles Np 7/kg; share tapping 10% of crop 75% yield.
Ed  Rp 625/day a 5 days m 4 weeks a 3 months for years 1-91 Rp 500/day x 6 dayu a 4 weeks a 4 mouths for years 10-25.
Rp 625/day x 5 days a 4 weeks.
If 15% of groso coise of production.



LNDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATR AOD sRILRLDERS 11 E    PROJECT
mnoose RioResent for 2 Ra Robber Ronlonetco Model
RIAU and JAtId
(Correct RP'OOO)
O/a    1       2       3       4       5      6       7       8         9        10        11        12        13        14        15        16        17        18        19        20        21        22        23         24        25
Oftloon Project
Cross Oslos oR ProdoenRon
Fteld C-ops/ce-eotbles/liRea-ock    106.5  115.3  123.3  132.2  141.7  151.4  162.6  173.8  185.8    198.6    212.3    227.5    243.5    260.3    278.7    297.9    318.8    341.2    365.3    390.9    418.2    447.8    478.2    512.6    547.9    586.3
Robber (3 ba)                          170.3  177.0  174.3  169.0  164.3  157.8  149.0  143.1  134.1            97.7         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -          
Subtotal274.0  292.3297   .   306.0  309.2  311.6  316.9  310.9         296.3     212.3    227.5    243.5    260.3    270.7    297.9    318.0           341.2    365.3    390.9    418.2    447.8    478.2    512.6    547.9    506.3
Cost of Prodoction
Food Crops                               6.0    6.5    6.9    7.4    8.0    8.5    9.1    9.7   10.4            11.1      11.9      12.8      13.7      14.6      15.7      16.7      17.9      19.2      20.5      22.0       23.5      25.2      26.9      28.8      30.8      32.9
Robber                                  15.5   16.8   18.0   19.3   20.7   22.1   23.7   25.4   29.0            31.0         -         -         -
Sobtotol                        21.5   23.3   24.9   26.7   20.7   30.6   32.8   35.1   39-4            42.1      11.9      12.8      13.7      14.6      15.7      16.7      17.9      19.2      20.5      22.0      23.5       25.2      26.9      28.8      30.0      32.9
Not Vo-e of Cro-  Prod-ctio-             253.3  269.0  272.7  275.3  277.3  270.6  278.8  281.0  280.5    254.2    200.6    214.7    229.8    245.7    263.0    281.2    300.9    322.0    344.8    368.9    394.7    422.6    451.3    483.8    517.1    553.4
Off-farm incom                          49.8   54.0   57.8   61.9   66.4   70.9   76.1   81.3   87.0            93.0      99.4    106.5    114.0    121.9    130.5    139.5    149.3    159.8    171.0    183.0    195.8    209.6    223.9    240.0    256.5    274.5
Total itcoe                            303.1  323.0  330.5  337.2  343.7  349.5  354.9  363.1  367.5    347.2    300.0    321.2    343.8    367.6    393.5    420.7    450.2    481.8    515.8    551.9    590.5    632.2    675.2    723.8    773.6    027.9
Lnat:  IPEDA taxes                      15.1   06.1   10.5   16.9   17.2   17.5   17.7   18.2   10.4            17.4      15.0      16.1      17.2      1804      19.7      21.0      22.5      24.1      25.8      27.6       29.5      31.6      33.8      36.2      38.7      41.4
Nrt incos-                             288.0  306.9  314.0  320.3  326.5  332.0  337.2  344.9  349.1    329.8    285.0    305.1    326.6    349.2    373.8    399.7    427. 7    457.7    490.0    524.3    561.0    600.6    641.4    687.6    734.9    786.5
With frolect
Food croPs                             102.4  110.9  120.9  153.3  106.0  219.0  199.3  236.1  252.4    269.8    288.3    309.0    330.7    353.6    378.6    404.7    433.0    463.5    496.1    530.9    567.9    608.2    649.5    696.3    744.2    796.4
ERlittsg robber                        1i18.   118.0   50.1   56.6   54.8   52.6   84.4   81.1   76.0           55.4         -         -         -
N.s robber (2 h.)                                                             -  139.0  253.2  608.8    843.3  1,152.6  1,416.1  1,588.9  1,739.6  1.990.1  2,243.1  2,530.8  2,834.9  3,122.3  3,398.0  3,624.6  3,888.9  4,019.2  4,036.6  3,743.7  3,458.8
Sobtotol                       221.2  228.9  187.0  209.9  2400  272.4  422.7  57t.4  937.2  1 160.5  1440.9  1.725.1 1.919.6  2 093.2  2.368.7  2.647.8  2.963.8  3.298.4  3.610.4  3.928.9  4,192.5  4.497.1  4.668.7  4.332.9  4.487.9  4.255.2
Coat of Peodoccion
Food crops                               6.0    6.5   15.4   23.9   33.6   44.4   41.6   44.5   47.6            50.8      54.3      58.2      62.3      66.6      71.3       76.3      81.6      87.3      93.5    100.0    107.0    114.6    122.4    131.2    140.2    150.1
Hoisting robbec                         15.5   11.1   11.9    6.4    6.0    7.3    7.8    8.4    9.6            10.2         -
Nee robber                                 -       -                     _       -   35.5   76.1  122.2    175.2    187.2    200.1    214.4    229.5    245.4              262.7    280.9    300.5    321.6    344.3    368.4    394.1    422.0    450.7    483.2    516.4
Sobtootl                        21.5   17.6   27.3   30.3   40.4   51.7   84.9  129.0  179.4    236.2    241.5    258.3    276.7    296.1    306.7                  339.0    362.5    387.8    415.1    444.3    475.4    500.7    544.4    581.9    623.4    666.5
Not VRos of CeoD Prodocrion              199.7  211.3  1L59 i7  1 k  200.4  220.7  337.8  441.4  757.8    932.3  1,199.4  1,466.8  1,642.9  1.797.1  252,0  2,300.0  2,601.3  2,010.6  3,203.3  3,484.6  3,717.1  3,9004  4.124.3  4,251.0  3,864.5  3.588.7
Off-fars Recot                             -       -       -   20.6   22.1   23.6         -       -      -
Totol ioneo                            199.7  211.3  159.7  200.2  222.5  244.3  337.0  441.4  757.8    932.3  1,199.4  1,466.0  I,642.9  1,797.1  2,052 0   2,308.8  2,601.3  2,910.6  3,203.3  3,484.6  3,717.1   3,988.4  4,124.3  4,251.0  3,864.5  3,500.7
Less:  OPEDA tises (52)                 10.0   10.6    8.0   10.1   11.2   12.2   16.9   22.1   37.9            46.6      60.0      73.3      82.1      09.0     102.6      115.4    130.1    145.5       160.2    174.2    185.9    199.4    206.2          212.5     193.2     179.4
N.r Oncoe before debt ..ri-ce            189.7  200.7  151.7  190.1  211.3  232.1  320.9  419.3  719.9    885.7  1,139.4  1,393.5  1,560.8  1,707.3  1,949.4   2,193.4  2,471.2  2,765.1  3,043.1  3,310.4  3,531.3  3,789.0  3,918.1  4,038.5  3,671.3  3,409.3
(Cocreo0 US$1                           457    484    366    458    509    559    773  1,010  1,735    2,134             2,746    3,358    3,761       4,114    4,697       5,285    5,955      6,662     7,333    7,977      8,509     9,130    9,441       9,731     8,847     8,215
Debt enrice                                  -       -       -       -       -      -       -   63.3  152.2    210.8    288.2    354.0    397.2    434.9    497.5             560.8    632.7           -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
(Corrent 0005                              -      -       -       -       -       -      -    153    367         508       694       853       957    1,048    1.199        1,351     1,525         -          -         -         -         -
Not ilcoso                               189.7  200.7  151.7  190.1  211.3  232.1  320.9  356.0  567.7    674.9    851.2  1,039.5  1,163.6  1,272.4  1,451.9   1,632.6  1,038.5  2,765.1  3,043.1  3,310.4  3,531.2  3,789.0  3,918.1  4,038.5  3,671.3  3,409.3
(C.eroot U000                           457    484    366    458    509    559    773    857  1,368            1,626    2,052    2,505    2,804        3,066    3,498       3,934     4,430    6,662      7,333     7,977    8,509    9,130        9,441     9,731     8,847     8,215
(Coostont 1977 US$)                     311    303    212    232    228    220    293    296    432              460       539      600        629       627       653        669       712       976       982       974        948       970       941       862       714        653
Increneotco Net 1ocono
(Coo.sitt 1977 U0$)                     115    ill       30      70      82      93    166    179    326         376       459       530       540       543       594        601       640       931       889       894        874       938       792       813       649        520
i   Y Ieee    0   as 1980.



CHART 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF ESTATES
[   MINISTER
AGRICULTURE
f PROJECT MANAGEMENT -  -                                                                                              ..
|BHOAflO                                       DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF ESTATES------------ -  --                                    ADVISORY BOARD
OESAS ____ ______ ___  ICOMMODITY APPROACH)
SECRETARIAT           DIRECTORATE           DIRECTORATE           DIRECTORATE
OF PLANNING           OF PRODUCTION        OF MEANS OF OPERATION |.C
BAPPENAS            RESEARCH AND.          MIN. OF FINANCE. AGHiA 
DEVELOPMENT           RIA. BRI, ETC.
L  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  -  -        _   _   - - -  -  - -  -  - - -
NSSOP                        TEA PROJECT                        N  I
RRI
directls-nctiosi line
- -- - -  cowdin.ation line
P| OVINCIAL        PROVINCIAL
COORDINATING       COORDINATING
COMMITTEE          COMMITTEE



- 99 -
CHART 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF GOVERNMENT OWNED ESTATE SYSTEM
MINISTER
OF
AGRICULTURE
SUPPORT
________.   STAFF FOR
AGRICULTURAL
ENTERPRISES
NOTES
1. A PNP or PTP Unit is a group of Government owned estates.
2. In the case of PTPs authority for direction and control is delegaled by the Minister of Finance
to the Minister of Agriculture as Chairman of the Shareholders Meeting.
World Bank - 7279



INDONESIA                                                                       CHART 3
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF A GOVERNMENT OWNED ESTATE GROUP (PTP)
CHAIRMAN OF
SHAREHOLDERS
MEETING
BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS
FIRST
DIRECTOR                                                                                O
JOINT      |       O
I  -          _   ;                                               |      |             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARKETING|
PRODUCTION                                                                                     COMMERCIAL
DIRECTOR                                                                                       DIRECTOR
FIELD            FACTORY                                     ESTATE                     GENERA-
PRODUCTION       PRODUCTIONMAAEAFIRFNNCCOEC
WOFld Bank - 17280



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS If PROJECT
OHGANIZATIO CHART Of PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
TO O&FARTMENt Of                                                                                TO CLNTHAL
.GMfE AFFAIRS                                                                                   LOOv
PBO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~~~~~~~~CIAL~~~~~~~~HOICA
r  ff   >                                                                      | SPCHEUAY N                                                GOOVV'ATHOR^
L _-----_-_ _ _-          --
.~~~~~GvT
L| rAS PE VIBCGE                                   kPOVlC(   UE '{TO.AT&O
r      -                                                                                .D.nrOAE
---- ---------                       _     _            --      -     -    -    -     -    -    -     -    -     -    -    -    -     -    -    --
l ,               Pl"~~OmASI W?F.PTEN  _S                                              I COAe
Of           -IA - -  f-  - -  r-  - -  s      MAYO 0X  ,r     i 
I-
CAMAIS                                                                                            KECAMATANS
M A-iA S
MUKIM S
I7   7



- 102 -
CHART 5
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF SETTLEMENT PROJECTS
MINISTER
OF                                                      GOVERNOR
AGRICULTURE
l IRCTOR              .CHAIRMAN OF
DIRECTOR                                            8APPEDA
GENERAL                                              APD
OF                                            -    PROVINCIAL
ESTATE                                     -        COOROINATION
- . 0        COMMITTEE
,.0
I,~~~~~ .
K10                                       HEAD OF
PROJECT                                             REGENCY
MANAGER             -  - - - - - - - - - _          (Inprts project
manager)
APBN AND     INPRES
CREDIT       AND APBD
PORTION      PORTION
NES II PROJECT
direct/function line
-_  _ _ _  coordination line
World Bank - 17283



- 103 -
CRART 6
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJECT
SMALLHOLDER COMPONENTS
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE FLOW OF FUNDS - NON CREDIT ITEMS
GOVERNMENT
OF
INDONESIA
DEPARTMENTS OF THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
DIP  INPRES      DIP  INPRES            DIP  INPRES      DIP  INPRES
Governor
Supatis         PROVINCIAL
MUayon          GOVERNMENT
Camat           SYSTEM
Lurahs
PUSKESMAS                        SEKOLAH                    KASUPATEN              GOTONG ROYONGL/
INPRES                           INPRES                    INPRES                  (VILLAGE
(SANITATION, WATER, HEALTH)      (SCHOOLS)                 (ROADS)                 INFRASTRUCTURE)
1 Community self-help projects,
World Bank - 17285



- 104 -
CHART 7
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJECT
SMALLHOLDER COMPONENTS
ORGANIZATION CHART OF FLOW OF FUNDS -CREDIT ITEMS
GOVERNMENT
OF
INDONESIA
MINISTRY
OF
FINANCE
BANK INDONESIAA 
~-r----- - -                     IBRD
REKENING |  IBRtD                   _
INVESTASI I  FUNDS
S                     BRI
|            ~~~~PTP IVl
NEW              I     RUBBER
SETTEMEN               R EPLANTISC
RIAU AND                              RIAU AND
JAMBI AREAS                           JAMBI AFtEAS
Worldi Bank - 17281



CHART 8
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Smaliholder Components Main Activities
Activities                            1978              1979               1980               1981               1982               1983
Directorate General ot Estates
Prepare master plans
Approve protect budgets                                                                                         -                   -
Arrange SLA to Nucleus Estates
Contracl with Nucleus Estates
Appomt project manager
Appoint rasiden conhultants ln
Submit annuat work pror_am
Inspect settlement/replantings
Arrange with DGH road desig__
Cootdinlet project iinanctal requirements
Arrange for initial budwood
ProwinteWl Gowrnmemr
Afterationof tend
Establish project organization
Prepa,e proeift budget                                                     - _                __
Comnmence implteentalion,
Arra,rge recruitment procedures
rrcruit selller,sreplamerts
Eatend Birnasprogrem                                                      -
Nmucles Estate /PyP IVI
In.ntiate nursery deelopment
Submit annual work programn/accounts
Comnence procurement                                             VA_
Frel(t planting/new settanen_nt
Start rulber repl,ntig                                                          _                                                                         SS
BFII
Eslabtish project bank account
Set up villaye units
Estalslsh settler-accounts 
Establlish replanmer accounts 
Sub.hma lianciat stateanti to OGE                                         _                  _
Governmnt
Sg.i trnancing anti sub linancing agreenrrr,ts
WorkJ Ban_ - 1B725



CIIAWI' 9
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJECT
Project Implementation Sliedule
Estate Development - PTP IV
1978               1919               1980               1981                1982                1983
StilqIIl1d 01 SubSidi8dfy Loan Auteemnent          _
MOA Support Statf
Imou:ctwit suivices to PTP IV                                                .
A5si5lancv Witih piocutemnelltI_
Pill IV
Anu,Uai bLidgels subainnmed
Phepalation lur plocuteinfla t
Atditguiiunts lot initital sufvey                 n
Caxmnbltcite taswj cledfli_____
fl,uid Ip dilt in cieaI__                                                                                                      
Extaujsion Traifiing Ctuigtw
IGE appalots ploject ianfdl l_
Auralatjtu (nocurentent-
CuorsIiuct,otl pttigrati                                                                                  .
D)evulopg tiaIllitig plouj al_                                                       _
We 11 8alk - 18/26



- 107 -
Figure 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJECT
SETTLEMENT DEVELOPMENT FOR THE
AIR MOLEK AREA
5.o0 KM.
2.00 KM.
CENTRAL VILLAGE             0    20 FAMI1LIES
SATELLITE VILLAGE           Fi    1 25 FAMILIES
AREAS FOR OIVERSIFICATION 
CROPSI
AAIN CROP AREA                                               A
hr en-:'4E30
B~~~~ B



- 108 -
Figure 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE ANO SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
SCHEMATIC SETTLEMET LAYOUT
__________           3.00 Km.                                                         2.00 Km.
A                     _a_ 
_ H a         2-; a                                                       2 He          |  e , 2 Hs |     -    - l
H a~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2H
2 Ha
B                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 Ha
2 Hs
2 Ha ~ ~ ~ 2  a
21Ha
Al                       a,                       C1
Co.trat Villea RA                                                  M'an Crop Af.a
Satellite Vilage   2           A-C        A-A,    C--o Crop A-
A C    A-A1   C Cl 
prm,ary Estate Road  0-01           At C1  a   1                          Seconda rY
World Sank - 17481



- 109 -                         Figure 3
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT.
Basic Upland House Plan                               
_________   _ -  -   ----------
Side Elevation                   Front Elevation
, 1.8m             7.0m
i          nrluvidow        w     .l
verandahi                                 back  15.O
I drOoOllt~ I'    I 
PLAd
1.8m          7.OmS.O
windowai
I front                     fra-me
door
roof overhang
PLAN



- 110 -             Figure 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
Basic Lowland House Plan
1.4 _ l
2. 9m
0. 5m     _v__            _     _l
k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  S  
Side Elevation                      Front Elevation
1   T.Om       7
r                        l~~~~do
F   wisndow           w    .      I 
l  w                 back       _     5.Om
I             ~~~~~main      I
frame
fron t
door 
roof overhang
PLAN






t032Cf  \   BAtA~~~~~~~~~~GHAfl/   /   J ~~~~~~10330 Y
INDONESIA J /
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJET                                               -                                                                                          , 
JAMBI PROJECT AREA/
PROJECT EiOUNDARY                                          z \                              
-   EXISTiNG ROADS                                           /       >|<G                               \      {<        b/
PROPOSED MAIN ACCESS ROADS/|\                                                                                        )                           /
----- PROPOSED PRIMARY VILLAGE ROADS                       /)\C      1                                                       \\    
* - -- -  PROPOSED SECONDARY VILLAGE ROAD                       EAAG\>X
r-TOWNS AND VILLAGE      /\~  
01 |~~7~    RIVERS //a\/ 
,/Stti   <t  g X ,                           T                  IBI                                                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MB
9\ 2 1RANTApL; ( / / C / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KENALIASEM 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ai0 f\, M^l\S 
\  Sf            \         \                        X         /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \   {                            \~~~~~~~~~~~
T     <\ p  b. Yll by If(                                                                                                               J                  \\
W \  .-- -f,-ldS-\ E1
,h~~~ ~  9_YrM}O<  sAr e. -;
Thm2  h - enreeedyh         \ &                                                                            ez\;< %ok                                                          *a8
Wrd.-l fi d nk -dhecaie/ G                                                                                                       \, ,k>^\
W.Ild detact aIa  Y  \I                 ~       6
Drc   sih oMdrs              \         0321       S\/                                                103lP                       X3~ 






IBRD 13519
A-RIL 1978
\         R               (V                      SK                 KOT~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ALAMAi    t C4
I  t                 s - A                                                           >        |AN
-BKITSELAS H   A        LEK
SIMIA.G ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~IDOEI
NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~RMR VILG ROADASJS/I
>PAAS\                                               SCNDR VILLAG ROADS/
) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~c~                              TOWNS AN  VILLAGE
o  X         ./ALINONSIAAC/A
t  R\                                         X                                 AIRP,A          MILES RJCTAE
-   ov                                                  L- JEXITINGROAS
AP/A OCEA                                    R                                            ON ADVLAE
'~~~~~~~M                        +     s \p A Al MOEKRIERS5,,p
\'               Pp. \,MALAYSIA  S S
EV,545AIS OC5AY  A .SA"ESS S                           I  MOLE-EAS
I  .   d        +ttreawrsKe 4krototwicffvldDv*stdrh svs fINDONESIAo:
\ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~    ~     ~    U LU             ESAT       ANDZb  SM  LLOLE               11C-&  PROJECT.I f.n VtVV@t oovnl
a.e~~~7M>AI   MOLEKh   PROJEC                                            ARE
AIR MOLEK-WEST                                  PROJECTBOUNDAR



