LOAN NUMBER 3772 CRG
GUARANTEE CRG/TT-1
Guarantee Agreement
(Sixth Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated          , 1996


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3772 CRG
GUARANTEE CRG/TT-1
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated "       9oth           , 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (the Guarantgr) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement, dated October 4, 1994, between the
Bank and Caribbean Development Bank (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has
agreed to make the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, the
proceeds whereof are to be used for IBRD Sub-loans (as defined in the Loan Agreement)
to finance Investment Projects and Regional Investment Projects (as defined pursuant to
the Loan Agreement) located in the states and territories of the Borrower's regional
members;
(B)    the Loan Agreement provides, inter alia, that no proceeds of the Loan
may be withdrawn in respect of an IBRD Sub-loan unless there shall have been provided
to the Bank a guarantee or guarantees satisfactory to the Bank for repayment by the
Borrower to the Bank of the part of the Loan equivalent to the full amount of such IBRD
Sub-loan together with all interest and other charges t7iereon; and
(C)    the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to provide for such purposes a guarantee in
respect of IBRD Sub-loans as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 7 to the Loan
Agreement except for paragraph 15 of said Schedule (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in, or pursuant to,
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meaning therein set forth.
ARTICLE H
Guarantee
Section 2.01. (a) The Guarantor hereby unconditionall, guarantees, as primary
obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of
the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement, to the extent of the amounts of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account to be applied to IBRD Sub-loans made to the
Guarantor or, with the guarantee or approval of, the Guarantor, to any agencies or
instrumentalities thereof, and, additionally, to all IBRD Sub-loans for the Investment
Project or Investment Projects described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, if any, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Guarantor and
the Bank, to the extent part or all of the aforesaid amounts of the Loan have not been
repaid to the Bank, and together with any interest and other charges, including any
premium on advanced repayment outstanding thereon.
(b)    The Guarantor also hereby unconditionally and in proportion to the
proprietary interest of nationals of the Guarantor in the Investment Enterprise carrying out
the Investment Project for which the IBRD Sub-loan shall have been made or in such
other proportion as may be agreed between the Guarantor and the Bank, guarantees, as
primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
appropriate portion of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
of the premium, if any, on the advanced repayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement, in respect of the amounts of the Loan withdrawn for all IBRD Sub-
loans for Regional Investment Projects located in the territories of the Guarantor or from
which the Guarantor shall be likely to benefit, and which, if any, shall be described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank, to the extent part or all of the aforesaid
amounts have not been repaid to the Bank, and together with any interest, other charges
and premium outstanding thereon.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take, or cause or permit any
of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any agency of any such political
subdivision to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance by
the Borrower of its obligations contained in the Loan Agreement or in any Sub-loan
Agreement providing for an IBRD Sub-loan and will take or cause to be taken all
reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform such
obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. This Guarantee Agreement shall not become effective until: (a)
evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that the execution
and delivery of the Guarantee Agreement on behalf of the Guarantor have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; and (b) the Bank has
dispatched, in respect of the Loan Agreement, the notice referred to in Section 12.03 (a)
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 4.01,
there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion satisfactory to the Bank of counsel
acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of the Guarantor, that the Guarantee
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Guarantor and is legally binding upon the Guarantor in accordance with its terms,
and such other matters as shall be reasonably requested by the Bank in connection
therewith.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank and the Guarantor shall otherwise agree, the
Guarantee Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the Bank dispatches
to the Guarantor notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 4.01 of this
Guarantee Agreement.
(b)    If before the date referred to in (a) above, any event shall have occurred
which would have entitled the Bank to suspend the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account under the Loan Agreement, or the General


﻿-4-
Conditions, the Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section until such event or events shall have ceased to exist.
Section 4.04. If the Guarantee Agreement shall not have entered into effect by
NA I    all the obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless
the B k, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, shall establish a later date for
the purposes of this Section. The Bank shall promptly notify the Guarantor and the
Borrower of such later date.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance in the Government of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Eric Williams
Financial Complex
Independence Square
Port of Spain
Trinidad
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:


﻿-5-
INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be executed in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, and delivered in said District of Columbia, in their
respective names and as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Additional Investment Projects


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Regional Investment Projects


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


