Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5239 
Operation Name 
Rwanda Second Community Living Standards Grant 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (50%); Health (50%) 
Project ID 
P117758 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of 
Health 
Date PID Prepared 
December 7, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 15, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
Projected for March 16, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
As a country of modest geographical size with an estimated population of 9.6 million, Rwanda is 
one of the Africa
’s most densely populated countries.  It remains among the poorest, despite 
strong growth performance in the past decade.  The poverty rate decreased slightly from 60 to 57 
percent between 2000-01 and 2005-06.  However, because of relatively rapid population growth 
and an increase in income inequality, the number of people living in poverty increased from 4.8 
to 5.4 million over the same period.  Of those who were poor, over 90 percent lived in rural 
areas.  Despite strong economic growth, progress towards the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) is uneven. Rwanda is on track to achieve the MDGs in several areas
1
but lags in 
maternal mortality and child mortality, as well as high fertility rates. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
Rwanda’s 
Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy
 (EDPRS) for 2008-12 builds 
on strong achievements in human capital development and promotes three flagship programs”
2
:
(i) encouraging growth that creates jobs and increases exports; (ii) strengthening governance; and 
(iii) introducing the Vision 2020 
Umurenge
3
Program (VUP).  The VUP is expected to accelerate 
poverty reduction by promoting pro-poor components of the national growth agenda…by 
releasing the productive capacity of the poor in rural areas through a combination of public 
works, credit packages and direct support.
4
1
MDG progress is on track in the following areas: access to primary education, gender parity, malaria incidence, 
HIV prevalence. 
2
Government of Rwanda, 
Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (2008-2012)
,
p. ix. 
3
The Government of Rwanda has progressively devolved responsibilities and transferred resources to decentralized 
levels of the administration 
–
Province, District, Sector (
Umurenge
), Cell (
Akagari
)
and Village (
Umudugudu
).  Of 
these, the last three are subordinate tiers of the district governments.  The VUP is implemented through this newly 
restructured decentralized local government system.   
4
op.cit. 
Page  2
Furthermore
,
the EDPRS supports Rwanda’s commitment to achieving the health, nutrition and 
population-related MDGs.  To this end, the Ministry of Health has implemented the first and 
second Health Sector Strategic Plans
5
and has made substantial progress with policies aimed at 
improving facility-based services.  These include a strategy to deliver high-impact interventions 
to households by a network of community health workers.  This strategy is designed to promote 
access to services by the rural poor.     
Within this policy context, the program development objective for the Rwanda Community 
Living Standards Grant (CLSG) series is to support social protection and health policy reforms 
of the Government of Rwanda’s (GoR) that are designed to reduce extreme poverty, initially in 
30 pilot sectors, and to expand access to high-impact health, nutrition and population 
interventions at the community level. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The CLSG grant aims to help Rwanda integrate international good practice within its poverty-
reducing policies under the EDPRS flagship Vision 2020 
Umurenge
 Program (VUP).  The 
operation’s focus is also consistent with the fiscal framework of the GoR and with the World 
Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2009–2012.  Reducing social vulnerability is the 
CAS’s second strategic theme.  Its objective “is to ensure that the most vulnerable Rwandans 
also benefit from growth and to help Rwanda make further progress in building a more stable 
society.”  Accordingly, a related CAS program component  will support the flagship Vision 2020 
Umurenge
 initiative and help Rwanda get on track on child and maternal mortality goals.  The 
operation therefore seeks to support the GoR’s objectives for poverty reduction and the hard-to-
reach MDGs, as outlined in the EDPRS and the strategic objectives of the World Bank’s CAS.  
The operation will do so by supporting (i) the GoR’s VUP objectives and policies, within an 
improved policy framework consistent with international good practice, and (ii) GoR’s strategy 
to deliver high-impact preventive and community-based interventions through a program 
targeting women and community health workers via demand- and supply-side incentives.  .  
Policy reforms in GoR’s community health, nutrition and population policies, which  target 
health vulnerability, complement the VUP in addressing income vulnerability among poor 
households. 
 
4. Financing
6
Source: (US$m.) 
 
International Development Association (IDA) 
6 
 
5
The HSSP-II covers 7 strategic areas:  (i) institutional capacity; (ii) human resources; (iii) financial access to health 
services; (iv) geographical access to health services; (v) drugs, vaccines and consumables; (vi) quality assurance; 
(vii) specialized services, national referral hospitals and research centers. 
6
Co-financing from the Health Results Innovation Trust Fund might also be available. 
Page  3
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The CLSG operation is implemented by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
(MINECOFIN), the Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC), and the Ministry of Health 
(MINISANTE).  MINECOFIN has overall responsibility for coordinating the completion of 
policy actions and thus final responsibility for progress in implementing the proposed CLSG 
operation a
nd
coordinating the completion of actions.  MINECOFIN’s Development Planning 
Unit is responsible for overall monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the Government’s poverty 
reduction programs.  Its Budget Monitoring and Reporting Team ensures that component sector 
spending plans developed with general budget support are incorporated into the national MTEF 
and subsequent budget.   
 
MINALOC will be responsible for implementing the Government’s flagship VUP, including its 
public works and direct support elements.  A VUP management team within MINALOC’s 
national ministry oversees activities and manages the program.  District governments are 
responsible for implementation at local government level and for important roles within program 
financial and informational flows. The sector-tier (
Umurenge
)
of
local government has 
responsibility for the implementation and coordination of VUP as one of its major activities; and 
liaises and cooperates with the cell tier of local government in planning and implementing public 
works activities and in managing and oversight of direct support.  The village (
Umudugudu
)
tier 
of local government plays important roles in beneficiary selection and the formulation of 
preferences for public works projects to be undertaken through VUP.  Financial management and 
reporting responsibilities are distributed across these tiers or levels of government.  The Rwanda 
National Institute of Statistics has provided survey support for the M&E baseline.  
 
MINISANTE oversees the implementation of the community health, nutrition and population 
initiatives.  The community health strategy will be implemented in conjunction with the VUP 
through the decentralized administration, notably the District and Sector administrations, as 
well as health centers at the Sector level.  The community health and nutrition program will be 
scaled-up nationwide, including the 30 VUP pilot districts.  MINISANTE will provide technical 
guidance and will oversee and lead coordination on community health programs with sector 
partners.  A program to provide demand and supply-side incentives to women and community 
health workers, respectively, will use the already-established capacity of information systems in 
health centers to meet the data requirements of the community-based PBF strategy.  A steering 
committee, including representation from the 
Umurenge
 administration, will authorize 
payments under the Community Performance-Based Financing (PBF) mechanism as well as 
being responsible for verification of reporting. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits:
The principal benefits of the operation will include results that flow from improving the 
GoR’s poverty reduction strategy through a policy framework that ensures that international 
good practice policies are applied to the provision of public works employment, social 
assistance, and health and nutritional support to the poorest households.  Setting public works 
wages no higher than the private wage for unskilled labor should promote a more efficient labor 
market with reduced disincentives to private employment.  Improved targeting of direct supports 
Page  4
should make the social safety net more effective.  Public disclosure of VUP program rules and of 
information on direct support beneficiaries and, their benefit levels and processes for direct 
payment to all VUP beneficiaries should foster transparency under VUP.   
Community health, population and nutrition policy development and implementation are 
expected to contribute to addressing challenges relating to access to basic services by poor 
households, access to maternal health services, coverage of high-impact interventions, and health 
human-resource gaps in rural areas.  All of these  are critical for making progress on the hard-to-
reach MDGs.  The operation will support reforms that complement the VUP through a strategy 
for delivering high-impact interventions to households by a network of community health 
workers (CHWs).  A new
 
framework ensures that sector administrations will sign performance-
based contracts with CHW cooperatives providing for incentive payments made on the basis of 
reported health service indicators, with technical support and supervision provided by health 
centers.  The Government is developing a training program to increase the skills of CHWs and 
others who are more likely to stay in rural areas, increasing the supply of health human resources 
there.  To reduce maternal mortality, which reflects a broad range of factors, GoR is developing 
an innovative strategy incorporating key incentives for pregnant women, for CHWs, and for 
facilities.
 
Moreover, findings from a planned impact evaluation will provide important 
information for the community-based health and nutritional support strategy and its 
performance-based financing design.   
Risks
:
General international financial risks and specific regional risks for Rwanda as a whole 
could potentially affect this operation.  Predictability of donor financing in the longer term is 
uncertain, although donor attitudes are encouraging, reflecting 
GoR’s good performance to date 
in using aid effectively.  Risks specific to the operation include the challenges faced in seeking to 
embody and operationalize international good-practice policies in public works, social protection 
programs, and community health, population and nutrition.  Such challenges include: 
establishing a baseline for evaluating VUP piloting; the limited scope for rural non-agricultural 
employment and self-employment; and limited district-level capacity to manage performance-
based mechanisms that incentivize women and community health workers, respectively, on the 
demand- and supply-sides of health services delivery.  The proposed operation will address these 
incremental risks through specific policy actions.  Risks associated with weaknesses in the 
country’s fiduciary framework, particularly at decentralized levels, are a concern but are being 
addressed with support from development partners and the Bank. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environmental Aspects 
 
The GoR’s social protection policies are intended to contribute to a number of policy objectives, 
including reducing the poverty-income gaps for extremely poor households.  The operation 
therefore seeks to help the government implement international good-practice reforms that 
improve the effectiveness of its social protection programs.  These are intended to help reduce 
extreme poverty among Rwandan households by reducing the poverty-consumption gaps for 
extremely poor households receiving assistance (including those that would otherwise have been 
unable to help themselves), by promoting support systems that are more sensitive to gender, and 
by creating greater capabilities for beneficiaries to seek self-reliance and to graduate from the 
social protection programs and into income-generating activities.  In addition, community health 
Page  5
and nutrition policies are intended to contribute to addressing persistent socio-economic 
disparities in access to health services and in health outcomes. 
The strong complementarity between social protection and health, nutrition, and population 
policy initiatives supported by this lending operation provides unique opportunities to help 
accelerate improved living standards and well-being amongst poor households at community 
level.   Direct Supports and Public Works under the social protection policy area are addressing 
income-related risks, thus enabling a reduction in the risks associated with the income 
vulnerability of poor households.  Any such reduction in income vulnerability among poor 
households is then further enhanced by the supplementary policy support in the domain of health 
to ensure a compounding effect in reducing 
households’ overall income and health vulnerability. 
Under Operational Policy 8.60, on Development Policy Lending, the Bank is required to 
determine whether specific country policies supported under the operation are likely to cause 
significant effects on the country’s environment and, in the event of such likely effects, to assess 
country systems for reducing any such adverse effects and enhancing such positive effects.  In 
the event of significant gaps in the analysis, or shortcomings in the country systems, the Bank is 
required to identify how such gaps or shortcomings would be addressed before or during 
program implementation, as appropriate.   
 
Country policies supported under the proposed operation are not likely to have significant 
positive or negative effects on the environment, forest, and other natural resources.  The country 
systems have adequate capacity to mitigate potentially small negative effects if any.  The 
framework for environmental management has evolved in the last decade, resulting in noticeable 
improvements in institutional capacity.  In addition, in 2008 the Ministry of Health adopted an 
Environmental Health Policy, which provides the overall context for the more specific Policy on 
Injection Safety, Prevention of Transmission of Nosocomial Infections, and Health Care Waste 
Management, approved in 2009.  Furthermore, with Bank support, the Ministry of Local 
Government has incorporated into its VUP Public Works program specific environmental 
guidelines to minimize the likelihood of adverse environmental impact through its Public Works 
program and to ensure that any such minor effects are addressed if they should arise.  
Environmental challenges are also addressed through the environmental framework of the GoR’s 
Strategic Plan for Agricultural Transformation for marshland development.  The operation 
therefore complies fully with the requirements of OP 8.60. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Verdon S. Staines 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0878 
Email: Vstaines@worldbank.org 
Page  6
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
