 IEG
                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14763

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                            Date Posted: 06/23/2015

               Country: Rwanda
                        Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                      Yes    No
                           How many operations were planned for the                                 3
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                                 3
             Series ID: S122157
       First Project ID : P122157                                               Appraisal                 Actual
        Project Name: Rwanda First                Project Costs (US$M):                     10.00                  10.41
                          Community Living
                          Standards Grant
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                       6.00                   6.41
      Sector Board:       Social Protection        Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers: HRITF                          Board Approval Date :                              04/02/2009
                                                               Closing Date:          04/30/2010          04/30/2010
          Sector(s):     Other social  services (50%);  Health (33%); Non-compulsory health finance (17%)
         Theme(s):       Social safety nets (33%); Health system performance (25%); Population and reproductive
                         health (17%); Other social protection and risk management (17%); Nutrition and food
                         security (8%)
     Second Project ID :P117758                                                   Appraisal             Actual
        Project Name: Rwanda Second                  Project Costs (US$M):                  10.00               9.83
                         Community Living
                         Standards Grant
 L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                    6.00              5.83
      Sector Board:      Social Protection             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                       Board Approval Date :                              03/16/2010
           Cofinancers:HRITF                                   Closing Date:          06/30/2011          06/30/2011
          Sector(s):     Health  (50%),  Other social services (50%)
         Theme(s):       Social safety nets (42%), Health system performance (33%), Population and reproductive
                         health (17%), Improving labor markets (8%)
       Third Project ID :P122157                                                  Appraisal             Actual
        Project Name:    Rwanda    Third             Project Costs (US$M):                  10.00              10.23
                         Community Living
                         Standards Grant
 L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                    6.00              6.23
      Sector Board:      Social Protection             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                       Board Approval Date :                              03/22/2011
           Cofinancers:HRITF                                   Closing Date:          06/30/2012          06/30/2012
          Sector(s):     Other social services (50%), Health (33%), Non-compulsory health finance (17%)
         Theme(s):       Social safety nets (33%), Health system performance (25%), Population and reproductive
                         health (17%), Other social protection and risk management (17%), Nutrition and food security
                         (8%)
Evaluator:                Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Pia Schneider             Robert Mark Lacey       Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2
2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Program Document (2009) defines the Program Development Objective for the three operations as: to
    support the Government's social protection and health policy reforms designed to reduce extreme poverty,
    initially in 30 pilot sectors, and to expand access to high-impact health, nutrition and population interventions at
    the community level.

    The objectives remained unchanged.


 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The Program supported policy reforms under two policy areas: Social Protection and Community Health
    (Program Document for Third Community Living Standards Credit 2011, Annex 2).

    Social Protection: The first and second grants supported policy actions including: (i) the adoption of a wage
    policy to define wages for persons in public works programs, (ii) direct wage payments to individual Bank account
    without intermediaries, (iii) using the household to define social benefits paid to poor households, (iv) a voluntary
    savings policy for poor households, (v) publicize eligibility criteria to ensure transparency, and a disclosure policy
    of beneficiary households. Prior actions taken under the third credit were: (i) appeals and complaints
    mechanisms operating in five sectors, (ii) adoption of Vision 2020 budget allocation policy for reform of the
    distribution of VUP funding, and (iii) adoption of targeting policy through Ubudehe process (community identified
    targeting) to ensure consistency with the objectives of the VUP.

    Community Health: The first and second grants supported the adoption of policy actions including: (i)
    promulgation of new tariffs establishing free family planning services, (ii) adoption of community health policy and
    implementation plan and budget are approved by Ministry of Health, (iii) community performance based financing
    (PBF) strategy approved by Ministry of Health (MOH), and community health program included in medium-term
    expenditure framework (MTEF) and submitted to Ministry of Finance, (iv) incentives strategy with in-kind
    transfers to pregnant mothers is approved by MOH, (v) completion of an evaluation of competency requirements
    for community health workers completed and used to inform training guidelines, (vi) approval of a research
    protocol for evaluation of performance based financing of community health services is approved. The third credit
    supported prior actions were: (i) adoption of community health budget in annual Ministry of Health budget and of
    community health plan, (ii) adoption of demand-side incentive strategy by MOH with in-kind incentives to women
    to seek health care services, and (iii) performance based contracts signed with community health workers
    cooperatives and payments made in at least 100 secteurs (village level).



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    The Program was financed under a programmatic series of three single-tranche development policy operations.
    Total program cost was US$30 million. IDA financing consisted of two grants and one credit in the amount of
    US$6 million each, totaling US $18 million. In addition a US $12 million grant from the Health Results Innovation
    Trust Fund (HRITF) supported by the Governments of Norway and Great Britain and managed by the World Bank
    co-financed each of the three single withdrawal tranches with $4 million. Any difference between actual and
    appraised amounts is due to currency exchange rates of the US dollar against the SDR. All the above mentioned
    policy actions under the two policy areas Community Health and Social Protection were met before the
    negotiation for each operation. The program disbursed fully and each of the three operations closed on time.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
   High
   The objective of reduced extreme poverty and improved access to health, nutrition and population interventions
   remains highly relevant. The objective is aligned with Rwanda's Economic Development and Poverty Reduction
   Strategy, which aims to reduce poverty including extreme poverty. The government aims to reduce the nationally
   estimated extreme poverty rate to 9% by 2017. Progress has been made in this direction as evidenced by the
   declining share of the population living in poverty from 59% in the early 2000s to 45% in 2011. However, in
   absolute terms the number of poor people had increased due to higher fertility rates among poor families than the
   better-off. Thus the objective of improved access to health, nutrition and population interventions is also highly
   relevant. The objective is relevant in the context of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and of the
   Government's Vision 2020 Umurenge Program (VUP) which aims to promote pro-poor growth through inter alia,
   public works programs. It is also highly relevant to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (2009 - 2013) which
   aims to reduce social vulnerability under the second strategic theme. Reducing extreme poverty is also aligned
   with the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (2014 - 2017) the second engagement theme of which is "improving
   the productivity and incomes of the poor through rural development and social protection". This includes a focus
   on early childhood development with investments in health, nutrition and cognitive stimulation.



b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial

   The Program's causal chain with policy areas and related prior actions is plausible and logically linked to the
   objectives. Public works programs targeted to the poor were to reduce poverty. The community health worker
   program was to improve knowledge among the rural population about health, nutrition and population, and
   increase their use of related services. The Health and Social Protection policy areas were complementary to
   each other. The Program's implementation through decentralized administrative structures was aligned with
   government focus on service delivery for the extremely poor.

   The use of a Programmatic series of Development Policy Operation was appropriate in supporting sector
   policies. Design takes account of Rwanda’s macroeconomic management, which is satisfactory. Overall
   economic performance since the turn of the century has been strong. Fiscal policies remain prudent, and fiscal
   deficits are projected to decline with limited recourse to domestic financing. The Central Bank’s current monetary
   policy stance is appropriate in view of rising inflationary pressures. The Government has taken important steps to
   strengthen Rwanda’s debt management capacity and project implementation, including the establishment of a
   Debt Management Unit. The level of international reserves in relation to import requirements is adequate.

   However, considering that the public works program provides only a few days of paid work to poor households
   (ICR p. 17 and p. 29), the link to poverty reduction is relatively weak. At closing, the health focus in the design is
   less relevant in the context of the Government's decision made in July 2010 on the division of labor, which aimed
   to focus each development partner on three sectors, including agriculture, energy and transport for the Bank. On
   balance, overall relevance of design is rated as Substantial.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Objective 1: to reduce extreme poverty , initially in 30 pilot sectors - Substantial

        180 pilot sectors have participated in the VUP. The Ubudehe targeting system was confirmed as effective
         based on household poverty surveys in 2009.
        100% of eligible households in VUP sectors were granted direct support surpassing the target of 80%. The
         number of beneficiary households increased from 6,850 in 2009 to 9,692 in 2010. 72.9% of beneficiaries
         interviewed by IMANZI said the transfer arrived on time. The ICR (p. 17) reports that direct support had a
         significant and pronounced impact on increasing food consumption of poor households.

        The share of eligible households participating in public works programs in VUP sectors increased from 35%
         in 2008 to 77% in 2011 surpassing the target of 35% which was equal to baseline. An independent
         evaluation by the consulting firm IMANZI found that the number of beneficiary households increased from
         18,304 working on 38 projects in 2008 to 70,000 households on 226 projects in 2011 (ICR p. 27). The public
         works projects mainly created terracing for agriculture, valley dams, and road improvements.
        A study by the consulting firm KIMETRICA commissioned by the Ministry of Local Government MINALOC in
         2012 found that the average number of days worked was 11.2 days and the average daily public works wage
         was RWF 944.60 (ICR p. 29). Public works was not producing a significant impact on poverty, possibly due
         to few days of work provided and low uptake rates for eligible households due to insufficient works planned
         every financial year. Similarly a more recent study by Hartwig (2013) on the short-term impact of public
         works on household welfare in Rwanda found that the VUP is not sufficient to ensure graduation out of
         poverty. (see:
         https://editorialexpress.com/cgi-bin/conference/download.cgi?db_name=CSAE2013&paper_id=705)
        Households who benefited from VUP report an increase in livestock holdings.
        The percentage of extremely poor households in a sample of pilot sectors decreased from 34% in 2008 to
         30% in 2011 not meeting the target of 28% (ICR p. ix); however, the region further clarified that based on
         household survey data extreme poverty decreased nationwide from 36% in 2006 to 24% in 2011. About 45%
         of this poverty reduction can be attributed to improved agriculture policies.


   Objective 2: to expand access to high -impact health, nutrition and population interventions at the community
   level. - Substantial

        The community performance based financing (PBF) was introduced in October 2010 in randomly selected
         sectors. The payment depends on the performance of target indicators. PBF provided:
          1. In-kind gift incentives to pregnant women who had their first Antenatal care visit during the first four
              months of pregnancy, who delivered their babies in facilities, and who received postnatal care.
          2. Financial rewards to community health worker cooperatives based on the number of child nutrition
              visits, antenatal care visits, facility deliveries, and family planning referrals.
          3. Combined awards to both groups.
        Annual per capita allocations to PBF for health facilities increased from US$1.45 in 2008 to US$1.64 in
         2011, not meeting the target of US$2.25. This amount does not include the PBF amount to be paid to
         community health workers supported under this Program.
        The government eliminated user fees for long-term family planning methods (ICR p. 35), and stimulated the
         prescription of these methods through financial incentives paid to health care providers.
        Oral rehydration therapy among children under five years old with diarrhea was not measured and dropped.
        The share of deliveries taking place in accredited health facilities increased from 45% in 2008 to 68.9% in
         2011 surpassing the target of 50% (ICR p. x). The impact evaluation found a significant increase in skilled
         health facility deliveries from 77% in 2010 to 94% in 2014. However, neither the in-kind gift nor the
         performance financing to community health worker cooperatives had a significant impact on skilled
         deliveries.
        Antenatal care during the first 4 months of pregnancy was significantly higher among women who were
         supposed to receive in-kind gifts (80.6%) compared to women in the control group (71%) in 2014. However,
         regular stock-outs affected implementation and only about 18% of eligible women received gifts. The impact
         evaluation found that only a minority of eligible women received an in-kind gift as 81% of health facilities
         reported stock-out problems mainly because of a lack of PBF funding. While the expectation of a gift may
         have had a positive impact on women's care seeking behavior, this intervention has been stopped in
         February 2013. Community health workers had no significant impact on the use of antenatal care.
        Use of modern contraceptive methods among married women increased nationwide from 27% in 2008 to
         45% in 2011 surpassing the target of 38% (ICR p. x). However, the impact evaluation found that the
         community health worker PBF had no significant effect on family planning.
        No information is provided on improved access to nutrition interventions.

        This second objective is rated substantial as targets have been met. The interventions supported under this
         Program had a positive effect on this outcome but not a significant impact, as shown in the impact
         evaluation. The ICR (p. 18) identifies several other interventions that may have improved access including
         increased health insurance coverage to 69% of the population and reduced time to reach health centers to
         60 minutes.




5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:
   The relevance of objectives is rated High and relevance of design is Substantial. The contribution of the VUP
   Program to reduced poverty is rated Substantial. The objective of improved access to high impact health
   interventions is rated Substantial. However, other interventions - not supported by the Program - have contributed
   to these improvements. An impact evaluation of the community performance based financing identified issues in
   procurement of incentives and limited effects on health service use. Overall outcome is rated Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The Government is strongly committed to the VUP program and community health initiatives, which have been
   institutionalized in its work program. The VUP program is being scaled up gradually to all districts. Institutional
   capacity for implementation is being built. The Government protected spending on priority social programs in the
   wake of the international financial crisis. Government spending to the VUP program increased from US$ 16.5
   million in 2009 to US$ 32.1 million in 2012 and is budgeted to reach US$ 49.4 million by 2015. The Ministry of
   Health Annual Report for 2012-2013 shows that the government increased its budget allocation to health from
   9.1% in 2008 to 11.5% in 2011. The World Bank continues to support Social Protection programs through the
   Third Support to the Social Protection System (SSPS-3).

   However, uncertainty stems from the persistent political insecurity in the Greater Lakes region. Also, IEG's Health
   Financing Evaluation (2014) identified concerns in Rwanda over the sustainability of the Bank-supported
   payment program to community health workers who are volunteer members of a cooperative. The functioning of
   this system will also rely on the performance of cooperatives who face risk of financial insecurity.
   (See: http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org/Data/reports/chapters/health_finance_evaluation_w_appendix.pdf).



  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank team prepared and approved this Development Program Operation in a timely manner and
   recognized the government’s interest in support for its poverty reduction strategy. The team also leveraged
   additional funding from the HRI Trust Fund to support the community health policy area. The macro-economic
   and structural framework was appropriately assessed, as were the main risks including continued political
   instability in the region and its effects on the economy, the global economic crisis (which coincided with
   program implementation), the low implementation capacity at the sector level, and strong reliance on
   community health worker cooperatives. The Bank prepared and maintained a strong program of knowledge
   and analytical work to inform the Program. However, while the series was strategically relevant for Rwanda,
   the approach supported under the policy actions was insufficiently ambitious to achieve the program’s
   objectives. In addition, shortcomings in procurement arrangements for public works led initially to delays in
   processing sub-projects for public works through local procurement systems and to inefficiencies in the
   delivery of direct support to beneficiaries (ICR p. 23).



  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The Bank conducted regular supervision missions and provided hands-on technical support. In health, the
   Bank team worked closely with UNICEF and USAID in supporting the government's health reforms. In Social
   Protection the Bank through this program helped the government coordinate social protection and develop a
   common strategy. There was less of a supervision effort in health which made the work on the community
   health component more challenging. Stock-outs of in-kind incentives in health centers were not successfully
   addressed. There was insufficient attention to the development impact in the public works program. The
   team did not take action to adjust the results framework. The Bank team in collaboration with local
   researchers conducted a rigorous impact evaluation of the community performance based financing.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The government was highly committed to the reform program supported under these Development Policy
   Operations. Strong leadership in public financial management, donor coordination, and in grievance
   mechanism to promote transparency, provided a strong enabling environment for the program. Originally the
   VUP was managed by the National Coordination Team in the Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC). In
   January 2011, the government approved the National Social Protection Strategy and in November 2010 the
   Rwanda Local Development Support Agency was created and became responsible for the management of
   the government's social protection program. The Ministry of Health was in charge of the community health
   workers program, and is highly committed to this program. However, implementation weaknesses such as
   high stock-outs for in-kind gifts for women were insufficiently addressed. Staff turnover has been high, and
   there is low implementation capacity at the Sector level for the VUP and for the community health workers’
   program. The government could have taken more actions to facilitate skills transfer from the technical
   assistance to ensure continuity of work when technical assistance was absent (ICR p. 23). The Bank further
   clarified that strengthening implementation capacity has remained a continued focus of the government’s
   social protection program.




  Government Performance Rating :                          Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Not applicable.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   All three operations under the Program used the same results framework and indicators. Several of these
   indicators were relying on administrative data and general survey data, and were not designed to track changes
   among beneficiary groups of public works programs or community health workers, and compare them against
   non-beneficiary groups. To address this, the design included special surveys and impact evaluations which were
   to be conducted together with local research teams. Under the second grant, a research protocol for an impact
   evaluation on the effect of community health workers was adopted and included in the design. The design
   included only a few health access indicators. The MINALOC was responsible for M&E of the social protection
   program and the Ministry of Health for the community health program.
b. M&E Implementation:

    Data sources included data systems at the district and sector levels, the VUP M&E system, baseline and follow
   up household surveys in a sample of 10 VUP sectors and 10 non-VUP sectors. The facility performance based
   financing system also monitors results for the community health workers. In health an impact evaluation was
   conducted at baseline in 2010 and a follow-up in 2014 three years after the program's inception. This research
   received funding from the HRITF. Three baseline surveys were conducted in February - May 2010 including a
   survey among households, among community health workers, and on health worker cooperatives. The impact
   evaluation was conducted in collaboration with the National University of Rwanda School of Public Health (ICR p.
   24).


c. M&E Utilization:

   The indicators were part of the Common Performance Assessment Framework (CPAF) and are used by the
   government and development partners to monitor and evaluate general budget support. The ICR (p. 23) reports
   that preliminary analysis helped address delays and inefficiencies in the payment systems, fiscal transfer and
   public works programs. The follow-up impact evaluation of the community health program was presented at a
   workshop in Kigali in April 2015. According to the project team, the government is now revisiting its community
   health workers strategy given that this intervention did not have an impact on access.


 M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   This DPO series did not trigger any safeguards policies.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The ICR does not report any fiduciary compliance issues.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR               IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                 Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory          Satisfactory
        Risk to Development Negligible to Low        Moderate              Political insecurity in the Greater Lake
                   Outcome:                                                region and financing of the community
                                                                           health program pose a moderate risk.

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory           Moderately            There were moderate shortcomings
                                                     Satisfactory          during the preparation phase and
                                                                           supervision.
      Borrower Performance : Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory          Bottlenecks in implementation affected
                                                                           outcomes.
                Quality of ICR:                      Satisfactory
NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR identifies several lessons (p. 22):

    Community participation can help identifying and targeting the poor . Household survey data can be used to
    adjust these targeting criteria.

    Continuous analysis and corrective actions are key for efficient implementation of new systems . In this
    program, implementation was hampered by processing delays in the health sector and in public works
    programs. These delays could have been identified and addressed through process analysis.

    Community level implementation requires some minimum capacity at a community level . Although technical
    assistance can help building up local institutional capacity, the resources must be made available by
    communities, including staff and financing to ensure continuation of capacity building.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why?
   To verify ratings and follow up on the results and sustainability of reforms. To learn lessons from the various
   public works programs supported by the Bank as part of a cluster learning product on public works.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is satisfactory in its presentation of evidence. Overall it could have been more critical in its assessment.
    The lessons are generally evidence-based. The ICR is internally consistent and follows the guidelines. The
    project team also sent more recent evaluations including the Impact Evaluation of the community health
    approach.


a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
