DoamuMta
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4304-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$59.5 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
April 30, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -     Cruzado (Cz$)l/
US$1.00                 Cz$13.80 (February 28, 1986)
Cz$1.00           -     US$0.072464 (February 28, 1986)
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AIS         Agoes Integradas de Saude
Integrated Health Actions
CIPLAN      Interministerial Committee for Planning and Coordination
CORSANE     Coordenadoria Regional de Saude do Nordeste
Regional Coordinating Unit for Health for the Northeast
INAN        Instituto Nacional de Alimentagao e Nutri,ao
National Institute of Food and Nutrition
INAMPS      Instituto Nacional de Assistencia Medica e Previdencia Social
National Institute for Social Security and Medical Assistance
MEC         Ministerio da Educacao e da Cultura
Ministry of Education and Culture
MOH         Ministry of Health
MPAS        Ministerio da Previdencia e da Assistencia Social
Ministry of Social Security ari- Welfare
PAHO        Pan-American Health Organization
PAISMC      Program of Comprehensive Care for Women and Children
SES         Secretaria de Estado da Saude
State Secretariat of Health
SUDENE      Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
, A new currency unit, the Cruzado (Cz$), equal to 1,000 cruzeiros
(the former currency), was introduced on February 28, 1986, at the
exchange rate shown above. The cruzeiro will continue to be legal
tender until March 1, 1987, but began being devalued against the
Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45Z on February 28, 1986, and will
continue to be devalued at that rate until it goes out of use.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Loan and Proj ect Summary
Borrower:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing         Ministry of Health and the Secretariats of Health of the
Agencies:         States of Minas Gerais, Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, and
Plaui
Amount:           US$59.5 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Project           The project's main objective is to improve the health
Objectives:       status of the rural poor in four states of the Northeast
of Brazil. The project's secondary objective is to
improve the efficiency of providing basic health services
in these four states.
Project          To achieve these objectives, the project would (a) improve
Description:      the organization and use of resources for delivering a
package of three programs of essential basic health
services: (i) a program of comprehensive care for women
and children (including family planning); (ii) a program of
infectious disease control; and (iii) a program of walk-in
as well as hospital-based medical care; (b) improve and
expand the network of basic health facilities; (c)
strengthen the institutional capabilities of the State
Secretariats of Health and of the Ministry of Health in the
areas of strategic planning, administration and management,
and logistical support to the local level; and (d) prepare
a second-phase project for the other six states of the
Northeast. These activities would be undertaken through
the financing of civil works, furniture, equipment,
bicycles, drugs, supplies, incremental operating and
maintenance costs, technical assistance, and training under
the project.
Beneficiaries:    Approximately 3.6 million small farming families and other
poor peasant families living in the rural areas of the
Northeastern states of Minas Gerais, Bahia, Rio Grande do
Norte, and Piaui.
|Th document has a  ted disribution and may be used by recipents only in the performance
of their olkicil dufiz Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authoriution.



- li -
Project           Four major benefits are expected from the project:  (a) the
Benefits:         target population should experience a reduction in the
prevalence of certain health problems, especially diarrhea,
pneumonia, malnutrition, complications of pregnancy,
septicemia, tuberculosis, and similar diseases, all
associated with high rates of mortality; (b) the
management, administration, and efficiency of providing
basic health services in rural areas of the project states
should improve; (c) per capita health care costs should be
reduced or at least contained; and (d) health care coverage
should be extended to many rural residents who presently
are not covered.
Project           The project has three major risks:  (a) the four state
Risks:            Secretariats may be unable to translate the intent of the
project into effective action in the rural Northeast;
(b) the hardware put into place by the project may later be
inoperative for lack of funds to pay staff and to purchase
necessary supplies and maintenance; and (c) the consultants
hired under the project may not be utilized in a timely and
adequate fashion. These risks have each been specifically
addressed in the project design, particularly through the
strengthening-in part financed under the project-of the
institutions which are responsible for project execution.
Estimated Costs:                               Local      Foreign      Total
-====USS  millions
Provision of Basic Health Services
Facilities                                 17.3        4.4         21.7
Staffing                                   19.5        2.2         21.7
Training, Supervision, Monitoring,
Evaluation                                4.8         1.2         6.0
Service Delivery                           17.0        9.3         26.3
Institutional Development
Strengthening Regionalization and
Decentralization of Health Services        17.0        3.7         20.7
Preparation of Second Phase                 0.7        0.1          0.8
BASE COSTS                            76.3       20.9         97.2



- iii -
Local     Foreign     Total
-S$ millions
Physical Contingencies                            1.9        0.8          2.7
Price Contingencies                              23.3        6.5         29.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  101.51/      28.2       129.71/
_~ _
Financing Plan:
Federal Government                         12.0         -          12.0
State Governments                          58.22/       -          58.22/
Bank                                       31.3        28.2        59.5
TOTAL                                101.5        28.2       129.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:  1987  1988   1989   1990   1991  1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual              2.40  5.35   8.35  10.70  10.10  8.90   7.20   4.70   1.80
Cumulative         2.40  7.75  16.10  26.80  36.90 45.80  53.00  57.70  59.50
Estimated Project Completion Date: June 30, 1994
Economic Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:              No. 6088-BR dated April 30, 1986
Maps:                                IBRD-19539 and IBRD-19496
1/ Includes taxes of US$8.3 million equivalent.
2; Approximately one third of this amount will be reimbursed by INAMPS, the
federal social security and medical assistance agency.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$59.5 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NORTEEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$59.5
million to help finance a Northeast Basic Health Services Project. The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1,
2.        An economic report entitled -Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum' (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years. This
completed a major stage of the return to fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and state representatives throughout Brazil.
In this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Dr. Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government. On his death in April 1985, Vice-President Jose Sarney became
President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives stated by
Dr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform,
economic growth and inflation control, with a strong social and
anti-poverty orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89,
presented to Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives
including the gradual recovery of real wages and, among Government
programs, a concentration on improving health, nutrition and housing for
low-income Brazilians. Reform of the public sector is a strategic
objective. The Government intends to concentrate more on "traditional"
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic
infrastructure, leaving directly productive activities increasingly for
private sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2% p.a., and a
more rapid increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an essential
condition a return to GDP growth of at least 6% a year. Three major
1/ Part I of this report is similar to that of the President's Report
for the Agricultural Extension II Project (Report No. P-4266-BR,
dated March 26, 1986).



-2-
stabilization Aims are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public
sector deficit, renegotiation of the external debt, and the control of
inflation.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% average annual growth in real
GDP in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a
significant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth
through policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for
industrial and agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import
barriers; investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for
imported oil; the expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign
borrowing. Between 1975 and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more
than doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5 billion, with total
obligations of approximately US$70 billion, including short-term debt. The
efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974 created strong
internal pressures and increased inflation. The economy remained
vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases in oil prices
occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates increased, the
current account deficit more than doubled to US$12.4 billion. Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified
adjustment program. In February 1983, the IMF pledged financial assistance
of the order of US$5.4 billion through the Extended Fund Facility and
compensatory financing for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, for the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and
the commitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included
a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and
tight monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21% and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit
was reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.



-3-
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211Z in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,
very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP
fell by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the
industrial and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12%
during 1981-83 and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers. Much of the social progress made in the 1970s--when all income
groups gained from economic growth and the expansion of education, health,
housing and urban and rural development programs-was undermined by the
recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984. Balance-of-payments performance was
again highly positive, aided by exchange rate changes which fully accounted
for domestic inflation and by the strong growth of the US economy. An
unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was generated. Although
total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much of this surplus
resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US dollars, total
exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the comparable increase for
industrial exports was 37%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance,
and substantial net capital inflows, Brazil's international reserve
position also improved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7
billion. Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5% in real terms, or over 2% per capita.  The increase in
manufacturing exports helped industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remained
small. Overall expansion was still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, high inflation (224%), and real interest rates of 30-40%.
10.       In 1985, GDP growth accelerated and is estimated to have reached
8.3% in real terms for the year as a whole. The recovery was led by
industry, which expanded by an estimated 9.0%, though investment spending
remained low. Industrial employment increased by at least 6%. Open
unemployment declined significantly in 1985, in the major urban centers.
Agriculture expanded by an estimated 8.8%, contributing both to the balance
of payments and to domestic supply. Temporary price restraints imposed by
the new Government resulted in a reduction in price increases from nearly
12% a month in the first quarter of 1985 to 7.6% in the second. Subsequent
increases, however, brought the 1985 annual rate back to 235%,
significantly above the 1984 figure. Externally, the trade surplus
amounted to over US$12.4 billion, the current account deficit was about
0.5% of GDP, and gross international reserves remained at a level
equivalent to about 8 months of imports.
11.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from about 1.6% of GDP in 1984
to an estimated 3.3% in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized
industrial sector, including partial quarterly adjustments of wages,
resulted, at least temporarily, in real wage gains of 8-10% for these



- 4 -
industries, and Federal Government salaries were also increased to
compensate for large previous declines. Profits were high in many private
sector activities. Monetary policy from August 1985 was accoumodating; in
fact, some of the expansion in the monetary aggregates that occurred was
aimed at reducing interest rates. With a sharp reduction in foreign
financing, the growing public debt was financed domestically at high,
though later declining, real interest rates. The real rate on Government
securities declined from 21Z in August to 151 by the end of the year. For
the year, as a whole, the monetary aggregates increased faster than the
235% inflation: 251% for the monetary base, 312% for Ml, and 262% for M3.
12.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate
of inflation increased late in the year because of the need to raise public
sector and other regulated prices that had been held down in previous
months and through anticipation of the effects of a drought in the South
which damaged food crops and coffee. Inflation reached monthly rates of
11% in November and 13Z in December, followed by rates of 16% and over 141
in January and February of 1986, respectively. In late 1985, the
Government had prepared a program to reduce inflation gradually which was
centered around the reduction of the fiscal deficit to 0.5% of GDP. Taxes
were increased and there were cuts in Federal Government and state
enterprise expenditure. Budgetary control was strengthened in January 1986
by the unification of the fiscal and monetary budgets, transferring to the
Treasury the responsibility for programs previously financed by the Central
Bank and Bank of Brazil; the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a
second monetary authority; and the establishment of a National Treasury
Secretariat to centralize budget disbursements. A program for
restructuring and selective privatization of state enterprises was
initiated.   Alarmed by the spurt in inflation in December and January, the
Government tightened consumer credit and announced a plan to increase food
imports to offset the drought-related increase in agricultural prices. At
the sane time, a shock-treatment approach to stopping inflation was being
prepared.
Economic Outlook
13.      On February 28, the Government initiated its new program for
stabilization and currency reform. Until then, the inflation outlook for
1986 was threatening. There were a number of inflationary factors needing
to be dealt with, including the disappearance of excess capacity in a
number of industries, the pressures to raise wages to pre-recession levels
and to protect workers from higher future inflation, the poor agricultural
harvest, and the need to raise some public sector tariffs and prices.
Moreover, there was a growing awareness that maintaining inflation at
200-250% a year, the rate of the prior three years, was likely to be very
difficult over the medium term. The economy was reacting very quickly to
new, negative shocks, and the indexation system made it hard to bring
inflation down, once the shocks were reflected in the price index. In
addition, the small size of the monetary base relative to GDP (about 2%)
and the high liquidity of Government bonds complicated the use of monetary
policy to reduce aggregate demand.



-5-
14.       The new program seeks both to eliminate the impact of past,
indexed inflation and to change future inflation expectations. It features
a currency reform, with the new cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros;
temporary price fixing for all goods and services; an exchange rate set at
Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period to be determined; wage adjustments to
their average real value over the previous 6 months, with annual
adjustments thereafter, at least partly indexed to inflation; the freezing
for one year of rent and mortgage payments; prohibition of indexation of
financial contracts for periods of less than a year, except for personal
ax!vinofs accounts; the conversion of nominal cruzeiro contracts to
appropriate cruzado values; the conversion of indexed Government bonds to
cruzados at the parity existing on February 28, without any adjustment, at
least for one year, in the nominal value of the new bonds; and a number of
measures intended to liberalize the financial system. These sweeping
financial reforms were accompanied by plans to eliminate the fiscal deficit
and to use monetary policy to stabilize and, if possible, reduce real
interest rates. A limited unemployment insurance program was introduced.
Initial political and public reactions were highly positive.
15.       Preliminary assessments suggest that the reforms will provide
increased stability and encourage productive private sector investment,
although there are risks inherent in the reforms, including problems of
adjustment for the financial sector. The transition period could be marked
by a temporary reduction in growth, which will also be reduced in 1986 by
low or negative growth in the agriculture sector following the recent
drought. The exchange rate remains competitive previous mini-devaluations
against the US dollar, and the decline of the dollar, are estimated to have
provided a safety margin of 15-20%-and the February 28 wage adjustments do
not raise real wage costs. The large trade surplus remains a positive
factor for growth. While progress needs to be carefully monitored, the
economic outlook has on balance been improved by the measures to restore
internal stability to complement the strong Brazilian performance in
external trade and the balance of payments.
16.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are thus
encouraging, assuming the maintenance of sound exchange rate policies,
reasonable success in the implementation of the new stabilization package,
and the present determination to eliminate the public sector deficit, which
the reforms will help to achieve. A focus on further export promotion,
greater productive efficiency, improved resource allocation and increased
savings and investment will be required if annual GDP growth rates are to
remain high enough (6-7% on average) to restore living standards and
generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum) to fit new entrants
into the labor force and reabsorb those still affected by the recent
recession.
17.       The prospects depend on external factors outside the control of
Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social policies pursued
within the country. Recent developments, including the decline in
international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have been positive
for Brazil. A 1% drop in average interest rates means a balance-of-
payments gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in March with



-6-
commercial bank creditors, rescheduling maturities on 1985, rolling over
1986 maturities until early 1987, and reducing interest rates on this
debt from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over LIBOR, will reduce annual interest payments
by some US$140 million. A reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices
means a net gain of over US$100 million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and
therefore on the international economy, market access, and its own trade
policies. However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in
recent years, including substantial export growth and recent efficient
import substitution in both industrial products and petroleum, should make
it feasible to continue to generate large trade surpluses for several
years, even with nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of GDP growth
averaging nearly 7% in 1985-90, with additional foreign assistance. Total
medium and long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at an
annual rate of about 3.8% from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation. If all principal on this debt were repaid on
schedule, gross disbursements would need to rise from US$10.7 billion in
1985 to about US$17.7 billion in 1990, and amortization from US$9.8 billion
to about US$14.0 billion in the same period. Net medium- and long-term
lending, which is estimated at under US$1 billion in 1985, is projected at
an average of US$3.6 billion annually in the period 1986-90. For private
medium- and long-term debt, the projections are consistent with reductions
of total real commercial bank exposure to Brazil. Nevertheless, continued
net lending will be required, at a projected average level of approximately
US$2 billion annually.
20.       The projections suggest that interest payments on all debt would
fall from 39% of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1985 to about
24% in 1990. The total medium and long-term debt service ratio would fall
from 69% of goods and non-factor service exports in 1985, before the March
rescheduling, to a projected 52% in 1990. In the short run, in the absence
of continued debt rescheduling, debt service payments would have reached
levels threatening the recovery. The ratio of total external debt to goods
and non-factor service exports, which amounted to 3.6 in 1985, is projected
to decline to 2.6 by 1990. The results of any projections must be viewed
cautiously because of the uncertainties regarding domestic developments and
future international conditions. Nevertheless, Brazil has the economic
strength, and appears to have the management capabilities and the capacity,
to attract the relatively modest infusions of external capital needed to
maintain satisfactory rates of growth while continuing to meet its
international obligations. Thus, Brazil is creditworthy for new borrowing
on conventional terms in the magnitudes indicated above.



-7-
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1986, the Bank had made 145 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$11,147.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, annual disbursements averaged
US$155.0 million, and US$285.0 million during FY76-81, reaching US$472.0
million in FY82, US$764.0 million in FY83, US$1,405.0 million in FY84, and
US$1,054.5 million in FY85. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1984
was US$3,687.9 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IFC investments.
22.       over the FY77-84 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged
from US$425.0 million to about US$1,573.0 million per year. In FY84, ten
loans totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. Nine loans totalling
US$1,523.0 million were approved in FY85. Thus far in FY86 five loans have
been approved; they are a small towns improvement project in the amount of
US$24.5 million; a Northeast urban reconstruction project for US$100.0
million; an irrigation engineering project for US$48.0 million; a metro-
politan urban development project for US$55.0 million; and a second
agricultural extension project for US$155.0 million. Work is advanced for
a second agricultural sector project; an agricultural credit project; a
power sector project; several projects in the Northeast region including
five rural development projects and an irrigation project; and a public
sector management project.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$88 billion at the
end of 1985. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.8% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4.1:.
24.       As of March 31, 1986, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,041.14 million, of which US$710.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$330.41 million, US$255.47 million
represent loans and US$74.94 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1986 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil has been through a diflicult transition period, achieving
only at substantial domestic cost, and with international cooperation, the
adjustments required to regain reasonable equilibrium in its balance of
payments. Economic recovery, export-led, began in 1984 when the GDP
increased by some 4.5%. For 1985, growth is estimated at over 8%. The
domestic stabilization measures which were introduced on February 28,
1986, improved the prospects for maintaining satisfactory growth rates in
the medium term. Stability and growth will depend on tighter public sector
expenditure and deficit control, increased savings and investment, and a
sound balance of payments. External and domestic resources will continue
to be constrained. The Bank lending strategy is therefore designed to
support the ongoing restructuring process, promote the mobilization and



- 8 -
effective use of resources, and contribute to the attainment of social and
regional development objectives to which high priority is being attached by
the Government.
26.       In the short run, the Bank will continue to help ease Brazil's
financing constraints through several modalities of the Bank's Special
Action Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983.
These include working capital financing and financing of a higher share of
project costs. Also, greater use is being made of Project Special Accounts
into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need
for the Government to prefinance the Bank's share of project costs.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil in sustaining efficient growth. One focus of the lending program is
on structural transformation and efficient resource use. Expanding export
capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development while promoting efficiency through exposure to
international competition. Sector loans to industry and agriculture,
envisaging a restructuring of incentive and trade policies in support of
Government initiatives, have been approved by the Executive Directors.
Follow-up loans designed to support the next steps in this adjustment
process are under preparation. Given agriculture's large potential
contribution to export growth and import substitution, adjustments in this
sector will be crucial to Brazil's stabilization and growth. Sector loans
in support of financial and fiscal reforms will help promote the flow of
resources to the private sector. Lending in support of the financial
restructuring, rehabilitation and development of the energy and industrial
sectors is also envisaged.
28.       Another lending priority is the rehabilitation and development of
infrastructure.   Lending for energy development has addressed the need to
reduce petroleum imports while providing the energy required for
maintaining high rates of economic growth in the future. In the electric
power sector, the Bank's role will be to assist the Government and sector
authorities in their efforts to improve the financial condition of the
sector through realistic investment and financial policies. Lending for
transportation will be directed toward the rehabilitation and maintenance
of the existing transportation network with expansion in areas where
economic activity is outgrowing present capacity.
29.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary education,
vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension, polder
construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and integrated rural
development were designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas,
especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans for water
supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban transport
in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost
housing, and four loans for urban development in two metropolitan areas, in



medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Continued lending for integrated rural development and
irrigation projects in the Northeast of Brazil will support the
Government's objectives to further alleviate poverty, by addressing the
region's vulnerability to drought, inadequate structure of regional
institutions, and concentration of land ownership. Further lending for
urban development will address ways to improve urban services and
infrastructure, while simultaneously strengthening the financial basis of
municipalities, particularly in the Northeast region, with a view toward
self-financing of investments and cost recovery. New projects for water
supply and sewerage will also foster these goals while extending services
to rural areas and to the low-income urban population. Education lending
will continue to strengthen financial and administrative institutions while
also increasing the contribution of education to the development process,
especially in the Northeast. Following up on a nutrition research and
development project and a first health project for the Northwest, a basic
health care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil (para. 41). Future lending in
the health sector will seek to extend coverage of basic health services in
the Northeast and to combat endemic diseases in the Northeast and the
Northwest. The proposed project would be the first of a series designed to
extend coverage of basic health services to the rural population of the
Northeast.
30.       Improving the efficiency of the public sector and supporting the
Government's efforts to reduce the public sector deficit are important
components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. A special Public Sector
Management project, designed to strengthen planning and management
capabilities at the Federal level, is advanced in preparation. The Bank is
also undertaking a review of public sector investment programs and is
supporting the Government's efforts to rehabilitate state enterprises.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
development prospects. In aome sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation helped Brazil in the past to obtain additional
resources from bilateral credit agencies and private financial
institutions. Since 1976, 11 cofinancing operations for about US$570
million werc. arranged and signed with private financial institutions.
Cofinancing opportunities were rather limited in Brazil in the past four
years, as the volume and terms of commercial bank financing available to
Brazil were determined within the framework of debt rescheduling
negotiations. Given Brazil's recent progress in restoring balance-of-
payments stability and the current efforts to control inflation, the
prospects for obtaining new external financing from commercial sources are
now improving. Cofinancing could become important again in the near
future, and the new cofinancing instruments developed by the Bank could
play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil additional
resources for high priority projects, with better financing terms.



- 10 -
PART III  -  THE HEALTH SECTOR
32.       Health Status.  Health conditions in the country are generally
poor, considering Brazil's overall level of development. Life expectancy
at birth is 64 years, or comparable to Colombia and Mexico, countries with
lower per capita incomes than Brazil. Infant mortality (70 per 1000 live
births) is significantly higher than for Colombia and Mexico (53/1000).
Northeasterners have the lowest health status in the country: a low life
expectancy at birth of fifty years, an infant mortality rate of 132 per
1000, and an exceptionally high prevalence of endemic infectious diseases
(schistosomiasis, Chagas' disease, tuberculosis, leishmaniasis, malaria,
and leprosy). Infant deaths account for 35-40% of the total deaths in the
Northeast. Most of these deaths could be prevented by improved maternal
health care, childspacing, better infant nutrition, and better health
care. In the 15-44 age group, the main cause of illness is endemic
infectious diseases. The most widespread of these is malaria, with about
six million people exposed. The trend is towards an increase in
prevalence, especially in the state of Maranhao. Next in importance is
schistosomiasis, with indexes of infection reaching 40% in the Northeast.
Chagas' disease is next in disease prevalence: one out of twenty houses is
infested with the vector in the Northeast. Another significant group of
diseases are those transmitted through close direct contact with exudates
of patients: trachoma (50% of all trachoma cases in Brazil occur in the
Northeast); leprosy; and venereal diseases.
33.       Health Institutions.  The Brazilian inst.. utional framework in
the health sector is a pluralistic one, including the (national) Ministry
of Health (MOH), which is responsible for setting national health policy
and implementing collective health programs; the state Secretariats of
Health (SESs); and the National Institute for Social Security and Medical
Assistance (INAMPS), which is supervised by the Ministry of Social Security
and Welfare (MPAS) but enjoys significant financial and operational
autonomy. Four federal health institutes provide technical support and
execute special health programs with the state SESs, and one other social
security agency in addition to INAMPS provides medical and hospital care.
Interagency coordination needs improvement, despite CIPLAN, the
Interministerial Committee for Planning and Coordination, where both the
MOH and the HPAS as well as the Ministry of Education (MEC) are
represented. These federal institutions work with the Northeast SESs
through written agreements (convenios) and with private health agencies or
parties through contracts. The SESs are the most important state health
authorities, but in general, they are poorly financed, weakly managed, and
short of qualified staff. In attempting decentralization, the SESs have
established District Health Directorates (DireSoes Regionais de Saude),
each comprising several municipalities. But the lack of budgetary
allocations and of delegation of authority for resource management have
contributed to reproduce the inefficiencies of the SESs' central levels.
The few municipal (local) Secretariats of Health which exist are extremely
weak. In general, they own very few health facilties, and their
contribution to the financing of health services is negligible.



- 11 -
34.       Health Policies.  The Government's development strategy for the
health sector is based on its interest in redressing the inequity and
inefficiency of the health care system and may be summarized as follows:
(a) extension of basic health services to the whole country;
(b) strengthening of national campaigns to control endemic diseases and to
improve nutrition; (c) cost-containment and reduction of waste and fraud in
INAMPS' services; and (d) improvement of interagency coordination and
strengthening of the role of local governments, particularly the districts
and the municipalities, in the administration and delivery of health
services. In the area of population policy, the official stance was, until
1974, pronatalist. In 1984, however, the President of Brazil issued a
guideline stating that family planning should be considered as an integral
part of Brazilian public health care.
35.       In the Northeast, until 1984, health services had been developed
mainly as a result of programs funded by federal or Northeast regional
institutions (i.e., POLONORDESTE), rather than on the basis of health
policies suited to the Region. In March 1984, the Secretaries of Health of
the nine states of the Northeast together developed three main policy
objectives for the region: (a) "universalization with equity", that is,
access by all people-INAMPS beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries, urban and
rural-to basic health services; (b) decentralization' of administrative
functions, financial control, and decision-making; and (iii) -integration"
of preventive and curative services. These policies are being implemented
through a coordinated series of Integrated Health Actions (AIS) (para. 36),
financially supported by INAMPS, the MOH, the state SESs, and a few
municipal health secretariats. The Northeast health policy also gives
priority to the following health programs: (i) control of transmissible
diseases, especially vaccine-preventable and endemic ones; (ii) basic
sanitation; (iii) out-patient and hospital medical care, with priority for
high-risk groups; (iv) institutional development; and (v) food and
nutrition activities. Although family planning was not explicitly
addressed, it has been included as part of maternal and child health care.
36.       The Program of Integrated Health Actions.  The Program of
Integrated Health Actions (AIS) is a strategy for integrating and
coordinating the various programs of the health sector and for coordinating
and cofinancing basic health services throughout the country. The AIS
Program was created in 1983. Its objective is to develop a health system
able to deliver health services effectively and efficiently. The
achievement of this objective involves the decentralization of decision-
making, planning, and administration processes; the full utilization of
existing facilities; the regionalization and integration of services
delivered by public and private health agencies; the definition of health
programs based on regional and local needs; the cofinancing of health
services by the agencies involved in the program; and the development of
human resources to run the system. Participants in the AIS Program are the
MPAS (through INAMPS); the MOH (directly and through its decentralized
institutes); the MEC (directly and through the university hospitals); the
state governments (through their SESs); and those municipal (local)
governments (through local Secretariats of Health) which own and operate
their own health facilities. Specific agreements among these various
agencies and levels of government commit them to cofinance a common,
coordinated program in defined states, districts, and municipalities. The



- 12 -
program in any given area can begin as soon as agreements have been signed
covering the state in question and at least one of its districts; an
agreement need be signed by a municipality only if that municipality owns
and operates its own health facilities and will contribute thereby to the
common program. Physical and budgetary planning and coordination is
enforced by CIPLAN (para. 33) at the national level; the implementation and
coordination of the program at the lower administrative levels is the
reponsibility of the state, district, and local Interinstitutional Health
Commissions, which replicate the activities of CIPLAN at these levels. The
Bank-assisted Sao Paulo Health Project (para. 41) pioneered the establish-
ment of the AIS Program, and the proposed project would support its
development in the Northeast.
37.       National Health Resources.  Today, Brazil has 3.5 hospital beds
per 1000 people, a ratio well above the average for Latin America of two
per 1000. About half of all health facilities and 85% of all specialty
care institutions belong to the private sector. Although one third of the
total population lives in rural areas, only one fifth of all
hospitalizations and one tenth of all medical consultations occur in the
rural areas. A dramatic expansion of training facilities in the last 15
years increased the supply of doctors to 108,000 in 1983, with uneven
distribution patterns, ranging from one per 4,000 people in the Northeast
to one per 600 in the city of Rio de Janeiro, and with an estimated 33,000
doctors unemployed or underemployed. By contrast, there is one nurse per
670 people, a ratio well below the one per 370 average in Latin America.
Auxiliary nurses are also in short supply, with only one per 1,000. Total
health expenditures in Brazil have grown rapidly, from 22 of GNP in 1950 to
about 5% in 1981, coinciding with the expansion of the social security
system, but public health expenditures, mostly for preventive health care,
stagnated in real terms. However, the new Government (para. 3) has given
priority to investments in the social sectors and increased expenditures on
health and nutrition by 28% in real terms in 1986 over 1985. For 1987-89,
the projected annual increase of expenditures for curative services and
basic health care will be 6Z and 30%, respectively, in real terms.
38.       Northeast Health Resources.  During the 1970s, the Northeast
experienced a substantial expansion in the network of small local walk-in
health facilities as a consequence of innovative rural health programs in
several states. In 1976, the MOR institutionalized a grassroots basic
health program based on these programs, which has since been expanded to
all communities in Brazil with 20,000 inhabitants or less. This program
was supported by the Bank through health components included in ten
Northeast rural development projects. The goal was to provide basic health
care, mainly with auxiliary personnel, in walk-in health posts and, with
auxiliaries and doctors, in health centers. These facilities were to be
linked to other levels of health care by a referral system. The program,
now called the Basic Health Services Program, has reached 95% of the 1,375
Northeast municipalities with its network of 2,600 health posts, 965 health
centers, and 200 -mixed units" (health centers with basic inpatient
facilities). The program has also trained 2,823 attendants, 663
technicians, and 1,890 professionals. This increase in health resources
has produced only limited improvements in health care. This limited
efficiency is explained by the fact that the rapid expansion of facilities
and manpower was associated with growing difficulties of the SESs in



- 13 -
delivering the proposed services because of inadequate training and
supervision of personnel, poor maintenance of facilities and equipment,
lack of appropriate referral mechanisms, and poor logistical support.
However, the Basic Health Services Program has become the most important
effort by the Government for reducing the inequity of access to health care
in rural Brazil. The present project builds upon this experience and
proposes (a) an improved organization of the Basic Health Services Program
for delivering three essential health service programs, and (b) the
strengthening of the SESs' management, administration, and logistical
support.
39.       Issues.  Brazil has made substantial progress in developing its
health-care system. Nearly four fifths of its total population now has
access to some measure of health care. The aggregate level of expenditures
on health is appropiate to Brazil's stage of development, and the supply of
skilled manpower is not a critical constraint. However, significant
problems remain, the major ones being (a) inequitable access to health and
family-planning services among different income groups and geographical
areas; (b) inefficiency in the use of financial and manpower resources; (at
present, Brazil is not achieving the level of quality care its health
expenditures should provide); (c) limited relevance of health services for
the users; and (d) insufficient management capacity of some of the SESs.
These national problems are especially pronounced in the Northeast, where
they call for assistance from the Government for expanding and
rehabilitating the present network of basic health facilities, improving
the organization of the Basic Health Services Program, and providing the
above-described package of essential health programs to target population
groups. The insufficient management capacity of the SESs is usually
associated with deficiencies in logistical support to its district units.
The national Government proposes to address these issues by providing
technical assistance to the SESs and the MOH.
The Bank's Role and Lending Strategy
40.       The Bank fully supports the Government's development strategy for
the health sector (paras. 34 and 35) and its efforts to improve health-
sector equity and efficiency. The Bank feels that further progress is
possible in (a) developing a comprehensive strategy which addresses the
remaining organizational, manpower, and policy issues and (b) in making
health-care programs more cost-effective. Our strategy for assisting the
sector includes both additional sector work and also a series of projects
designed primarily to (i) provide basic health care services (including
family planning) in parts of the country where such services are presently
inadequate; (ii) control endemic diseases, particularly malaria; (iii) meet
priority nutrition needs; and (iv) serve as vehicles for the introduction
and implementation of desirable policy changes.
41.       The Bank's health sector and project work in Brazil started a
decade ago, with the inclusion of health components in Northeast rural
development projects (para. 38). While these components did much to
improve access to basic health services, they were generally not designed
to improve the management and quality of health services. The Bank's first
free-standing health project (Loan 2061-BR), in the Northwestern state of
Rondonia, was approved by the Board in December 1981 and was designed to



- 14 -
improve access to basic health services, control malaria, and support
applied research in tropical diseases, particularly malaria. After a
satisfactory start-up period, the project experienced difficulties in
controlling malaria and in completing the training component. A special
action program was set up last year to solve these problems. The Second
Health Project (Loan 2447-BR), approved by the Board in June 1984, is
supporting the development of a new model for providing basic health
services in the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo. A major purpose of the Sao
Paulo Health Project is to demonstrate that a basic health services
approach can successfully address Brazilian urban health care needs in a
cost-effective manner, leading to replication elsewhere in the country. An
additional loan (Loan 2448-BR), also approved in June 1984, consists of a
series of policy analysis studies to help the Government to better define
medium-term sector policy and objectives. A series of projects, all of
which would focus on the provision of basic health services or the control
of endemic diseases, is being considered for the coming years. The
proposed project would provide basic health services to selected areas in
four states of the Northeast. A second-phase prL-ject would extend the
activities provided under this proposed project to selected areas in the
remaining six states of the Northeast. An eventual third-phase project
would extend basic-health-services coverage to those areas in the ten
states of the Northeast not covered under the first two phases. Meanwhile,
preparation is advanced on a project which would seek to control endemic
diseases in the Northeast, and preparation is beginning on a project which
would seek to control malaria in the Northwest.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project was appraised in October-November 1985.
Negotiations were held in Washington between April 14 and 18, 1986, and the
Government delegation was led by Dr. Carlos Cristalli, Coordinator,
Secretariat for International Economic and Technical Cooperation,
Secretariat of Planning. Key events and special conditions are listed in
Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 6088-BR, dated April 30, 1986,
is being distributed separately.
Objectives
43.       The project's main objective is to improve the health status of
some 3.6 million rural poor people in selected areas in four states of the
Northeast, Minas Gerais, Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, and Piaui, by
improving their access to basic health services. A secondary project
objective would be to improve the efficiency of providing basic health
services in these four states. To achieve these objectives, the project
would:
(a) improve the organization and use of resources for delivering a
package of three programs of essential basic health services:
(i) a program of comprehensive care for women and children
(including family planning); (ii) a program of infectious disease
control; and (iii) a program of walk-in as well as hospital-based
medical care;



- 15 -
(b) improve and expand the network of basic health facilities; and
(c) strengthen the institutional capabilities of the state SESs and
the MOE in the areas of strategic planning, administration and
management, and logistical support to the district and local
levels. The preparation of a second-phase. project for the other
six states of the Northeast (Maranhao, Ceara, Paraiba,
Pernambuco, Alagoas, and Sergipe) would be included as part of
the institutional development component.
The Basic Health Services Component
44.       The package of basic health services to be provided under the
project (with modifications as necessary to cater to local needs and
conditions) would consist of three separate but interrelated programs:
(a) The Program of Comprehensive Care for Women and Children. This
program, created in 1984, aims to overcome problems such as low
birth weight, diarrhea, respiratory infections, and poor growth
and development in children. It also aims to reduce health
problems during pregnancy, delivery, and the post-partum period
by providing early diagnosis and treatment for mothers, who are
also taught the importance of breast-feeding. Family planning
services to be offered through this program include information
on available contraceptive methods and the recommendation and
prescription of contraceptives, when desired. Family planning
services would be provided to all women requesting them, except
in cases of medical or legal contraindication.
(b) The Infectious Disease Control Program. This program provides
vaccinations against polio, measles, diphtheria, whooping cough,
tetanus, and tuberculosis to children under five years of age.
Tuberculosis and one other infectious disease prevalent in the
Northeast, leprosy, would also be combatted by activities to
identify, confirm, and then immediately treat positive cases.
{c) The Ambulatory and Basic Hospital Medical Care Program. This
program increases access to, and reduces the cost of, basic
health care by making an individual's initial contact with the
health-care system at the local level, introducing a systematic
home-visiting schedule and strengthening services at the health
posts, centers, and 'mixed units" (para. 38). About 40-50% of
health auxiliaries' time would be used for providing household
services through home visits. If a person's health problem
cannot be resolved at home or at a health post by a health
auxiliary, then the patient is referred to a health center or
"mixed unit," both of which provide medical services limited to
outpatient or inpatient care which can be provided by health
auxiliaries and professionals and which does not require highly
trained professionals or expensive technology. Simple but
effective patient care is thereby ensured, but patient referral
to sophisticated levels of care is available when required.



- 16 -
45.       The delivery of the basic health services described above would
be improved, first, through the construction or expansion and rehabilita-
tion of some 514 health posts, 108 health centers, 39 "mixed units," 10
hospitals, 2 laboratories, 1 polyclinic, 1 oncology (cancer) center, and
various other support facilities. Furniture and equipment would be
provided as necessary. The staff for basic health services and local
administration would be increased from about 3,000 at present to about
5,600, as follows: some 530 health professionals (doctors, nurses,
dentists, and biochemists), 640 health technicians, 930 health auxiliaries,
and 500 administrative and other support personnel. This increase in
numbers would be strengthened through a substantial training program
including pre-service training, in-service courses, and continuing
education workshops and seminars for some 16,100 health and administrative
personnel at all levels. Teaching equipment and materials would also be
provided in support of this training effort. The program of civil works,
staff increases, and health-care-related training would be accompanied by
the provision of drugs, vaccines, surgical instruments and materials,
laboratory chemicals, and other consumable materials and the provision of
about 1,700 bicycles. Finally, the monitoring and evaluation systems
already in place in the four project states would be strengthened under the
project througb the hiring of consultants to introduce the data needed for
monitoring the provision of services under the project. In addition, the
SESs would undertake base-line studies of health status in the project
area, to establish a quantitative base of epidemiological data, also for
monitoring the provision of health services. Draft proposals for base-line
studies would be submitted to the Bank for review by December 15, 1986.
These base-line studies would be repeated in five years, after continuous
service delivery, to evaluate the success of the project in providing
services. Throughout project implementation, the four SESs, in cooperation
with the MOH, would monitor delivery of health services. By the end of the
project, the system should be capable of producing the "process-
information required for continuing service monitoring. A feed-back
mechanism would provide analyzed data to local staff from the SESs' central
administration with a bi-annual frequency.
The Institutional Development Component
46.       The institutional development component was designed to
strengthen the decentralization of health services to the district and
municipal levels and to improve the administration and delivery of basic
health services. The project would complement the existing district
infrastructure through the provision of new administrative, storage, and
training facilities, furniture, and equipment. Technical assistance
(consultants' services) would be provided for strengthening the legal basis
of this decentralization. Technical assistance would also be provided to
the SESs' central, district, and local administrations for improving their
managerial and technical capacity and logistical support systems. Draft
terms of reference for consultants to be contracted in the first year of
the project have been received. The receipt by the Bank of an outline of
technical-assistance needs for each year of the project would be a
condition of Loan effectiveness. Terms of reference for consultants to be
contracted in each subsequent year of project implementation would be
submitted to the Bank for approval no later than October 31 of the



- 17 -
preceding year. The Government would hire consultants for the first year
of project activities by October 31, 1986. Some 60 in-house workshops in
the implementation, administration, supervision, and evaluation of basic
health care service delivery systems would also be provided. Finally, some
ten interstate seminars would be provided under the project for improving
staff motivation and for promoting the exchange of successful experiences
among the states in the use of appropriate technology and in the efficient
organization and administration of basic health services. The Government
would submit to the Bank, for review and approval, the training timetables
and special training programs included in this component for the first year
of the project by October 31, 1986, and would submit the training time-
tables and programs for each future year no later than October 31 of the
preceding year.
Status of Project Preparation
47.       The districts and municipalities which would be included in the
project in each state have already been selected. Copies of the signed AIS
cofinancing agreements (para. 36) covering the four project states have
been received. The signing of a subsidiary AIS cofinancing agreement
covering one or more districts in a state would be a condition of Loan
effectiveness; the signing of subsidiary AIS agreements covering other
districts would be a condition of Loan disbursement with respect to project
expenditures in the respective district. The signing of subsidiary AIS
agreements by those few municipalities which own and operate their own
health facilities would be a condition of Loan disbursement with respect to
project expenditures in the respective municipality. The MOH and the four
SESs already have capable managers and the key staff needed to initiate
project implementation. The -package' of basic health care services has
already been prepared. The training of personnel in the delivery of the
package is now taking place in existing health facilities. The four SESs
have made arrangements with public agencies for preparing the architectural
designs and undertaking the civil works. The appraisal mission found these
agencies to be well staffed and efficient. Preliminary drawings of new
health facilities have been completed. Site selection and acquisition of
land is under way. Working drawings for all facilities included in the
first year of project implementation have been received. All staff of the
MOH's Coordinating Unit for the Northeast (CORSANE) have been assigned to
work in project implementation activities, with the assistance of a PARO
consultant. Core consultants would be in the field by October 31, 1986.
Each SES has appointed a project team to work in project implementation
activities, and the Central Government has given full support to the
project.
Project Management
48.       Federal Level.  The MOH's Secretary General would have overall
responsibility for project coordination and implementation. The project-
related management functions of the MOH's Secretary General would be to
(a) conclude agreemeuts with the NPAS, the SESs, and other agencies
involved in project implementation and in the financing of project
operating costs; (b) approve plans and budgets for project investments and
operations; (c) monitor and evaluate project implementation; and (d) report



- 18 -
to the Bank on progress in project implementation. In practice, the
responsibility for the operational supervision of project implementation in
the four states would be delegated to CORSANE; CORSANE would provide
technical assistance to the participating SESs to implement the project.
To undertake these tasks, CORSANE would be strengthened under the project
with eight additional full-time staff (two of which would be specialists
in the procurement of technical assistance), equipment, and short-term
consultants. CORSANE would be assisted in supervising project implemen-
tation by the health unit of SUDENE, the (federal) Superintendency for the
Development of the Northeast, an autonomous agency attached to the Ministry
of the Interior. Specific responsibilities for SUDENE's health unit have
been spelled out under a written agreement between the MOH and the Ministry
of the Interior, with the concurrence of SUDENE. Other MOH divisions would
cooperate with CORSANE in the supervision of project implementation and in
providing technical support to the states.
49.       State Level.  Responsibility for implementing the project at the
state level would rest with the four SESs. Each SES has appointed a
Project Coordinator for supervising the planning, procurement, construc-
tion, training, supervision, and technical-assistance activities of the
project. Each Project Coordinator reports directly to the State Secretary
of Health and was appointed with the approval of the state's Interinsti-
tutional Health Commission (para. 36). The Project Coordinator would also
ensure that funds reimbursed to health providers in the project area by
INAMPS would be available to cover operating costs of the project. As
explained in para. 46, a long-term goal to be supported by the project is
the decentralization of the responsibility for providing basic health
services to the district level. To this end, each state would, not later
than January 1, 1987, put into effect a plan of action satisfactory to the
Bank for the etrengthening of its District Health Directorates (para. 33)
to enable them to begin implementing the project components within their
areas of jurisdiction. The plans would include that the SESs would provide
each District Health Directorate with the funds and other resources
necessary for such implementation.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
50.       Total project costs are estimated at US$129.7 million equivalent,
of which US$28.2 million equivalent (22%) represent foreign costs. Local
costs (US$101.5 million equivalent) include about US$8.3 million equivalent
of duties and taxes. Investment costs amount to US$57.2 million equivalent
and incremental recurrent costs amount to US$72.5 million equivalent. Base
costs have been calculated as of April 1986, the date of negotiations. The
estimated costs of civil works have been based on construction currently
under way in the Northeast of Brazil. The estimated cost of technical
assistance is based on rates currently being paid to specialists of similar
competence and level of responsibility working in the Northeast of Brazil.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been provided for civil works,
equipment, and vehicles. On the assumption that periodic local currency
devaluations, estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would
compensate for differences between projected US dollar inflation and local
inflation rates, price contingencies have been estimated for both foreign
and local costs as follows: 1986 and 1987, 7.0%; 1988, 7.5%; 1989, 7.7%;
1990, 7.6%; and from 1991 on, 4.5%.



- 19 -
51.       An IBRD loan of US$59.5 million equivalent (50% of total project
Costs net of taxes and motorized vehicles) is proposed. This is in line
with the recent guidelines for Bank participation in projects in Brazil.
Bank financing would cover the foreign exchange costs and US$31.3 million
equivalent of local costs. The Loan would be for 15 years, including 3
years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
proceeds of the Loan intended for use at the State level would be passed on
by the federal Government to the four project states in accordance with
grant agreements signed between the MOH and each state. Draft grant
agreements acceptable to the Bank have been received from the Borrower;
they set forth the responsibilities of the States in the carrying out of
the project. The signing of at least one of the grant agreements would be
a condition of Loan effectiveness; the signing of each of the other grant
agreements would be a condition of Loan disbursement with respect to
project expenditures in the respective state. The federal and state
governments would finance US$70.2 million equivalent (61% of the local
costs of the project, and 100% of taxes and motorized vehicles).
Retroactive financing of up to US$4.0 million equivalent is proposed to
help cover eligible start-up expenditures made from November 1, 1985, until
the date of loan signing. Each of the Governors of the four project states
has pledged in writing to make counterpart funds available as needed and to
hire the new staff required for the project.
52.       The national Government, through the MOR, will be responsible for
counterpart funding of US$12.0 million equivalent, corresponding to the
Government's share of investment costs. The SESs would finance about
US$58.2 million of incremental recurrent costs during the project, for the
procurement of drugs, supplies, and maintenance expenditures and for
salaries of incremental staff. In addition, counterpart funding will be
provided to the SESs by INAMPS through the payment for hospital and
outpatient services provided in the project areas; INAMPS payments would
cover about one third of the incremental recurrent costs.
53.       Procurement.  Procurement of goods and works would be in
accordance with the 'Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits' of May 1985. Of a total estimated cost of US$19.1 million for
civil works, including physical and price contingencies, up to US$15.6
million would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures, which have been reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank. The
average size of contracts for the largest civil works items, the "mixed
units,' is about US$250,000 equivalent. These procedures permit the
packaging of works and do not exclude the participation of foreign
contractors in the tender. Since it is very unlikely that contractors will
be interested in small, scattered works in remote rural areas, the
remaining US$3.5 million of civil works (new health posts and
refurbishings) would be carried out by force account on the basis of
agreements between the SESs and the appropriate municipal authorities.
Furniture, equipment, and bicycles (amounting to about US$16.8 million
equivalent, including contingencies) would be grouped whenever possible
into large packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture
and equipment of US$150,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the
basis of ICB. Smaller contracts (for bicycles and other goods) estimated
to cost US$20,000 equivalent or more, but less than US$150,000 equivalent,
would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures, which are acceptable to



- 20 -
the Bank. Items estimated at less than US$20,000 equivalent would be
procured on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified
suppliers, provided the amount of goods so procured would not exceed a
total of US$1,000,000. About US$9.9 million equivalent of drugs and other
supplies would be directly provided by the MOB through the National Drug
Center. Another US$19.0 million of drugs would be grouped whenever
possible to permit bulk procurement. Packages estimated to cost US$150,000
equivalent or more would be procured through ICB, but, as drugs and
supplies would be purchased by the four SESs and their district
representatives on a continuing basis over a period of eight years, most
packages are expected to be relatively small and to cost less than
US$150,000 equivalent. Therefore, nearly all drugs and medical supply
items, beyond those provided by the MOB through the National Drug Center,
would probably be purchased through LCB. Qualifying domestic manufacturers
would receive a preference in bid evaluations of 15% of the CIF price or
the prevailing import duty, whichever is less. Consultants' services and
studies would be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency' of June 1984. The MOH would assist the SESs in carrying out
procurement and would coordinate these procedures. The following table
summarizes procurement arrangements:
PROCUREMENT BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE, INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(USS millions)
P R O C U R E M E N T   M E T H O D
Category                 ICB      LCB     Other       N/A    Total Cost
- Civil Works               -       15.6       3.5        -        19.1
, - )    (12.4)    (2.8)      ( - )    (15.2)
- Furniture, Equipment    5.5       10.0       1.3        -        16.8
(5.5)     (8.0)    (1.0)      ( - )    (14.5)
- Vehicles                  -        2.4        -         -         2.4
- Training and              -         -         -       10.7       10.7
Supervision             ( - )     ( - )    ( - )      (8.5)     (8.5)
- Consultant Services       -         -         -        2.3        2.3
and Studies             (-)       (-)    (-)          (2.3)     (2.3)
- New Staff Salaries        -         -         -       39.1       39.1
(-)       C-)    (-)          (-)       C-)
- Drugs and Supplies        -       19.0       9.9        -        28.9
( -)    (11.0)    ( -)        ( -)    (11.0)
- Operation and             -         -         -        4.7        4.7
Maintenance             ( - )     ( - )    ( - )      (3.5)      (3.5)
- Project Management        -         -         -        5.7        5.7
C-_ )     C-_ )    ( - )_    (4.5)      (4.5)
TOTAL                    5.5      47.0      14.7      62.5      129.7
(5.5)     31.4)    (3.8)    (18.8)    (59.5)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank.



- 21 -
54.       Prior review of contract awards for civil works would be required
on all contracts above US$300,000 equivalent, or about 50% of the total
cost of civil works. All contracts for goods of US$150,000 equivalent or
more would be reviewed by the Bank prior to contract award. Other
contracts would be subject to Bank review after contract award, but before
submitting withdrawal applications for disbursements. Random checking of
smaller contracts would be carried out during supervision.
55.       Disbursements.  The Schedule of Disbursements has been prepared
for a period of 8 years, according to Brazil's disbursement profile. The
Closing Date would be December 31, 1994. The proceeds of the IBRD loan
would be disbursed as shown in the following table:
Amount         Perceut of
to be         expenditures
Category                         disbursed       to be financed
(USS millions)
1.  Works                                        11.0        80%
2.  Goods other than Vehicles                    12.3        100% of foreign
(but including bicycles)                               expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
3.  Consultants' Services                         4.2        100%
4.  Training, Supervision and Management          7.0        80%
5. Drugs and Supplies                            11.0        100% of local
expenditures
6. Unallocated                                   14.0
59.5
No disbursements would be made against vehicles and local-staff salaries.
Disbursements for drugs and supplies would be kept within limits acceptable
to the Bank by state and (cumulatively) by year. Disbursements would be
fully documented except in the case of civil works by force account and
goods and services provided under contracts valued at under US$50,000
equivalent, for which disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditure certified locally by the State Secretary of each SES and
nationally by the Secretary General of the KOH. Supporting documentation
would be retained by each SES and by the MOH's Secretariat of Budgeting and
Financial Programming and made available for inspection during Bank
supervision missions and by independent auditors.
56.       Accounts and Audits.  Bank loan funds would be channeled through
a Special Account in U.S. dollars of US$2.5 million, corresponding to the
Bank's share of about four months, on average, of project needs, to be
opened by the Government at the Central Bank. Funds would be channeled to
the four states through state-level Project Accounts to be opened at the
respective State Bank by each SES.  The Bank would replenish the Special
Account as requested upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that
expenditures paid were eligible for financing from the Bank loan. The
MOH's Secretariat of Budgeting and Financing and the Administrative
Divisions of the SESs of Bahia, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Minas Gerais
would each maintain separate accounts for project expenditures. These



- 22 -
accounts, together with the Special Account at the Central Bank and the
four Project Accounts at the State Banks, would be audited annually by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the accounts and
Central Bank's audited statements would be sent to the Bank within six
months of the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report would include
an opinion (and comments, as necessary) on the methods employed in
compiling the statements of expenditures and their accuracy, on the
relevance of supporting documents and their eligibility for financing under
the Loan Agreement, and on the standards of record-keeping and internal
controls related to the foregoing.
57.       Project Benefits.  Four major benefits are expected to be derived
from this project. The first benefit would be reductions in the prevalence
of certain health problems (particularly diarrhea, pneumonia, malnutrition,
complications of pregnancy, septicemia, and tuberculosis) and reductions in
the associated high rates of mortality. With the project, the frequency of
death from these and similar diseases could be expected to be cut by 40-50%
by 1993, and the severity of these diseases as measured by present levels
of hospital admissions would be reduced by one fourth to one third. The
second benefit would be improvement in the management, administration, and
efficiency of providing basic health services in rural areas of Northeast
Brazil. The third benefit would be the containment of per capita health
care costs. The fourth benefit would be the extension of coverage to many
rural residents who presently are not covered.
58.       Project Risks.  One risk is that the SESs, which remain weak in
terms of managerial capacity and lack of adequate incentives for superior
staff performance, may be unable to translate the intent of the basic
health services project into effective action in the rural Northeast. The
project appraisal team addressed this risk by concentrating the early phase
of work in those four states which presently have the strongest health-
system management and the greatest degree of commitment to institutional
development aimed at achieving project objectives. In addition, the state
governors have provided written evidence of their commitment to hire
necessary staff and gradually assume the burden of recurrent costs for
basic health services as part of state budgets (para. 51). Another risk is
that the hardware will be put in place by this project and then be
inoperative for lack of funds to pay staff and to purchase necessary
supplies and maintenance. This risk has been addressed bv requiring
agreements between the SESs and INAMPS, which is adequately funded and
which will reimburse the SESs for most of the medical and hospital care
they provide. A result is that these Secretariats are now reasonably
assured of having the financial resources necessary to staff their
facilities and to offer basic health services. A third risk is the
possibility of inadequate and untimely utilization of consultants'
services. To reduce this risk, the project includes the strengthening of
CORSANE (para. 47) for dealing specifically with the recruitment,
selection, and employment of consultants (para. 48).



- 23 -
PART V - RECONMENDATION
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 30, 1986



-24-                                                ANNU I
Page 1 of 7
BRAZIL                - SOCIAL INDICATOS DATA SHUT
UIAZIL                             RUnRu    sOun UPS zzcutWs AVESACES) A
HOST               (HOST SCENT RSTZATR) lb
lg#db  970.1b   RECEN          NIODLE [NCONE         MIDDLE INCUSE
t.oott    jnlb!   ECSTtILA/b    LAt. MEDLICA & CAR             EUROlP
AMA (TOUSWAND SQ. M)
TUTAL                           8512.0       8512.0     8112.0
AGRICULTURAL                     1606.4      19S1.2     2352.7
Gp PER CAPITA (USfl                 330.0       000.0      2240.0           210B.6                  2345.3
(KILOCRAMS or OtL EQUIVALENT)    264.0        412.0      740.0            995.5                   1122.8
OPULATION AM VITAL STTSTICS
POPULATION.HlD-TYAR (THOUSANDS)  72594.0    95B47.0   12806.0
URBA POPULATtON (Z OF TOTAL)      44.9         55.8       68.f             66.5                     46.8
POPULATION IRMOJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEA  2000 (HILL)                         181.1
STATIONART POPULATION (HILL)                           303.6
POPULATtON MCHENTIM                                      L.
POPULATION OCNEITY
rER SQ. Km.                      8.5         11.3       14.6             35.7                     62.9
PEi Sq. KM. ACRI. LAND          44.4        48.4        52.7             92.4                    158.9
POPULATION AGE STiUCTURE (X)
1-14 ns                         43.6        42.7       40.9             39.9                     31.0
15-04 Tis                       53.8        34.3        55.6             54.0                    61.1
65 AND AIOVE                     2.6          3.1        3.5              '.L                      7.1
POPULATtON GRCITH RATE (C)
TOTAL                             3.1         2.6        2.3              2.4                      1.b
URBAN                            5.7          5.0        4.1              3.6                      3.7
CtIUDE BIRTN RATE (PER THOUS)     42.7         35.0       31.2             31.3                     23.4
CRUDE MATH RATE (PER THOUS)        12.9       10.3         6.1              8.1                      s.B
GROSS RErRODUCTLON RATE            3.0          2.4        1.9              2.0                      1.6
FANILY PANNINC
ACCEPToRS. ANNUAL (THOUS)         ..        311.0      203.6 /c
USERS (Z OF HARRIED W'CSH)         ..         ..                         40.3
FOOD -D EDUIIOU
iXDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-tOO)                     69.0        102.0      133.0            114.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)    L06.0       lo;.o      107.0            110.6                    125.6
PROTEINS (GRAtIS PER DAY)       64.0        62.0        60.0             67.3                    89.7
OF dNICH ANLNAL AND PULSE      35.0        34.0       36.0 id          34.1                     34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEArT RATE       19.4        12.5         8.0              5.7                      5.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)     54.7         56.9       63.8             b4.7                     67.4
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)    118-2        98.6        73.4             60.6                    54.2
ACCESS rO SAFE WArER EZPOP)
TOTAL                              ..        55.0       77.1 te          65.4
URBAN                             ,,         76.0       68.6 7-          78.1
RURAL                             ..         28.0       56.8 7e          46.2
ACCESS ro EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        58.0       64.8 1.          52.9
URBAN                             ..         85.0       83.7 Ie          67.0
WCRAL                             ..         24.0       31.7             24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN        2210.0       2130.0         ..           1917.7                   1065.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON         2810.0       1120.0         ..            61S.8                    7b4.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                           310.0       270.0      250.0 te         367.2                    326.3
CRBAX                          250.0        320.0                       411.5                    201.5
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..           2636.3
ADXISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..         L8.4         ..             27.3                    ZO0.
mUnU
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOLSEHOLD
TUTAL                             5.          4.8        4.9 te
LRSAy                              ..         4.6        4.7 7..
RLUAL                             ..          5.2        5.3 e*
AVERAGE No. OF PERSONS/ROON
rOTA!.                            ,.          1.1
URBA                              ..          1.0
RURAL                                         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (t OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           38.7        47.6        67.4
URBA                              ..         75.b       88.5
RURAL                             ..         8.4        ZO.0



- 25 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
DlAZEL                 - 60CXAL INDICATS DATA SHT
SIUL                                  EFUUNCU GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVZ lS) 
HOST                CHOBS RCN  ESTIMAT) A
i,eoLk  ,potk     thISM          MIDDIZ INCOME          MIDDLE INCWU
1960G    ! 970 !  ESTUMT'TBZLAb    LAT. AMRICA  CAR                OPE
ADJUSTED CIMROLUS RATIOS
nIRZAs  TOTAL                    95.0         14.0       93.0 f!.j        105.4                    101.1
KUE                    97.0        14.0        93.0 7     f. 106.3                      105.5
PEMALK                 93.0        14.0        93.0 f..        104.5                     96.7
SECONIDAIt TOTAL                 11.0         26.0       32.0 Jh           43.2                     59.1
MALE                   11.0        26.0        29.0 7j     h    42.3                     68.9
UAIZ                   10.0        27.0        35. Jj.          44.5                     50.6
vOCoTiOiA cx Or SzeODrY)          18.6         16.7       59.2 A            33.6                     21.6
PUPIL-7IACHRI RATIO
PRIMAl?                          33.0         2B.0       26.0 I     t      30.1                     25.1
8ZC0NDA1T                        13.0         13.0       14.0 A            16.8                    20.5
ADDLT LrTUACT RLE CZ)              61.0         66.2       76.0 If           79.5                     75.6
PAIEtU CAJ/SIIOUSBUD POP            7.6         16.6       48.9              46.0                    54.7
RADIO RECEIURNI/TUOI8AND POP       65.4        109.4      165.1             225.6                    164.9
TV  E/SHVOI/TIuSAD POP             16.5         44.3      1L9.7             107.2                    123.6
NDSPAl  ("DAIY GENEm
IUZUSI") CIRCULATON
PER TUSAND POPUU!IOI             52.9         35.6        44.0 h           63.5                     96.3
CmnA nUAL AITNDANE/cAPr.zA          4.4          2.0        1.8               2.8                      2.9
TOTAL LA1M FORCE CTIOUS)        23326.0      30411.0    40365.0
FIALZ (PER=CE)                   17.2         20.1       23.2              23.2                     34.5
AGRICULTUE  (PERCENT)            51.9         45.6       29.9              31.5                     40.7
IMDUSTTY (PERCET)                14.8         18.3       24.4              23.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCZNT)
TOTAL                            32.1         31.7       31.8              32.2                     42.9
HA'L                             52.7         50.3       46.9              49.3                     54.7
PENIlE                           11.2         12.8       14.8              15.2                     31.0
ECOIIC DEPENDEC RA                  1.4          1.4        1.4               1.4                     0.9
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIXV BY
HIGHEST 50 rl OUSEHOLDS             ..
HIGHEST 202 0f HOUSEHDLDS        60.0         63.5       62.0 /
OWTUr 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           3.8          3.2        2.8                .
LOIE5T 40Z OP HOUSEHLDS          10.8          9.0        9.4                ...
POX0T TA11   CRAM!
ZSIMAD AnSOwLU POVEUT DE
IZEVL (M5O PER CAPITA)
URIBAN                             ..                                     288. 2
RWUL                                            .       150.0 Id          184.0
ESTDIMAD RELATIVE POVERtT INCM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPrTA)
URBAN                                                   465.0 Id          522.8
RUlRAL.                            ..           .       332.0 Jd          372.4
EST1IAT   POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEUM  iCOCIm LEVEL (2)
URBAN.
RURAL                               .
NOT AVALAIE
NOT AMPCAILE
N0T E S
/a  MM group averags for each indicALor are populaton-wighted sritbaetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Ab  oglona otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 9gort Recent Estimate" betwan 1980 and 1982.
/c  1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1979; /I Beginning 1973 primary and secondary education coaer age groups 7-14 and 15-17
instead of 7-10 ind ll-lTin earlier year; therefore, most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data;
Ih 1978.
JUNE, 1984



- 26-                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
DEIPIffONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note Althooug the data a drawn frm soursgenl judged the moa auhoritive and reabkc it sould also be nomed tha they may not be internationally
comparmble bcaue or the lack of sanardisd definidons nd oWcepts used by diremnt countrie In colecting the dais. The data are. nonethelk  uerul to
desrcibe orden ofmagnilude. indicate trends.and charatrizena major diffemas between countrie.
The reference goups rIe I I the awe cuntry group of th subject countfy and (2) a country goup with somewhat highr avere income thn the country
group ofrthe abjec country (caept for-High Income Oil Exporers" roup where -Middike Income North Afibc sd Middle East' is chosen becau of trnger
mco-cultural affinkitikl In the mrence group data the aveags are popultion wegted aiithmetic mean for ech indicator and shown only when majority
oreh countie in agroup has data for that indicar. Sine thecvergee orcountrics ma te indicow depeds on the availability ofdaa and inot uniform.
caution muse be exercisd in relting avenge ofone indicator to anothert The averges ate only useful In comparing the value ofone indicator at a mime among
th country and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                           Crud G irth Rae (per thousnad)-Number of live births in the year
Total--Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Crud Deh Rate (per t/oussndj-Number of deaths in the year
Agrideuhral-Estimate of agriultural rea used lemporarily or      per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently (or crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  (bes Rep9odm   Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive period ir she expeiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices calculated by same conversion method as World    fhail P laniw-Accptwes. Aanna (thmsainds-Annual num-
Bank Arias (1931-83 basis). 198113 data.                         her oracceptors or birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      Fndl Pannin-Users (pecen ofmarried w n- )-The percen-
petrolum. natural gs and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-    tage of marnied women or child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricityl in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Total Populxati. Mid-JYea fthoasmndsl-As or july 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
UaIez ifFood Podactian Per Capita (I969-71 - lOO-- Index of per
urb im Popsaim (percem of tetal}  Ratio Or urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal reed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Ppdlaionj Ih                                                     which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetables fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. tivestock. and
total population by age and sex fertility rates. mortality rates and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights 196145. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Pr CAWr Spyof Calois (prcent ofreqf re-ists--Corput-
Sratiunarr popudation-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously retmained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= I1. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lvel.                                        waste at household klvel; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monentnum---ls the tendency for population growth to  Per Capita Supply .f  er-cin (gras per day)-Protein content of
continuc beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standardsare lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Paelarn  Densi y                                                 average for the workL proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkni.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Par Capitan Poein Supply Fi-o  Anim  and Pr -Protem n supply
Per sqkm. agritultural land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Pbpatio Age Strutre (perceat)-Children (0-14 years). work-       Chiwes 1-4) Deth Rate (per thousand)--Number ordeaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and ovcr) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percenti)-totalt--Annual growth rates of  from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Popuaion Groiwt Rate (perceat)-nra- Annual growth rates          Life Exrpctay at Bik (years)- -Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data,      infant would live ir prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX  I
- 27 -                                 fPage 4wof 7
at the time of or its birth were to sty the sme throughout its lifc;  KpNrearhwr Ratio - prlimry. and saoudry-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data,                                    rolled in primary and secondary Ieels divided by numbenr of
Low Mweah Ralte (pr thsz_ad)-Number of infant. who die    teacher in the cormsponing levels.
befor reachig one yar of age per thousnd live births in a giv-n
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                              CONSUMPTION
Ae  atS*  Wowl fpetaw if _ eI l-St al . whin  ad             Paege Cu. (per tk         J-ad papsilatirlijassenger cars com-
rre-Number of people (totaL urban. and rural) with reaonable  prise motor cars sting less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
acre. to rae water upply (clude, treated surface waten or     -. iearse and military vehices.
untrted but uncontamnuated water such - that from protected   esb Receiver (per rhosmadpopubvieap-All tvpes of receiver
borehole, springs and sanitary wel) a percentage of their rec-  for radio broadcats to general public per thousand of population:
tine popuatio. In an urbn ar  a publc fountain or standpost  excude un-licensed receivern in countries and in years when
catd not more than 200 meter from a houe may be considered   registration or radio st was in elect data (or recent years may
u being within reaonable ses of that house. In rural areu    not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reaonable acces would imply that the housewife or memben of the
household do not have to qpd a disproportionate port of the day  TV't RCE w(rs  Anhmud pwj drhi-TV reive orbroadr b st
in tehing the famaiy's water needs.                          to gseral public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
Am  to Ex s Dhposp  (pwac  of peptledism)-a . mrham.    faeiveny in eountries nd in yers when regastr ion orTV ses was
sd real-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by M  
eacreta disposl as perent age of their respective populations.  ArPIP5r Clreatlen (per trhosmdpepadses-Shows the aver-
Excrea disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age reulation or daily gend  intert newspaper.C defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and wase-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and dimflar installations.  It is considermd to be -daily if it appean at kast four times a week.
P epdhrls pgr Phpsimu-FPopulation divided by number or prac-  Ci-..m  Arsl AMEed5UC per Capta per Yewr-ased on the
tising physins qualified fron a medical school at university kvd.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
ftp.lebrpgr Nwsdg Prne.-Thpulation divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
praicing male and femal graduate nurses assistant nures,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                    LABOR FORCE
hpf. pr Hospta &d-real, who, and orsl-ftpulation             Teal Labor Fae f1hausadf)-Economically active persons. in-
(total. urban. and rural) dib Aed by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public an,d private, general and speciaiec  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rebabilitation center. Hospital. are establishments  various countries are not comparablek 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at lest one physicist Establishments prov-  Femal (pervent -Female labor force as perenxtage of total labor
iding principally cusodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. include health and medical enters not permanently staffed  Aark5ue  (perresrj-Labor force in farning. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited ranL  data.
of medil facilite                                            Indsry 1perwarj-Labor force in mnining. construction. manu-
Adr.'u.   pr HospiNal hi-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and eectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from  hospitals divided by the number of beds.    force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
lb*4padeu JRr (parce*-wsL, mae. adfeuan-iarticipation
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates are computed as tota. male. and female labor force
Ape qeie of YokeS (p s pr                         JWhel- *11.    as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
siral-A bousehold consists ofa group of individuals who sare  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
lving quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  panicipaion atmes reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for stial purpose       long time trend. A few estimates an from national soures.
Av Ae NAber of P1es per RAaem-eeol, wham  ad -res-           Ecesomic Depesmy Rade-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural   65 and over. to the vorking age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings. respectivdy. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pargedw of DmaNags wit Electricirp-reuuf. whn. Ad nal-       Parentagef eroda Dispesk Iacme ("h in tash mad kd)-
Conventional dwellings with elctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.      hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4sed  Eali    jat                                           The ollowing estimates are very approximate measures of paveny
Prhnay scheel - oald, emitak a  fdns/-Gross total. male and  kvels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of aD ages at the prinary klvel as percentages or  Esrma'e A'eAlste Povr lxce   Levd (USS per eay;ajrea
respectve primary school-ge popuations. While many countries  sd ral-Absolute poverty income level is that inconm klvel
consider primry school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
difbrers in country pracics in tde ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Fised Relidva Pvrty lucerne Level fUS) per capkta j-arhsn
educaton. gross enrollment may exceed lOD percent since somc  ond rel-Rurl relative poverty income kvel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's stamdard primary-school  average per capita pesonal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                         derived from the rural kvel with adjustment fior higher cost of
Secsvihy srhool - ret.!, maL- and feinak-Cornputed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary educaion requires at kast four years of approved pri-  Erri.ed PpRlsaun Belw Aadte Powerft IacomW Levl (per-
mary instructio  provies geneL vocational. or teacher training  cer)-mha, sad ral- Per.cent of population (urban and rural
nsuctions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of age conespond-  who are absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocationl ElroDImmi (perwet of eJ-ary-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
ties include tchal. industriaL or other programs which operate       Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                          June 191s



P_    a i 7
CW ~   ~           ~          ~         ~           n _t CCa              NlW UI
OWi Far CqLSu "1363.3 (1963>
36 Million a                                                        naul O      bth Re   CZ)
Ow"   st   Ow
Indicator                    (393)                               Ac  cal                                                       Projactad
1975     19W0     19tl      1lt2       1953     39d            19t5h    3966       1987      19118 d   19_9      1990
O  Dm.ttc ftouta              212.300          5.6      7.2     -1.6       0.9      -7.2       4.5           a.]       6.2        7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
ApimalDam                    24,.D8         2.7       6.2      6A       -2.5        2.2      4.3           6.8        2.0       4.3       4.5       4.5       4.5
62.792         3.3      7.9    -5.2        0.8       -6.8       3.9           9.0       8.0       8.5       8.5       8.3       6.5
bivI..                      103.6Q          10.3      7.3    -0.1        1.7       -1.5      3.0           7.8       6.0        6.5      6.5        6.5       6.5
cwtim                         165.D71         8.4       3.5      0.2       3.3      -2.0       0.6           8.3       4.7        .2       6.5        6.3       6.1
a-st iXmua                   324.817        -7.0      12.1   -15.9       -4.2     -17.3       1.0           12.2      Z4.9      12.3      12.0      11.6      13.6
Eu AGMS                       29.3J9         14       22.7     20.9      4.4        13.6     24.9           -3.2      -1.0       5.4       3.4       2.3       5J.
or d QS                        17.165        -9.6      1.8   -13.4        -5.2     -17.2    -8.3            -3.2      22.0       1.5       10.7      L.        9.7
own Nat_ia  Sui4p              23.818        -6.4      11.6    -16.6     -10.6       -3.4     22.6           11.7   Sb.3         13.0      11.3      11.1      32.6
CUP Daflar (1970.10)                          035     2.955    5,04    11,160    37,241   90,541
bdw Rate ( aq.zaUS)                           6.1      52.7     93.1     179.5      S77.0  3.8*6.9
Own of OaP ILkat nPr. (Z)                                 iAq. &vml ICMM (2)
(At Oar rt Pdi.)                                     (At aetit 34 PriM)
1975       1960     19M/d    1990/C                         197540   19085   19h5-0
Gre  0tic Polat                       300.0     300.0     10.o      1O1.                            6.5      0.8        6.8
Ar1n,k.tm                            9.2       13.0      11.5      10.1                          9.5        2.2      4.1
intry                               31.1      3.8       29.8      32.1                           4.6      -0.3       8.4
Sor,M                               43.6      44.1      487       478                            7U         1.3       8.4
cbmapti-                              76.6      81.3      78.0      74.3                           7.7      -1.8        5.8
V 27.3                                         21.1      17.0      24.0                            .8      -4.2       13.7
Fua a9s                                7.5       8.8      12.5      10.4                           6.4       14.5       3.2
-iqact GM                             11.4      11.2       7.4      6L7                           -1.3      -1.8       9.3
OM   tI s11    5                      22.1      16.1       17.1     23.0                          -1.6       -4.5      14.3
As of 1 of GO
(Ar. 0zAtV C.adi PrIc..)
tAMIc Fl_ (utal GovArt)                                  1970      1975    1979   1gWr  R96t - 396r
Ogrt ?AVm                                                 16.6     19.6    208    20.1    18.9    21.2
crit  Cx1auU                                             14.4      15.8    17.6    19.8    20.2    25.4
spa   C) or Dfidt (-)                                     2.2      4.0      3.2     0.3   -1.4   -4.2
Cmital d   eflE                                           2.6      3.8      3.7     4.1     3.5     3.4
Fic.dz Pet)                                               0.4    -0.2      0.5      3.9     4.9     7.6
other X,dli.om                    1975-e0  19N0-5 1915-90
08 vQth Rote i()                   7.0       0.5     7.3
CW FPr CIr QRiti fe CZ)            3.0    -1.9      5.0
b     Quxadom Qamh RAte CZ)    6.5          -        -
DtDt                               3.3     7A7       3.0
11il SaIzp   R                     0.0      0.5      0.4
1pzag     idt7                    -0.2     -2.4      1.4
/a At akt pdm;   pmits we aqxd at facuw ct ad uill no add di to earlza  of not tmdi  taxs ad susde.
7i  1975-80 MUNN= am for g    hwKt: aatiaam for admapmm jaz  -  for  xod Swmtant. ith dfz                   t nn mixds Indudd In axqtpon.
7F Ptzdeu1Gyd t.
Tf  1966Q2 nade 1          at tueftte dffeecd Iththe t mtary  zlat ad idr p nrt 6u. a wle n    tr - Fe. to dt  aw  ra h             a- Uerpls.
Mhrdh 21. 1986



mA.- ~L Wil 
-at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W  dilIM  a                                              MNI  atIi bN (A    2 t) - Cat mLmt 1970   Lv)Ld
omvut ftlm
1n41cater                     (198)                                 Actual                                                      ProJ cLtd
isis     I          9I 1      962       3983      1914      1915I      IE        3987 Im9H           1i        1m90
bwtrm  Tead
3wdaiJn  DL7                                    23.9      23.2      9.9      -3.0        2.5      21.3         2.6      -1.0       5.4        3.4       L3        5.3
ftt-YP-                        10.357          30.7      20.4     46.3    -30.1         14.3      3.         24.5      -3.        11.        ]A        3.6       3.6
Il,daqwm1 I6.648                                0.0      22.5     40.6       7.4        43.5    26.3         15.5       0.7       3.6        3.2       1.5       6.6
1KdMdSa.  4WI                   13,916         -t5.0       J.4     -9.4     43          -15.9    -1.2         -4.8      2LO         1.5      10.7       IL        9.7
Food 4 _bnr Iud                1.D5            8.2  1332    -43            -4.2        -1i      -2.0         3.0     109.0     -43.6        6.2       7.7       6.7
brmlal                         6,116          -3.8     -9.S      -L0       -2.*       -10.6   -13.7        -18.7      -L1        11.3       .6        2.8       9.9
n di   IW ad apuut             2.151           9.J       6.4     -6.9      -3L2       -13.0      8.4   IS.5           37.3       ISA       35.        14.2     33.6
00ur.                          3,351         -3D.6     -Z.2       3.3     -203        -2.3      20.9       -9.0       J.0       10.9       10.1       9.4       8.6
Pria.
SqWhcftlmldin                   l- 9                       147       In         114        97       300        97        1l5        3N        116       127       13i
4qw  Prim d                                       71      125        135       152        143       100        99         94        95        305       112       IZ0
_tuofabduid                                      325       138        93        75          8        00                  t 9IZ  11   0        111        133   l 16
Otqitien of brdMm T1 _   l        (Z)                         A     Wmul lnm   CZ)
(at. eMm   Prim)                                       (aL mta* 1970 pldaw)
1975       19BD      i9sm       1990                          1975.F0   191045   198590
taO  0.0  10.0      HIO .      1.0                              5.8      13.0       3.2
k __tY                               62.7       44.       41.2       41.2                            1.1        66        3.6
tbdaCuuu/b                            37.3      55.2        1.8      5L.8                           38.2 /a   23.2        3.0
Wru                                   3OD.0      100.0 3O.O           300.0                           -1.4      -7         10.4
handCam o                             9.8       11.1       12.0      1.8                            17.5     -4.3         7.9
ma1a                                  25.4      .44       42.3       31.5                            4.3      -7.3        6.4
Ihdd=7 and 1pmIL                      26.5     I14         19.2      28.3                           -7.5      -3.4   1 8.2
OLhm                                  35.3      29.1      26.7       26.4                           -1.9      -3.1        9.9
Su   of T=ft wth                Sum  of t    with         9S    at LaC vim UJ
DlWzaim. oT                         1975     1960      93          1975     19flD    1983        1975      ISEO    1983
EWta                              70.Z     57.3    3.T           23.5      3.5    23.9          2.8      30.3     8.
lTa                              67.3      41.8    37.1           3.7      15.8    17.7        21.1      41.1    41.6
ia Pw the  1w   19BI1-W90. Prmuy Pro&ja  tnitile a-ptolad  <   pUi  Um am
1 amr th.e p dI 1975-199D.       _ actzinU1e ttw Sr
/r PWelday.
Td Paojectd Ixpwta ad eqt am at 1984 prin.
urd 21, 193b



- 30 -
CMI   lii. at honet Primal           T
rltl   In.7  Zlils e<dSl@a) ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     A R 
Pegaiaiaau  139.7  tillie" CSLd-19423
ON? Prt CaPlts  n9L6,9  (i0S)
1973       390        3l98l rr                                                                                            3
Net teens of . eeds aS Selie.    -.,702    -12,344    -33.,39    -13.747 ,         .4230         31       499    -3,718         -104       1.031     -1.441       -73
inere at SOee.                       6.10      20,322    23.293      10.33      23.99      27,003     25,439      21.242    29,392     23.966      34,937     42,432
I_ene of  aeed.                     12,210     22,913     23.093 t    9,291     33,49      11.93U     13,169     31,3       34 1,3 1.  39.03      22,043      23,796
bet Fetter I1A                      -I,722     4,4231      .531   -113393    -30,313   -30.99        -3 .430    -13,33    -33,263    -3 3.41      -12.001    -12.1li
(of which ietLart peeNteL-        32,0423    (6,3313    (1,tb) 1   (,3243    (64t 32i    (9,46)   (9,.3153    (6,7463   (9,031)   (9,2193    (9,393   (9.5543
GO NIL? dem41
net Nan-Factor Slrivne              -1,429     -2,320     -2,423    -3,359      -2,407     -3.743     -3,739     -2,729    -2,673      -3.516     -4,294      -,3177
Nat Trem_tre                              32        112        In         -30        l0t        172         ISO         0          0           0         0           0
Corrnt AraMLtanca                     4,669    -13,43    -I3300       -34,717     4,342         517       -349     -1,761       -136     -3,013    -3,443         41s
e t Prvat.e IeSLwat                      692      3,373     I3.s          993 "    1 434      3.076         1,93                 69        3,093      1,247      1.429
NLLT  tea.. (1at)                      4,630      4,442      1.50          n 7,499  ,323      8.322        994       1 .81      2,924      3,49       4.04e8     3.429
Ore" OliabraaleamL                  (4,962)   (,11311)  (34,0433   (14,983    (10.9033    39,36       30,4331   1341,5       14,224    31.732      16,128     17,440
AinatLF^iam                         (2,LS23   (46 203    (7.3933    (7.4843    (3.379)L.  7.1 8         .77 93    32,470          133,2  33.42     3 400      34,021
SIreattiaImsLAa  Abred (Nott           -393         -27      -621        -394         22        634        4e      -3.40      -3.649     -2.,03      -2.339     -Z.,70
'ihar Capital (eiiedt.S errata
AMd o"miel-r,A3                       -n1       1.442      2.139      2.704     1.,99    n. 5        -1310          339      -9n         646      -4-U      -4810
Charg  In PAar-e  C- ldicatee
tecreene)                            1,226      X3,9        -649      4.,S3         24    -1.027        -417       -774       -341       -939       -997     -,244
I.tetiTom    l fead.1.                 3.739      4,912       ,3SO3     1.210      3,137     33.944     32.41       11.201    33.553      34.53'    13.133        ;.4711
(af -hiab IPaUl                         34      3.343        901         43        207       G.A.       n..        a.,        n..        na.        n.e.        G.A.
Maerv,A  _ MantLe Of leparte (13           3.1        3.0        3.3        1.4        2.1        6.2        6.9         7.9        7.4        4.9        4.4        3.9
etarmal Captel sad how
Orte, DlbaTrAeete                      4.,93     13,333     34,043     34.961     10.,90     34.,96     3O.0S4      34,132     34,224     37.122     18i123     17,"0
Off icial Cret                        -          -          -          -
mca       3 .la                        3312        39         39        380       -          -- 1  1-  -[o
mAc                                   87        13          17        360       -          -          -          -          -          -          -           _
OPEC                                -          -          -          -          _          -          -           _          _          _          _          _
Other                                 IS          3          2
om-Comcaeaio.ati Loa                 6.810    11 294      34,l2*     14,603     3.089    13U.096      30.433       3,3532   134224      37,322 32 .128        17.eO
OflilsIl Eprt CrdiL-                233          12        us         642      3,099      3.307     13230        1.200      3,390      1.296     13,5        14.63
ID                                  250         241        39         423      1.3204     1,294        790      1.40       1.73       3.8639     1,560      3.61
ether  ailtiLaLtral                  139        1ed        30         331        231        29         239        232        256         307       371         413
Privte                             4,330     30.,51     14.32     1310017     6.37      11.22S      6,352      13.511    13.OSO     133,74     14.27      13.721
gaterGal Debt
DlMt Det  ndin  as  tebereed        21,443     3,9 .      64.423     71,024     79.s30 8o6.3 nu         .,17     9.3,99     94,423     96.291    102. 39    105,996
Peblii/cPbltely Caarotead         33.649     29.894     44.631     49.933     3.048      69,367    68.,07      93,4W      94,423      92931   102,259    303,S6
Privlt.  -eraTaad                  965t2    134,05      39,792    21.123      21.332     39.225     n.e         e.g       e.g        n.e       e.g         Ce
Vldlshbard DOeL                      1.763     113026     12.44      14.22      13.917    13.727      13.104      14.933    2 131.22         13,S3S4 33       15.139
_ID  CXNSOMCZt)
3190 dS ureAG tltlA. i gtI
dtIbetraeee                 2.3        3.2        2.4        4.2.      11.1        4.9        7.4        6.4       10.7        10,7      10.2        30.3
150 1OOIteeLI DOD                      4.7         3.1        3.4        S.'        4.4        435        *.6 o       .7        4.7        7.4        P.2         6.7
[M*D eb aervitca/tatl debt letCi         21         2.1        2.1        2. S       4.2        3.6        4.1        4.0        4.7        3.7        4.4         7.6
Aebt Servi
Totel Ser1n P_aents lb               1.470     12.343     IS.333    13.825      113204     20.971     39.071      21,434     222335    22,732      21,39      23,574
Itnren tla                         I.39       4.321      7.932      9.324      7,472      9.646      9.213      6,744      9,033      9,279       S!9       9,3356
PAmee aa S t Worta (CarIo               3.5        34.3       40.4       71.7       &.D/l    72,3         49.2       73.1       70.0       43.8       39.1        33.7
AvA     nleat Pet on flaw
CGetatd Lons (23 IC                       6.7       12.7       1S31       3a.)       33.4       11.*        9.4         9.*       9.2         9.2        9.2        9.0
Officeil                                 6.0        9.1       10.6       10.9       10. S       .e.       *.;        *.;        I,          .;.       n.;.         .
Private k_er                             6.9       13.4       16      .3 1          31.4        ..        n...        .g..      t.a.         ..       n.e. -...
Avrap maturity Of  *e
Cremaretd inAAe (tearel Ic                9.0        9.7        9.7       10.9        9.3        9.6       10.1        31.t       113.       11.3       113.       11.3
Official                                36.4       12.7       12.4       13.7       32         e.e.       *.e.                             * a        n e         n.e
Priete learn                             4.9        B.9        9.0       10.2        6.4             n      .           .       n..        n.e.       n.e.        n
A. 2 o  Debf Ut attql
Maturity Strectre Of Peblic Debt Oft.eedi
aterItLIe  d_  within 13 yaU r4.
Naterite dt  e within 10 flare                               9*.
Inter_et StrCtUre Of DeObt L tetedine
tntereat d_ ithie rLh  fir teer                              n-.e
1ate   neLt inctae sold as dalier  aetie  edjaent .
Sb  7ntrert as artittem  en _di_ a   *q tare dbt.
7    ablic Dbtl  only for 1975.
4    L           ea,rt eo lie  sd ler-tre debt.
7?  Icudeei  nlr _rtetion ectely  paid.
Ise          o -  ot -veie bl-.                                                                                                                Htech 213 19S6



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUaMAZY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amoumt less   Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                   Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Seventy nine loans fully disbursed                                  3,672.7
1317     1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry          83.0       24.6
1452     1977  Brazil                           Education              32.0          .9
14U88    1977  Brazil                           Rural Development      11.0         1.1
1537     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development      24.0        11.6
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 127.4        8.1
1568     1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension      100.0          .2
1589     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development      37.0        11.0
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water and Sewerage    100.0          .1
1714     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development      26.0        14.6
1720     1979  Brazil                           Urban Development      70.0        18.5
1721     1979  COPEL                            Power                 109.0        22.3
1728     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development      31.4        6.8
1729     1979  Brazil                           Irrigation             28.0        3.1
1730-5   1979  Brazil                           Roads                 107.9        3.9
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNM)                      Pollution Control      34.0       22.2
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Rabitacao      Water Supply          130.0          .1
1839     1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport       159.0       26.9
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply          139.0        13.5
1867     1980  Brazil                           Education              32.0        14.2
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development      63.0       45.5
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                 100.5       56.2
1924     1981  Brazil                           Rural Development      56.0        12.4
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  54.0       39.2
1965     1981  EBD                              Urban Transport        90.0       46.0
1970     1981  Bnceo Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply          180.0       69.5
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0        20.3
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture            29.0        13.3
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture            60.0         4.9
2060     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture            67.0        25.6
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                  13.0        4.5
2062     1982  Brazil                           Highways              240.0       60.8
2116     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4        11.1
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 182.7       141.5
2163     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4        16.2
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development      123.9       99.2
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Development      42.7        27.0
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development       8.9         3.1
2196     1982  CVRD                             Iroan Ore             304.5        69.3



- 32 -
ANNE:II
Page 2 of 3
A. SIm*mRY STATEMEWN oF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #  Year            Borrower                   Purpose      Cancellations bursed
(US$ Millions)
2224     1982  Brazil                          Feeder Roads          154.0       102.6
2249     1983 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply          302.3       134.8
2268     1983  Brazil                          Agro-Industries       400.0      358.5
2269     1983 Brazil                           Rural Development      67.8       57.7
2343     1983  Brazil                          Urban Development      52.7       40.1
2347     1983 Brazil                           Export Development   352.0           .7
2348     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture           303.0         .5
2353     1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            65.2       57.5
1729-1  1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            22.8       22.7
2364     1983 Eletrobras                       Power                 250.6       223.0
2365     1983  Eletrobras                      Power                 222.8       103.3
2366     1983  Brazil                          Education              20.0       13.6
2412     1984 Brazil                           Education              40.0       33.0
2446     1984  Brazil                          Federal Highways      210.0       165.5
2447     1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health                 55.5       49.4
2448     1984  Brazil                          Health Studies          2.0        2.0
2488     1985  Brazit                          Development Banking   300.0       249.3
2489     1985  Brazil                          Education              72.0       64.5
2523     1985  Brazil                          Rural Development      61.3       58.0
2524/1  1985  Brazil                           Rural Development      61.4       61.4
2532/7  1985  Brazil                           Rural WS&S Pilot       16.3        16.3
2563     1985  Brazil                          Railways              200.0       184.8
2564     1985  Eletrobras                      Power Transmission    400.0      388.8
2565     1985 Eletrobras                       Power Distribution    312.0      301.0
2593/1  1985  Brazil                           Land Tenure           100.0       100.0
262373r  1985  State of Santa Catarina         Urban Development      24.5       24.5
2654/7   1985  Brazll                          Urban Reconstruction  100.0       100.0
Total                                              11,147.10/2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                2,169.37
Total now outstanding                               8,977.73
Amount sold                             45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                              8,977.73
Total undisbursed                                              3,890.5
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
7T Not yet signed.
Note: ihe status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
Mr 3ld 3
1. uiaai 0r    MUDw      U  ("m      "Web 31, 19M
Plaid                                                                                                                   tag in Ul VIi$A
llsr O~~~~~~~~~~ b I I> C a                        r                      TA  of lano           b         tm         Wtv
1957                Kone do kl CL. de Elactrldd.id                               Uac       Bll pl_t                    LW        -       LOO
1991                OlJrrdt, S. A. 0laama PS*                                    MAp adn    r                          1.20      -        1.20
1958                D. 1. R. PLin      dokidl. S. A.                             ktliv  ba.                           0..45      -       0.45
19                 IlIUyuOrld eD blul, L. A. - *o&Mdv a Ibn                     Mawr Vdilclm                          2A5       -       2.A5
1959        ,        adi1  H3ndr de Ct    Fetmlad, S. AL                         OGt                                   1.20      -       1.20
195?                amplee ciui* S. A.                                          PIAp                                  4.        -       4.OD
1966i1961/1972      A     11111. S. A.                                          l*d                                   LOD       1.93     9.93
19/91               Papd * OaluI  CWAdu.ui, S. A                                 lap ad Fr                             3.78     5.71     9j9
1967/1972          UMzdmil, L A. - Iustrlae a  cdo de FbatUtmt_                 Paztll.u                            8L22       3.03    11.25
1969                FPqdatc UiAo , S. A.                                         bataodcai.                            sSO      25.5    L8.39
1920                 RLIoldnm. S A. hAncril* a                                         _dn  Matod_mlc                  5.50     2Jt      8.38
m971                adm, S. A. *nhtrIa   a   do                                  atodanla                             4.60      I.1"      604
1971                rSo Qmuu  - a_Un de Cealn      de Sdo                         RIdp                                 4.90      -       4.90
1972/1975/19a1        obd de dCI.   emal  de Mm .                                                                    1 4        6.70   175.4
1973/74177,/Vn8%       PMS 39dnqIL  dB Q0_- - MM=                                stid                                 76.97     15.D gL24
D973                3t5*    b  t       m    Fed - 9IJ                            1wpLml Nu6et IIO_Ii                    .0       -       5.00
197311978/1963    1   um   de 0muolvlm   de 1am. mmala - MOM. S. A               1a   .ne,u ad Rduadm                 ssm       84    93.74
1974                Tamtrim YUar1. SL A.                                           Qeaa, ad  WhdSd Eqtsst             6.00       -       6.
1974                FabiLo de l1 de ihie, S. A.                                 metil                                31.0       -      31.00
'975t1979           owumn &arlm    Iaduatrtin lid.                                bmt  Back                           6.18      1.19     7.37
1975                Odtow Mnde      S L B. A.                                     euoddmlu                            10.00      -       10.00
1976                SWtlaa DAtrL  - Ubi do Ibinte, B. A.                        btilem                                6.45      I3.      7.45
1976/190            TeIhnr B A - Twi  4cCadn.ue do Nxe daa im                                                         16.20      -       16.20
1977                a  S. JL Pruatamh baulan                                     Iran nu Alum. Cintls                 2D.00      -      2..
1977                Nlneri     do do tte S. A.                                   Pt                                   I5.W       -       15.00
198                 Oal SadnqdI S. A.                                            kn ad 5te                            8L38      3.00    11.38
1919                Volso do Badl  1m     e Valodna. S. A.                       9bte Vdddl_                         60.00      5.1    65.27
19i        D         mIE  do Naxdte S. A - 1h.                                  baly-aalse    ta                     2.00       -       2.00
:90                 De do PirJ S/A -   _am - Agr1mim     Iidatai
e mdo de Oeetau.                                          Pi3uOU                               3.50      1.0      4.50
190D               VWJll Th&itla; de Boe S. A. - VIUMA                           Iz  ad sktid                         SO.        -       5.00
191D       PF I          - *Wmtia I.duLal de Pdrlen                              Cadml  ad  _rddmle                   35.0      2.0W    17.00
1911                 0 tLirda Coate SL A.                                        bdro  ad Paetzuddcl                  -        0.25     0.25
190D                Satn ImA  Qia3m e Piatl S/A                                  FeaUxm                               35.00     6.00    41.W
1900                PbLBai  F      _q.iuim                                       O Lldo  ard Petrod_d1ss             43.00      5.O    48.00
1981                3rau1I                                                       lnw ad Cqpttul Mmkets                 -        1.50     1.50
1981                   td.a kildem de Apqaani  - 0MM                             Pood ad Pacd Plocn.al                5.50      3.00    8S0
1981               TIr1ufa                                                       Ohd. ad F e_roddcals                46.0       4.00    50.00
19sQ                ceo CUE                              at and Om=ctrla. ?Madis                                     40.00   *S.0    45.00
1982       5          iIm1rg B. A.                                              Rma  Cit  wi                          3.00      0A5    30.45
1963                am R_ eradm  de Putidpoe ((I)                                 M  C ulu                            -          .01      .01
1913                Ail_ Fddlfeo                                                 Faed ard Fo4 ftPmdzb                 13.0      -       13.00
1983                  ipaf  ke do la   (CMPA)                                    P    W11                             6.10      -        6.10
1963                PIS - Pqel de Dam  S.bl bap A er Pmbafute                                                        60.0       5.17    65.17
19S3                SDOW/SJ.                                                     Fad ad Maid ftee nda                 3.0       2.50     5.50
1916                c                                                                  a d 0uuwo1ln Iaedal1           35.       -       35.O0
1966                iktmndr pr1dat.                                              Cdes  ad Fcr eodidla                3.00      5.0      8.0
198                 O ta Alwolquda  Nacland                                      aidmais ad Pet_odides               20.0       4.C0    24.00
2963                (Ad    di BAI&                                                 Odi  ad bFetradidn_ts              3.20      1.W0     5.0
Tmini Carndu GIkaItA                                                                   93542    105.72  101.14
L   ,am1Iitjm. Mzudloe. Ha3             md 5Sles                                       679.95     3D.78   71.73
DcI C             Mu Hbid by IP                                                        255.47     74.94   330.41
Totl  dldoEid                                                                           6G4.      14.2    79.26
ApI 18.3 96



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SER71CES PROJECT
SUPPLZMENTARY DATA SPET
Section I:                 Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project : September 1983 to October 1985
(b) Project prepared by            :  Brazilian Government and IBRD staff
(c) Appraisal Mission              : October-November 1985
(d) Negotiations                   : April 14-18, 1986
(e) Loan effectiveness             : October 1986
Section II:          Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:                  Special Conditions
The Government has provided assurances on the following principal
items:
(a) the implementation of the package of the three basic-health-services
programs, including family-planning services and the emphasis on
home visits, in all project areas (para. 44);
(b) the monitoring by the MOB and the SESs of the delivery of health
services and, for this purpose, the preparation of draft proposals
for baseline studies (para. 45);
(c) the hiring of consultants for the first year of project activities
and the preparation of draft terms of reference for the remaining
consultants (para. 46);
(d) the preparation of timetables and programs for project-financed
training (para. 46);
(e) the division of responsibilities for project supervision between the
MOH's Secretary General and CORSANE (para. 48);
(f) the strengthening of the District Health Directorates (para. 49);
(g) retroactive financing (para. 51); and
(h) a Special Account, four Project Accounts, other accounts, and
auditing requirements (para. 56).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Special Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be (a) the receipt
of an outline of technical-assistance needs for each year of the project
(para. 46); (b) the signing of at least one subsidiary AIS agreement
covering a district in a state for which a grant agreement has been signed
(para. 47); and (c) the signing of at least one grant agreement (para. 51).
Special Conditions of Loan Disbursement would be (a) in any
district, the signing of a subsidiary AIS agreement covering that district
(para. 47); (b) in any municipality which owns and operates its own health
facilities, the signing of a subsidiary AIS agreement by that municipality
(para. 47); and (c) in any state, the signing of a grant agreement covering
that state (para. 51).



IBRD 19539
-o. >j, . a .  . .; . . ...- - --- .; -,B R A  Z I L
NORTHEAST REGION
PA R A      : 
nFORTALEZA
aJ   rP: -  'A RAN                                                           G         Da
fjlf   <  M+RA9e\HAK  )                  1    CEARA                       \MOLOU
3 \ tV \ / gy ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATAL
PA! A(BA 'L-  ' ,4TPESSOA
| -  S -    j g                     5         S             <      D    *   gE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIFEr|
AS  IAMACEtO
ARACAJU
\        .>   g/        ~~~~~B A  IH  I A                          A      a  G           n t i c
- E > / 1 XA!LVA~~~~~~~~DOR
1, mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
ThES MARI*S    -   I                -    - --.1-    9                   - Moin "I
s ~~~                                                                             -, B/j  X{;rOOsI.
,, 7   i   x            /,, q . ,   I  l             _    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ivers
PAULO    *' '                                                                                 :c /y~~~ -;      /  6C  NtonI Cpil
BRASILIA                                                                                   J?S-- f   State Capitals
6   t _   <  nj              //            )  )   {{                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State Bomndorib   1
>,  .   /  f        g  /  /                --- ~~~~~~~~~~~Region Soundories
) f i . ~~M I N AJ S IrIl./ tcF
Ge1~'. c ~
___   )  rres^R^c0>~    /ERAIS  T.ilF                               1,36
RESERVOIR                                       .                                     NRHAT
o      o     0      300                                1                                 .BR A Z I h
KtOrETERs                                                                                B  ()n ,sIio    e
v9~~~~~~~~E LO HORIZONTgSIOl ...''a'dt ,
FEBRUARY 198fi



IBND 1Wff
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
PIAUI
,                   ~~~~~~~~~~A!,,,,le j)-zl
*.   PraI.tArma
Hahh Dlctartsm fa.ndai 
H Haquartwrs of Ibla  Hoh DkoctoaNo                                                                Pi-
a    Sa, Capitas                                                                           i  r
- tcf- - on  rI                                 
Intunalonal Baundwy                                         
_._~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 11                                00 200.8 
KKOAMM, 
Ih  nlb"r4_ 9A1A. 11.  Wh   1_1 _. dW rb*  ID....W _di _ _nd 
._* .l. N- dI   d or ft. w Ia*IkN  FWeu _C  A. _go  W
- b.bg *. 1 ' .dl (.p - W~1..d   ftm-e d.qW~.- IT W. d..*.. 
,         " wk. L    P I"                    u         1
.4/AUI '   )               |                  RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
BRAZIL
BRASILLA        A/
(                                         U-                                           J.&. CBm..
. '   S    ~--'  Natal
>-~~~~~I                                                                                  if               ' 3NJ
A1   ntic 4                                             j                                           r
_S~ ~ ~ Oca                                 VI DOS                  DS     
0     30    laO
701  .01    ~~~~~~~4                                     2                                            ItCsim
MINAS GERAIS                                                              BAHIA
BRASULIA@                                                                                                                  IS 
Atlantic               0(
KLOMEFERS                           ~~~~~~Oc.av,              KLOMAE1rRes 
4                                      3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUX W



