Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6088-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALIH SERVICES PROJECT
April 30, 1986
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatiec'.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   :   Cruzado (CZ$) a/
US$1.00         :  CZ$ 13.80 (February 28. 1986)
CZ$1.00         :  US$0.072464 (February 28. 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/ A new currency. the Cruzado. equal to 1.000 cruzeiros (the former
currency). was introduced effective February 28. 1986. at the exchange r8te
shown above. The cruzeiro will continue to be legal tender until March 1.
1987, but began being devalued against the Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45%
starting February 28. 1986. and will continue to be devalued at that rate
until it goes out of use.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
BRAZ_L
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Coneents                      Pae
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY ..............................    iii
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS  ......................................        vi
DEFINITIONS f .............................  Viii
I.         COUNTRY UEALTH DEVELOPMENT .......................    I
A. Population, Health, and Nutrition       I............ 
B. National Institutions, Policies, and
Healtb Resources .....  ...............  .........    2
C. Bank and Country Goals, and Sector Lending....    5
II.       NORTHEAST HEALTH DEVELOPMENT .....................    6
A. The Northeast Region....................             6
B. Po,ulation, Health, and Nutrition......-.....        6
C. Health Institutions, Policies, and Resources..    9
D. The Integrated Healtb Actions Program (AIS)...   11
B. Northeast Health Sector Issues and Bank Role..   12
F. Project Areas...                                    13
III.        THE PROJECT                                             14
A. Project Concept and Objectives ...............   14
B. Main Features .........  14
C. Detailed Description................                18
IV.        PROJECT COSTS AIND FINANCING ..............             24
A. Cost Estimates                                      24
B. Project Financing Plan aud Financial
Feasibility                                         26
C. 'Procurement             ............               28
D. Disbursements                .....                  30
8. Accounts and Audits                                 30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. 0. Echeverri (Mission Leader), B. Liese, S. Friedmann, D. Boiawovsk;
(Consultant), A. ?.ufiiga (Consultant). and Mrs. M.V. Lister, which visitod
Brazil in October/November 1985.
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Page
V.         PROJECT IMPLBMENTATION ..................   .        32
A. Status of Project Preparation ................   32
B. Project Organization and Management ..........   32
C. Supervision of Health Services                   34
D . Technical Assistance ..... .................. *  34
X. Staffing and Training ..............             35
F. Project Honitoring and Evaluation ............   35
VI.         PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .. ....................   36
A. Impact on Health Status .........36
B. Environmental Impact  .......................    37
C. Project Risks e                                  37
VII.        AGREMENS TO BE REACRED AND RECOMMENDATION ......  38
ANNEXES
1 - Country and Northeast Health Status
2 - Health Sector Resources
3 - Project Costs
4 - Project Implementation Data
5 - Indicators
6 - Selected Documents and Datea Awailable in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 19539 - Brazil, Northeast Region
IBRD 19496 - Project Areas



(iii)
BRAZIL
DRTUEMAST BASIC HEALTB SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL RBPORT
WAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
socrower            Federative Republic of Brazil
Bsecut&As           Ministry of Health and the Secretariat. of Realth of the
Agonies             States of Minas Gerais, Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, and Piaui
keran:              US$59.5 million equivalent
Tenms:              Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Proiect             The project's main objective is to improve the health
Obiective^:         status of the rural poor in four states of the Northeast of
Brazil. The project's secondary objective is to improve the
efficiency of providing basic health services in these four
states.
Project             To achieve these objectives, the project will (a) improve
Dealript.im:        the organization and use of resources for delivering a
package of three programs of essential basic health
services: (i) a program of comprehensive care for women and
children (including family planning); (ii) a program of
infectious disease control; and (iii) a program of walk-in
as well as hospital-based medical care; (b) improve and
expand the network of basic health facilities; (c)
strengthen the institutional capabilities of the State
Secretariats of Health and of the Ministry of Health in the
areas of strategic planning, administration and management,
and logistical support to the local level; and (d) prepare a
second-phase project for the other six states of the
Northeast. These activities will be undertaken through the
financing of civil works, furniture, equipment, bicycles,
drugs, supplies, incremental operating and maintenance
costs, tecbnical assistance, and training under the project.
Beneficinie:        Approximately 3.6 million small farming families and other
poor peasant families living in the rural areas of the
Northeastern states of Minas Gerais, Bahia, Rio Grande do
Norte, and Piaui.



(iv)
Proiect             Your major benefits are expected from the project:  <a) the
Benefits:           target population should experience a reduction in the
prevalence of certain health problems, especially diarrhea,
pneumonis, complications of pregnancy, malnutrition,
septicemia, tuberculosis, and similar diseases, all
associated with bigh rates of mortality; (b) the management,
administration, and efficiency of providing basic health
services in rural areas of the project states should
improve; (c) per capita health care costs should be reduced
or At least contained; and (d) health care coverage should
be extended to many rural residents who presently are not covered.
Proiect Risks:       The project has three major risks:  (a) the four State
Secretariats may be unable to translate the intent of the
project into effective action in the rural Northeast; (b)
the hardware put into place by the project may later be
inoperative for lack of funds to pay staff and to purchase
necessary supplies and maintenance; and (c) the consultants
hired under the project may not be utilized in a timely and
adequate fasbion. These risks have each been specifically
addressed in the project design, particularly tbrough the
strengthening - in part financed under the project - of
the institutions whicb are responsible for project
execution.
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign      Total
------US$ millions…-----
Provisions of Basic Health Services
Facilities                                       17.3         4,d.        21.7
Staffing                                         19.5         2.2         21.7
Training, Supervision, Monitoring,
Evaluation                                      4.8         1.2          6.0
Service Delivery                                 17.0         9.3         26.3
Institutional Development
Strengthening Regionalization and
Decentralization of Health Services              17.0         3.7         20.7
Preparation of Second Phase                       0.7         0.1          0.8
BASE COSTS                            76.3         20.9        97.2
~ mmewcw



(v)
Local       oen         Tta
-- -S milliona----
Physical Contingencies                               1.9          0.8         2.7
Price Contingencieo                                 23.3         _.          22 A
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                101.5/a       28.2       129.7lg
Finaucinx Plan:
Federal Government                             12.0         --          12.0
State Governments                              58.2/b       --          58.2/k.
Bank                                           31.3        28.2         59.5
TOTAL                                   101.5         28.2        129.7
=am==u
Estimated Disbursements:
3ank FY:   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual               2.40   5.35   8.35  10.70  10.10   8.90   7.20   4.70   1.80
Cumulative           2.40   7.75  16.10  26.80  36.90  45.80  53.00  57.70  59.50
Estimated Project Completion Date:        June 30, 1994
Estimated Rate of Return:                Not applicable
Staff Apgraisal Regort:                  No. 6088-BR dated April 30, 1986
MaDS:                                     IBRD-19539 and IBRD-19496
/a Includes taxes of WM$8.3 million equivalent.
/b Approximately one third of this amount will be reimbursed by INANPS, the
federal social security and medical assistance agency.



(vi)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AIS            Ag8es Integradss de Saude
Integrated Health Actions
BRCM           Basic Health Care Modules
BHS            Basic Health Services
CEME           Central de Medicamentos
Drugs Center
CIMS           Municipal Interinstitutional Commission for Health
CIPLAN         Interministerial Committee for Planning and Coordination
CiS            Interinstitutional Commission for Health
CLIS           Local Interinstitutional Commission for Health
CRIS           Regional Interinstitutional Commission for Health
CONASP         Conselho Consultivo de Administracao de Saude
Consultative Council on Health Insurance Adminiatration
CORSANE        Coordenadoria Regional de Sa&de do Nordeste
Regional Coordinating Unit for Health for the NR Area
DIRES          Regional Health Directorates
FAS             t'ndo de Assistencia Social
Fund for Social Development Assistance
FINSOCIAL      Fundo de Interesse Social
Fund for ILvestment in the Social Sector
FSESP          Fundasso Servigos de Sade Ptblica
Fund for Public Healtb Services
INAN           Instituto Nacional de Alimentc8lo e NutrisSo
National Institute of Food and Nutrition
INAMPS         Instituto Nacional de Assistencia Medica e Prev1AmCCi& Social
National Institute for Social Security and Medical Assistance
LBA            Liga Brasileir. de Assistencia
Brazilian League for Assistance
MCH            Maternal and Child Health Care



(Vii)
MEC            Ministerio de E9ducscQ a Cultura
Ministry of Education end Culture
MOH            Ministry of Health
MPAS           Ministerio da Previdencia e Aesiatencia Social
Ministry of Social Security and Welfare
ORTN           Obrigag&o Reajustavel de Tesouro Nacional
Readjugtable National Treasury Bond
PAISMC         Program of Comprehensive Care for Women and Childret
PIASS          Programa de Interiorimagso das Aq8es de Satde e Sanesmento
Program for Grassroots Health and Sanitation Actions
SES            Secretaria de Estado da SaMde
State Secretariats of Health
SOFI           Secretaria de Orcemento y ProgramarSo Financeira
Secretariat of Budgeting end Financial Programming
SUCAM          Superintendencia te Campanhas de SaMde PLblica
Superintendence for Public Health Gempaigns
SUDENE         Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
Superintendence for Development of the Northeast



(viii)
DPFIVITINS
Child Death Rate              :   The number of deaths among children one to
four years of age per 1,000 children in that
age group in a given year.
Contraceptive Prevalenee      :   The percentage of married women in
reproductive agefi who are using a modern
method of contraception at any given point in
time.
Crude Birth Rate              :   Number of births per 1.000 population in a
given year.
Crude Death Rate              :   Number of deaths per 1.000 population in a
given year.
Dependency Ratio              :   Ratio of population 14 years or under and 65
or over, to poptilation aged 15 to 64 years,
multiplied by 100. Indicates ratio between
population that needs to be economically
supported and population that
is economically active.
Incidence Rate                :   The number of persons contracting a disease
as a proportion of the population at risk.
per unit of time usually expressed per 1.000
persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate         :   The number of deaths of infants under one
year of age in a given year per 1.000 live
births in that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth      :   The average number of years an infant would
live if the current age/sex-specific
mortality trends prevailing at the time of
birth were to continue.
Maternal Mortality Rate       :   The number of deaths to women who die due to
pregnancy and childbearing complications in a
given year per 100,000 live births in that year.
Morbidity                     :   The frequency of diseaseand ilness inapopulation.
Neonatal Mortality Rate       :   The number of deaths of infants under 28 days
of age in a given year per 1.000 live births
in that year.



(x)
Perinatal Mortality Rate      :   The number of fetal deaths after 28 weeks of
pregnancy (late fetal deaths) and of infant
deaths under 7 days of age per 1.000 live
births in that year.
Prevalence Rate               :   The number of persons having a partieular
disease at a given point in time per
population at risk. Usually expressed per
1.000 persons per year.
Rate of Natural Increase      :   The rate at whic.h a population is increasing
(or decreasing) in a given year due to a
surplus (or deficit) or births over deaths.
expressedasapercentageof thetotalpopulation.
Total Fertility Rate          .   The average number of children that would be
born alive to a woman during her lifetime if
she were to pass through her childbearing
years conforming to the age-specific
fertility rates of a given year.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
The Northeast Basic Health Services Project (NEBS) has been prepared
in the context of the Northeast Rural Development Program (NERDP), with which the
Bank is in agreement, and of the Bank's strategy for the health sector in Brazil.
The NERDP is part of the Brazilian effort to enhance regional agricultural
production and increase income and well-being of the rural poor. The NNEBS will
contrioute to this regional effort, by correcting large regioual gaps in access to
and effectiveness of services. To achieve this objective, the project will give
strong emphasis to institutional development actions and policy reforms.
I. COUNTRY HEALTH DEVELOPMENT
A. Population. Health and Nutrition
1.01   Popu ition Trends.  Brazil's population of about 130 million (1983) is
young and unevenly spread over the c?untry 's 8.5 million km2, with densities
ranging from two inhabitants per km in the Anazones to 56 per km2 in the
Southeast. The population growtb rate declined from 2.5X (1-965-73) to 2.3% in the
1973-83 decade. In 1983 crude birth rate was 30/1000 and crude death rate
8/1000. Heavy migration (1.5 to 2 million per year) of rural poor to urban areas
affected all regions, including the Northeast, which doubled its urban population
by one-half in the last 30 years.  Total fertility has been declining since the
1960s. Today, hovever, the total fertility   rate remains at 3.8, well above
replacement levels. Sirveys carried out around 1980 in ten states comprising over
one-half of the Brazilian population showed contraceptive prevalence rates ranging
from 30% to 70X. (Annex 1, Tables 1-2).
1.02        Realth Status.  Health conditions in the country are generally poor,
considering Brazil's overall level of development. Life expectancy at birth is 64
years, or comparable to Colombia and Mexico, countries with lower per capita
income than Brazil. Infant mortality (70 per 1000 live births) is significantly
higher than for Colombia and Mexico (53/1000).  In most parts of the country
diarrheal diseases are the leading cause of infant deaths, followed by respiratory
and perinatal causes.   Rates of some diseases  oreventable by vaccination
(diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough) in Brazil are four to six times the rate in
Mexico, while the prevalence of measles is comparable, and only polio is better
controlled in Brazil. Tuberculosis and leprosy are still prevalent. Malaria and
Chagas' disease (the South American fo-n of sleeping sickness) are also widespread
in the Northeast and Northwest. Schistosomiasis affects about 7 million people.



-2-
1.03        Nutrition Status.   Only one-third of the country's population is
estimated to consume the FAOIWHO recommended daily calorie requirements.  About
53% of children under five years of age could be considered adequately nourished,
while 33% of children of the same age suffer from first degree, 13% from second
degree and 1% from third degree malnutrition. Breastfeeding duration varies from
one month in the southeast and some northeastern cities. such as Recife, to
perhaps three months in more traditional areas. Raising this median to six months
would not only have direct nutrition benefits but considerable health benefits and
contraceptive effects as well.--
B. National Institutions, Policies. and Health Resources
Institutions
1.04       The Brazilian health institutional framework is pluralist. It was only
in 1953. when the National Public Health Department (subordinated to the Ministry
of Education) became the Ministry of Health (MOH), and the State Health
Secretarists began to be established.  The other major public health sector
institution. the National Institute for Soeial Security and Medical Assistance
(INAMPS), was created in 1967 by merging several social security programs. INAMPS
is supervised by the Ministry of Social Security and Welfare (NPAS) but enjoys
significant financial and operational autonomy. The respective jurisdictions of
MOR and MP4S are laid down in Law 6229 of 1975:  MOB is responsible for setting
national health policy and collective health programs. whereas MPAS aims at
providing individual medical care. though this distinction is now blurring.
Inter-agency coordination needs improvement, despite CIPLAN, the
planning/coordination committee, where both ministries and the Ministry of
Education (MEC) are represented.
1.05        At the state level, the autonomous State Secretariats of Health (SES)
are traditionally oriented to infectious disease control and maternal and child
health (MCH) care (para. 2.14). Remaining health services are provided largely by
the private health sector, generally reimbursed by INAMPS.
1.06        Most of the 4.000 odd municipal administrations have deficient
services. are poorly managed and badly funded.  Notable exceptions are those
municipalities such as Sao Paulo, which are financially strong and have developed
their own independent health services.
1.07      In recent years, there has been a massive growth of profit-making health
enterprises. often established by subs dized loans from the federal Fund for
Social Development Assistance (EAS). The private sector caters both to the small
group (less than lOZ of the total population) that can pay for its own services,
and to INAMPS beneficiaries.
Policies
1.08        Population.  Official policy was, until 1974. pronatalist.  In 1974.
Brazil took a neutral stance in the World Population conference held in Bucharest,
but in 1984 at the follow-up conference in Mexico. the Minister of Health



-3-
acknowledged that family pl.aning constitutes one of the fundamental rights of the
buman being. and announced that the President of Brazil had issued a policy
guideline stating that family planning should be considered as 8n integral part of
Brazilian public health care. This policy statement was translated into the
program of Comprehensive Care for Women and Children (PAISMC). which. despite a
US$15 million grant from the United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(UNFPA).  has not started services yet.  The Congress approval of a decree
establishing the National Population Council has had difficulties.   However. a
Commission on Human Reproduction Rights was receutly established by the MOH, but
it.i initial statements on family planning have been somewhat ambivalent.   Some
groups within the public health sector and the medical societies (notably Bahia's)
are reluctant to support these services.  Two main arguments are frequently put
forward: first. that family planning is a governmental excuse to avoid facing the
real causes of socio-economic inequities; and second, that population control is
incompatible with a country with vast unexplored lands, as well as on national
security grounds. Both arguments point out the need for (i) better information
on. and sufficient understanding by private and public health workers. of
population and family planning issues; and (ii) a cautious but clear approach to
the subject, avoiding political or ideological misunderstandings. Distribution of
contraceptives by pharmacies and NGO's is permitted.   Furthermore, some states
have formal agreements with NGO's which support the provision of family planning
services as part of their MCH programs.
1.09        Health. The early seventies were characterized by a permissive health
policy framework. due to the pluralistic nature of the sector and the pressure
from doctors to introduce new health technologies. This led to a haphazard growth
of health providers and programs which the Government tried to control by creating
the National Health System in 1975. Government's interest in redressing the
inequity and inefficiency of the health care system is reflected in the following
national strategies: (a) in 1976, introduction of PIASS, a program to bring basic
health and sanitation activities to communities of less than 20.000 people. This
program developed the concept of Health Modules. which needs substantial
improvement (see para. 2.17); (b) in 1979. FAS changed its policy to finance basic
health facilities, thus reducing hospital bed construction from 6,000 in 1980 to
3.000 in 1982; (c) in 1980. the Curitiba plan established the health center as the
patient's point of entry to the health system. and established fixed payments from
INAMPS for given procedures rather than fee-for-service; (d) in 1982. CONASP
(Consultative Council on Health Insurance Administration) made recommendations for
better utilization of existing public sector facilities. improved systems of
reimbursement of public and private health agencies, and for strengthening the
managerial capacity of the public sector, The AIS (Integrated Health Actions) was
created in 1983 to implement most of these recommendations (para. 2.19); and (e)
establishment in 1982 of a fund. FINSOCIAL, from earmarked revenues to support
social sector programs.
1.10        More recently. MOE has been supporting SESs in their efforts to
"municipalize" health services and in the implementation of PERIURBANO, a program
to expand basic health services in marginal urban areas.



-4-
1.11        Nutrition.  The National Nutrition Institute. INAN, is the federal
agency in charge of executing MOB nutrition policies. MPAS and MEC have a8 ;o
important nutrition programs, with loose coordination with MOE. In the past five
years, the government has given strong support to feeding programs and food
distribution, and less to nutrition education. Income transfer programs are new,
small and somewhat experimental. The recently completed Bank-financed Nutrition
Research and Development Project (Loan 1302-BR), provided the basis for improving
-nutrition policies and programs and, as a result, Brazil is in a better position
to launch a serious effort against malnutrition. The project, however, fell short
of its institution-building objectives.
National Health Resources
1.12         Today. Brazil has 3.5 beds per 1000 people. a ratio well above the
average of 2 per 1000 for Latin America. About half of all health facilities and
85Z of all specialty care institutions belong to the private sector. One-fifth of
all hospitalizations and one-tenth of all medical consultations occur in the rural
areas which accounts for one-third of the total population. This distribution
problem is compounded by low productivity, excess of sophisticated medical
technology in urban hospitals. shortage of simple high quality health care, and
uncoordinated roles of health care providers. The government is addressing these
issues through the PIASS, CONASP, AIS. and PERIURBANO programs.
1.13        The dramatic expansion of training facilities in the last 15 years.
increased the supply of doctors to 108.000 in 1983. with uneven distribution
patterns. ranging from 1 per 4.000 people in the Northeast to 1 per 600 in Rio,
and with an estimated 33,000 doctors unemployed or underemployed. By contrast,
there is 1 nurse per 670 people. a ratio well below the 1 per 370 average in Latin
America. Auxiliary nurses are also in short supply with only 1 per 1.000 people.
1.14        Total health expenditures in Brazil grew rapidly from 2% of GNP in
1950 to about 5X in 1981. coinciding with the expansion of the social security
system; but public health expenditures, mostly preventive. stagnated in real
terms.   However,  the new government  (1985) has given priority to social
investments and increased the health and nutrition expenditures by 28Z in real
terms in 1986 over 1985.   For 1987-89,  the projected annual increase of
expenditures for curative services and basic healtb care will be 6% and 30Z
respectively, in real terms.
Issues
1.15        Brazil has made substantial progress in developing its health care
system. Nearly four-fifths of its total population has access to some measure of
health care. The aggregate level of health expenditure is appropriate to Brazil's
stage of development, and the supply of skilled manpower is not a critical
constraint. However, significant problems remain; the major ones being equity of
access to health and family planning services between income groups and
geographical areas; and efficiency in the use of financial and manpower
resources. In addition, family planning has been controversial in the country.
Political, religious, and professional interests have hindered the establishment



of a clear government population policy. although some progress has occurred
during the last few years.   Recent national and international concerns on
population growth have sharpened the sensitivity on this issue.  An indirect
approach in delivering family planning through maternal and child health care
programs. is a strategic alternative that the Government appears willing to
adopt. Because of these problems. Brazil is not achieving the level of quality
care its health expenditures should provide.
C. Bank and Country Goals, and Sector Lending
1.16        Bank lending to Brazil has sought to help the Government in achieving
the following objectives:   a) developing projects aimed at improving the
productivity. income and living conditions of the poor; b) supporting
institutional development and policy reforms to improve public sector management;
and c) easing foreign-exchange constraints on development by supporting projects
to increase exports and substitute for imports.
1.17        Brazil's health development strategy may be summarized as follows:
a) extension of basic health services to the whole country; b) strengthening of
national campaigns to control endemic diseases and to improve nutrition; c)
cost-containment and reduction of waste and fraud in INAMPS services; and d)
improvement of inter-agency coordination and strengthening of the role of local
government, particularly the municipalities, in the administration and delivery of
health services.
1.18        This strategy has been only partially articulated.  There is therefore
a need for: a) better defining a comprehensive health sector development strategy
addressing   the main organizational, manpower and policy issues and for
establishing cost-effective health care programs; and b) a series of
well-developed projects to meet priority family planning/health/nutrition needs
and to serve as vehicles for the implementation of policy changes. The Bank fully
supports the Government's plans for improving health sector equity and efficiency
and Bank-assisted projects will incorporate both objectives.
1.19        The Bank's health sector and project work in Brazil started a decade
ago, with the inclusion of health components in Northeast rural development
projects. Wkile these components did much to improve access to services within the
PIASS approach (see para. 2.17). they were generally not designed to improve
management and quality of health services. The Bank's first free-standing health
project in Rondonia was designed to improve access to basic health services,
control malaria, and support applied research in tropical diseases. particularly
malaria.   After a satisfactory 2-year implementation period. the project was
experiencing difficulties in controlling malaria and completing the training
component. A special action program was set up last year to solve these problems.
The second health project, approved by the Board in June 1984. is supporting the
development of a new model of basic health services in the metropolitan area of
Sao Paulo. A major purpose of the Sao Paulo health project is to demonstrate that
a basic health services approach can successfully address Brazilian peri-urban
health care needs in an equitable and cost-effective manner. leading to
replication elsewhere in the country.   An additional loan also approved in June



-6-
replication elsewhere in the country.  An additional loan also approved in June
1984 consists of a series of policy. analysis studies to help the government to
better define medium-term sector policy and objectives. The proposed Northeast
project supports the objectives of redressing inequity and improving efficiency
and effectiveness (paras. 2.26 and 2.27).
1.20        Bank operations in the health sector also seek to rationalize the
financing of health care. INAMPS has become the predominant mode for financing
health services because it collects a wage tax covering 90% of the labor force and
their faiilies.  In some cases, however, firms provide services directly, or
contract with health maintenance organizations (HMOs) for specific services. and
reduce their payments to INAMPS proportionately. This approach stimulates
competition among HMOs and other providers of health services, and may yield
better services. The Bank's sector work will assess financing options and seek
efficient financing techniques. The dialogue on this topic has been initiated
during preparation of the Sao Paulo project and the National Health Policies
Studies, and it is proceeding within the context of the Northeast Health project.
II. NORTHEAST HEALTH DEVELOPMENT
A. The Northeast Region
2.01   Northeast Brazil as defined by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and
Statistics (IBGE) includes the states of Maranhgo, Ceara. Piaui, Rio Grande do
Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco. Alagoas. Sergipe. Bahia. as well as the Federal
territory of Fernando de Noronha and the northern portion of the state of Minas
Gerais, with a total area of over 1.5 million km2. While accounting for about 29%
of Brazil's total population, the Northeast (NE) contains about 45% of the
country's rural population. More than 50% of agricultural workers own no land.
and concentration of land ownership into few hands increased in the past two
decades. The most rapidly growing sector is industry. with an annual growth rate
of 8.9% between 1960-78, compared to 5% for agriculture and 7.8% for services.
Housing in the Northeast is poorer than in the rest of the country. Over half of
the "non-durable" dwellings (made of non-permanent materials) in Brazil are
located in the rural Northeast. In 1980. peir capita income was about US$800. only
40% of the national average.  Over 70% of all Northeastern families earned,
including income in kind. only one minimum %age (about US$675 per capita) or less;
this situation may have worsened in the last three years. Less than one-half of
the people above 5 years old, and only one-third of those living in rural areas,
are literate.
B. Population, Health and Nutrition (PHN)
2.02        Basic PHN statistics are extremely deficient.  Births are grossly
underregistered because parents have to pay for official birth certificates.
Child deaths are also underreported because of the existence of clandestine
cemeteries.  About 50% of death certificates are filled out by lay persons.
Health statistics are published with a 3- to 5-year delay. The Regional
Statistics Center for the Northeast receives little cooperation from the State



-7-
Health Secretariats. The following data provide a general idea of the Northeast
health problems within the constraints noted above.
2.03        Population.   The Northeast population increased by 8 million
inhabitants (242) between 1970 and 1980. The estimated population of 35 million
(one-third of the country's population in 1980) is equally distributed between
rural and urban areas. The average annual rate of population growth (net of
migration) in 1970-80 was 2.22 compared to 2.42 in the previous decade. and to
2.5% for Brazil as a whole. Moreover, a rural ezodus of major proportions took
place during the 70g. causing absolute declines in the rural populations of Ceara.
Rio Grande do Norte and Paraiba. Probably, the only Northeast state with positive
migratory balance is Maranhbo. By contrast, 402 of the recent growth of the
Fortaleza and Salvador metropolitan areas was accounted for by mid'tants.
2.04        The crude birth rate experienced a slight decline from 44 per 1000 in
1970-75 to about 40 in 1981. But fluctuations among the states ranged from 33 per
thousand in Pernambuco up to 42.5 in Bahia (1979). Furthermore. the 6.0 total
fertility rate for the region continues to be considerably higher than the
national average of 3.8 (1983). Total fertility was lower in urban than in rural
areas; the percentage of married women (15-44 years) currently using contraception
fluctuates between 312 in Piaui and 47% in Rio Grande do Norte. compared to 622 in
Parana or 71% in Rio Grande do Sul.  These figures contrast sharply with the
desire for pregnancy of tie same group of married women:  11X desire another
pregnancy while 702 do not.  Despite this evidence of the population's demand and
need for family planning, the public health sector gives little priority to family
planning services, and some medical societies (notably Bahiats) are relu-tant to
support these services. Most PP services are provided by private pharmacies and
non-governmental organizations (para. 2.13).
2.05        Health Status.  Northeasterners have the lowest health status in the
country as reflected by a life expectancy at birth of 50 years compared to 65 for
Sao Paulo (1980). an infant mortality rate of 132 compared to 68 for Sao Paulo
(1980) and an exceptionally high prevalence of endemic infectious diseases
(schistosomiasis, Chagas disease, tuberculosis. leishmaniasis, malaria and leprosy).
2.06        The most important causes of illness and death in children under five
are gastrointestinal and respiratory infections, perinatal diseases and
malnutrition. About 122 of infants are born with low birth weight. Eight out of
10 infant deaths are caused by perinstal infections, diarrhea and pneumonia
(1980). Infant deaths account for 35-402 to the total deaths in the Northeast.
Most of these deaths could be prevented by improved maternal health care, child
spacing, better infant nutrition and health care.  In the 15-44 age group. the
main causes of illness and death are the endemic infectious diseases. accidents
and violence. Chronic diseases, mainly heart diseases, cancer and stroke. account
for the bulk of deaths in those cver 45.
'Data from the maternal Child Health/Family Planning Survey carried out in
five North-East states (1980), (see Annex 1, Table 2).



-8-~
2.07        Other debilitating and sometimes fatal morbidity caused by vector
borne diseases is limited to focal geographical areas.  The most widespread of
these is malaria with about 6 million people exposed.  From one million blood
samples taken throughout the country. 21.057 were positive, of which, 90% were
indigenous cases  (1980).   The tread is towards an increase in prevalence.
especially in Maranhao.  Next in importance is schistosomiasis with high positive
indexes of infection in Sergipe (402). Alagoas (312) and Pernambuco (22%). During
1977-79, the Special Program for Schistosomiasis Control (PECE) treated 2.7
million cases. or about 6% of total N.E. population.  Chagas' disease and
filariasis are next higher in prevalence, but they are more important from tha
viewpoint of the disability impact. high cost and low success of treatment. Of
6,159 Chagas positive blood samples collected in the whole country. 902 came from
Northeast cases. One out of 10 houses is infested with the vector (barbeiro) in
Ceara. and about one in 20 for the rest of the Northeast. These groups of vector
borne diseases require a multisectoral approach involving environmental control
measures. household improvements, changes in life style in addition to better
access to health care.
2.08        Another significant group of diseases are those transmitted through
close direct contact with exudates of patients.  Trachoma prevalence ranges
between 1.52 in Bahia and IO in Paraiba; 50% of all trachoma cases in Brazil
occur in the Northeast. Tuberculosis incidence is estimated at 46 per 100.000 for
the Northeast; leprosy prevalence rates range from 0.2 per 1,000 up to 1.3 per
1,000. and sexually transmitted diseases are increasing rapidly.
2.09        A continuous decline in vaccine preventable diseases has been
occurring since 1980 when the national mass campaigns were launched. Polio
vaccination status of children less than 5 years old has increased from 92 to 83%
in Bahia. However, coverage with other vaecines is still below 352 in most of the
Northeast (see Annex 1, Table 8).
2.10        Nutritional Status.  About 71S of children under five years of age
have some degree of malnutrition; 21S have second- and third- degree of
malnutrition (one of the world's highest rates).   Prematurity and nutritional
deficiencies are the basic or associated cause of death in 24Z and 36% of infant
deaths, respectively. A survey found that in some Northeast states, more than
20% of women, particularly rural mothers, never breastfed their last child - a
high figure for a developing area. Non-breastfed children are 1.7 times more
likely to die in infancy than breastfed children. Malnutrition poses a serious
threat to the normal growth and development of Northeastern children (see Annex 1,
Table 7).
2.11        Endemic goiter declined from 202 (1955) to 14% (1976) in school
children due to iodized salt use. But MaranhAo and Bahia still have rates of 25%
and 332. respectively0 The World Health Organization sets a 10X prevalence rate
in school children as a level for compulsory salt iodization.
2.12        The typical diet of Northeast families is made up of cassava. rice and
beans.   This pattern of- consumption is mainly determined by the type of
agricultural production and skewed income distribution. Acquiring more or better



food does not seem to take precedence in the eyes of the poor over acquiring other
amenities of which they are deprived. Current food consumption policies in Brazil
do not appear to be efficient in helping the poor to improve their nutritional
status. The commodities whose prices are generally subsidized, including wheat.
liquid milk. beef and vegetable oils, are consumed primarily by higher income and
well nourished populations. On the other hand, the Brazilian fuel alcohol program
could result in higher prices of high calorie foods (especially cassava and
sugar). thus lowering real income and food intake specially for poor urban dwellers.
C. Health Institutions, Policies and Resources
2.13        Institutions.   In the Northeast, the MOH has normative and legal
authority and develops health programs in cooperation with State Secretariats of
Health;  MPAS, is the most important financial source for medical and hospital
care.  Both Ministries, in addition to NEC, have a series of decentralized
institutes operating parallel health programs* with weak coordination of
activities and resources. The main federal health institutes (FSESP, SUCAM,
FIOCRJUZ. and INAN) provide technical support and execute special health programs
with the State Secretariats of Health. TWo social security institutions (INAMPS
and LBA), provide medical and hospital care. These federal institutions work with
the Northeast Secretariats of Health through written agreements, and with private
health agencies or parties through contracts. Agreements have no penalty clauses
for non-compliance and frequently fall short of expected commitments. FSESP is a
public non-profit foundation whose major financing source is the MOH, but with
total autonomy to operate health programs. It is well managed and organized. its
employees are well paid and it provides good quality services. Some argue that
TSESP has a military-like structure and its services are not replicable because of
high costs. SUCAM is a well organized semi-autonomous Superintendency in charge
of endemic disease control, and is particularly active in the Northeast, but is
short of resources. The National Institute of Nutrition (INAN) is less well
organized and needs strong management reforms and qualified staff.   Other
important non-governmental agencies providing family planning services in the
Nortbeast are BEMEAM (Civil Society for Family Welfare). ABEPF (Brazilian
Association of Family Planning Entities), CEPAIMC (Research Center in Integrated
Mother/Child Services), and PROPATER (Program of Responsible Patern-ty). These
agencies maintain service contracts with SESs, and their role as service providers
is growing, but their programs and bilateral funding are under criticism by some
sectors of the government and the medical establishment that favor a more
medically controlled and exclusively public family health program.
2.14        The State Secretariats of Health (SESs) are the most important state
health authorities. but in general. they are poorly financed. weakly managed. and
short of qualified staff.  The cumbersome bureaucratic administration of state
agencies has prompted the SESs to create Health Foundations - presided over by
the State Secretary of Health - as a mechanism to expedite the collection and use
of financial resources. These Foundations have a well-paid staff which is usually
seconded to SESs for key posts, but this practice has been a source of conflict
with the rest of SES staff. In attempting decentralization. SESs have established
regional health directorates (DIRES), each comprising several municipalities. But
the lack of budgetary allocations and delegation of authority for resource



-10-
management, have contributed to reproducing the inefficiencies of the SESs central
level. SESs manag'irial. administrative and logistical deficiencies can be
addressed through an efficient package of technical assistance.
2.15        Municipal Secretarists are extremely weak in all respects, even in
capital cities of the Northeast. In general they own very few health facilities.
and their contribution to health service financing is negligible. For practical
purposes all municipal services can be considered a3 owned sad run by SESs.
2.16        Policies.    Until 1984, health services in the Northeast had been
developed mainly as a result  of programs  funded by federal or regional
institutions (i.e., POLONORDESTEt, rather than on the basis of health policies
suited to the region.  In March 1984 the Northeast State Secretaries of Health met
in Recife and approved a Health Policy Document for the region.  At the same
meeting,  the MOH received the mandate to prepare a proposal on Basic Health
Services for the Northeast. based on the Health Policy Document and on proposals
prepared by each state.  The three main policy objectives for the Northeast are:
first. "universalization with equity", that is, access by all people. --INANPS
beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries, urban and rural- to basic health services;
second. "decentralization" of administrative functions. financial control and
decision-making; third. "integration" of preventive and curative services. These
policies are being implemented through a strategic plan of Integrated Health
Actions (AIS), financially supported by the ministries of Social Security through
INAMPS. Health. and Education, and the state and municipal Health Secretariats
(para. 2.19).   The state level Interinstitutional health Commission (CIS) -
consisting of MOR. SES and INAMPS representatives - plays a key role in
implementing and supervising the AIS objectives in each state. The Northeast
health policy also gives priority to the following health programs: i) control of
transmissible diseases,  especially vaccine-preventable and endemic ones;   ii)
basic sanitation; iii) ambulatory and hospital medical care. with priority for
high-risk groups;  iv)  institutional development; and   v) food and nutrition
activities. Although family planning was not explicitly mentioned. it has been
included as part of MCH health care (para. 3.04).
2.17        Health Resources -nd  Services.    During the 1970s. the Northeast
experienced a substantial expansion in the network of ambulatory physical
facilities as a consequence of innovative rural health programs in Rio Grande do
Norte. Pernambuco and Minas Gerais. In 1976, the M0H made official the grassroots
health program called PIASS, which was based on innovative approaches.   This
program was supported by the Bank through ten health components included in
Northeast Rural Development Projects. and has been expanded to all communities in
Brazil with 20.000 inhabitants or less. The goal was to provide ambulatory health
care and sanitation, mainly with auxiliary personnel in health posts and with
auxiliaries and doctors in health centers. These resources were to be organized
into basic health care modules (BHCM) linked to other levels of care by a referral
system. The PIASS BHCM was not designed on the basis of target populations, but
on municipal boundaries; they did not include unidades mistas (health centers with
basic inpacient facilities) and the service programs were not implemented as
planned.  This led to a poor delivery of primary health care: sporadic care and
first aid (dressings, injections and referrals) provided by health attendants at



-ll-
home and in health posts. and perfunctory medical care care provided by nurses and
doctors at health centers, with poor acceptance and credibility from the users.
2.18        Recently, the PIASS program. now called Basic Health Services Program.
has reached 95% of the 1,375 Northeast municipalities with its facilities network
of 2.600 health posts, 965 health centers, and 200 unidades mistas (health centers
with basic inpatient facilities). The program also trained 2,823 attendants. 663
technicians and 1,890 professionals.   This improvement in health resources has
produced modest changes in service coverage as shown in Annex 2, Table 4: in a
period of 6 years (1975-81). medical visits increased from 0.6 visits per person
per year to 1.0, compared to a target of 2.0; and dental visits from 0.1 to 0,3.
However, the quality and acceptance of primary health care provided did not show
noticeable improvements. 0nly hospital admissions have doubled from 3.5 to 6.5
per 100.000 people. due mainly to heavy contracting of hospital services by INAMPS
with private providers. This limited efficiency is explained by the fact that the
rapid expansion of facilities and manpower was associated with growing
difficulties of SESs in delivering the proposed services due to inadequate
training and supervision of personnel. poor maintenance of facilities and
equipment. lack of appropriate referral mechanisms, poor logistical support, and
minimal implementation of the basic health module concept.  However, the Basic
Health Services Program has become the most important effort by the government for
reducing inequity of access to health care in rural Brazil. The present project
builds upon this experience and proposes an improved organization of the Basic
Health Care Modules for delivering three essential health service programs. and
the strengthening of SESs management, administration and logistical support (see
para. 3.01).
D. The Integrated Health Actions Program (AI$)
2.19        The Integrated Health Actions (AIS) is a strategy for integrating the
programs of the public health sector, and for strengthening the financing of basic
health services in the country.  AIS was created in 1983. Its participants are
MPAS through INAMPS; N0R directly and through its decentralized institutes (INAN,
CEME, FSESP and SUCAM); MEC directly and through the university hospitals; the
State governments through their Health Secretariats and Health Foundations;
municipal Prefeituras participate through the municipal health secretariats or
health services.   Specific Agreements among these agencies are signed to commit
themselves to finance the AIS implementation in defined states (termo aditivo) and
municipalities (termo de adhesao).  ATS objective is to develop a health system
able to effectively and efficiently manage and deliver health services. This
involves decentralization of decision-making. planning and administration
processes; full utilization of existing facilities, regionalization and
integration of services delivered by public and private health sectors; definition
of health programs based on regional and local needs; co-financing of health
services by the institutions involved in the program; and the development of human
resources to run the system. Physical and budgetary planning is enforced by the
Interministerial Commission of Planning and Coordination (CIPLAN); AIS
implementation is under the responsibility of the state Interinstitutional
Commission for Health (CIS). the Regional Interinstitutional Commission for Health
(CRIS), and the Local or Municipal Interinstitutional Commission for Health (CIMS



-12-
or CLIS).   The Sao Paulo Health Project financed by the Bank pioneered the
establishment of the AIS program, and this project will support its ongoing
develcopment in the Northeast. particularly the strengthening of state health
secretariats and the organization and delivery of basic health service progrums.
E. Northeast Health Sector Issues and Bank Role
Northeast Health Sector Issues
2.20        The goor                isHN staus. is one of the major issues confronted by the
Government in the Northeast  pares. 2.03 to 2.12).
2.21        High fertility rates and a growing demand for family planning services
have not been addressed by the Government in the past, due mainly to political
sensitivities0 The new Government that took office in 1985 is opening the dialogue
on these issues, despite political risks. and has agreed to include family
planning services as part of the Comprehensive Care Program for Women and Children
- PAISMC -, with the explicit purpose of responding to the people's right to
decide on the number of children wanted. Still, the government refuses to set up
targets on fertility reduction. in order to avoid political conflict. Assistance
should be provided to the Government for supporting the implementation of family
planning services through the PAISMC program, aiming at meeting the spontaneous
demand, and promoting child spacing for health reasons. and at creating the
infrastructure and organization for the eventual expansion of these services.
2.22        High rates of preventable infant and maternal mortality. and high
prevalence of malnutrition and preventable diseases can be reduced by improving
maternal health care; child spacing and infant healtb care; and with basic medical
care. To meet these needs, the country needs assistance in establishing a package
of service programs, including the PAISMC program; Infectious Disease Control
Program; and Basic Ambulatory and Hospital Medical Care (pares. 3.08 to 3.10).
This program package has been designed by the MOH with assistance of INAMPS. local
experts and multilateral agencies such as PAHO and UNICEF, and appraised by Bank staff.
2.23        The main institutional issues in the Northeast calling for specific
attention by the Government are: (a) inequitable access to basic health care: (b)
limited relevance of health services for the users;   and (c) insufficient
_ iagement capacity°of state Health Secretariats.
2.24       Inequitable access to basic health care,  particularly for rural
families is compounded by limited relevance of health services for the population
served; this is due to the poor quality and effectiveness of basic health care,
thus leading to underutilization, aid unnecessary use of secondary and tertiary
health care (para. 2.18). These issues call for assistance to the Government for
expanding and rehabilitating the present basic health facilities network,
improving the organization of basic health care modules of the PIASS program
(para. 2.17). and for providing the above described package of essential health
service programs to target population groups including women in child-bearing age.
ehildren, and other adults requiring medical care.



-13-
2.25        Insufficient management capacity of state health secretariats is
usually associated with deficiencies in logistical support to its regional units
(pares. 2.14 and 2.18).  The Government is proposing to address these issues by
providing technical assistance to SESs and the NO. including consultants in
management, manpower planning, administration. management information systems,
resource allocation and financing; also, the SESs will require to improve the
financing of recurrent costs for ensuring the timely provision of drugs and other
supplies for an efficient delivery of basic health services. The signing of AIS
Agreements between the Federal Ministries  (MOR. MPAS/INAMPS) and the State
Secretariats of Health will strengthen the financing of recurrent costs of basic
health services in the Northeast.
Bank Role
2.26    -   While Bank-financed  health components within Northeast rural
development projects did much to expand the PIASS approach (see para. 2.17), they
were not generally designed to improve management and quality of health services.
In the Sao Paulo project the Bank played an important catalytic role in improving
local financing of basic health services by ptomoting the signature of AIS
Agreements (para. 2.19) between the federal health agencies and the state and
municipal governments. These experiences provided valuable lessons which will be
used in future projects for improving organization and management of health
services, and for ensuring participation of the federal, state and municipal
governments in the financing of basic health care through signature of AIS
Agreements.
2.27        In line with the health sector strategy set forth in paras. 2.16 and
2.17. the proposed project will support policy changes in improving access by all
people --INAMPS beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries, urban and rural- to basic
health services; and promoting decentralization of administrative functions,
financial control and decision-making.
F. Project Areas
2.28        The Governmental Decree No. 91378 of April 1985D envisages a 15-year
development plan for the Northeast region.  The health part of this plan is the
NEBHS project, which would be implemented in three phases, according to the
different capacitief. of the states to carry it out, but excluding Fernando de
Noronha state.   The first phase includes total project implementation in four
states --Minas Gerais. Bahia. Rio Grande do Norte and Piaui-- and only
institutional development and re-equipment of existing facilities in the other six
states --Maranhho. Ceari, Paraiba. Pernambuco, Alagoas, and Sergipe. The second
phase, starting 18 months after the first phase, will include the latter six
states, which will be better prepared for total project implementation. These two
phases would take place in a period of 8 years. A subsequent third phase would
cover the remaining areas in the states.   The Government has requested Bank
financial support for the three phases.
2.29        The project areas cover only those municipalities included in the
Regional Development Program, involving small farmers and other poor peasant



-14-
families. The estimated total project population is 3.6 million, distributed as
follows: 761.000 in 28 municipalities of the Regional Directorate (DIRES) of
Montes Claros in Minas Gerais; 1.333.000 in 37 municipalities of five DIRES in
Piaui; 595.500 in 67 municipalities of three DIRES in Rio Grande do Nurte: and
952.000 in 44 municipalities of four DIRES in Bahia. Detailed population
distribution in the states project areas is shown in Annex 4. Table 1.
III THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Objectives
Concept
3.01        This project is designed to assist the Government in improving the
health status of poor peasants living in four Northeast states. The main strategy
to meet this goal is to deliver a package of three essential health service
programs (para. 3.04).  The package will be delivered through a system of basic
health care modules. which will make more efficient use of facilities. staff and
technology.  This strategy calls for a substantial strengthening of management,
administration and logistical support of local and regional services. and SES8
central organization. To implement this strategy, the project will finance the
development of two major components: (a) Health Services Development, and (b)
Institutional Development.
Objectives
3.02        The main project objective is to improve the health status of 3.6
million small farmers and other poor peasants living in specific areas of the
states of Minas Gerais. Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, and Piaui. Two secondary
project objectives are to improve (i) access to. and (ii) efficiency of. Basic
Health Services in the selected areas of the four states. The improvements will
be assessed through a set of indicators on service coverage and output as detailed
in Annex 5. To achieve these objectives, the project will:
(a) improve the organization and use of resources for delivering three
essential health service programs;
(b) improve and expand the basic health facilities network;
(c) strengthen institutional capabilities in strategic planning.
management control and logistical support of the SESs and MOR.
B. Main Features
3.03        Two major components will be carried out: (i) a Health Service
Development component to improve the organizationr and use of resources for
delivering a program package of Basic Health Services (BHS). and to improve and
expand the health facilities network in the project areas; and (ii) an



-15-
Institutional Development component to strengthen the SES and the MOH in strategic
planning. management, and logistical support.   Preparation of a second phase
project for the other six Northeast states is included as part of the
institutiotal development component.   Project implementation is planned for a 5-
year perio.l, but its costs including contingencies have been spread over a period
of 8 years according to disbursement profiles for the country.
Basic Health Services Development
(Base cost: us$75.7 million)
3,04        The project will assist the Government in setting up the delivery of a
package of BHS consisting of: a Program of Compreheneive Care for Women and
Children (PAISMC) including family planning; a Program of Infectious Disease
Control (CDI); and a Program of Ambulatory and Hospital Medical Care (AMH). The
program package has already been prepared by the MOH in cooperation with INAMPS
and the technical assistance of PAHO. and it is in an -early stage of
implementation. Section C of this chapter has a detailed description of these
programs, and the official documents are in the project files (Annex 6. B-8, B-15.
B-16)o   In order to deliver these programs,  the project will improve the
organization, and use of existing bealth resources as follows:
(a)    Organization.  Expansion  and Rehabilitation of Health Facilities: the
project will improve the existing organization of the PIASS Basic Health
Care Modules -BHCM- (pars. 2.17), by introducing modifications in the mix
of facilities, staff, and technology to ensure an efficient delivery of the
BUS package, as described in Annex 4. Table 2. About 122 DHCMs have been
programmed in the project areas of the four states as detailed in Annex 4,
Tables 18-22, and its facilities will be expanded and rehabilitated by:
(i) constructing. furnishing, equipping, and maintaining about 135 health
posts; 28 health centers. and 14 unidades mistas;
(ii) refurbishing, re-equipping, and maintaining about 379 bealth posts; 48
health centers; and 8 unidades mistQs; 4 local hospitals; 1 regional
hospital; and 1 laboratory; and
(iii) expanding. re-equipping, and maintaining about 27 health centers: 17
unidades mistas; 2 local and 3 regional hospitals; 1 polyclinic: and 1
oncology center.
(b)    Staffing:  the project will increase by 87% (about 2,600) the present staff
for basic health services, and local and district administration, to a
total of about 5,600 health workers. This increase will cover vacancies and
new personnel needed for expanding the health services network and its
local administration.   A total of new 530 bealth professionals -doctors,
nurses, dentists, biochemists, social workers - will be employed; about 640
health technicians, about 930 health auxiliaries and 500 administrative
and other support personnel will also be hired. Staffing patterns and
quantities are given in Annex 4. Table 2; and quantities per state are
given in Annex 4, Tables 5 to 11.



-16-
(c)    Training:   implementation of the BUS program package in the BHCMs. will
require the training of existing and additional staff as follows:
(i) pre-service training for about 760 health attendants, 165 auxiliary
nurses, 565 supervision auxiliaries, 300 technicinsa. and 210 medical
students;
(ii)   in-service and refresher courses for about 3.700 health service ataff;
(iii)   continuing education workshops for about 3.600 doctors and other
health workers; and
(iv)   teaching equipment and materials for 13 project DIRES and for
4 SES Human Resources and Health Education Units.
(d)    Supervision:    personnel  supervision will be strengthened  through
improvements of existing supervision routines, continuing education, and
provision of transport and travel allowances. To achieve this, the project
will finance the following:
Ci) about 40 continuing education seminars for supervisors and supervised
personnel;
(ii) about 25 vehicles and 310 bicycles for transportation of supervisors
and other auxiliaries; and
(iii) travel allowances for incremental supervisory staff.
fe)   Service Delivery:  to ensure efficient delivery of the BHS package through
the BHCMs, the project will finance:
(i) salaries of about 2.000 incremental staff for all BHCMs and local
administrative offices;
(ii) supply of drugs. vaccines, surgical material, lab chemicals, and other
consumption materials; and
(iii) about 40 ambulances; 38 vehicles; 1,370 bicycles; and 1,700 health
bags.
(f)    Monitoring and Evaluation:   service delivery will be monitored   and
evaluated  through a set of indicators.   The SESs have proposed a
preliminary set of process indicators which is included in the project
file.   This set will be reviewed at the end of the first year of the
project with the help of consultants and in light of the experience
gathered with the baseline studies to be carried out in the project areas
aiming at establishing quantitative basis for project monitoring.  These
studies will be repeated 5 years later to monitor service delivery.
Details are given in para. 3.18.



-17-
Institutional Develogmt Component
(Base cost: US$21.5 million)
3.05          This component aims at strengthening the regionalizxtion and
decentralization of health services. and improving the administratiou and delivery
of basic health services through the BlCia.  Preparation activities for the
project second phase in the other six Northeast states is also included.
(a)    Strenathening of ReAionalization and Decentralizatiou of Health Services:
the project will complement the existing regional infrastructure with new
administrative facilities and equipment. and will provide technical
assistance for strengthening the legal basis of regioalisation and
decentralization of health services; it will also provide technical
assistance to the SESs local, regional, and central administration for
improving the managerial and t anical capacity to provide the BHS package
through the BECMs. The project will finance:
ti) construction, furnishing, equipment*, and vehicles for 7 Regional
Health Administration Offices -DIRES- (Diretorias Reuionais de Sa&de):
2 warehouses; 3 training centers; 1 laboratory; 4 maintenance
workshops; and the refurbishing of two DIRS;
(ii) about 25 trucks. and 12 pick-ups for transport froe SBSs to DIRBS and
distribution of drugs and other supplies to regional and local health
facilities;
(iii) consultant services to assist the four SESs and the MOH in the
following activities: 50 man months for legal. organizational, and
administrative  studies  and proposals  for strengthening the
regionalization and decentralization of health services; about 70 man
months for improving management processes and tools; about 80 man
months for improving manpower management; about 50 man months for
improving logistical support systems; and about 50 man months for
improving information. monitoring and evaluation systems;
(iv)  60 in-house workshops in implementation and administration of
basic health modules, supervision, and service evaluation; and special
training in institutional development aspects for about 1,800 regional
supervisors and administrative staff.
(v) 10 inter-state seminars for sharing experiences on appropriate
technology use; and efficient organization and administration of
health services in the respective states.
(b)    Prolect Preparation for Second Phase:   the project will finance about 200
man months of consultant services; 12 training courses for the six states
of Maranh8o, Cear&, Paraiba, Pernambuco. Alagoas. and Sergipe; and a
package of simple equipment needed to keep running existing facilities in
those states.



-18-
C. Detailed Description
3.06        Two principles were applied to the design of this project:  first, for
Basic Health Care to be relevant and of better quality for the user. it must
address peoples' health needs with timely, safe and effective services acceptable
to the user (e.g. oral rehydration); and second, for Basic Health Services to be
efficient, facilities. staff and technology must be adequately organized for
delivering well defined programs. Implementation of this project will require
appropriate management, improved staff skills. and adequate logistical support.
The Northeast State Secretariats will be strengthened in these areas through the
provision of well defined packages of technical assistance.
Health Services Development
3.07        The Basic Health Service Program Package (BHS).    During project
preparation, strong emphasis was given to improving the content of health programs
and mechanisms for delivery. The MOR in cooperation witb INAMPS, UNICEF and PAHO,
had revised the maternal and child health services, and the ambulatory and
hospital services, in order to make healtb services more relevant to the users.
Likewise, the recent MOE experiences (1978-84) with the programs of immunization
and control of tuberculosis and leprosy. were used for reformulating its content
and logistics. This program review led to the formulation of the PAISMC, the CDI
and the AMR Programs whieh are in an early stage of implementation in the country;
this project will support their expansion in the Northeast. The delivery channel
for this BHS program package will be an improved network of BHCMs (para. 3.11)
proposed under this project.  The BHS program package aims at reducing infant.
child. and maternal mortality. as well as the prevalence and severity of Northeast
common diseases as described below.
3.08        The Comprehensive Care for Women and Children  (PAISMC), will
concentrate efforts in reducing problems of low birth weight; breastfeeding;
diarrhea; respiratory infections; and poor growth and development in children by:
i) controlling risk factors during pregnancy and lactation;   ii) performing
screening activities  (e.g. Papanicolaou test for cancer of cervix), and   iii)
ensuring early clinical diagnosis and treatment. It will also reduce health
problems during pregnancy, delivery and post-partum periods by providing early
diagnosis and treatment. This program will provide pre-natal, delivery and
post-partum care, child growth/nutrition monitoring and education; and
gynecological care including family planning. Family planning services include
information. recommendation, prescription and administration of contraceptives
including pills, IUDS (the copper T only), condoms, diaphragms and foams to all
women requesting them, except in cases of medical or legal contraindication;
family planning services will be provided through the Gynecological Control
Service of PAISMC. A matrix on what. when, by whom. and where these services will
be provided is shown in Annex 4, Table 3.
3.09        The Infectious Disease Control Program (CDI). The MOH in cooperation
with SESs has made substantial progress in vaccination coverage in the last few
years (Annex 1. Table 8). but a sustained effort is still needed for ensuring a
real impact in preventing six diseases, i.e., polio, diphtheria, whooping cough.



-19-
tetanus, measles, and tuberculosis.   The cold chain to keep vaccines at
appropriate temperatures is sufficiently developed in the four project states. The
project will support this effort through the CDI by providing vaccinations against
the six diseases in children under 5 years of age.  The successful strategy of
National Days of Vaccination in which all staff is involved will be adopted; the
follow-up of vaccinated children and discrete vaccination services will be
performed by health auxiliaries and attendants at health facilities and at home.
Two other infectious diseases i.e. tuberculosis and leprosy, highly prevalent in
the Northeast. will be tackled through the CDI by performing screening activities
in target populations (sputum examination for suspected tuberculosis patients. and
intradermal tests for suspected leprosy patients), to confirm and immediately
treat positive cases of tuberculosis and leprosy.   Suspected cases will be
identified at all health facilities by health auxiliaries and professionals. and
at home by health attendants;   laboratory examinations will be carried out at
health centers and unidades mistas; treatment will be prescribed by doctors and
follow-up of patient compliance will be carried out by health auxiliaries and
attendantg at health facilities and at home respectively.
3.10        The Ambulatory and Basic Hospital Medical Care Program (AMH).  Both
the MOH and INAMPS have made progress in increasing efficiency of public health
facilities by establishing the health centers as the entry point to the hospital
health system. thus reducing overuse of hospital facilities for ambulatory care
and improving the screening of patients for hospital care. The project will use
this experience for the organization of medical care in health centers and
unidades mistas of the BHCMs.  Services in these facilities will be limited to
outpatient and inpatient care not requiring highly trained professionals or
expensive technology. thus ensuring simple but effective patient care and patient
referral to sophisticated levels of care when required. A detailed matrix of the
functions and content of ambulatory and basic hospital care to be provided in each
health facility is included in Annex 4. Table 3. Coverage targets are given in
Annex 4, Table 4.  The BHS package will be delivered at the household and health
posts by auxiliaries. and at health centers and unidades mistas by auxiliaries and
professionals. During negotiations agreement was reached that a methodology of
work for home visits will be adopted in which 40 to 50% of health attendants'
time will be used for providing household services, conditioned to local factors
(para. 7.01 a).
3.11   Organization,  Expansion and Rehabilitation of Health Facilities. The
organization of resources into Basic Health Care Modules (BHCR) is a strategy to
improve access to, and efficiency of. basic health services. A BHCM is a set of
physical. human. technological and financial resources for providing household
health care (health care activities performed at home mainly by auxiliary
personnel), ambulatory services and local hospital care (health and medical care
activities carried out at local health facilities by auxiliaries and health
professionals). to defined groups of families or population clusters.  People.
more than geopolitical boundaries become the key variable in structuring a BHCM.
The structure of the BHCM (Annex 4. Table 2) must be flexible enough for adjusting
resources to variations in population distribution (clustered versus scattered).
territorial boundaries. and physical access to health care (roads, paths,
transport, geography, and existing health facilities). About 122 BHCMs will be
organized as follows: about 9 in Minas Gerais; 44 in Bahia; 34 in Rio Grande do



-20-
Norte: and 35 in Piaui.   Present procedures for referral and counter-referral
between levels in the system will be improved by SESs with the assistance of
specialists in health planning.
3.12        Management of the BHCMs and delivery of the BHS package will have two
main features:
(a) SES will delegate managerial and budgetary authority to DIRES for
establishing the BHCNs. Each BHCM will have a chief. who belongs to the
DIRWS staff and reports to the DIRES Director. BHCM cbiefs will be
professionals with basic training in health planning and management; DIRES
Directors will be experienced professionals in health planning and
management, who report to the SES Director of Health Services (see para. 5.08);
(b) health services provided through the BHCOs will be reimbursed by INAMPS to
SES or Prefeituras in accordance with signed AIS agreements (para. 4.07).
3.13        It has been agreed during negotiations that the BHCM described in
paras. 3.11 and 3.12. including the PAISMC, CDI and ANM programs described.
respectively, in parss. 3.08. 3.09. and 3.10 will be implemented in all project
areas (para. 7.01 b).
3.14        About 190 new facilities will be constructed for improving access to
health services and logistical support. in underserved areas; about 65Z of civil
works and equipment will be provided for rehabilitation of the existing facilities
network.
3.15        Staffina.  Recruitment of doctors will not be difficult due to the
abundant supply in the country. and recently improved salary conditions (more than
100X increase) in the SESs of the four states. Candidates for auxiliary jobs are
easy to recruit in all states, especially from rural areas, where the project will
be implemented.   Hiring of health professionals and other personnel will be
carried out by esch SBSs according to the salary scales established for each
state.  Candidates for employment in the project areas can be submitted by the
DIRES Directors and by the BUCKs Directors.  Before negotiations the Bank has
received, through MRE. documents signed by each Governor of the four states
ensuring the hiring of all new personnel required by the project.
3.16   Training. The HOR and SSs have gained experience in developing training
courses for health personnel in the Northeast. through the "Large Scale Training
Program' supported by PAHO and the Ministry of Education. Also, the Bank-financed
bealth components supported improvements in production of teaching materials and
training of trainers.  This project will use these experiences and will support
furtber improvements in curriculum content and existing manuals, through technical
assistance (see pare. 3.21).  Staff training will take place in the service units.
in SESs training centers, in the Oswaldo Crux Foundation or in Universities.
Details on the type and duration of courses, number and type of trainees and
institutions responsible for carrying out the training are in Annex 4, Tables 12
to 17.  Special emphasis will be given to staff training in new routines included
in the BHS package and in family planning services as well. All training courses
have been already developed by the KOH, SESs and other training institutions, and



-21-
copies of training programs are in project files at the Bank. Innovative training
methodologies such as the one developed by the nLarge Scale Training" project
(PARO/MOR/H8C) will be utilized for training bealth attendants and auxiliaries.
3.17        Supervision.   The four SESs already have supervision systems in the
project areas, with some slight differences in their structure and functioning.
Each DIRES has a supervision team consisting of a nurse with some training in
Public Health. one or two general nurses, and a sanitary inspector; other
administrative staff. e.g. the chief of the DIRES's warehouse (stock room for
drugs and other materials). join the team on an ad-hoc basis for performing
supervision vioits to the staff of the health posts and health centers.
Supervision of staff in the unidades mistas is strengthened with the inclusion of
a doctor. usually with public health training, from the DIRES or from the central
level of SES. Normally, the teams schedule a monthly or forthnightly visit to the
personnel in the BHCHs. but they have the recurrent constraints for complying with
supervision routines and timetables. i.e. the lack of transportation and travel
allowances for supervisors.   The project will provide for the acquisition of
vehicles and bycicles and will finance per diems required for the supervision of
all personnel of the BHCMs. In addition. the poor quality of supervision will be
improved through seminars and the introduction of better supervision guidelines,
and manuals of procedures, which will be developed by the central staff of SESs in
collaboration with the local staff and the assistance of consultants, during the
first year of project implementation. Also, a program of continuing education to
be conducted by the supervision team will be established; this program will
systematically use the data provided by the baseline studies and the consolidated
statistical information collected from the local up to the central level of SESo
The Departments of Human Resources of each SESs also have a supervision program
for all DIRES in the state, and from time to time, the SES supervisors join the
DIRES teams for local supervision activities.   Programming, guidelines, and
manuals for central level supervision will also be improved with the assistance of
consultants. Although transport is not a problem for central supervision teams.
the travel allowances are extremely low, and are being reviewed and increased
accordingly.
3.18        Monitoring and Evaluation.       The four SESs have had an Information
System in place since some few years ago. and in the case of Bahia. and Minas, it
is quite advanced.    However in all SESs. the system is incomplete in terms of
epidemiological data for monitoring health status; the SESs, with assistance of
consultants will introduce the data needed for assessing the indicators required
for project monitoring. By the end of the project implementation, the Information
System will be capable of producing the required information for continuing
service monitoring. Service monitoring and evaluation will be conducted by the
staff of BHCMs in collaboration with the staff of the DIRES; use of consolidated
information collected by DIRES from all its BHCMs will be a basic tool for service
monitoring. In addition, the SBSs will undertake baseline studies on health
status. These studies will focus on selected indicators such as infant mortality,
maternal mortality. maternal morbidity, degree of second and third malnutrition,
etc. The project will provide for consultants to assist the SESs in the design of
these surveys. These studies will be conducted by the DIRES in collaboration with
local Universities or research groups.   The information will be used for
monitoring health services delivery and for continuing education activities of the



-22-
BRCM staff.   The present flow of statistical information from the BHCMs up to the
central administration of SESs, will also be complemented by a feedback mechanism
which will provide analyzed data to the local staff with a biannual frequency. By
the end of the project. the system should be capable of producing the "process"
information required for continuing service monitoring. It was agreed during
negotiations that draft proposals for baseline studies will be submitted to the
Bank by December 15. 1986 (para. 7.01 c).
Institutional Development
3.19        This  component will address  issues  of logistical  support  and
management capacity of the SESs.
3.20        Strengthening of Regionalization and Decentralization of Health
Services:   The regionalization of health services and its administrative
decentralization which started in the 70's have not been completed in terms of
infrastructure and transfer of administrative responsibilities to the DIRES. The
project will construct about 16 new facilities for strengthening local and
regional administration,  and logistical support to BHCNs:   7 administration
buildings; 2 warehouses or stock rooms for furniture. equipment, drugs, vaccines,
surgical instruments and other materials; 4 workshops for maintenance and repair
of buildings and equipment; a regional laboratory for public health activities.
e.g.. food and water analyses, and some support to local clinical laboratories in
chemical analyses; 3 facilities for training auxiliary personnel; 25 trucks and 12
pickups for distribution of drugs and other materials to BHCMs. Distribution.
staffing and training of personnel for these facilities are covered under the
training sub-component (para. 3.16).
3.21        During  project  preparation Bank staff made a survey of the
organization and management of the Northeast state secretarists of health. Issues
identified in central and regional management, health planning, manpower
management, information systems, and financing were similar to those reported by
MOH in a preparatory document for this project. The main problems encountered by
SESs were: lack of clear division of responsibilities among the central units of
SESs, cumbersome clearance procedures. unclear health planning methodologies.
inadequate communications between central and regional levels, few and unutilized
administrative manuals, incomplete documents on norms and procedures. poor working
conditions, and deficiencies in financial accounting and statistical information
systems.   Based on these findings. the MOR formulated a plan for technical
assistance which the mission reviewed with the staff of all ten states.   The
project will implement this plan to assist the government in improving SESS
central. regional and local organization and management; work environment; staff
capabilities; and operational efficiency.   About 300 man months of consultants
services will boe for improving management processes and tools (e.g. clearance
procedures. and administrative and operational manuals); and about 160 in house
workshops and 10 inter state seminars will be for improving staff motivation,
skills, and practices in the operation of the BHCMs and for promoting the exchange
of successful experiences among the states.   A detailed description of these
activities follows:



-23-
(a)  Improvement of Nanagement Processes and Tools:  the MOHJSES staff assisted
by consultants, will carry out a plan of improvement on present SBESs
organization. management, and operations as well as in the DIRES and the
health services network. For this, the project will provide about 300 man
months of technical assistance for: ti) improving decision-making
processes, by preparing policy guidelines on health services delivery.
manpower development, health infrastructure, and technology development;
strengthening the planning process with efficient planning methodologies;
reviewing present SESs central and regional organization, and recommending
required modifications; streamlining clearance procedures; improving
communications at different levels of BESs organization; (ii) strengthening
the legal basis for the regionalization of services and its administrative
decentralization by developing studies on legal aspects of regionalization
of services. administrative decentralization. and referral procedures;
preparing seecific recommendations on legislation required for
consolidating the regionalization and decentralization of health services
and patient referral in the project states; (iii) improving manpower
management by reviewing and updating selection and recruitment criteria;
improving   manuals on job description.  supervision, and training of
personnel; training staff in the appropriate use of these manuals;
assessing staff competence to carry out assigned jobs; and proposing
training activities for improving job performance and promotion mechanisms;
assessing staff working condition space. equipment, comfort, satisfaction),
and proposing improvements; and preparing a proposal on career development
in the public health sector; (iv) preparing administrative and operational
anumals for BUCMs management (using existing manuals for health centers and
health posts), and for maintenance of facilities and equipment; (v)
streamlining budgetary, and financial accounting procedures. complementing
information systems with epidemiological data suitable for service
monitoring and evaluation; (vi) improving existing organization and
operation of procurement. storage. and distribution of drugs. vaccines. and
other supplies; transportation and communications (Annex 4. Table 23).
(b)  Improvement of Staff's Knowledge and Skills: About 60 in house workshops
for service and administration staff involved in the project will be
carried out in the four states, in order to improve their knowledge.
skills, and responsibilities in planning and administration of BHCMs;
manpower management; implementation of the BHS programs package; personnel
super-vision; and service monitoring and evaluation. Additionally. about 10
interstate seminars will be developed for sharing experiences and lessons
learned by SESs in the four states on efficient organization.
administration. and operation of BHCMe; use of health care technologies;
training and supervision methodologies; and monitoring of health services.
3.22        Before negotiations the Bank has received draft terms of reference for
consultants to be contracted in the first year of project implementation, which
were found acceptable to the Bank. The receipt by the Bank of an outline of the
plan of action concerning the technical assistance needs for each year of the
project for comments will be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 7.02 a).



-24-
3.23        Agreement has been reached during negotiations that terms of reference
for consultants to be contracted in each subsequent year of project implementation
will be submitted by MOH and each of the States to the Bank for approval not later
than October 31 of the preceding year (para. 7.01 d). Selection and contracting
of consultants will be under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.24        Project Preparation of the Second Phase:   the original project
proposed by the Government included ten states. and activitieo in sanitation.
control of endemic diseases, and personal health services.  During preparation.
the project was simplified by the reduction in size from ten to only four states
in a first phase, and a proposed second phase will cover the other six states of
the Northeast.  The SES8 of these six states require more technical support for
project preparation execution.   This sub-component will provide about 200 man-
months of consultants to assist the MOB and the SESs of the six states in
improving specific aspects of management, health planning. health services
administration, and manpower development to enable these six SESs to carry out the
project second phase. The provision of simple but critical equipment required for
basic health facilities in the six states is also included as part of the
institutional development, to avoid the closing of services.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01        The total cost of the project to be disbursed in an eight-year period
is estimated at US$129.7 million equivalent. including contingencies, local taxes
and duties.   Of this total, investment costs amount to US$57.2 million. and
incremental recurrent costs amount to US$72.5 million.   Base costs amount to
US$97.2 million. 75% of total project costs. Duties and taxes account for US$8.3
million, 6X of total project costs.  Foreign exchange costs of US$28.-. million
amount to 221 of total project costs. The Health Services Development component
is estimated at about US$75.7 million, and the Institutional Development component
at about US$ 21.5 million. without contingencies. If the project were implemented
in a 5-year period as proposed by the Government, the total project cost would be
reduced to US$ 115.4 million. A summary of project costs is presented in Tables
4.1 and 4.2; and details are given in Annex 3, Tables 1 to 4.
4.02        In order to obtain values in constant prices, the Government expressed
the base cost estimates for civil works. goods and services in ORTNs, whose value
reflects adequately the changes in prices and wages (Annex 3. Table 5). In this
report all ORTN values were converted into US dollars. The estimated unit costs
for civil works vary from state to state and by type of facility; however. an
overall average of US$180 equivalent per square meter is reliable. since it is
based on unit costs of recent contracts for similar works and on final
architectural designs. The cost estimates for furniture. equipment. and vehicles
are based on final lists of items and on the costs of similar items recently
procured. The costs of local and expatriate consultants as well as training take
into account recent experience in Brazil.   Phys  el contingencies have been
estimated at the rate of 101 for civil works. equipm(   and vehicles.



-25-
Table 4.1:- PROJECT COSTS U  CATROORY O  EXPINITMtEg
US$ '000                          I Total
--------------------------------- Z ForeiQn  Rase
Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange     Cost
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS         10,650.7   2,662.6  13,312.8        20          11
B. FURNITURE,
EDUIPHENT t BIKES    8,131.8   4,378.6  12,510.4         35         13
C. VEHICLES             1,075.0    579.8   1,653.8         35           2
D. TRAININS ANI
SUERVISION;
NOIITORIN AND
EVALUATION           1,662.3   1,915.6   9,577.9         20         10
E. TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE           1,591.9    398.0   1,999.9          20          2
F. PROJECT
MANAGENENT           2,153.5             2,153.5         0           2
TOTAL INVESTEINT COST    31,264.7   9,933.6  41,198.3         24         42
1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES            27,070.4   3,007.8  30,070.2        10          31
B. DIIUBS AND OTHER
SUPPLIES            15,543.7   6,661.6  22,205.3         30         23
C. OPERATION AND
AINITENAIEE          2,418.4   1,302.2   3,720.6         35          4
TOTAL REDURRENT COSTS    45,032.5  10,971.6  56,004.1         20         58
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS     76,297.2  20,905.2  97,202.4         22         100
Physical Contingncies    1,995.7    762.0   2,747.7         28           3
Price Contingencies     23,275.7   6,521.1  29,797.5        22          31
TOTAL PROJECT COTS      101,558.6  29,199.0 129,747.6         22         134
April 23, 1986
4.03          Dollar equivalent costs of November,  1985 have been updated to April,
1986 levels. Price contingencies for each year have been calculated by
distributing the total base cost and accompanying physical contingencies over a
period of eight years, which is the standard disbursement profile for all Bank
loans to Brazil.   The  following  rates of increase for international  prices were
assumed: 1986 and 1987, 7.02; 1988, 7.52; 1989, 7.7I; 1990, 7.6X; from 1991 on,
4.5S. These rates were used for estimating price contingencies both for local and
foreign costs, on the assumption that periodic local currency devaluations,
estimated on a purebasing power parity basis, would compensate for differences
between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.



-26-
lTbIe 4.2:  PIRDEV=  MM BY COMPCW
QUs$#000)
X Foreig S Ibtal
Local       ForeiP        Tlbtal    f         Base ost
A. HNAn SEuICS D        lVAM4
Facilities                    17,340.0      4,335.0     21,675.0     20         22
Staffing                      19,497.4      2,166.4     21,663.8     10         22
M it4,762.8                                1,190.7     5,953.5     20          6
Service Delivery              17,057.0      9,320.2     26,376.9     37         27
B. ]Sfl(NN;DRVELCFMENT
Decentrala7atikn Health Srvices  16,967.8      3,724.7     20,692.5     18         21
Prepatimn of Secnd Phase            672.6        168.2       840.8      20          1
TOML BASNJNE CMI5                    76,297.2     20.9C6.2    97,202.4     22         100
Physical CbYreen1s ,.985.7                          762.0      2,747.7     28          3
Pe Lce Cbntbgnci23,275.7                          6,521.8     29,797.5     20         31
TM'L Pro=Er MMS                     101,558.6    28,189.0    129,747.6     22         134
April 2319M
B.  Project Financing Plan and Financial Feasibility
Financing Plan
4.04      An IBRD loan of US$59.5 million equivalent to the Federative Republic of
Brazil is proposed to finance 50% of total project costs net of taxes.  Bank
financing will cover the foreign exchange costs and US$31.3 million equivalent of
local costs.  This is it line with the last guidelines for -Bank participation in
Brazil projects. The loan will be for 15 years. including 3 years of grace. The
federal and state governments will finance US$70.2 million equivalent (61% of the
local costs of the project, and 100% of taxes). To ensure timely and efficient
project implementation, various start-up activities, including those related to
bidding specifications, staffing. training, and employment of consultants, have
already been, or are being. initiated after project appraisal.   It was agreed
during negotiations that retroactive financing of up to US$ 4 million equivalent
will be available from the proceeds of the loan to help cover start-up
expenditures made. under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, from
November 1, 1985. until the date of loan signing (para. 7.01 e).
4.05        Counterpart financing of project costs (US$12 million of investment
costs, and US$58.2 million of incremental recurrent costs) is the direct
responsibility of the NO  and the State Secretariats of Health (SES), but INAMPS
will also participate through AIS agreements (para. 4.07). Before negotiations
the Bank has received through MR0 signed documents by each governor of the four
states pledging to make counterpart funds available as needed. The governors of



-27-
the states have also guaranteed to hire the new staff required for the project and
to shoulder the additional costs associated with the new hiring (para. 3.15).
Table 4.3: PROJECT FINANCIAL PLAN
(USS million)
IBRD            BRAZIL          TOTAl.
MOH      SESs*
Amount     %        Amount   Amount   Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works                         15.2       80       3.9         -      19.1
Furniture. Equipment. Bicycles      14.5       86       2.3         --     16.8
Training and Supervision             8.5       79       2.2                10.7
Consultants Services & Studies       2.3      100       --                  2.3
Project Management                   4.5       79       1.2                 5.7
Vehicles                                  -             2.4                 2.4
Subtotal Investment Costs      45.0       79      12.0                57.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
New Staff Salaries                   --                            39.1    39.1
Drugs and Supplies                  11.0       38       --         17.9    28.9
Operation and Maintenance            3.5       74                   1.2     4.7
Subtotal Recurrent Costs       14.5       20       --        58.2    72.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          59.5       46      12.0       58.2   129.7
*  Approximately one third will be financed by INAMPS through AIS Agreements.
Financial Feasibility
4.06       Project Investment Costs:  The MOH will be responsible for counterpart
funding of these costs.  Complying with this commitment should not be a problem.
The 1986 federal budget allocated more than US$100 million to the MOH's investment
expenditures, of which 50% is to be spent in the Northeast.   Assuming that
investments will be made over a three-year period and that MNO allocations will
remain at the 1986 level, counterpart financing of investment costs will require
an amount equivalent to less than 6% of the funds currently allocated by the
Federal Government to the MOH for capital expenditure in the Northeast.
4.07      Incremental Recurrent Costs.  The SESs will finance during the project
about US$58.2 million of incremental recurrent costs, for the procurement of
drugs, supplies. and maintenance expenditures; and for salaries of incremental
staff. As mentioned above, the Governors of the states have agreed :o supplement
SESs budgets as needed.  This commitment should not be difficult to meet since
project recurrent costs are about 12 of the total recurrent expenditures of the
four state Governments in 1983. In addition, counterpart funding will be provided
to the SESs by INAMPS through the payment for the following services provided in
the project areas: INAMPS will reimburse SESs about 502 of hospital services
expenditures and an amount equivalent to the expenditures for providing ambulatory



-28-
serviceg in the project areas. INAMPS payments will cover about one third of the
incremental recurrent costs.   INAMPS commitments with SESs on financing Basic
Health Services have been spelled out in the AIS Agreements. including Termos
Aditivos  (Additional Terms) for each project region, and Termoe de A40;e
(Adhesion Terms) for each project municipality. Copies of the signed AIS
Agreements required to cover the regions and municipalities of project areas have
been received. The signing of Termos Aditivos for at least one state will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 7.02 b). The situation is similar with
respect to the financial feasibility after the completion of the project by 1995.
when project originated recurrent costs would add about US$13.0 million per year
to the annual recurrent expenditures of the four SESs. This amount would be equal
to about 5% of the SESs expenditures assuming that these grow only at a rate equal
to the lowest rate of growth of the GNP estimated by the Bank.
C. Procurement
4.08        Architectural Designs and Supervision of Civil Works.  Each SES, or
municipal works agency. whatever the case may be. will appoint the necessary
personnel to finalize working drawings and other bidding documents. They will also
perform the tendering and supervise civil works in the field, and report to MOH
who will coordinate the construction program in all states. All new civil works
have to include site development.
4.09        Civil Works.  Of a total estimated cost of US$19.1 million for civil
works, including physical and price contingencies, up to US$15.6 million (average
contract size of largest civil works items. the Unidade Mista is about US$250.000).
will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures. which have
been reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank.   These procedures permit the
packaging of works and do not ezclude the participation of foreign contractors.
Since it is very unlikely to attract contractors for small. scattered works in
remote rural areas. the remaining US$3.5 million of civil works (new health posts.
and refurbishings) will be carried out by force account on the basis of agreements
between SES and the appropriate municipal authorities.
4.10        Goods and Services.  Equipment (including bicycles) and furniture.
amounting to US$16.8 million including contingencies. will be grouped, to the extent
possible. in large packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for equipment and
furniture in excess of US$150.000. estimated to an aggregated totel of about
US$5.5 million, will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Groups of items estimated to
cost less than the above figure. will be procured in accordance with LCB
procedures. which are acceptable to the Bank and do not exclude foreign
participation. A small fraction of these items will be purchased through the KOH.
but most of the goods will be obtained directly by 17 dispersed entities (4 SESs
and 13 DIRES) spread over 4 states throughout the 8 year life of the project.
These items will amount to an aggregated total of about US$10 million equivalent,
which will represent about 60Z of the total estimated cost of goods.   Items
estimated at less than US$20.000 equivalent will be procured on the basis of
quotations from at least three suppliers.   These items will not exceed an
aggregate total of US$1.3 million equivalent, or about 8% of the total cost of
goods.   About US$9.9 million equivalent on drugs and other supplies will be
directly provided by MOH through the National Drug Center (CEME). the fulfillment



-29-
of which will be monitored through the SAPE-GRAEE system (para. 5.14).  Another
US$19 million in drugs will be grouped whenever possible   to permit bulk
procurement.   Packages estimated to cost US$150,000 or more will be procured
through ICB. but, as drugs and supplies will be purchased through 4 local SESs and
their DIRES on a continuing basis over a period of eight years. most packages are
expected to be relatively small and to cost less than US$150,000.   Therefore.
nearly all drugs and medical supply items, beyond those provided by CEME. will be
purchased through LCB. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under
ICB. local manufacturers of furniture and equipment will be allowed a margin of
preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing
imports or 15% CIE price. whichever is lower.  Consultancy services and studies
will be obtained from consultants engaged in accordauce with Bank guidelines of
August 1981.   The MOE will assist SESs  in carrying out procurement and will
coordinate the procedures.
4.11      The table below summarizes proposed procurement arrangements:
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE., INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(uss millions)
PROCUREMENT   METHOD
Category    …     ---- -…
ICB      LCB     Other      N/A     Total Cost
- Civil Works                   -        15.6      3.5       -         19.1
C - )    (12.4)    (2.8)    ( - )      (15.2)
- Furniture. Equipment.         5.5      10.0      1.3       -         16.8
Bicycles                     (5.5)      (8.0)    (1.0)    C - )      (14.5)
- Vehicles                      -         2.4       -        -          2.4
C-)       C -)    (C-)    ( _)          C-_)
- Training and                             -        -      10.7        10.7
Supervision                  ( - )     C - )    C - )    (8.5)       (8.5)
- Consultant Services           -          -        -       2.3         2.3
and Studies                  (-)       (-)    (-)    (2.3)           (2.3)
- New Staff Salaries            -          -        -      39.1        39.1
C-)       C-)    (-)    (-)             t-)
- Drugs and Supplies            -        19.0      9.9       -         28.9
C-_ )    (11.0)    (-)    C-)          (11.0)
- Operation and                            -        -       4.7         4.7
Maintenance                  ( - )     ( - )    C - )    (3.5)       (3.5)
- Project Management            -          -        -       5.7         5.7
C - )     ( - )    C - )    (4.5)       (4.5)
TOTAL                          5.5       47.0     14.7     62.5       129.7
(5.5)    (31.4)    (3.8)   (18.8)      (59.5)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are amotmts financed by the Bank.
4.12        Bank Review Requirements.  Prior review of contract awards for civil
works will be required on all contracts above US$300.000. or about 50X of cost for
civil works.   All contracts for goods of US$150,000 or more. or about 30S of



-30-
furniture and equipment and 80% of drugs procured under LCB, will be reviewed by
the Bank prior to contract award.  Other contracts will be subject to Bank review
after contract award. but before submitting withdrawal applications for disbursements.
Random checking of smaller contracts will be carried out during supervision.
D. Disbursements
4.13        Although the Government expects that the project will be completed in
five years. the Schedule of Disbursements has been prepared for a period of 8
years (Annex 3. Table 7), according to Brazil's disbursement profile.   Project
completion date will be June 30. 1994. and project closing date will be December
31, 1994.
4.14        The proceeds of the IBRD loan (Annex 3. Table 6) will be disbursed as
follows:
-    80% for civil works. including architectural fees and site development;
-    100% of foreign expenditures. and 80Z of local expenditures for
furniture, equipment, and bicycles;
-    10OZ for Consultant Services and Studies;
-    80% for Training. Supervision. and Management;
-    for Drugs and Supplies: up to US$2.0 million the first year of the project;
up to US$2.5 the second year; up to US$3.0 the third year; up to US$2.5 the
fourth year; and up to US$1.0 the fifth year. These are cumulative limits
for each year. If any amount is not used in a given year. the limit of the
following year will be increased by the same amount.
No disbursements will be made against salaries of staff and vehicles other than
bicycles.
4.15        Disbursements will be made after receipt of full documentation, except
in the case of civil works by force account and goods and services provided under
contracts valued at under US$50,000 equivalent for which disbursements will be
made against certified statements of expenditure (SOB). The SOB will be certified
locally by the State Secretary of each SES, and by the Secretary General of the
MOH.   Supporting documentation will be retained by each SES and by the MOH
Secretariat of Budgeting and Financial Programming (SOFI). and made available for
inspection during Bank supervision missions and by independent auditors.
3. Accounts and Audits
4.16        Bank loan funds will be deposited in US dollars in a Special Account
to be opened by the Government at the Central Bank.   Proj ect funds will be
channeled to the four states through Specific Project Accounts to be opened at a
State Bank by each SES (see para. 4.17).   Funds from the Special Account will be
available for financing only the Bank's share of project costs.  To ensure the
efficient and timely implementation of the project, the Bank will deposit after



-31-
loan effectiveness an initial sum of US$2.5 million in the Special Account, to set
up a revolving fund for financing eligible expenditures corresponding to the
Bank's share of the first four months' project needs.   The deposit could be
increaset later by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank to meet project
needs.   The Bank will replenish the revolving fund as requested upon receipt of
satisfactory evidence that expenditures paid were eligible for financing out C'
the fund. A replenishment request will normally be sent to the Bank when 50% of
the revolving fund has been disbursed. Conversions from Cruzados and other
currencies to US dollars will be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the
date payments were made. The Central Bank will request the replenishment of the
Special Account from time to time through applications for withdrawal using Form
1903. These applications will be supported by the documentation described in para.
4.15.
4.17          Separate Agreements between the MOH and the states of Minas Gerais.
Bahia. Piaui. and Rio Grande do Norte, through the respective SESs have been
drafted under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. for executing the
project in each state. In these Agreements, the MOH will authorize each SES to
open a separate Project Account in Cruzados in a State Bank; and both will ensure
that the funds deposited in such account are, at all times, equivalent to not less
than one month's share of project expenditures. The signing of said Agreements
for at least one state will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (para.
7.02 c).
4.18         SOFI (para. 4.15) and the Administrative Divisions of the SESs of
Bahia. Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Minas Gerais. will each maintain separate
accounts for project expenditures, which will be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank.  The Special Account at the Central Bank will
also be audited by independent auditors.   Copies of the participating agencies.
and Central Bank's audited statements will be sent to the Bank within six months
of the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report will include an opinion (and
comments, as necessary) on the methods employed in compiling the statements of
expenditures, their accuracy; the relevance of supporting documents; their
eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal agreement and the
standards of record-keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing.
4.19        Signing of all the Agreements to be entered into between MOH and the
states through the respective SBSs will be a condition of loan disbursement with
respect to Project expenditures in the respective state (para. 7.03 a). Signing
of the Termos Aditivos by each state will be a condition of loan disbursement with
respect to Project expenditures in the respective state (para. 7.03 b). For any
municipality owning and operating its own health facilities, the signing of an
accompanying Termo  de Adesao  (CIMS Agreement) will be a condition of loan
disbursement with respect to Project expenditures in the respective municipality
(para. 7.03 c).



-32-
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
5.01        The MOH and the four SESs already have capable managers and key staff
to initiate project implementation.  The BHS program package has been already
prepared (para. 3.07).  Initiation of activities for implementing the training of
personnel in the delivery of the BHS package is taking place in existing health
facilities. The four SESs have made arrangements with public agencies for the
preparation of the architectural designs and initiation of construction; they were
found to be well staffed and efficient by the appraisal mission. Preliminary
drawings of new health facilities have been completed.  Site selection and
acquisition of land is under way. and working drawings for all facilities included
in the first year of project implementation have been received by the Bank. All
the staff of the MOH Coordinating Unit for the Northeast (CORSANS) has been
assigned to work in project implementation activities, with the assistance of a
PARO consultant. Core consultants will be in the field by October 31. 1986 (para.
5.05).  Each SES has appointed a project team to work in project implementation
activities. and the central Government has given full support to. the project. The
detailed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 4. Table 24.
B. Project Organization and Management
5.02    The Northeast Basic Health Services Project will be undertaken   within
the legal and organizational framework of Brazil's Northeast Rural Development
Program. Presidential Decree No. 91378 of April 1. 1985. gives responsibility for
overall coordination of this Program to the Ministry of the Interior. and
designates the MOH/MPAS and MEC as lead agencies for executing health related
aspects of the regional program.
5.03        The Integrated Health Actions Program -AIS- will provide the policy
framework for establishing and implementing the structural adjustments needed in
the health sector (para. 2.19).  AIS will contribute to financing the recurrent
costs of basic health services delivered in the project areas. CIPLAN, at the
federal level, will advise on AIS financing and implementation. The Interinstitutional
Commissions of Health -CIS, CRIS, and CLIS-, will coordinate the execution of
policies among the agencies of the public health sector. implementing the AIS
Program at the state, regional and local levels.
5.04        The project organization has two levels:   the Federal Level.
represented by the MOH. which will be the Borrower on bebalf of the Federative
Republic of Brazil. and will have overall responsibility for project coordination
and implementation; and the State Level. represented by the four SESs which will
be responsible for executing the project in selected areas of each state.
Project Management
5.05        Federal Level.   The MOH's Secretary General will have overall
responsibility for project coordination and implementation. Under his direction.
responsibility for operational supervision of project execution in the four states
will be undertaken by CORSANE. Other MOB Divisions will cooperate with, and assist



-33-
assist CORSANE in the technical support to the states (see Annex 4. Chart 2). to
ensure that the BHCMs and the BHS program package are being implemented as
planned, including introduction of appropriate adjustments in the light of
experience. The project-related management functions of the MOR Secretary General
will be to:
(a) enter into agreements with MPAS. SESs and other agencies involved in
project implementation and in the financing of project operating costs;
(b) approve plans and budgets for project investments and operations;
(c) monitor and evaluate project implementation;
(d) report to the Bank on progress in project implementation.
In addition. CORSANE will provide technical assistance to the participating SESs
to implement the Institutional Development Component of the project.   In
particular CORSANE will manage the selection and hiring of consultants intended to
assist the six states in the preparation of the proposed second phase project and
in strengthening their institutional capacity. Furthermore CORSANE will operate
the Special Project Account through SOFI (see para. 4.16) and keep documentary
evidence of payments made for goods and services   by the different project
implementing agencies from the individual accounts.  To undertake these tasks.
CORSANE will be strengthened under the project with eight additional, full-time
staff (two of which will be specialists in the procurement of technical
assistance), equipment, and short-term consultants.
5.06        Although responsibility for project activities will rest entirely with
the MOH, CORSANE will be assisted in field supervision of project implementation
by SUDENE's health unit located in Recife.   Specific responsibilities for the
SUDENE's Health Unit have been spelled out under an agreement between MOH and the
Ministry of Interior. with the concurrence of SUDENE. The appraisal mission found
this agreement satisfactory to the Bank.  It was agreed during negotiations that
the MOH's General Secretary will have overall responsibility for project
coordination and implementation. and that CORSANE will be responsible for
operational supervision and technical support in project execution in the four
states (para. 7.01 f).
5.07        State level.  Responsibility for implementing the project at the state
level will rest with the four SESs (see Annex 4, Chart 3).  The SESs will
supervise project execution through the departments of Health Planning and
Services, with the cooperation of other units at the SESs headquarters. Each SES
will appoint a project coordinator for supervising the planning. procurement.
construction, training, supervision and technical assistance activities of the
project. The project coordinator will report directly to the State Secretary of
Health and will be appointed with the concurrence of the state's Interinstitutional
Health Commission (CIS).  The project coordinator will also ensure that funds
reimbursed to health providers in the project area by INAMPS under the AIS
agreement will be available to cover operating costs of the project.



-34-
5.08        Each SES will strengthen its Regional Administrative Units (DIRES) to
enable them to implement the project components within its area of jurisdiction.
The SES have initiated the delegation of responsibilities for personnel selection.
training of staff, and supervision of health services activities to the DIRES.
The SES will also provide each DIRES with the budget adequate to operate vehicles,
purchase minor supplies and defray other administrative expenses. Each DIRES will
constitute an administrative unit of its respective SES and will coordinate
services provided by the BHCfs in its area.  The DIRES director will manage the
budget for his/her region. assisted by SES professional staff in programming.
monitoring. supervising, and logistical support. He/she will be supported by the
BHCMs chiefs in implementing health services. It was agreed during negotiations
that to strengthen the administrative decentralization of services, the SESs will
put into effect, not later than January 1, 1987, a plan of action satisfactory to
MOH and the Bank. to enable the transfer of the project's budget and its administration
to the DIRES (para. 7.01 g).
C. Supervision of Health Services
5.09        The BHCM will be the fundamental unit for delivering health services
in the project area. It will normally include one unidade mista and its satellite
health centers and posts. The BHCM chief, who is part of the DIRES management,
will advise on personnel and budgetary matters. including recruitment and training
of staff, and allocation of resources between ambulatory and inpatient services
and among facilities of his/her BHCM. He/she will devote three fourths of his/her
time for administrative activities and one fourth for clinical duties. The BHCM
chief will be accountable to the DIRES director for the BHCM's operational and
administrative performance. The decentralization of health services management
will shorten lines of communication between users and managers.   Community
organizations already established in the framework of the NERDP could be the
vehicle for representing users' interest.
5.10        Furthermore. the BHCM chief will supervise the implementation of the
BHS program package which constitutes the essential element of health care
delivery. Training courses for preparing service personnel in each service program
are ready for implementation.   The BHS program package has been designed for
delegating primary health care to auxiliaries which will be adequately trained to
provide quality care.   A major effort will be made to get complete coverage
through surveillance. For instance, prenatal screening for high risk pregnancies
will provide a basis for identifying risk cases so that normal deliveries could be
attended by well trained midwives and those at risk by professionals. Supervision
of personnel will be regularly scheduled to maintain worker motivation and quality
of services.   Continuing education of all personnel will be emphasized through
regularly scheduled in-service training and development of field manuals.
D. Technical Assistance
5.11        The project will finance a strong component of technical assistance
including 50 man-months of consultants for legal, organizational and administrative
studies; 75 man-months. for impproving management processes and tools. 80 man-
months for improving manpower development;and 10' man-months for improving
logistical support systems. including information, monitoring and evaluation. The



-35-
MOH requested a PAHO consultant to assist CORSANE in preparing draft terms of
reference for consultants to be contracted in the first year of project implementation;
the PAHO consultant is also assisting CORSANE in preparing a detailed plan for the
proposed technical assistance for each year of the project. It was agreed during
negotiations that the government will hire consultants for the first year of
project activities by October 31. 1986 (para. 7.01 h); and that not latez than
October 31 every year thereafter. M0H will submit to the Bank for approval the
terms of reference for the consultants to be employed in the following year
(paras. 3.23 and 7.01 d).
E. Staffing and Training
5.12        The service staff requirements for the project are summarized in Annex
4, Tables 6 to 11. Over the eight-year period of project implementation. about 2,600
additional staff will be needed, of which about 430 will be doctors, 100 other
health professionals, 640 technicians/lab auxiliaries, 930 health auxiliaries, and
500 administrative and other support staff. Recruitment will be carried out by the
BHCMs. the DIRES, and SESs. according to SESs established norms and procedures.
To ensure a timely and complete employment. the MOH sent to the Bank copies of
written commitments from each state Governor ensuring the employment of all new
personnel required by the project.
5.13        The project will also finance the training of about 5,600 health
workers including doctors, nurses, technicians, auxiliaries, health attendants.
and administrative and support staff. All SESs have gained experience in the
training of auxiliary personnel through the PIASS program and Bank-financed health
components; however. more attention will be given to better planning. and improved
contents and quality of training.  Consultants in these specific areas will be
hired during the first year of project implementation to assist the Human
Resources Units of SESs in these areas. Detailed training plans in.luding type of
courses and trainees, number of trainees. duration of training and training
institutions are included in Annex 4, Tables 12 to 17.  It was agreed during
negotiations that the Government will submit to the Bank the training timetables
and special training programs included in the Institutional Development component
for the first year of the project by October 31. 1986. Moreover, the Government
will submit to the Bank for review the detailed training timetables for the
subsequent year, three months before the end of each year of project implementation
(para. 7.01 i).
F   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.14        The  Secretary  General of MOH through CORSANE, and with the
participation of SUDENE (para. 5.06), will monitor the overall implementation of
the project and will submit to the Bank progress reports every year. These reports
will include a financial section showing for each project component, by source,
(a) actual expenditures. and (b) nezt year budgetary authorizations. SUDENE, with
the support of consultants financed under the project. will review the LAPE-GRAFF
monitoring system used in the Rondonia Health Project (Ln. 2061-BR) and. after
introducing the required improvements it will be implemented in the Northeast.
This system will provide CORSANE with (a) detailed informationa for each project
activity on budgetary authorizations, actual expenditures, and quantitative



-36-
aspects of project implementation; and  (b) a consolidated summary covering
implementation problems and proposed solutions.   Each SBS, assisted by local
universities or research groups, will carry out baseline studies to obtain key
information for service monitoring and evaluation according to agreed indicators
(para. 3.18).   It was agreed during negotiations that the four SBESs, in
cooperation with the ffOH through the respective coordinating unit will monitor
delivery of health services  (para.  7.01 j).   KOH will also coordinate the
activities to carry out the mid-term and final evaluations of the project.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AMD RISKS
6.01        Four major benefits are expected from this project:  (1) the 3.6
million poor peasants and small farmers living in the areas covered by the project
will experience a reduction in the prevalence of certain health problems,
especially diarrhea, pneumonia. complications of pregnancy. malnutrition,
infectious and communicable diseases, all associated with high rates of general.
infant, child, and maternal mortality; (2) management. administration. and
efficiency of basic health services in rural areas of NE Brazil will be improved;
(3) containement of per capita health care costs; and (4) the extension of
coverage to many rural residents who presently are not covered.
6.02      Increased effectiveness of health services is expected to lead both to a
substantial increase in utilization and to improvements in the quality of care for
those seeking treatment at the health facilities.   In addition, an effective
health modular system is also a precondition for the further development of the
programs.
6.03        The institution-building effect of the project will be at least as
importar.t as the direct service benefits.   The assignment of responsibility for
planning and implementing the project to the States authorities will support GOB
efforts to decentralize health administration. This new approach will facilitate
execution of health programs adapted to local needs.
A. Impact on Health Status
6.04        The mortality rates due to principal causes of death are substantially
higher in the Northeast than in the Southeast for three major reasons: (1) lower
income and hence lower standards of living; (2) less adequate standards of
environmental sanitation and water supply; and (3) less availability of basic
health services.   Over the period 1977 through 1983 for whicn data on general
mortality are available, there has been continuing improvement in virtually all
categories of causes of death in both regions.   Thus even without the project.
mortality can be expected to continue to fall. With the project. the decline can
be substantially faster. The objective of the project is to speed the decline in
death rates from specific causes and to reach a level less than twice that which
will prevail in Southeast Brazil in the mid-1990s.



-37-
6.05        In the early 1980s. five diseases2 associated with poverty accounted
for about two-thirds of all desths in the cities of the Northeast. and an equal or
greater number in rural areas. With the project, the frequency of death from these
diseases would be cut by 40% to 50Z in 1993, and the severity of diseases as
measured by present levels of hospital admissions would be reduced by one fourth
to one third.
B. Environmental Impact
6.06        As the project will be directed towards improving the health and well-
being of the project area population, it will clearly have a positive impact on
the human environment. In addition. present cadres of sanitary inspectors and
health education, will have some positive impact on the manipulation of the
physical environment. though the project does not provide for the major investments
needed to provide safe and convenient water supply and solid waste disposal to the
entire population. No negative environmental impacts are foreseen, either for the
project areas or beyond.
C. Project Risks
6.07        The GOB has been moving actively to strengthen primary health care
services since 1983. The present Government has given special priority to social
programs in Northeast Brazil.  Nonetheless, Health Secretariats remain weak in
many states.  Some lack the managerial capacity to develop an adequate system of
service delivery and supervision.  Most are crippled by low salaries and lack of
effective incentives for adequate and superior staff performance. A risk is that
Health Secretariats may be unable to translate the intent of the basic health
services project into effective action in the rural Northeast.   The project
appraisal team addressed these risks by concentrating the early phase of work in
those four states which have the strongest health system management and the
greatest degree of commitment to institutional development aimed at achieving
project objectives.   The MOH has, in addition, solicited letters from state
governors that will acknowledge the commitment to hire necessary staff and
gradually assume the burden of recurrent costs for basic health services as part
of state budgets.
6.08        Funding of recurrent costs is always a potential problem in social
projects.   There are many examples in Northeast Brazil of buildings in place in
rural areas which do not have staff to operate them. A risk is that the hardware
will be put in place by this project and then be inoperative for lack of funds to
pay staff and to purchase necessary supplies and maintenance. This risk has been
addressed by the signing of agreements between State Health Secretariats and
INAMPS, the medical arm of the Brazilian social security system. Social security
is financed by a 21 percent tax on wages; about one-fifth of that revenue has in
recent years been devoted to medical-hospital care.   In 1983 INAMPS began the
2These include infectious intestinal diseases. pneumonia. nutritional
deficiencies and anemia, septicemia, and other reducible infectious diseasesD,
especially tuberculosis. These causes are separable but symbiotic in the context
of the Northeast disease regime.



-38-
practice of signing agreements with State Health Secretariats to pay for services
which those Secretariats provided to INAMPS beneficiaries.  More recently. under
the program entitled AIS, Aroes Integradas de Sa&de, INAMPS has agreed to a
variant on an HMO system.   State Health Secretariats will be compensated to
provide basic health care on a prepayment basis. depending not on services
delivered but number of persons served. A result is that these Secretariats are
now reasonably assured of having financing resources necessary to staff their
facilities and to offer basic health services.   These agreements have proven
adequate to assure financing in the case of the Sao Paulo Basic Health Care
Project. and they should be adequate for this project as well.
6.09        In the past, appropriate and timely use of consultants in the social
sectors has been difficult in some Brazil projects.  The risk of inadeqate and
untimely utilization of consultant services has been discussed with the Government
during the process of project preparation.  To reduce this risk. the project has
included the strenghening of CORSANE staff for dealing specifically with
recruitment, selection and employment of consultants; in addition assurances on
time schedules and Bank review of Consultant's terms of reference have been included.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01        At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) a methodology of work for home visits will be adopted in which about 40 to
50Z of health attendants' time will be used for providing bousehold
services, conditioned to local factors (para. 3.10);
(b) the BHCM described in paras. 3.11 and 3.12 will be implemented in all
project areas. including the PAISMC, CDI, and AMH programs described in
paras. 3.08. 3.09. and 3.10 (para. 3.13);
(c) draft proposals for baseline studies will be submitted to the Bank for
review by December 15, 1986 (para. 3.18);
(d) terms of reference for consultants to be contracted in subsequent years
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. will be submitted for
Bank approval no later than October 31 of the preceding calendar year of
project implementation (paras. 3.23 and 5.11);
(e) retroactive financing up to US$4 million equivalent will be available to help
cover eligible start-up expenditures made from November 1, 1985, until the
date of loan signing (para. 4.04);
(f) the MOR's Secretary General will have overall responsibility for project
coordination and implementation; and responsibility for operational
supervision of project execution in the four states will be assigned to
CORSANE (para. 5.06);



-39-
(g) to initiate the administrative decentralization of services the SBESs will
put into effect, not later than January 1, 1987, a plan of action satisfactory
to NOR and the Bank. to enable the transfer of the project's budget and its
administration to the DIRES (para. 5.08);
(h) the Government will hire consultants for the first year of the project
activities by October 31, 198S, according to Bank procedures (para. 5.11);
(i) the Government will submit to the Bank for review, the training timetables
and special training programs included in the Institutional Development
component for the first year of the project by October 31. 1986. Also. the
Govertment will submit to the Bank the detailed training timetables for the
subsequent year. three months before the end of each year of project
implementation (para. 5.13);
(j)  the four SBS., in cooperation with the MOR through the respective
coordinating uinit. will monitor delivery of bealth services (para. 5.14).
7.02        The following will be conditions of Effectiveness:
Ca) a plan of action concerning technical assistance needs for eacb year of the
project will be forwarded to the Bank for comments (para. 3.22);
(b) the signing of Termos Aditivos for at least one state (para. 4.07);
Cc) the signing of at least one of the Agreements between the MOR and the
states of Minas Gerais, Babia. Piaui. and Rio Grande do Norte through their
respective SESs. under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para.
4.17).
7.03        The following will be conditions of Disbursemeat:
(a) the signing of all the Agreements to be entered into between NOR and the states
through the respective SESs will be a condition of loan disbursement with
respect to Project expenditures in the respective state (para. 4.19);
(b) the signing of the Termos Aditivos by each state will be a condition of
loan disbursement with respect to Project expenditures in the respective
state (para. 4.19); and
(c)  for any municipality owning and operating its own health facilities. the
signing of an accompanying Termo de Adesso will be a condition of loan
disbursement with respect to Project expenditures in the respective
municipality (para. 4.19).
7.04      With the above conditions and assurances, the project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$59.5 million to the Ministry of Health of the Federative Republic
of Brazil. to be repaid over a period of 15 years. including three years of grace.



I 
K,
N tJ
k-I
L-
t,I"



-41-
BRAZIL
NORTHST BASIC EATH SBRVICES PROJECT
ANEES



I    N--
Cs
( l
1::I
KT 
I --,



-43-
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC BEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Country and Northeast Health Status
Table 1   Population, Healtb and Nutrition Indicators
Table 2   Status of Contraceptive Prevalence Information for Latin America
Table 3   Brazil: Life Expectancy per Sex, Region and Residencial Status
Table 4   Ten Leading Causes of Mortality by Regions (1983)
Table 5   Brazil% Evolution of Infant Mortality Rate per Region
Table 6   Brazil: Morbidity Indicators (1979-1983)
Prevalence Rates of Some Infectious Diseases
Table 7   Nutrition Indicators by Region
Table 8   Brazil: Vaccinated Coverage of Children less than one year old
in Northeast and Minas Gerais from 1978-1983
Table 9 Northeast: Mortality of lmunmopreventable Diseases (1979-1983)
Table 10 Leprosy Patients under Registered Control in Northeast and Minas
Gerais States (1983)



-44-
Table 1
1A9f BASC .A3   a;  P
Powlaticm. healt andi ultritiu Lnicators
Total polatiuo (id-1983)                     129,700,000
Population grcwtb rate (1973-8)                  2.3%
Projected poWulation for year 2000           179,000,000
Cnxle birth rate (1983)                         30/1000
Crude death rate (1983)                          8/(100
Total fertility rate (1983)                      3.8
Rate of natural increase of the
populatimn (1980)                              2.12
Life epectany at birth (I983)                   64 years
Ifant uvrtality rate (aged 0-1) (1983)          70/100
Qild death rate (aged 1-4) (1983)                611000
Itriticm (1982):
Calorie int   as Z of requiremuts                110
Per capita protein inte (g/day)                 64.4
urce: Sbrld Devepit Beport, Wbrld Bak, 1985.
Social Indicators Daft Sheet, June 1983.



-45-                                     ANn I
Mm    U        f  aSIC Aw         amAI2S PM=                      Table 2
Status of Contracwtive Prevaece Tfomaion for Win hlerica /a
June 1982
Percent of Mawried
Year of &uvy           ikim- 15-44 Usig       population
Field                 CoVtraception Jb      Estiite
CGitry                                   -(iillionas)
Ws      CE!Sla  (S/b    WS    ClS/a  CP!S/b    1980        C(R /c
Cari'bbean
Cuba                                                                      10.0        18
lDonican Replic          1975   (1983) 191D /d    33           43/d        5.4        32
Haiti                    1977                      19                      5.8        42
Janaica                  1976   1979               41  51***               2.2        27
Pro Rico                         1974  (1982)           61*                3.5        23
Trinidad & Tobgo         1977                      52                      1.2        25
28.3
Middle Amrica
Coat Rica                1976   1978   1981      64**      64     65       2.2        29
El Salvador                      1975   1978               22     34       4.8        40
Qiateaula                        1978  (1982)              18              7.0        44
looIuras                         1981                      25              3.8        46
lXico                    1976   1978   1979       30*      38     40      68.2        36
Nicaragua                        1981                                      2.6        46
Fauna                    1976   1974   1979      54**      31     61       1.9        28
90.5
So  hrca
Argsetina                                                                 27.2        26
Bolivia                                                                    5.3        44
Brazil (States)                                                          119.1        32
SD Paulo                     1978                      64             25.0        24
Piani                        1979  (1982)              31              2.1        41
aBWia                        1980                      31              9.5        42
Paraba                       1980                      43              2.8        38
Perntbuco                    1980                      41              6.1        33
Rio  rade do Norte           1980                      47              1.9        38
Parna                        1981                      62              7.6
Santa Cataina                1981                      63              3.7
Rio Grade do Sul             1981                      71              7.9
hAmas                       (1982)                                     1.4
Other States                                                          51.0
Chile                                                                     10.8        22
COIUMbi&                 1976   1978   1980        42      46     49      26.7        29
Ecuador                  1979  (1982)                                      8.0        42
Quyaya                   1975                      32                      0.9        28
Paruay                   1979   1977               32      24              3.3        40
Peru                     1977   1981               31                     17.6        41
Urguay                         (1982)                                      2.9        21
Vnezuela                 1977  (1982)               6                     139         32
235.7
354.5
(*): Ever married        1549; (  M): Married      2D-49; (***): Ever narried eni 14-44.
/a Includes countries with 500,000 or more powlatiom.
/b Includes  en in conswual oio.
/c Crude birth rate available for year of contraceptive prewlence data,
if no contraceptive prevalence data or contraceptive prevalance data not yet
afailable, the crude birth rate is for the mDnt recnt year available.
/d WiFS 2
WS   World Fertility Survey
CPS - Contraceptive Prevalece Survey
Source: Centers for Disease Control, Depazmt of Eealtb and HI'n 8ervices, 1, 1982.



-46-
ANNEX 1
mLm                            Table 3
a~cm E=OMwu PDw
3AM: Life kpecamy /1, per sm. mioad residuiial status
Rssidat:ial          MEN             WOMEN
Status
1950/1970 1970/1980  1960/1970  1970/1980
Brazil     TDal          51.6      563       55.9        62.8
Urba          52.0     57.5       56.2       64.1
Slani51.2              54.6       55.5       61.0
Nbrth ttal               51.6      59.1      56.0        65.7
Urban         52.5     60.1       56.9       66.7
ral           51.0     58.2       55.3       64.7
NDxttmst   Total         44.3      49.5      48.5        55.8
Urban         43A4     49.8       47.6       56.0
AUeal        44.7      48.9       49.0       55.2
Southeast  Ibtal         55.2      59.2      59.4        65.7
Udban         55.0     57.7       59.4       65.2
Baal          55.2     61.0       59.4       67.2
South      Total         58.1      61.6      62.6        68.2
Urban         57.3     61.6       61.9       68.1
haul         59.8      62.1       63.4       68.6
Canter-kst Total         54.9      59.5      59.4       66.3
Urban         55.0     59.8       59.5       66.6
BArUal        55.1     59.        59.5       66.0
Source of basic data: IBM - Dmrgrapbic Comsum 1960 and 1970.
v-a ed tdWulation of the 1960 dairrapbic census.
/I Based c the statistics deloped by Jose Albet N. Csamo usi
the bass tecque. "etility  d brtadity in Brazil - 1960/70
-d 1970/80," M, (311, 1982.
Preaed by Sbastiw  C     , sI/Q(W"iA/ ESn  - PR



-47-
An I
Table 4
mmSI WhIZ MMSI PEJEET
Tern Iea4iz Cause of Ibrtality
by Raims (1983) /a
came                 roth     Northeast   Sot
Litestimal ifecti                         1        1          4
Pnsuzia                                   2        2           1
Vehicle Acident                           3        5          3
Neopl1am                                  4        4          2
IBuicide                                  5        7          10
Septinia                                  6        9          6
Other Ifmctigz am  Parasitic Disea        7       -           5
;Ititim1  nficiuri.                       8        3          8
--_  l - - -  able Diseas_             -         6          -
Qmnal DIefects                           10       10          5
/a Rad on deth rialtimi   for rqiresu ie  mmicipalities
ouce:  ministry of Uaalth, 4idemioleg  Division



-48-
AMU 1
Table 5
IW  BASIC UaU3 SYIB C PRWBT
RAZ: Evolution of General NDrtality in State Capitals,
per Reion during period 1960-1980
Year    Brazil   North   Nortbeast -Souteat  South  Center West
1960    105.2     122.0     183.6      67.7   107.7    104.1
1970     92.0      67.1     149.3      23.5    77.1      80.3
1980     87.3     100.0     130.0      67.0    55.0      85.0
Soue: Bioestatistical Yearbodc (Ministry of Eication and Health) 1950/51;
Brazil Statistical Ahm   (n() 1950/78;
Ministry of Health - Secretary of Plamim - Iufortimn Center;
Health Secretariats of State
In:    Martins, G arAd Cmra  L, "Increase and Distribution of Brazil's
population: recent trends."



If   |  C                     
[TifiT[Iii 
Iill
O p  " S0 S   r![u i
1%   tA            h u E 9 w S  
'In



-50-
ANM 1
Tsble 7
I   ASIC EALS 3SMwE  PROJEC
Nitrition Iicat   by Begio
and Age Growp (1975)
I of Age Grui
.Age Growp      Brazil  NDrtbeast Southeast Frontier
Aequatelyno risbe /a       Birth - 5.99months    71.3    63.6        76.0      73.9
6.00 - 11.99   n      65.2    53.8    .73.6      62.6
1.00 - 1.99 years     56.1    43.4     64.9      53.2
2.00 - 4.99   n       47.0    36.5     54.6      41.5
First degree manutritiom    Birth - 5.99 utba    17.4    20.4        16.1      13.7
6.00 - 11.99   "      22.3    26.4     19.6      22.4
1.00 - 1.99 years     32.2    35.5     30.0      33.0
2.00 - 4.99   "1      38.1    40.7     35.8      41.5
Second degree vamlnutrtion   Birth - 5.99 uwtba     8.9    12.3      6.6        8.6
6.0Q 0  11.99   n     11.0    17.0      6.6      12.7
1.00 - 1.99 years     U.1    19.6       5.1      13.2
2.00 - 4.99   n       14.8    22.7      9.6      15.8
Third degree malnutrition /b Birth - 5.99 nLth8     2.5     3.7      1.4        3.6
6.00 - 11.99   n       1.4     2.9      0.3       2.4
1.00 - 1.99 yeas      0.6      1.5       Ac       0.6
2.00 - 4.99   n       0.2      Ic        -        1.2
/a Defined bere as eighig above 9IL2 of the median of the OAIOD standard distributim
of wih by age.
/b Third degree malnutrition may be umderestineted because sane childre hbo were obviously
far belvw 1mml wigbts were dropped before the fiinal tabulauts.
/c less than 041
Source: Braazil, lmmn Reswzces Special Rport, AmI  I, World BRek, July 1979.



-5£-
MU 1
WmUL                                   Table 8
IBW          BMC SAR  saCE; PRDB(
Vaccinated Cbverage of Qdldrem less than one year old
in Northeast and Kings Gerais
fra 1998 - 1983 *
I                       I      1980 D         19$1     1     1982    1      1983    1
t                 I            - - I1^  -- ---   I1          
IStates an Regims       I AS   WVT (2)1 AS   ]T (3)1 AS   DPT (3)1 AS   DPT (31
I -             - ~~I  -  -                      I              i
I ME=sr                 127.3    29.3 153.7    19.7 1 28.5    22.8 1 28.1   26.4 1
I~~                      ~      ~~ t             I              I       
I  MaNbaso              1 17.8    14.1 1 19.4    -8.8 1 31.8      9.0 I 18.4   12.8 1
1  Piaui                123.3    28.4 143.8    22.0  33.4    22.5 135.3   29.31
I  Ceara                132.4    34.0 167.1    23.2 129.1    27.2 1 32.5   30.8 1
|                ~       ~      ~~I  I           I              I      
I  Rio Gmnde do Nrte   1  49    49.3 157.0    43.6 1 39.7    45.0 1 40.9   39.3 1
!                       I              I               I              I             I
I  Paraiba              1 35.8    37.2 4148.3    16.6 1 32.3    28.4 1 37.2   29.8 1
Pernwarbuco          126.5       331  51    28.8 122.1    26.0 140.3   44.91
i                ~       ~      ~~I  I           I              I             I
1  Alagoas              126.5    31.3 160.0        5.11 2.3    14.9 122.5   21.71
I  Sergipe              136.8    39.4 166.1    28.9 146.7    3D.9  40.0   35.41
I                       I              I               I              If
I  Bahia                123.0    24.0 164.6    15.3 125.6    26.2 15.9   15.11
Minas Gerais "            56.7    47.3 1 69.2    49.8 1 59.2    50.2 1 67.2   57.5 1
1SQremWAST              I 81.8    76.7 1 86.1    75.3 1 89.4    76.8 1 81.4   77.0 1
I soun                 I 91.7    72.9 1 84.8    61.2 I 94.4    75.8 1 77.8   84.4 1
I con¶IES               I 44.1    45.3 I 51.5    22.0 1 45.2    29.0 1 48.9   38.4 1
I                       I              I               J              I      
I ERAZIL                I 59.1    55.6 1 69.9    47.9 1 64.0    53.4 1 58.4   55.6 1
I     .,.I                             I               I              I        ,    I
* First Smeter of 1983
Source: DNE/SlIAS - Ministry of Health



-52-                                     AUt 1
ERAza                                         Table 9
NOIR8T BASIC BMUF1 SElVICE PRtJE
1 :   br~Ytality of 1l        etal Diseases
(per 100,000 pO)
(1979 - 1983)
I  I   g1979    1      1980      1       9U      I      1982      1      1983
I               I                I               I                I               I
I   Caes    ICases Coeff,cinttCases CroefficientlCase CaefficieatlCase CeficitlCae QOefici0t
I               I                I               I                I               I
Ilasles      114,623   42.9  122,882   65.7  117,068   48.0  117,152   47.2  116,195   43.6   1
I            I                I               I                I               I                I
IDipbtbeia     1,592    4.7   I 2,035    5.8   1 1,606    4.5    1,524    4.2   I 1,795    4.8   1
I            I                I               i                I                II
ITet1          1,1      3.5    1,242    3.6    1,071    3.0   11,016    2.8        9 982    2.6   1
I        ~~I              I                I                I               It
IVhooz Comu1}9.642   30.7  113,235   38.0  111,487   32.3  111,240   30.9   1 6,195   16.7   I
1            I                1               I                I               I                1
IPobliceitis 1,084    3.2   1  496    1.4   1   75    0.2   I   42    0.1          22   0.05
Souce:  I/I
Note:   Prelimry data



-53-
ANNEX 1
Table 10
MC SSREC 3S PRDEU
Leprosy Patients uIe Reist&e  Control in NDrtbus and Mines Grais States
1983
1             1 ~~~~~RM  PRIMMPA712115I
I                        _  _   _    _    _ _    _   _      . . _    _  _    ,         I.. 
1 3sThS                I C*r Ontro1                       I  Wiut  t l I T  O        T A LI
I                      1l                                 I                 I I
I                      1kb  aitaliz   I   A*bulatory  I                    I I
Ilb.        Z   I 1b.        Z   1 N.        2    11kb.   1
I          -           I   |          ,   _               I                 11  I
Narao                    112     1.2   I  4,166  43.8   I  5,328   55.0  II  9,606  I
I                I                 I                I                 II         I
Plaui                 1   27     9.0   1  1,424  49.3   I  1,439   49.8  II  2,890
Ceara                    300     6.8   I  2,858  64.8  1  1,253   28.8  II  4,411
1Rio  ade do lbte      I   72    25.7   1    104  37.1   I    104   37.2  I       2801
I                      I                I                 I                 11         I
Parsiba               1   39     5.01    711  90.41           36   4.6   11   7861
IPenbuco                 i 129     2.9   1  3,198  71.4  1  1,151   25.7  II  4,4781
I                      I                I                 I                 11    
Alagoas                1-        -          224  91.01        22   9.711         2461
ISergipe               1 34        4.41    518  67.41    217   28.2  11    7691
I                      I                I                 I                 II         I
102     4.2   I  1,338  55.7   1    961   40.1  112,401t
IMinas Gerais            1,976     5.5   1  5,058  14.0  I 29,022   80.5  II 36,056
&urce: JRItBf



ell__" <~SC2kC " v½ _



-55-
NOWIHRAST 5SAIC NEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Health Sectol Resources
Chart 1   Variation of per Capita Health Expenditure by Region, in
Relation to National Average
Table 1  Health Facilities by Type and Regions
Table 2   Health Workers in Brazil, 1970-1980
Table 3   Northeast:  Health Profesionals in 1970 and 1979
Table 4   Services per Inhabitant, by Regions, in Years 1975 and 1981
Table 5   Health Expenditures by Source of Financing, 1981
Table 6   Distribution of GDP, Population and Health Expenditures
(INAMPS) by Regions
Table 7   Evolution (Base Index 1980 - 100) of Federal Realth
Expenditures
(including INAHPS), by Sub-Program, 1980-1983



-56-
AM_2
Chart 1
M8C Na iNam PM=w
Vadation of per Cipi±a  keth Ibixte by Rg8im.
in Relatiou to Ntibtal Averq
1981
20D  I       1     G1 6. Public
tilT G. Private
I           I  G. MotA
1501
_                             t1111 1
I     Qtil                          1311//I  I
100 I         .lal. lcll...l_1/-.....__... ..........
I    tllx                           IX/Il  I -  111It1  3111   I    1311111  I
I    1I//1    I    1!       _1//A   I    Illl/  I    l3ll/11   1
I    M13//1   I      13L  _         WKM/I  I    hIl//I  I          3ll/l  I
501    1311111  I    tau1/   I    I)11//   I    131111   I    13111/I  I
1    1311/Il  1    lIMtl   I    13=11/1  1    131/11/   1    131/l  I
1    t111/I   1    131111   I    1311111  I    13111/1   1    1311111  I
I      XI3//I I    tL/Il  I    131//lI   1  3111/I  I    131/Il  I
I    Por        l//l  I             D1/1 1 MrI/   I    tial//l  I    lullfi   I
I                   DR1/1 1  aclM     I    r]OCl//l  I    IxIllUl  I    13X11X1  I
0 LJiJLLI I  IgILLI_iLLJILL_L. iLL_L IJI/Ji-
krth           NIrtbmt    Somsdmt             South         Center-Wft
Apud: V =, CA.B.



~~77~~D-   -   -  -            
i        I b I   s^==~    _=__==
"9egw St     Xu"-s 8            :  
g~~~                   -wP|   
[i  E tii  S _____________  _ r ~~~d ~I   E l
kS~~~       I w.~                      '-4 i; f4 ,   
i.v    'i   i  1      ;fiS.f            oi 
i  ;- '-                    .      '..9 
*^~~~~~                         I. "          f  oi 
18~~~~~~                     I. ,, S D     
f1k  U2 & -- bw.
_------- !I
~~    



I.
S f  I  I  1 t  X  g X   : S F  B  |  W  E f  g  IE I~S 
*                     S-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Z~~~~~~i I1,gIIL§[                                       I
-  -}  -  -  - - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  ---  -
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 R 1E
Is   ;                     r-- a
No          Iiii
b4 _ _ __ __ _ __ _  _  _
;~~ ,3 0  N  N  .' N    0            N    0   - , W & 
^   *   w  W  *  *  w  *  w  *  v  *  K  .  b  u~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
". [   §   §  §  B g  g X §  g W  g |  S W §   . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
X    rP  __  ________  ____  _ _______. _i



-59-
AM 2
Table 3
NlgW   BAr SIC  AI    SVICES PRJZ'?
N:EWI: helath Profess8mU
(Per 10,000 pculatium)
1970 an 1979
YEAR
Professiaa1 Category         1970      1979
ysician                    3.4       7.0
Dentists                      0.4       13
N8se                          0.4       0.8
Smrce: MD=-GMWE, Nbrtbesst Social Indicators.



i|:p   f*                                   ;*:
if                                                      j1 i      WgT  
S           *:l                               
----- s.- *-    -¢                                   .______    ___    _   es   s
N  X   o  o  o  o o o w Z N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
|  }  h   S   U   t   §    . e   §   T [   w  §.  |   F   g



-61-
ANJ 2
TAble 5
IVMT  ASC nAu  am(MS EIJ
3L:  We,th 8e.ditbu    by Souce of Fimmiig, 1981
I                                 I          EXPENDITURES                      I
I           SOURCE                I    -
I                                 I        Q$   s           I I      S         I
I                                 I     .I                                     I 
I1'UZC                            1              .677,673 II             47.7 
I  _                                                        II 
1Federl                                           421,0491            29.61
- Tr_Mm                  1    58,937               I   4.1
X        - SocialSe ity           I   362,112               125.5              I
- 1tate                         I                 184,66911            13.0  1
*        - Tresuuy                I   140,767               II  9.9
,        - Sociald  e auri             43,902               II  3.1            1
I - Nmicipa.                      1                  n71,995 It           5.1   1
-Traury                  I   60,795                    4.3            1
- Socialseity            1    11,16                    0.8            1
IpRIWE                            I                 742,605 I            52.3
-  hysical Prsons                    596,833              11 42.0
I -  ioSg                    1    13,959               111.0              1
I-_uuace                               4 43,716             I  3.2
I - Factoes                       1    58,791               1l  4.1            1
I .- Ybiuztpic                    I    27,366              11  2.0             1
I                                 I                       _II 
IUmZCIL      I  677,673       1,420,7    10.0    100.0  1
*W: Visia CA.



-62-
ARM 2
DAm=                            Table 6
lu1hT  MaC  m111 SUVIC  PM=
Diatributiim of GI?, Pcpulatio and  ealth  Epsditure  (8AIS) by Ragims
I                 I     alG          IPOPULATIONI  I NANP S                 I
I  ~~        I                   I                  I                  1blt   
WI c$ billits I X   I (Millions) I %   I bpd          X   I
~~~I  ..-l-   1                                     ,I_- lI
IERAZIL           I 10,104.3    1100.0 119,002.7   1100.0 1 178,407    IIO0.0 I
Nbrth      1   275.2    1 2.11 5,880.3   14.91  4,052    1 2.31
Nbrtbeast  1 1,533.2    1 11.7 1 34,812.3    1 29.3 1 31,015    1 17.4 1
I     Sbutbeast  1 8,583.3    1 65.5 1 51,734.1    1 43.5 1 99,088    1 55.5 1
South        2,240.8     17.1 I 19,031.2   116.0 1 33,535    118.8 1
1                 i            I      I           I      I           It
1 Cter-Wk.t1   471.8    1 0.41 7,544.8   1 6.31 10,717    1 6.01
Surce:  C4mjmat= BoaW_c. NV, 1970-198D, various fyue. TWAS. Secretaria
de C tabi idade. DM;C - Statistical Yearbooik - 1983 - Advanced
Tabulatio. D.igrapbi Cusme, 1980.
Rite:    MAuistrative           are  exchlued.



-63-                               AMW 2
Tiable 7
WRMAIT BASIC IMUM SUVC  PRWr
Uwlutimxl (Base     1980 - 100) of Fedeal halth blpsdible
(inclxii DIS), by &*-ropan 19-1983
SLSU WROGMM                  1980   1981    1982    1983
Main &brcs                                   100    94.0   1005    83.9
- Food and NItrition                         100   112.5   187.4   1653
- Medicallspital Care                        100    92.6    96.6    78.0
- Control of Coiwaile Diseases               100    76.9   102.1   108.1
- Propbylactic mad T   Peuatic Products      100   136.7   133.1   191.0
- Otber & o ms                               100    93.0    99.6    89.0
T O T A L                    100    93.0    99.6    84.1



I  Ir-) '3/(4 a  tV



-65-
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST EASIC HEALT_ SERVICES PROJCT-
AN=w 3
Proiect Costs
Table 1  Suuizry of Project Costs with a 5-Tear Iuplementation Schedule
Table 2   Sumary of Project Costs witb an 8-Year Implementation Schedule
Table 3   Summary Accounts by Year (5-Year Scbedule)
Table 4 Project Management, Sumary of Costs
Table 5   Variation of the ORTN and Selected Indicators on Previous
12.-onth Reriods
Table 6   Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 7 Estimated Scbedule of Disbursements



-66-
ANNEX 3
Tab le 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
SUNNARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY STATES (5-YEAR INPLEIENTATIO  SCHEDULE)
US$ '000
CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE            tINAS      PIAUI   RID GRANDE    BAHIA         Six        TOTAL
GERAIS                DO NORTE                STATES      8 YEARS
A. INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works                    4,682.2    3,504.6    4,497.8    3,079.2           9.5   15,773.3
Furniture & Equipment           4,118.7    2,611.9    2,379.3    2,934.4    2,112.4   14,156.7
Vehicles                          265.6      773.5       273.6       226.3      409.3    1,948.3
Training & Supervision          4,246.3      856.0    1,732.9    2,404.5        361.8    9,601.5
Studies                            18.1       27.1        18.1        18.1        47.0      128.4
Technical Assistance              287.0      213.9       218.9       204.5      815.3    1,739.6
Project Wanaqesent                                                                        5,033.4
Subtotal Investsent Costs    13,617.9    7,987.0    9,120.6    9,867.0    3,755.3   48,381.2
8. RECURRENT COSTS
Salaries New Staff             19,355.2    3,637.4    6,359.6    6,927.8                 36,280.0
Drugs & Supplies               7,018.5   10,362.7    7,034.7    1,874.4                  26,290.3
Vehicles Operation and
Maintenance                       993.4    1,290.6    1,076.8    1,100.5                  4,461.3
Subtotal RECURRENT COSTS      27,367.1   15,290.7   14,471.1    9,902.7                  67,031.6
C. TOTAL PROJECT COST            40,985.0   23,277.7   23,591.7   18,769.7    3,755.3  115,412.8
April 18, 1986



-67-
ANNEX 3
Table 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY STATES (8-YEAR IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE)
US '000
CATE8ORY OF EXPENDITURE            NINAS      PIAUI   RIC GRANDE    BAHIA          SIt       TOTAL
6ERAIS                DO NORTE                STATES      8 YEARS
A.INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil works                    5,303.7    4,281.7    5,653.8    3,800.6           12.0   19,051.8
Furniture f Equipment           4,787.5    3,028.1    2,727.4    3,574.5    2,683.1   16,900.6
Vehicles                         337.31      914.5       316.1       278.8      519.9    2,366.6
Training I Supervision          4,598.4      934.5    1,953.6    2,740.5        459.5   10,686.5
studies                            19.9       29.9        19.9        19.9       59.7       149.3
Technical Assistance              326.2      238.2       258.9       243.3    1,035.5    2,102.1
Project Management                                                                        5,729.7
Subtotal Investment Costs    15,373.0    9,426.9   10,929.7   10,657.6    4,769.7   56,886.6
B. RECURRENT COSTS
Salaries New Staff            20,783.9    3,869.0    6,994.4    7,484.4                  39,131.7
Drugs & Supplies                7,475.6   11,560.8    7,737.9    2,114.8                 28,98q.1
Vehicles Operation and
Naintenance                     1,075.3    1,392.4    1,173.8    1,198.7                  4,940.2
Subtotal RECURRENT COSTS       29,334.8   16,822.2   15,906.1   10,797.9                 72,861.0
C. TOTAL PROJECT COST             44,707.8   26,249.1   26,835.8   21,455.5    4,769.7  12q,747.6
April 18, 1986



-68-
BRAZIL                                        ANNEX  3
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVXCES PROJECT                              Table 3
Summary Accounts by Year (5-Year Schedule)
Totals Includirg Continnines
(MSt o0001
No. of Units    1997      19DB     1989     1990      1M      Total
z:: sz ssZsZ    *:Cz ssZs- s  s: -=   ssssZ-: X A Stu
I. INVESTIENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VMR1S
IASIC IIEALT  SRVICES                 S58    54521.8  3M9M.3  1#765.8    847.5   400.7  12*513.1
REGIONL IADO TERS                       9    19410.7    159.4         -        -        -   1,570.1
LABORATORIES                            2       41.4         -        -        -        -      41.4
REGIONAL HOSPITAL                       4      102.6    259.4    69.8          -        -     431.0
LOCAL NOSPITAL                          6      122.4   206.9    63.1        679               460.4
VAREHOUSES                              2      143.3    21.8          -        -        -     165.1
UORKSHOPS                               4      198.2      13.0        -        -        -     211.2
TRAINING CENTERS                        3      380.3         -        -        -        -     380.3
Sub-Total CIVIL VMRKS                           7.920.7  49637,8  1*8t8.6   915.5   400.7  15,773.3
9. FURNITURE I EQUIPMENT
PASIC HEALTH SERVICES               39996   44841.2  3t035.3  1.796.3   894.5    582.4  11f149.7
REGIONAL HEAISJARTERS                   11     950*8   142.1    21*9    23*6         25.0   1163.3
LABRAtORIES                             12     220.8         -        -        -        -    220.8
REGINANL HOSPITAL                       3      112.5    47.1       25.3        -        -     184.9
LOCAL HOSPIYAL                          8      692.0   176.8    190.2          -        -   1s059.0
TRAINING CENTERS                         3     189.6        -                           -     189.6
v-ORSHOPS                               4       85.2      4,8         -        -        -      90.0
MARENEUS£S                               2      81.1    18.3          -        -        -      99.4
PROJECT  AARMNENMT                       -     212.1    300.4   242.4          -        -     755.0
Sub-Total FURNITtME I EQUIPtIENT                7.385.3  3.724.8  29276.1    918.1   607.4  14,911.6
C. UEHICLES                               117   1,053.4    490,8    311.7    92.5          -   1,948.3
P. TRAININB AND SUPERVISION          141,172   2t360.5  2.044.3  2.156.6  2,313.9  2.138*6  114014.0
E. TECNAICAL ASSISTANCE                   500   1W345.6    368.4   244.6   126.9        37*2   29122.7
F. STUDIES                                  -      82.3        -         -        -     46.0    128.3
G. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                  13.020     567 4    602.7   408.0   439.2   465*5   2U482,8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                            20.715.3 11,868.8  7f295.6  4.806,0  34695.4  48381.0
::-=: ::=Z=5  =::==C.-= S:=-6-:=C=3    :C:
11. RECRRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                           WPM'28   2#85r.6  6,025.2  7,735.5  9,407.9 10.253.7  36f279.9
B. DRUGS I OTHER SUPPLIES                  -   4.190.3  4,391.4  5,226.1  5,980,8  66501.7  26.290.3
C. OPERATION I PAINTENANCE                 -     454.7   738.9   961.3  1,105.2  19201.1   4,461.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                              7*502.5 11,155.6 13,923.0 16,493.9 17,956.6  67,031.6
-z Z=.=c             :     ac::: _ c=cz  : :c====Zz
Total PROJECT COSTS                                28,217.8 23,024.3 21,218.6 21,2.9 21.652.0 1159412.6
April 18 1986 11:38



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST 8ASIC HEALTH SERVTCES PROJECT
PROJECT MAJICE1ENT
(5-Year TIplementation  Schedule)
(US#' 000)
Total$ tncluesfo talXtlSiCwlf
bamtits                                   UN. Costs in *                               (35  l0ow
ihtt      1967l 99    299    199                  o          9W   1S8          1969 199   2     Tot   19M7     9M8   1m  19 9 1    T
e ewas :=aaaae:e  a::e::;: :aan  e~   eewen   e::  .s:   waa:   :Dl                       *    Sfc:  B5:f=f. ;fln::: a:S:at::a     a:::£: :
1. ISESTIN  clUsT
A. 999661   19U9S10
1 . __   _TS
Dim 11t5l                                     3.$3500   350    1.400   1.4  40    1200    174.1  174.1  6.6  69.6 69.6  557.2    176.3  139-.  81.5  e7'.   93.0  633.1
Fih5l1 Tam                        wIts          550   SD        2       220    220    1.760    16.4   140.4 63.3 67.3  67.3  5113.8   17.5  1U3.?' '8.8  84.9    ,O    609.3
OTllw  TIATIU                     IITS           -       -                       -        -     15.3    s-3  15.3    15.3 15.3      76.5    25.7  12-7  17.  19.3  2.04    90.0
-1rotal uwFr                                                                                       357.8  357. 152.3 152.3 152.31.172.5    366.5  369.2 17.3 191.c 2e3.4 1.39.4
-----. -...... - --- - -- --- - --- -----* -    ---- ------........................ . . . ..*- ----- ---.  -----............. ----
Suw-total 93196T1 As SUwRVISlUN                                                                       W57.8  357;6 152,3 252.3 152.3 172.5    366.5  389.2 173.3 191.9 03.4 S1O2M.
8. ltlICI: 6SISIIIIC
._  .....   . .......
6. 102m. S1SrU
1,966/93MW
IWMTilIW                          6/*           14       -       -       -       -       14     55.7        -    -     -     -   55.7        7.1       -    -                 57.1
MINMIStRTIRA N                    11/1            4       -       -       -      -        4      15.9       -    -            -     5.9     16.3       -                      16.3
FLnUINI                            N/"            8       *       -                       B -                     . 31.8  -    -    -  -                           -18  32.6   32o6
rn      T                          NIN           9        -       -      -        -       9      35.8       *    -      -    -   35.8       36.7       -    *    -       -    36.7
UISNCIFIE                         IIJ5I -S- 59                                                   4.               -     -     -  234.6    249.5        -           -         240.5
S.-total  IWS1EE                                                                                   374.1       -    -      -     *  374.1    383.2        -                 -  383.2
Sub-total 11C061CM  ASSISTIICM                                                                        374.1                   -     -   374.1    363.2                      -      383.2
C. PJRNIWK  I E IPN
AMINISTION                          GLO              -       -       -       *                -    18.3  251.0 196.3    -        -  427.6    212,1  300.4 242.4       -    -   ;5,0
----  --   --  -----     -  - *-  - - -^- _- -----  --.-----   ----  -.  ...-  ------   -----  -  -"- -.- _.-
SbTota f iNtI  I 3SINTwl                                                                              198.3  251.0 198.3      -    -  627.6    212.1  300.4 242.4        -     -   m.0
8. 16*14IMB
1.  IAMIEIENlt MSD PUIC HEI.1   KER STATE          10     10       4       4       4       32    390.3  390.3 156.1 156.1 15t6  1,249.0    399.5  424.6 162.6 196.7 208.5 U412.S
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                                                    390.3  390.3 156.1 156.1 156.2 1e249.0    39.6  424.6 182.6 16.7 201.5 12412.5
E. IKCREIENTIA  SINF
IEOOICINMIS                         *E4R            8       8       a       8       8       40    178,3  178.3 178.3 178.3 178.3  891.4    262.6  294.0 206.7 224.7 238.1 1*048.1
SllOT STAlFF                        IUE              4       4       4       4       4       20     17.9   17.9  17.9  17-9  17.9   69.5       16,3   29-5  21.0  22.6  23.9  145.3
.ub-Total IIICRE2IEN1M. STlff                                                                        296.2  196.2 296.2 196.2 IS6.2  983.0    201.0  213.4 229.t 247.2 262.2 1.153.4
to. 1 INWSINENt COSTS                                                                                  1.504.7 1,195.3 692o9 504.6 504.6 4t404.1   2.1,5 1,327.7 833.2 635.9 674.0 54033.4
:                  ann =5555n  zzSZa=: :M: 5:-an  =:C      a: ts ::: :::: a:::::::
Totd1                                                                                                   1,506.7 1,195.3 692.9 504.6 504-6 4*404-1  2562.5 1,327.7 833.2 635.9 674.0 5,033.4
I:;?::,         5550 flaw.  5 nan   a=5     a:..;:: 5::;:  ;:a:5  S:::: 9:=:: :5:::::         to A
Asu1  13. 19   12:33



-70-
3
Table 5
BAMC l  SU1ICp PeSr
Variation of the CMD aod Selected Indicator.
ou Previou 12-*bt.h Periods
W100 SAL=  (MAY 1)    CM
DAEM      (ME.)      (M.)         CuA        M. QAIS    WU4H1
1981        95.6        95.2         110           104       97.8
1982        97.8        99.7         107           96        96.4
1983        156.6      211.0        1m            109       144.4
1981        215.3      223.8         217          179       207.9*
1985 **                 227.0 (AS)    243          243
Source      (1)         (1)           (1)          (1)         (2)
*Projected
Nkbsics Ebtiutes
SJ3:: (1) Tabels Praticas TI, 1985
(2) Getuli Mimps F=dstion, !btioa1 Accot Ceter,
Ikrch 1985



-71-
ANNEX 3
Table 6
BRAZIL
RO1RTI&T BASIC IALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Losn Proceeds
Amount
US$ million      Percent of Expenditures
Category                   Equivalent            to_ be Financed
1.   Works                         11.0             80%
2.   Goods other than              12.3             100% of foreign
vehicles (but including                        expenditures and 802
bicycles)                                      of local expenditures
3.  Consultant Services             4.2             100%
and Studies
4.   Training, supervision          7.0             80S
and management
5.   Drugs and Supplies            11.0             up to US$2.0 million in year 1;
up to $2.5 million in year 2;
up to US$3.0 million in year 3;
up to US$2.5 million in year 4;
and up to US$1.0 million in
year 5. These are cumulative
limits for eacb year. If any
amount is not used in a given
year, the following year limit
would be increased by the same
amount.
6.   Unallocated                   14.0
Total                   59.5



-72-
AIM    3
ERAMI                      Table 7
SBAC Hu    EesVIM EW.WX
EST;M 811REU OF lISlE_SD
:: Disbets  :  Acclated   :  ibidsibsed
Fisal Year/        ::                : Disurw ts  :    Bhls,e
Saster diiwg    ::himts :  2           unt    2    A:munts:  2
PY 1987            ::                :
December 31, 1986     0.60:  1  :   0.60:  1   :  58.90: 99
June 30, 1987    ::   1.79:  3         2.39:  4       57.11: 93
nY 1988
December 31, 1987::   2.38:  4   :   4.77:  8         54.73: 92
June 30, 1988    ::   2.98:  5  :   7.75: 13          51.75: 87
NY1989::                 :      ::               ::
PY 1989            :
Decmber31, 1988::   4.17:  7   :  11.92: 20  :  47.58:  OD
Jim 30, 198     ::   4.17:  7   :  16.09: 27  :  43.41: 73
171990        ..         .      ..               .
FT 1990            :       
December 31, 1989::   5.36:  9   :  21.45: 36   :  38.05 : 64
mn 30, 1990    ::   5.36:  9   :  26.81: 45   :  32.69 : 55
Ff 1991            ::. 
Decmber 31, 1990::   5.36:  9   :  32.17: 54  :  27.33 : 46
June 30, 1991    ::   4.76:  8  :  36.93: 62   :  22.57 : 38
n 1992             ::         :      :
Dbcember 31, 1991::   4.76:  8  :  41.69: 70  :  17.81 : 30
Jme 30,1992    ::   4.17:  7   :  45.86: 77   :  13.64 : 23
FY 1993            ::        :
DwcAnber 31, 1992::   4.17:  7   :  50.03: 84  :   9.47 : 16
June 3, 1993    ::   2.98:  5  :  53.01: 89  :   6.49 : 11
FY 1994
Decber 31, 1993::   2.98:  5  :  55.99: 94  :   3.51 :  6
June 30, 1994    :    1.79:  3   :  57.78: 97   :   1.72 :  3
F1 1995            :
December 31, 1994::   1.72:  3   :  59.50 :100  :        -:  -
Closirg Date: June 30, 1995



-73-
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC BEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX 4
Project-IM2lementation Data
Chart 2        Ministry of Health Crganigram: Divisions Involved in Project
Implementation
Chart 3        Project Organization
Table  1       Project Areas
Table  2        Basic Health Care Modules, Facilities and Staffing
Table  3       Functiou and Relative Care Contents of the Health Network
(BHCM and Referral)
Table  4       Estimates for Health Service Coverage
Table  5 -  6  Personnel:  Existing and Additional - Bahia
Table  7 -  8  Personnel:                             - Minas Gerais
Table  9 - 10  Personnel:                             - Piaui
Table 11       Personnel:                             - Rio Grande do Norte
Table 12       Training - Bahia
Table 13 - 14  Training - Minas Gerais
Table 15 - 16  Training - Piaui
Table 17       Training - Rio Grande do Norte
Table 18       Civil Works - Summary
Table 19       Bahia - Total Physical Component
Table 20       Piaui - Total Physical Component
Table 21       Minas Gerais - Total Physical Component
Table 22       Rio Grande do Norte - Total Physical Component
Table 23       Technical Assistance
Table 24       Project Implementation Schedule



LJ1!
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ml
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d'
,                          .                    g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
F7L
L~~~Ji                                                             @II  Ej i
, ....   o_......
I~~~~ ..........I........i......1....... ....... .2 
''   I                     
1.h    '0 



IX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        I
___             ___~~~~~~~~~~~ ____J
Y~~~       m              - __    _   __
G 9 g  ____  1I--          _i_E---l-
S g "_I
Eg         1-'2    i      1i1Xe    il1 X---- 
a~ ~ a 
I                  Co            .      X



-76-
ANNEX 4
Table 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS
Minas Gerais. The project area of Montes Claros, with 761,000 people,
includes the following 28 municipalites: Bocaiuva, Itacambira, Itacarambi,
Janauba, Sao Joao do Paraiso, Manga, Hato Verde, Monte Azul, Porteirinha, Riacho
dos Nacbados, Rio Pardo de Minas, Sao Francisco, Sao Joao da Ponte, Varzelandia,
Capitao Eneas, Claros dos Pogoes, Engenbeiro Navarro, Francisco Dumont, Francisco
Sa, Jequitai, Jurameuto, Lassance, Mirabela, Montes Claros, Varzea do Palma,
Pirapora, Taiobeirss, and Salinas.
Piaui. The project area with 1,333,000 people, includes 5 Realth
Directorates (DIRES), with the following municipalites: DIRES I (215,000 people
in 5 localities): Parnaiba, Luis Correia, Buriti dos Lopes, Cocal, aud Joaquim
Pires. DIRES II (172,000 people in 7 localities): Barras, Batalha, Esperantina,
Luzilandia, Matias Olimpio, Nosse Senhora dos Remedios, and Porto. DIRES III
(176,000 people in 5 localities): Piripiri, Capitao de Campos, Domingos Maurao,
Pedro II, and Piracuruca. DIRES IV (649,000 people in 8 localities): Teresina,
Altos, Demerval Lobfo, Jose de Freitas, Miguel Alves, Monsenhor Gil, Palmeirais,
and Unilo. DIMES VI (119.600 people in 12 localities): Auarante, Agricolandia,
Agua Branca, Angical, Arraial, Barro Duro, Francisco Ayres, Hugo Napoleao, Miguel
Leto, RegeneraeSo, Sao Gonsalo, and Sao Pedro do Piaui.
Rio Grande do Norte. The project area with 595,500 people includes 4
DIRES, with the following municipalities: DIRES III (128,000 people in 10
localities): Ceara Nirim, Joao Camara, Macau, Alfonso Bezerra, Parazinho,
Riachuelo, Touros, Bento Fernandes, Jardim de Angicos, aud Pogo Branco. DINES IV
(182,200 people in 23 localities): Acari, Carnauba dos Dantas, Caico, Cerro Cora,
Currais Novos, Equador, Jardim de Piranhas, Jardim de Serid6, Jucurut6, Parelbas,
Santana do Natos, Sao Vicente, Cruzeta, Florania, Ipueira, Lagoa Nova, Ouro
Branco, Santana do 8erido, Sao Jose do Serido, Sao Fernando, Serra Negra do Norte,
and Timbauba dos Batistas. DINES VI (157,700 people in 34 localities):
Alexandria, Antonio Martins, Frutuoso Gomes, Ital, Luis Gomes, Marcelino Vieira,
Martins, Olho D'agua dos Borroes, Pau dos Ferros, Portalegre, Rodolfo Fernandes,
So Miguel, Severiano Melo, Umarizal, PatG, Agua Nova, Almino Afonso, Coronel Joao
Pessoa, Doutor Severiano, Encanto, Francisco Dantas, Joao Dias, Jose da Penha,
Lucrecia, Olho d'Agua dos Borges, Parant, Piloes, Rafael Fernandes, Riacho da
Cruz, Riacho de Santana, Rodolfo Fernandes, Sao Francisco do Oeste, Tenente
Ananias, and Rafael Godeiro.
Bahia.  The project area with 952,000 people includes 4 DIRES, covering the
following municipalities: DINES NI (12 municipalities): Cip6, Antas, Cicero
Dantas, Euclides Da Cunba, Itapicuru, Nova Soure, Olindina, Paripiranga,
Quinjigue, Ribeira do Amparo, Ribeira do Pombal, and Tucano. DINES XII (12
localities): Serrinha, Araci, Biritinga, Cansanego. Concei;bo do Coite, Lamarto,
Monte Santo, Queimadas, Retirolbndia, Santa Luz, Teofilandia, and Valente. DIRES
XVIII (10 localities):  Itaberaba, Andarai, Boa Vista do Tupim, Iaqu, Ibiquera,
Itsetb, Lajedinho, Marcionilio Souza, Rui Barbosa, and Utinga. DINES XXVII (10
localities): 8eabra, Boninal, Ibitiara, Xraquara, Len;ois, Hucug6, Palmeiras,
PiatS, Souto Soares, and Wagner.



-77-
ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
Basic Health Care Modules: Facilities and Staffing Patterns
The BHCM will include human resources and health facilities for providing
household care, ambulatory and local hospital care as follows:
(a) for clusters of 100-400 families (500-2,000 people) living in a
locality: there will be a health attendant per 100-170 families
(according to scattering patterns) but not health facilities within the
locality. The health attendants will he staff members of the nearest
health facility;
(b) for municipios with about 5,000 people, of which over 2,000 live at the
seat, and about 3,000 live in neighboring localities: there will be a
staffed health center type I at the seat,and a health attendant per
group of 100-170 families in neighboring localities. If there is a
cluster of about 2,000 people in a locality, a staffed healtb post will
be established;
(c) for municipios with 5,000 up to 10,000 people: if at least 5,000 live
in the seat, there will be a staffed health center type II located in
the seat (if below 5000, it will be a health center type I); a staffed
health post per clusters of about 2,000 people, and/or a health
attendant per group of 100-170 families;
(d) for municipios with more than 10,000 and up to 20,000 people: if at
least 10,000 live in the seat, there will be a staffed health center
type III located in the seat; staff health centers type I in clusters
of 2,000-5000 people, and type II in towns between 6,000-10,000 people;
health posts in clusters of about 2,000 and/or a health attendant per
group of 100-170 familes;
(e)  fo: municipios with 20,000 or more people: if at least 20,000 live
in the seat, there will be a staffed Unidade Mista in the seat (if
bellow 20,000, it will be a health center type III). The number of beds
will be variable, according to the population distribution within the
municipio and in the area ofinfluence outside the municipio.
Specifically, there will be a bed per 1,000 people living in the
municipal seat and in neighboring localities within the tunicipio; a
bed per 2,000 people in the area of influence outside the municipio.
Example: A municipio with 45,000 people    of which 22,000 live in the
seat, 23,000 in other localies within the municipio and 10,000 in the
area of influence outside the municipio, will have in the seat a
Unidade Mista with 50 beds. When the population living in the area of
a BHCM is greater than 50,000, and the main urban cluster is about
50,000, careful consideration would be given tc, construction of another
unidade(s) mista(s) within the BHCM.



-78-
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
EZL
N     sT BASC HFAU'H SERVICES PRnr
Staffiig Patterns for Helth Posts
Health CQters and thidades Nietas
|                         |               TYP E   OF   UNIT                       I
I                         I         IHealth   IHealth         alth    Uidade    I
Staff             1 Ekaltb   I Cuter       Cnter  I Center    Mista        1
IPost       Type   I   Type 2     Type 3      M3W44 bedsI
I                .        I    I .        I               I           I    _     I
IProfessionals            1               I          I          I           I
Physician            I              1      1 2        1    3      1    4
I   Itist                 1   --                I1        1    1      1    1      1
I Nurse                   1   -     I         1  1l                   1 1         1
I   Social  ker              -          -       I   -     I    -      I    1 1
!                         I         I           I         I           I           I
WfiddleIevel              I         t           I         I           I           I
?                         I         I           I         I           I           I
1-  Tectmician            I         I           I         I           I           I
Awiliary Services1   -       I    1      1   1           2     1    2      1
! 8Sanitation                          | -              I _    11    1- _
AtiniStr8tiOII       I   -      1    1     I   1      I    2     I    5       I
i                         I         I           I         I           I           I
-    xiiaries                                   I         I           I
I      D.irse Aziiary    1          1    1      1   1     1    1      1    4      1
I      A    ;uuili8y rSerierv s  -          I -                    I       2
I      Sanitation         1-        1    1      12        1 2  1           - t
I      MAinistration        -        1-         1-        1    1      I    3 1
IEleIHutary Level                   IIIII
Ea Iel I ..                                             ....I    I    I           I 
1Attandnt} I                              1     18           l11      1 26        1
I   Gael Services         I   1     1    1      1   2     1    4      1   21      1
1                         I         I    8                1   3           70
Total             |12        |    8     1 20       1  30       1  70       1
I. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ II  f  I,    _ _ _ _ _ _ _  



- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---- - - --  -
9   ~~~~W Up    C)    LO  I"     w                            f ;t
I'~~~~~~~t
I'~~~~~~~"
- -- -- -^- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -.- -- -- -- - --  m          
11w~~~~~~~~~~~ 
;1FWW   oo   w    ow              ow    ow IXg             IIE
-------------------------- -----------------b
0~~* d WW  000  09.W   00W  H'W  OOW14  CO-W               
o     W  oW 000  W.3W     W   o O . .  o .W 
I0g40 W  W(d  0HW   9.WW  -4W  9.3  COWO  0I.J   1SoIf
094W     W t  C.-'  t4W#4  '-'#4   #4t  OWW   09394         C,Ft[  
t4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
- -   - -   W ---    W--     W- -  W_o  W  W-----   W-' - - - - -



---- --- ---- -- -- -- -- -- -----------------
-^o dZ 1,   i y   i   i^   i   i    i   ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  0 ; 
|S Xx1IS   IjX5EE1  't'                                    I 
||a- |                                                                  I  i     : !||] ] 3!!|0-  
44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
ii  i ! S X ;~~~~P  l  3        n 1] e  50 i5541 X1f   
1 l2132.   1&Xl      1fl .           1X              1 iltl      Ja~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V-4V-  1
0-4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
I          I~~C  -------            -4 -



-81-
BRAZIL                              AMNEX 4
NORTBEAST BASIC _HALT! SERVICES PROJECT              Table 4
Estimates for Heglth Services Coverage
1.   BASIC PARAMETERS
- 2 medical visits/person/,year
-   0.5 dental visits/person/year
-   0.3 lab tests/medical visit
-   0.1 x-rays/medical visit
2.   PERCENT DISTRIBUTION OF MEDICAL VISITS BY TYPE OF CARE
-   15Z  Emergency Care
-   351  General Medicine
-   301  Gyneco-Obstetrics
182 pre-natal care
61 poe-natal
761 other care and family planning
201  Pediatrics
301 for infants
353 for toddlers
122 for Acute Respiratory Infection Program (IRA)
231 for Diarrbeal Disease Control Program
3.   PERCENT DISTRIBUTION OF SERVICES BY USER
-   141 for women
35Z pregnant
651 other users
-   162 for children
181 for infaDts
-         341 for toddlers
16% IRA patients
321 diarrhea patients
- 701 for other users, including family planning
4.   EXPECTED HOSPITALIZATIONS BY TYPE OF CARE
-   402  General Medicine
-   181  Surgery
-   202  Obstetrics/Gynecology
-   221  Pediatrics
5.   PRODUCTIVITY PARAMETERS IN AMBULATORY CARE
-   230 work days/year
-     4 medical visits/Ibour/doctor
-     3 dental vist6/hour/dentist
-     I domiciliary visit/hour/health worker
6.   POPULATION PARAMETERS
-    Pregnant Women:            4.01 of total oopulation
-    Women in Post-partum:      3.51 of total population
-    Infants (<I year):         3.01 of total population
-    Toddlers(C-4 years):      ll.o2 of total population
7.   FAMILY PLANNING ESTIMATES
-    Consider 401 of women in the target population aS potential users
of family planning, of which, 80% would be covered in a 5 year period.



BRAZIL                                                               PERSONNEL - BAHIA
RASrMSaCm RN  [WEI;Y    BASIC  REALTH  SERVICBS DEVELOPMENT
IEXISTING PERSONNELII  ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL
I_1.                              II                                 II_ .I
| 1985                         1      1    lSJ  YEAR                 i          2ND  YEAR               I
I                                 II                -                                 --- -  It.t
I        D  I R E S               II        D  I R  E S              II        D I R E S
CATEGORY            O       I xin   1I m  IXvII IM I  1  XI    I ti     IXVnII IXX        I ALL  I  X    I tXII  IXVIII  Ii  I ALL  I
________I___I__i__,________              _______                                            _ ___ __                         I_ l
tPhy3icie                 11  51 1  33 1  36    2 N71   147 11  18 1  47 1   2 1   8 1  75 11  14 1  18 1  13 1   4 1  49 1                       N
1                         11     1      1        1           11      1      1      1     1      11      1      1     1      1      I 
INdre                    11|-1|-1|3 13 1   6 11 -I -   2 1-t  211 I -I ---I -I
|                 ~~~~~II  I      I     I      I       II      t     I      I      I      II     J      I      I      I 
IDentist                       9 1 8 1 7 1   5 1   29 1t  11  1  16 I   B 1   7 1  42 11   4 1   8 1   3 1   2 1  17 1
1I 11I               I      I      II     I      I      I     I      II      1      I     I      I      I
IOther                    11Z2O0   198    90 1  82 I  580 I 1  27 1  46 1  20 1   8 I 101 1 1  17 1  70 1   6 1   3 1  961
I(includeallAxily   11           1      1      1      1      11      l      I      I     I      II      f      I     I      I      I
I ad a ltalthhttedgts)  II       J      I      I      I      II      I      I      I     I      II      I      I     I      I      I
I    ,                        -.-------I-ttI  I-I-I- -_ ..I-I -1-_I-l-1----
IT2rL          li270 1239 1 136 1 117 1  762 11  56 1 109 1  32 1  23 1 220 11  35 1  96 1  22 1   9 1 162 1
1-                          11'--1-1-1  -I-1--I-I-1---1I-I-t -1- - -1
1 X  REL. EM YAR          135.4 131.4  17.8  15.4 I  100 11 25.5 1 49.5 1 16.5 1 10.5 1 100 11 22.7 1 57.1 1 14.3 1 5.9 1 100 I
I                                                             It-I-I- I -     I-I. t-i-t-...  ----- l-.--I 1_ 1
1     ZXREL. 5YEUS Y1 38.4 1 45.6 1 26.9 1 43.4 1 39.5 11  24 1 36.8 1 18.5 1  17 1 27.6 1
1_   ,    ,                                  ~~~~~It-I-f-I  - I-  I-1-1-I---_I  - I                                         .. ,-3
I      IX1NU  )D                                             1138.4 1 45.6 1 26.9 1 43.4 1 39.5 11 62.4 1 82.4 1 45.4 1 60.4 1 67.1 1       to
--  -..-.,-  -- - --  -                                         -             o



BRAZ  I.                                                                  PERSONNEL  - BAHIA
WWl(A,FASIC WAUlt SF CIES FPRO                    B A S S    C    HEALTH    SERVICES    DEVELOPMhENT
I                                      ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL
: '   !               '--'' ~~It                          It                               11.-                    --   - 
3RD YEAR              11         4m  YEAR             511         5    YEAR              II    TOTAL  J 5 YEARS   |
11                               11                               I
I       D I R e s                it        D I R e s              11        D I R E S               11       D I R E S               I
CATEGORY               I Xa    I Im   IrIZIII OxVI ALL      x 1i I IxII  ImnIImiVI ALL  II n  IKii lxviii x0i I LALL  I XI Ia II xiRImn i1i    IU.     I
IPbysuian         I-            41  -I     14 1  10 1-  2811  --I   -I   171   4 1  21-11  -           -         1  -      -II   36 1  6 51  46 l   261 1731 I
I  11    1            1      1    I      I      I     I      I     II  I  I              1  1  1        1    11          1    1  1 
*iis                     II    l   "-    -I   -I    -l           I   -1         1  -l   -I          1     1   -l  *-          11  -1      ,I   2,        ,'  21
1betist                       -I   -I    51   5 1I 101   -I   -I   81    1 1   911   -II   - I   -I  -                     -I11   15 1  16 1  241   151   701
I ~   ~     ~     1    1I   I   i      I     1       II     1      1     1      1     11      1     1     1      1     11      I     1      1     1      I
I Oter                   11  17 1  14 1   7 1   1 1   39 11  17 1  14 1  14 1  -         45 11  17 1  14 1  -I   -I   31 11  95 1 158 1  47!  12 1 312 1
1 (imlude all Auxiliay1 I             I     II                                              I            I      1      1     1             1     1      1     1
I ar 8ealth Attfnmd4ts)11       1      1     1      1      1      1      1      1     1      11     1     1      1     1      1      1      1     1      1
I,                       111~IhttXa)8   I             II1 -I 1 1   I    I-I           I    -11       1-I         I     I'    11       1-          I      I
I         TOTAL          li  21 1  141  261  161   7711  171  14 1  39 1   5 1  75 11  17 1  14 1  -I   -I   3111 I146  247 1 119 1  53 %  565 1
I-_    .                 I..I-I- I _----I-_-I I-                          I- II- I-II-I-I-I-I- I I,  -I-I.-I  t--
Z REL. EN3 YFAR         11 27.2 1 18.2 1 33.8 1 2D.8     100 It 22.7 t 18.6 1  52 1 6.7 1 IO0 11 54.8 1 45.2 1  -I   -I  IO0 11 26.2 1 42.9 1 21.4 1  9.5 1 100 1
1    2 REL. 5 Y          11 14.41  5.9 1 21.9 1 30.2 1 13.8 11 11.6 1 5.9 1 32.8 1 9.4 1 13.5 11 11.6 1 5.8 1  -I  -I  5.6 11 2 of siMia1  relative to         I
I  , v,,II_II                      I  I---* 1-.---I I     I I-I-**---I-I---*  I-I I---.I-I-.I    lI - I II
I     1  hUJUXThI         176.8  88.3 1 67.2 1  .6I 180.9 11 88.4 1 94.21  1001   10o 1 94.4 11 1001  1001  -I  -I   1o 11 cY1 E11985- 74                      1
0 10
Io t



(-4  ~ ~ 0         1'                             4
w1s~ ~~.                          -fll-^--Iv    0-~--^ 
Z  o    o .                       ITT                   II b.  .    I t
~z         41I              I   '                                   I o 
to          .44                                                        - o  z   I o
z                            -                                -    -    -    -  - -    -    -    -   -
0..~~~~~~~~~~~~
H  ~       ~~~ f l         I   1               .       I'               1
0  0         CZ,T1 -----                                             ----
9-4      Cs~~0                                   to
I  '4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
-l                  --   -  -   -     - e @ ' n :N                         1
I;                    jol  $ :  b'  i }  }t li      13    lI    'I    1 ll   l
IJ~~~~~~~-         
'4U                                     W '4j1irio~



iii~D                --                      
I0                                                             0
94           4 e n  ^                  :         
* t P o F ~~I   I   I    
u in~~ ~ I 
04 Zl-    Ij. . 4 
0G          e  l  14   "II m  V              S 0  I     
VA               1    .    |1           ,<4           
<c P          ^             - -    -    -   -   -   -    -    -    -   -   -    -   -    -  I-I
Ca
8  m    !   9                                                1  1  1I,
tn F. I MlE  1   -A '  I  |  ' Z  I  I n  "  I 8  1R1'I  I I
0-4  t     toJ
0i  W           H  I                                I,01X}                     r



-86-
Annex
ANNE  4
Table 8
BRAZIL                                                             MINAS  GERAIS
1EA    MSIC wE&am SE1CES Pmwr                                    (Regular DIPS of Mntes Claros)
PERSONNEL   F O R   T H E    I(NSTITUTIONAL    DEVELOPMENT   COMPONENT
t~~~~~~~~I                            I! 
1Existirg||         ADDITIONAL   PERSONNEL
I lPersomel I    .
I CATEGORY                           |  1985   1 list Yearl2nd Yearl3rd Year!4th Yearl5th Year I Total 5 Years I
I Aamianistrator                      l-II   1 1-I--I- -I-                                        1        1
1                                    11         11       I        I       I       I        11              1
ITecnicalAssistant                   tl   18  11   8   I  10   1   6   1   4   1  -   1!    28
I                                    !1         11       1        1       1        1       11              1
AdmiAistrative Auiliary A            1    13  II  11   1  17   1   9   I   4   1           I 11   41       1
I                                    I!         11       1        I       I        I       I1              1
IAdmninistrative huiliary8                II 74 1   2   1-I-                      I-       II     6
I                          ~~II       tl        I       1       1        1       11       
Serviceshuxiliary                  II   37  II  51   1  84  I  51   1  26   t  -    II   212
I                                    11         II       I       I        I       I        11              1
IDriver                              1116  1181    6 1 - I- I-                                   14        1
TDoctor                               1110           1       1        2!      8       -I         12        1
1TcmeImlay                           11-111         101                   1- 1-I           112             1
Techaal   iliary I                              II  10   1    2        1  -                       2 II 
I Technical hiliary If    -   II   7   |   4   1  -   I  _   1  _   I                            11
I                                     If        11       I        I       1       1        11              I
I               ITaL                 fI101   11101    112 6   68    142 t -                     337        I
I                                    Il-I I-I-I---t--1-  I--  If.I
Z SATIE 5Y                I_t A1S30  37  120 113 t-I
1                                   -I t-I I-!I----..-..--I-  III
Z XI   - Ai   30   1  67   1  87   1 100   1  -    11
l     -                                                                                      3311  4 1  1  I  1  1  
I1         ;                              II   1   _    1        I        I_______  I      If 1__________ I



Vi   g|     ------------------------- E 
- -- -- -- - - - - - - - - -           
FT T
-_-_.-__---__-__----t
i A                                           w ;}% @ @        t@
-  -                                           C'4 - - -     - - -   
hA I I                      o
- -- - -       j1 -- 
i.                     . I I I      '-"     I -* I I       a                0
-   -     -     - -     -     -     - ---0
Z JO I Sil 
6 *tq'l
j= _.__._        ______            _      ___                               1 
X    * l  t &  8 0   § §   § |   § 0   §|   0 | |-La-                  r



WAM                                                          PERSONNEL   -  PIAUI
51CHEEA8TSJC EAWinIUFISOJWKET    8A8IC   UEALTE  SERVICES  DEVELOP"EUT
I                  SI                                                                                                     Is                                I
I  11                                        ADDITIONAL   PERSONUEL                                   11                                1
I   11       311D YEAR            11           4   YEAR             11            9m  YTEAR            i     TOTAL  / 5  YEARS $
I                   11           DIRE8                11           DIIES                11           DIB38                 51          DIRBS                 I
I  CATEGORY   11I                                                       I1
I     _________        I       III I         VI1 IrI I    I n   I III I         IIV  I           I5  I   I I    I n  I  iLI   II    I    I In  I i    I   I   I
han             t- 113    4 1s1  1    I  6 s               3 1  4   -i 7 F-i   14 11-I -I  -I                      91         11    13    3 1 29 1 30 186 1
Fis*at              Il - S -I| - -I1 1 i-S  1 15 -I| -| - 5 -{ -i---I -ii-I  -5 I                            2 1 1  1 3 1 -I 1I I 7 1 6 1 15I
.xi-ue            11)1 1 1  1 1 1 -l -1t  3 11 -I -  -I                  -  I -I    - I I - I    -         -    -    -       31  3 1  2 1 -   1            1  9     A,
lfttriticmist       -l-                               I  -I -I -I -I -I -1   -I -I -I -I -I -1   -| I  I    -  I-I  I 1  2 1  
lBioceiPit          11-              |-         |-|            |-            |-- 1          -    -I -I    I    I   -I    -1    3    11   1 1 -I  I 1  6 1  
14abettory hAiiliaxy     -I   2      2 I  1    1    6           2 1  2 2   1 1  1 1  6 tl -I  -I  -I  I 1   - I 1 I  3 1   8                  8I    1 12 1 38 1
Ik-raybAlcililry    II -  I  1   -  I -I  I 1  2 11 -I  il - I -   - I -                 II -     -   -I    - -  -I -          2 1  4 1        1  1  3 1  3 1 131
Ift sAuiliary       11  2 1  4 1  25   1   -I   9 11 -          4 1  2 1  1   -I  7 11-    -   -I-I I             -I   -l11   5 1 14 1  7 5   7 1  6 1 39 1
10motit hmailiary  It - 1      I  -  I - I -        3 II                           - I   I  -I -  I -  I   l   - -    - I I    I    I I -  I   3 I  SI -  I -  I -   II I
8Smatatian Auxiliary 1 1 I I  I I  II -I-           3 1  -I  I I -I    I    I -       I 11-  -I    I    I -I -I -1    3 1  S 1  3 1                  -tI- It11
MAtritioin Ailiary  II - I  - I  -    - -          -l   -    -I      -    - I   - I     -  1 -I -I-          -I  -I  -I  1   2   111          1      2 1  7 
&miltatin Inspector 1l  2 1  3 1  11  2 1  6 1 14 11-S   2  1                5 I I   1    5 11  -   - -       1 -I     I 1     5 1  9 1  2 1 11  15 1 421
hIlmtbAtt  I*       11 12 1 21 1  61  5 t  4 1 48 11 12 1 20 1  S 1  3 1  2 1 421  -I-t-I   2 1  1 1  3 15  40 1 69 | 19 1  24 1 16 1168 1
I       U            1W 211 37 1 14 1 171 18 1 107 11 15 5  34 1  9 1 14 1  4 1 76 11  -I-   -I    10  1                 121 I17 8 1 In  1 48 1 89 1 93 1 437 1
I M..  M IYEIR  1119.6 134.6 113.1 1:15.9116.8 1 100 1119.7 144.8 111.8 118.4 1 5.3 1 100 II -I -I   -1476 152.41 100 111   129.5   11 120.5 121.2 1 100 1
1 2 RE. 5MM         1126.9 128.7 129.2 119.1 119.4 124.5  519.3 125.3 118.8 115J 1 4.3 11.4 11 -I -I -111.3 11118      1   4.t 11 . .   cN_ lI lo I
I   Z2 O    U)   1180.7 173.7 181.2 n.9 13.9  77.9 I11eI o i00 i100i1s.7 188.2 45.3 1  -I        -   - I  110  1100 io   11        11Dt1o191 S- 8I1          I n 1  an
1C_I_I_1  _1_I_11_I_I_I   I  L_11_I_I_L_I_L_11                                                       1 C !70



-89-
ANNEX 4
Table 10
e         >      _St1                1-             U                      
s ----[---œIg-  -X---t-----s---
.            Do  - -   - --                                     - - 8  - - --  -
la           4           __                                            I        I 
x                                                   04  FX . *  - - - - - -- -t---   ----- - -I
-                     -- -        -  - _                     -   -  -  -  -  -  -  - -
-'~~~~ o       1___  ^-  1-- -I- r-- -' V|
14         1        I      I.           I             .J             I 
a. o                                .. I               1 41ttI                 ,
g  -1----------T-                           ~----------T
a.------                                    -1 t-- I-                  - 1- -
_                _
la                go-   j.                          a
04  0  ~~~f  ~           - V
la                   to.                                        .
l   a -
am  I  - ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     --         ---  - --
*~~~~~~~~~~~                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I i  1GO ~ 
4L1  -~~~~~~~~~~~~       -----       
.4             I*~~~-   I.-
I~~~~~aIl                                                             --
04~~~~~~~~~~~
i in                                  [-i   - f -                          ------
C, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ' 
as       -   -     -    -    -   -       -                            



-90-
ANNEX 4
Table 11
Page 1 of 2
BRZIL.                                    PERSONNEL  - RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
NMH- BAC HM MIE PRWE    BASIC  HEALTH  SERVICES  DFVPLOP!iENT
TIll                         11            ADDITIONAL   PERSONNEL                         i
t~~~~I ttm~                                      tl                                                          I
i            16               I it      lST YEAR            tt        2WYEAR
I                        I1DnBW     D iDIM T7IAL iD|thDIR ID I                  TOTALU   DMISSDIMS DIFTESMM
I       CA1nWf           II|III   I V      V V   IDTR      III  IV       VI  lDIFS    In    IV l       VI  lDIRE
pi~sim                   Ii   191   49t    421   1101        91    20      28 1   57 1     51      41    181   271
IP                       11e   1 1    3 1    3 1    7 11    3 1    4 1    3       10 11   -I   -I         51    51
lBiodwst                 I|    51    101    71   2211    41    -I           -      411   -|        2 1    5 1    71
IDntist                  Ti    41    181    131   3511       I1      41     41    911    61        413 1    231
lOtber "Nvel Sp."        11   -  I   -  I   -I   -  ti   - I   -  I   -1 -T                -      -1      2a/   21
TI. Clin.Pa.htogist    I    91    161    111   3611    101    21    31    1511   -I    11    131    141
ISanitatiL uin ttor           13      17 1   301   6011    4 1    3 1    21    9 11    5 1-               2 1    7 1
INmrse Aamiliary         II   -I   -         -I   -T   -  I   -  I   -  I   -  11   -  I                 13 1    3 1
statisticAdiazy                                        I T-  -I2-  -   211  231   371   811-1   -           II 81    81
kIMnn. hiimqy            II    81    151   121   3511    91          41    61    1911 t           -l      91    9I
0ther "LvelMed."  .            3 1   11 1    9 1   23 11    1b/   - I           c/.  2 11   -I   -1       4c/   41
I?urseAtt. Iematth AttettI   121 1  236 1  126 1  483 11   27 1   56 1   43 1  126 11   12 1   22 1   92 1  126 1
!Detist hiq              I I -I   -I    -  I   -I I   11 1   22 1   15 1   48 11    3 1    4 1   12 1   19 1
IGueral 1Seicw eadliay II   361   71!   641  171 1 1    6 1   -I    -1    6 1 1   -I    22 1   88 !   1101 
I         TUM            It  2191  4f61  317    982 11  106 1  138 1  142 1  386 !!   31 1   59 1  284 1  374 1
I    %RML. BACKEAR       II 22.3 I 45.41 32.3   ICO011 27.5 1 35.7 1 36.8 I  100 I   8.3 1 15.7 1 76.0 1 00 1
I    %REL.5YEIFS          I   -1    -I    -I    - AI  71.1 1 70.1 ! 33.3 1   50 11 20.8 1 29.9 1 66.7 1 48.4 1
I                        I t-   I ----I-I -I- I-I-!l-11 II                                           I I-
Z1  2)   -'    -I    -I    -It 71.1 1 70.1 1 33.3 1   50 11 91.9 1  100 I  1lO  1 98.4 1
a/ I. Social Wo*e a  I Az  stzrtion              a1     pital
b/ 1 X-ray Omaator
c/ 1 X-r operator and 2 itrition AbdliarieAPrddade Mista and 2 1ypist



- 91 -
ANNEX 4
Table 11
Page 2 of 2
<  _____  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _j f   ___ _ _ _ _ _ _
CaI  1                                    -I  I         'I '    1
o    I-----------I-
E-,       P. t
§E 1' 111    I III ii ''1'I'I'I                           ''_____ II 
I-  "    sE   S        I    i I  I  -!  I  I  I  I  -|  I  |I |I   I    I    I  f.  I  j  _      I I *. 
"  O  a-|--§lllltltltlilll>-W---------il---
N       N                                                                 IIII
N
,2~~ ~ II oc~ IIg ,,"   I , I iIt,  I I Li"l H1d  o I   E L. L i    I I       I
U uP              I,I1III I>rlil    jii ll l            N   11 l
iz to--- 1                        - - -H -t-    -li  - -l    ldP - -     -1 - -  -  -  -  -  -
0: P.  CZ  ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p 
< , ~~~I    ,                              I TTI 'I X  0£r|§i 11 1
O v        t   ---------------1-                     0       --    -----
.34                                                       51i 
S   M^~ jNllellillleNll°liltvls               I          ' I   I  "'  j
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   --
-                  -     -I-'2-                         -     -   - .    -   -
___  ___~~~~~~~
… ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~  -                 



-92-
ERM- -  ND srR BASIC UAWI  V(CE; PROJECT              AUC 4
TRAINING - BARIA                            TbleI2
OMIuS 11, 12, 18 nd 27)
C~~~wses ~~Tope                              auter               hUtitItimN
Refreslur         Physicia                             354
Dtist                                89
kwse                                  5                   S
Smh Servies Agent                   548
hAiliary Health &ervcs Agent        364
Pre Sevice        NIth Services 8At                    194 8
AUMs  Nelth Sevices Aget             36
MTAL                  1,590
Cwuter            A Aistutive Asisa                      2
Beith Statistics   Aiaistrative Assistant                8
MUAL                     10



I:   li   1111:   1rt                   I
FI  ft                    II   Sr             Li  gWt 
1           i          II          I                  N W11Xfi 
M  g    w   W    t   a S       I|             lEll
NT                      X F              4.' 
fFt     'it It             III          I
IS.-'.|             |        



-94-
AM= 4
fM1! MBSC $WM; SMIC  PRDC                                                 -
Table 14
TRAINING - MINAS GERAIS/ImtesClarm
INSTITUTIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  COMPONENT
-Participants
r.aur8es                            Type                     Nber
- Covtinuxi  K&caiticn
for Supervisors                   Technical Supervisors                  250
-CBs Case Q1
IPSrgval    veillance              Technical  hqprvisors                   16
- Refeebez Aministraticn               ministrative hailiaries               100
- Rgionl Couse cn Public
Health                             Higb Jeel, Public 1ealth                45
- Tecmncias, Medium level             Technical hAiliaries                    33
- Basic Ibdule OrgOniStiM
end  menemt                       Bigh level Technicians                  30
WmAL                                          474



-95-
AU4-4
.   - WNI     BC  M     swum  P W?
Table 15
TRAINING - PIAUI
BAIC IMAM  SVCE    E
(DIS  1, I, m, IV and VI)
Paticipints                       Dutim
Courses                         T~ype               Nluter    (vees)      Intitutim
befresber      RigAw   level                           1,253   1 - 4         5ES
Physician, Dutiat, Nurse
Soial Heier, Biocheist,,
Eigber level                              95       12       in otar states
Physician, Detist, ?uwse
Social iker, BiwCD8St,
IntenxUiate leel                       1,321        4         S1S
(1H:rse &uciliaty. laburstory
hmiliary, X-ay hailiary,
Sanitati(  visitors
Intemuediate level                        30       12       in otber atates
(Hrs. Amiliary, laborstory
Andliary, K-ay Azilia,
S3m taLm Visitrs
Emntay level                             465        4         SEB
(Health Attents s and Nidwife)
Pre Sevice      Itemadiate Lewel
Ritritim hulary                        14       16         SE
Lbortory   iliary                      19       16         SE
X-Ra Abiliary                           7       16         SES
Smitatim Visi-to                       26       12         SE
Smnitatiaa hiiliary                    !        12         SE
-l Level
elth Atndats                           129      12        SBI
iom    iolqo         Physici4n                                7       12        SES
TML                   3,377



-96-
W  4
N3MAff WISC IAIf SICES PRO-
Table 16
TRAINING  - PIAUI
INSTITUTIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  COMPONEiT
Participats
conrses                              Type
- =mnars on Aministratimn            Pbysician, rse,
and Evablation of Health           dministrative Staff
Services:
-  Inthe State                                                              42D
- Outside the State                                                          34
MIEDM LE
Seminars on hiministratio            Administrative Auxiliary
of lealth Services:
-  I the State                                                              400
- Outside ta: State                                                          34
Sta-.istics                          Statistics &miliary                     39
IUIAL                                          927



-97-
xWA9? mmC Mass    12C  P0r                                  -v
TRAINING -RIO  GRANDI do  NORTI                                  Table 17
BSC E                8E
(DM       ml IV and VI)
Participiats                        aai
coaes                        Type                 wbat      (""a)          titutkm
A.
Health Care for Ww         Physicm an Jd urse                744        1           SE8
5 Children
Contraceptive mhods        Physicin                            1        1           SE;
Oral Iydrati               Physician ad KIwse                129    1/2             SE
Oral Rehydratiin           Hatb Attendants                   322    1/2             S
Gyneological C&cer        Physician iw Rrses                 83        1          SE
Precautim
C*trol of Seual            Physician, rse, Biocheist         334   1/2 - 1          SIB
Tramissible Diseass
tazinittim of              Physician, Rise, Directors        515        1           mS
Health Visits            sd Adninistrative hxiliaries
Epideniolgic               Physician                         332   1 -2            so
Surveilace
atrol of Tiberculosis    Physician ad Ihrse                  425        1          SE
and leprosy
C-mtl of Tuberculosis 8     ealtb Attendants                 662        1          SE
and leprosy
Basis Healt Services       Health Attendants                 178        2          SE
General Clinic (Update)    Physician                         238    1/2            SE
B. PREEC8
Clinical Patboley          Clinical Patbology  inliary        31        8          SE
Saiitation                 Saiitatic Visitor                  17       12          So
Statistics                 Statisicl Ascliay                  89        8          SE
A&inistratio               Adinistrativie h& liay            24        8           SES
1-ky Operation            IX-ay    ilisy                       2        8           SES
Dental Care                Detist hAiliary                    83        8          SE
Rirsiog                    Mkuse hziliary                     13       12          SE
Priam   Care               Health Attaidats                  311       12          SE
SIU?L                 4,613



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - .-a  - - -   - - --
gr~~~ ~ FXX                - - Ut  N                 I     fXl
t.g.g~~~~~~t
--4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
g W                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
.- CO Ut                           IFIW  !
- - - - - - - - - - -   - - - -- - -
ta "~~~~~~~U
- U -   N   -  -   -  -  -  - 
g 8 8 w~~~~ - - *w. N Ut  R*EW
f~~~~               -    0.*    -



--        -    - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --         - -   ---    -      - -    
---------------------------------o~ ~~- :-~~                   -~----1~1
t- .4    -"-            -4   --4  4                                C.4I-I  -I    f
I * I   Ai                         .i  .l 1,lei
0%
-   -      -   - -   - -   -      -    -4   -    --    -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
IB -8gsee8e88e    Ieaattfe8ese 
A  ,,
a ~   e      .1 *Q  .4 . %*'   * 2                                          8" t v     C W
S ~ ~    ~   ~    .          " .9                        04
|- 1--                                          -                           1    ! -  - o  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    I
S _ ___ __ _ ___ ____ _  _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ __ 
2_ _  _  _  _  __   _  _  _  _  __   _  _  _  _   __  _   _  _  _
i *fUfA   iMJ^J^  1iJ^JI
_   _   _  _  _  _   _    _  _   _   __                    _  _  _



_. --------------
X I ,    I." 0                      O  P  M e          w CM  o I  !
_.       ---  -------------------------                  - ---- -- -
81  9ZF    4_  __  _   >    0 00    *^_  8   >9  ""  Oi



-101-
IIIL~~~~~M    4
mima        aSm Um= Sam= PM=                    Table 21
aS  a   - WAL MCAL
i  facilities by lity  ICcIbp 13ef   i 1  Facilities by Lality  ICa tiip lef I
INN10 CUIAS-   TOTAL  1 67 1,12 1 93 1      I Taiabeiz                   t 
Docaiuv         lN           I I   1 I  J   RioPardodeMinlxU        I  1 
CS   t 211         1 I                       PS 21    1 41
PS   lii    161 6           Sao J. do PaIaisoPS 131 P          t
ED4.3Irro   !PS   121          1it    I Slims               LALI   1111
I   Fco. Dkumt    PS   1   1   1 21            wtes Claros      IE  1   I 1 1
IF      ; iscoso  lx         I    1    1       1M                       1      11I
I                  Ps   1 31    11 sl      I            I P               11 11
IPi     a                    I   I   I    I                     PLI   III    I
I    rUm  dab   CS   I   I   I 11    I                           CR  I   1 11  1
PS   141    I  1                              AXIlU   1  1
I   TDAmee         CS   I1 I                                   c        1   i   I
I                  PS   131    IlI    I                         CS   11  1   21
Jepitai            P8      2            1                       P131    1 81
Ism srancico        K   I   t              1c I                        1nto  C 1  1 
I                  cs   1         I    1 1    I                 YS I 2 1     18C  I  1
I                  PS    I         9       1     I Cap. PM      CSIl    I        I
Iaris                    I   Ii  1 1       I                    PSI   1   121
I   t_cammbi       PS   I21    151    I    be                   PSI31 3         1
I   ibsp            I 11111    1    I   Claro doe Pacoes CS    I 2
I                  cs   I   I   I 1 1 I                         PS  I           211    121
I                  PS   i   1   1 7 1      1   ItacauiP         PS111         I
I Ja 6                   I         I 11    1   S.J. da Pante    PS I   I   1 81
CB         1 1     I    I t     *1aRdia     lUK           I 1
I                  PS   I1        i41      1                    PS    21    161
I   Poteiinb       CS   IJI                        I     1_ _
PS   12                   Reference:
R. doe sacedos   CS       t 1       I          -
1                  P8   Il 1 1      1 SI      P8: Blth Pst
H usteAml           R    I   I 1      I       CS:a b ath
CB   Ill                       W 1   1iddelMista
1                  PS   I 5I    14            REt: Ispital (micipal,
I __________________.I........l  I   I              a1 or Rlegia1)
PL: Polyclinic
a VW unticipality of Jaazsri is ewbudd frm   CR: Begiwl Cdter
tim project are.  _wer, t X tit located    I:: Cance Center
timr is a refeme fr uigoring               AX: Dug Warebws
micipalities of tkn poject-.                f: Hiateme WorkslWp



-   -   - -    -  -    -    ---   -    -    -     -    ---
---------------------------------------4
Rl§{ ^.' ff R g ' f ' W 
--------------------------F-----------*---l"



- -   ---      X - - - -# -f -             
0  %    tJW   ta                    I
ii    sWR   I-                                                         I  g   
*                                              -- - -
-  -  -   -   -  -   -   -  -  -~~ -   - ----- -
ir-is               0' '    0%         0                               5Ili
i    &1  1    q   do,  co              1
- - - - - -                       - - - - --



-104-
BRAZ I L                                                         ANNEX 4
NORTHEAST  BASIC BEALTH SERVICES PROJECT                                                          Table 24
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCBEDULE
o EEffctivsiee8
I                                         I   Pirt Yo       I Secd Yw          IThir  You    I FYorth Yeou    I Ftbleet    I
I                                         I~                I                  I                I                 I                I
IA. P     I                              I                  I                 ii                I                 I                I
I                                        I                 I                  I                Ii
I  minesI                                         1             0QI               Im 111  
I         -  Biddi4p AdqMF 4_100 +1                                                                                11
I         -  B    wowl                    I                 I                                   I ow              I }
B     (Ahrof a4lti .Os-t                                                                             11111
I   rw of fcilitie )   1   35              i    35           1   34            1   33           1   14            1
i I   ' -'           " -*'---'i--         I          ......                           OD . ....... 0    X    .. I.        11 ..    I
I                              I                  [  t              I                                  I                 I
I         -  Prototype  tatiat           1l                                 ODI1O0              I                 I
I         -  R;Mit                        14+               1                  0oo0             l                 I
I         -  ~4p Ba   11                                    l m                IOD              I  I              I
j         -  CX|ntrizj   Ia               I   :I:ims:::::i::i                                    -I
I(Re   Of faciitie")   1    22             I    54           1   57            1   45           l 
I         -  Eqcijmt                  l                  4+4             ....         OD ....... I 0O   XI ........
I                                         1IAD  m                              I                          I       l                I
I                     .I                                    I                 I                 I                 I                I
{   -  otype M     ds1Adaptatia  41                
l         -  BakAm              1         14                1                  I                I                 l
-  Ccmstruwtia  /a             I   444444A+4 i4444i                                   I                I
(ter of facilities)   I   123              1    60           1                 I                I                 I
I         -  Bqui~t             l                   4+ 1+ I... 4        ....                    I                 I
I         Prot t                         I                  I                 i                 I                 I                I
I         -                               I                 I                 I                 I                 I                I
-  Prototypedaptatim         4.1               a                0001                  l                l                 I
I         -Hi;d4iz                        14                l                 lC000             I                 l                I
I         -  Bak   ppval                  144               I                 100               I                 I                I
-  Ceetructie  la              I       AW 1   111t4l 14+ lll4  _
(DU eof facilities)   1    53            1    46                              1                1
I         -  Equpt                                 . 4...0.........                    0......... I0
I                                         I                 I                  I                I                 1                1
lB.~*im S                                                   1                  I l                                                 1  
.                                        I                  i                 I                 I                I                 I
IC. SL   a                                I                 I                  I                I                 I                I
ID                                        SEIIIl /lIIlIIJIIIfIIIItIIIIIIIIIlIlIlIIIlIIItIIXIIIIIII!ItI//IIIIII/IIIZIII/IlIIIZIIIIIllIIIIIIIIXI
I   .                                                       I                 I                 1                 I 
1.                                        I                          1                 I,                I        lI
Leged:  Pbae 1:                           / la Irwudes az       andi refuihi  p         .
-         2: -
3: OD
4: UC
5: 11
OAoilg activitlet illt:



-105-
ANNME 5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
INDICATORS
These indicators refer to services provided within project areas for
target population groups, AFTER 5 YEARS OF SERVICES:
I.   To have vaccinated 80% of target population against polio, DPT, measles,
and TBC.
2.   To have monitored weight to 70S of children up to one year old.
Weight will be measured every two months during the first semester of
life and every three months during the second semester.
3.   To have monitored arm circumference to 60% of children 1-5 years old.
Arm circumference will be measured every 3 months for children 1 and 2
years old, and every 6 months for children 3 to 5 years old.
4.  In Bahia and Minas Gerais, to have met the request of contraceptives to
100X of women, except for those with a medical or legal contraindication.
5.   To have provided prenatal care to 60% or more pregnant women; 702 of
these should have started it during the first quarter of pregnancy.
6.  To have provided post-natal car4e to 80% of pregnant women.
7.   To have provided screening for breast and cancer detection to women
15-45 years olo.
The baseline studies would in addition provide information on infant
mortality, mortality caused by diarrhea, mortality caused by acute respiratory
diseases, hospitalization caused by diarrhea, hospitalization by acute
respiratory diseases, prevalence of second and third degree malnutrition,
perinatal mortality, perinatal mortality of children born to mothers 19
years old or less, maternal mortality, complications from delivery (hemorrage
and infection), in selected areas of the four States.



-106-
NORTHEAUS BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJET
Aed e ad  6
Seleeted Docmeusan AD_ ^ta-A ilbe   in the-Proiect-File



-107-
Page 1 of 2
NORTHEAST LASIC 11LALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Selected Documegnts ad Data Availabei heiPoect-Fl
Section A:      General Re2orts on Arazil and the Health Sector
A-1: World 8ank, "Preliminary Evaluation of the Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast," 1 vol., 1983.
A-2: World Bank, "Brazil Economic Memorandum," 1 vol, 1984.
A-3: W. McGreevey, "Brazilian Health Care Financing and Health
Policy: An InternationalPerspective," World Bank, November 1982.
A-4: W. McGreevey, "Brazil - Public Sector Investment Review,"
(draft), World Bank January 1986.
A-5: K. Meyers and F. Desmond McCarthy, "Brazil, Medium-Term
Policy Analysis," World Bauk Staff Working Papers No. 750,
September 1985.
aQtionjB:       GenerAL Renrts and Studis Relatina to the Froject
B-1: Ministry of Realth and State Secretariats of Health and
States of Alagoas, Bahia, Cearg, Maranhao, Minas Gerais,
Paraiba, Pernasibuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe,
Brazil. Proposal for the Northeast Basic Health Services
Project, August 1985.
B-2: SES of Minas Gerais, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Bahia.
Syllabus of the training programs to be undertaken during
project implementat ion.
B-3: MEC/MS/MPAS/OPS, "Long-term Training Program for Intermediate
and Elementary Personnel Working in Basic Health Services," 1983.
B-4: MPAS/MS/MEC, Interministerial Commission for Planning and
Coordination (CIPIANi) - DocuTnevt summarizing resolutions
taken by CIPLAN and activities perforved for the period 1980-
85.
B-5: MPAS/CONASP, "Reorieutation of the Health Services Under the
Social Security System," 1983.
B-6: MPAS/MS/MEC/State and Municipal Governments, "Integrated
Health Actions Program - AIS," 1984.
B-7: MPAS/MS/MEC/State and Municipal Governments, "Integrated
Health Actions Program - AIS, General Norms to be Applied," 1984.



-108-
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
B-8: Ministry of Health, "Program of Comprebensive Care for Women
and Children," 1984.
B-9: Ministry of Health, Manual for a Health Post," 1983.
B-10: Ministry of Health, "Orientation for the Organization of
Health Centers," 1982.
B-ll: Ministry of Health, "Technical Basis for the Polyomielitis
Control Program," 1982.
B-12: Ministry of Health, "Guide for Leprosy Control," 1983.-
B-13: Ministry of Health, "Manual on Norms and Procedures for
Tuberculosis Control," 1984.
B-14: Ministry of Health, "Vaccination Manual," 1984.
B-15: MS/MPAS, "General Norms Governing Hospitals Jointly Managed
by the Minstry of Health and the Ministry of Social Security,"
1983.
3-16: Ministry of Health, "National Sub-System for the Control of
Communicable Diseases," preliminary document, 1983.
B-17: Tentative Lists of Indicators and Target to be Considered for
the Monitoring and Ev3luation of the Health Project, Ministry
of Healtb Aide-MNmoire.



IBRD 19539
48'                                                     40                             3'6
wA~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R.                                       
-   f   -,-;BRAZIL
PAA        .NORTHEAST REGION
P A R A      <              .'50
/   Sf
MARANHA,-'
_  \'~  C E- A R A    gR. GRANDE DO
(                              . 2,-   '  t  8s,,   ,   ,,  /  ' ", NORTE  -A a
PIAUI                                      PARAIBA               LSSCA
if RNAMBIC
R~~~~~~~~~~ A H I". A.t
a n. W.                               , a.             , iA                   A o',-.
GOtI AS             <r,
a  K ~ ~,. ,,                                                       -   main Roads
0~~~~~~  Th~~~~~~~~~~ ik4~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Rairloads
a I.sr .,, -Ports
Airpovls
Rivefs
NlQnal Capital-
State Ccpit.ls
Twns
/.                                 -   State  undOries     1
"'       MINAS -r                                        t- - MRegion Boundaries
nwzwb*~~~~~~~ EA               R      
PFr#Ys.~~~            *g '- XPoi
SA                                                          v I ,..            ~      Aros
v,                   E S P IAS                           .i R_ _TO
P.'* U L 0                                          SA T          p-- ttCPtl
FEBRU T1EAST
o     00J   20c   300                                                              s     BRAZIL
KeLOA$ETE#t*5                                                                         BrosgIiae
SAO   \   --=*e^;ve-w               iESP iR ITO. 
PA..U LO                                             SANT----  4___/_S_A_N_T_0_40__
_ . 8 . : e - . . / § F~~~~~~~~~~~EBsHUARY 1986



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
PIAUI
Project Areas
Htealth Directrctes Boundaryes
Headquarters of Region Heaith Directorates                                                     ,
el   Stabe Caipitals                             '+   
--Stote Boundaries                            ITesnomi3)
- -Intetotin  Bound. .                                            °
tAtLOMETERSt
,          ~~ )- 
)  'fl)GR N ~ Ii NO ThRIO             G R AN D E   D O   N O RTE
BRAZIL
10   5   -R:.                     SI .  S .   A  - .                                                            . r ;  4. 
-21r_      2S#ef-Ee .#Ej1  os lrWo4{Pr--jt       
S                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      O
6W  5v  40'                  2                                               KM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dOMAETER
MINAS GERAIS                                                                  BAHIA
J   _   ,   ...... . Vv . ( .. /,d
'  /                   ~~~/           ,_                                ,,
1~~~~~~~~0
KiLOMETrB                                                                     IIOMTE
JANUA. IGv



