DOCUMENT OF
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No:  19542
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(Loan 3641 POL)
JUNE 30, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1998)
Currency Unit   =    Zloty (Zi)
IZI        US$0.29
US$1         3.48
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1993          1995           1996              1997             1998
2.15          2.46           2.66              3.20             3.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EIB  -  European Investment Bank
EU   -  European Community
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
MENPNRF  -  Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
PHARE       EU Assistance Program for East Europe
SFD/GDSF  -  State Forests Departmnent/General Directorate of State Forests
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
POLAND FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Basil Kavalsky, ECCPL
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver, ECSSD
Sector Leader: John Hayward, ECSSD
Responsible  Michael Nightingale (ECSSD), Kishore Nadkarni
Team: (ECSIN), Arnoldo Contreras (Cons. Forester)



FOR OFFICMIL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(Loan 3641-POL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface.i
Evaluation.ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment.1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .................................I
B. Achievement of Objectives .................................I
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........    ......................5
D. Project Sustainability .................................6
E. Bank Performance .................................7
F. Borrower Performance .................................7
G. Assessment of Outcome ................................8
H. Future Operations ................................. 0
1. Key Lessons Learned ................................ 10
Part II. Statistical Tables ................................                   12
Tablel: ................................                                 13
Table2 .                                                                 15
Table 3 ................................ 15
Table 4 ................................                                 16
Table 5 ................................ 16
Table 6 ................................                                 16
Table 7 ................................ 17
Table 8A ................................                                17
Table 8B ................................                                18
Table 9 ................................ 18
Table 10 ................................ 19
Table II ................................                                21
Table 12 ................................                                21
Table 13 ................................                                22
Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Cofinancier contribution to the ICR
D. Annex IA:   Assessment of Environmental Management Components
Annex 1B:        Development of Ecosystems in National Parks Components
Annex IC         Harvesting and Transportation Equipment Components
Annex 2:         Assessment of Financial and Economic Impact
Annex 3:         Reconciliation of Project Indicators
E. Map IBRD 24307R1
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(Loan 3641-POL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Forest Development Support
Project in Poland, for which an IBRD loan in the amount of US$146 million equivalent was
approved on July 29, 1993 and made effective on November 29, 1993. Total disbursement to-
date amounts to $102.03 million; $42 million was cancelled in April 1996. On May 1, 1999 the
State Forests Department (SFD) requested cancellation of the remaining balance of $2.45
million, the loan was formally closed on June 28, 1999. The original closing date was June 30,
2000. Parallel co-financing for the project was provided mainly by the European Investment
Bank and, to a limited extent, through bilateral assistance from Denmark and Sweden.
Michael Nightingale, Rural Development and Environment Unit and Kishore Nadkarni,
Infrastructure Sector Unit, both Europe and Central Asia Region prepared the ICR, with
assistance from Arnoldo Contreras, consultant forestry specialist. John Hayward, Sector Leader,
and Gottfried Ablasser reviewed the Report Details of the technical, financial, and economic
analyses are included in the Appendices, together with the Aide Memoire from the ICR mission
and implementation summary of the EU funded activities. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by compiling data for the ICR mission and providing comments on the
draft ICR, June 1999.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, November 1998. It is based on material in the project file, discussions with the Director
of the Project Implementation Unit and with senior officials from the State Forests Departnent.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(Loan 3641-POL)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Forest Development Support Project (FDSP) was an integral part of the
Government's policy for encouraging transition of the rural sector to the market economy. It
aimed to support the transfer of forest management from the public sector to private operators,
while strengthening environmental protection. Actions included technical, managerial and
institutional development in support of relevant policy changes.
Project Objectives
2.    The project expanded on the initiatives of the Forest Biodiversity Protection Project (GEF
Grant 21685), which was satisfactorily completed in 1995. The FDSP had three main objectives:
(a) assisting with the introduction of environmentally sound management practices in the forest
sector, including reafforestation of areas damaged by atmospheric pollution; (b) improving the
efficiency of forest management techniques; and (c) strengthening forest institutions and
financial structures in the forest sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Project actions had significant environmental impact by:
a) Accelerating afforestation, especially in abandoned cropland and areas affected by
atmospheric pollution. In this case, the targets were surpassed and with high rates of
survival, despite initial delays in obtaining title to ex farmland.
b) Demonstrating alternative methods of forest management, where the objective was to
encourage increase in biomass through fostering production techniques that encourage
faster growth, improved pest control, and the introduction of environmentally-friendly
mechanical harvesting and transportation methods. In this case, while physical targets
were met, the overall impact of introducing alternative procedures is uncertain due to
resistance within the State Forests Department (SFD) to change traditional practices.
This led to controversies over technical management, relating to tree stands and forest
mechanization, that persisted throughout project implementation. Conversely, swift
reaction by SFD and IBRD together, enabled the addition of an emergency project
component for combating an infestation by nun moths. This was successful not only in
planning and execution, but also by inducing confidence in SFD teams.
c) Initiating the development of national parks, where the project aimed to support the
Government's strategy for expanding the number and scope of parks. In this case, the



iii
achievements fell short of appraisal proposals due to insufficient pro-active strategy in
the organizations responsible, which resulted in lack of grant funds essential for
promoting greater conservation and establishing amenities.
4.    Project actions had some impact on developing altemativeforest management
techniques by initiating plans for reducing the density of new forest plantation, increasing the
thinning rate for growing trees, and introducing specific pruning regimes. Although overall
physical developments exceeded the appraisal target and at lower costs than predicted costs, the
intensity of planting densities, thinning and pruning remained at higher levels than those planned
at appraisal. Controversy over this issue was not analyzed adequately during appraisal nor
effectively resolved during implementation. Therefore, the long-term survival rates and
economic benefits of these actions are inconclusive. Similarly, the levels of mechanization
activities were less than originally planned, partly due to delays in project start-up, which meant
that some of the proposed investments were completed outside the project. However, the
strategy for mechanization and the types of machines required was also controversial.
5.    Project actions had significant effect on supporting the transition offorest institutions to
the market economy. The SFD adopted more precise planning and supervision procedures by
superintendencies (district forestry organizations) and an analytical trading and pricing
department was developed. In conjunction with the SFD developments, project actions supported
the transfer of forest management previously undertaken by forest stations to private operators.
T'he basic operational responsibility was effectively transferred. However, an insignificant
reduction in the SFD operating costs and limited reduction in the total work force, will impact
negatively on the economic viability of the New Forest policy. Project activities had a positive
impact on support of forestry research and seeds production, both by improving quality and
efficiency of operations.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
6.    The project correctly focused on the key issues necessary for supporting Government's
new forest policy, which aims to transform forestry operations to the market economy. The bulk
of project implementation was completed eighteen months before the scheduled closing date.
The project is expected to have a positive impact on social, environmental and economic
grounds, but at a lower level than estimated at appraisal. The overall EIRR is now estimated at
15% compared to 20% anticipated at appraisal. While the World Bank is unlikely to make
further investments in forestry development, Government policy and Forest Department strategy
have been strengthened as a result of the project, and increase in timber harvest is expected to
occur in parallel with expanding forest biomass. Five key lessons have emerged from the
Forestry Development Support Project.
Firstly, in a country like Poland, with strong traditions in forestry production, well trained
personnel and sound back-up, and where there is both a clear development program and
implementation capacity, the main benefits of a development project lie more in the
introduction of modem technologies and institution strengthening than in simply
expanding forest production activities.
Second, the introduction of forest establishment and management innovations that would
replace traditional procedures must be supported by hard evidence of their technical,
financial, environmental and economic advantage. In-depth technical and economic



iv
analysis of the comparative advantage of options and alternative project designs is an
essential factor in promoting innovations.
Third, where individual project components depend on complementary financing for
covering a substantial part of the project costs, commitment must be obtained during the
appraisal process on the source of financing. Also, in this regard, Bank-financed core
activities should, as far as possible, be designed as independent activities with a possibility
of generating desirable impacts even if complementary financing fails to materialize. At
the same time, it is important to thoroughly assess the Borrower's political commitment to
the project activities, especially for those involving environmental protection.
Fourth, the design of institutional development activities should emphasize the need for
financial and economic sustainability. This applies equally to public sector enterprises and
private sector operators established as a result of project activities.
Fifth, the Bank should pay more attention to ensuring that problems arising during project
implementation are thoroughly addressed during supervision and realistic solutions agreed.
Experience from this project also indicates that department managers should ensure that
the skills of specialist task managers are focused as much as possible.






1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(Loan 3641-POL)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Statement of Objectives
1.    The project had three main objectives, to: (i) support the introduction of
biologically and environmentally sound management practices; (ii) improve the
efficiency of forest management; and (iii) encourage privatization and reorientate the
organization of the State Forests Department/General Directorate of State Forests
(SFD/GDSF). These objectives were valid, firstly as a means of capturing latent
potential for GDP growth in Poland's forests; second to promote institutional change in
the new market economy; and third, to strengthen environmental protection and develop
social amenities.
2.    The project is considered to have been well conceived, offering important support
to Government policies for strengthening the rural economy, by financing initiatives for
accelerating strategies for modernizing forest production, activating the transfer of
responsibility for forest management to private operators, and encouraging strategies for
environmental protection and the expansion of national parks.
B.   Achievement of Objectives
3.    The original loan closing date was June 2000. In effect, however, project
operations ceased in September 1997 and the Bank was requested by SFD to advance the
closing date. The loan was formally closed on June 28, 1999. Realizations from this
project include: (i) in physical terms, the targets for forest developments were surpassed;
however, the quality of technical developments is uncertain and the realizations in
development of national parks were disappointing; (ii) the improvement in forest
management practices was only partially achieved - due to diverging views over
appropriate technologies; and (iii) significant improvements were realized in the
institutional development, in divesting responsibility for forest management to private
sector operators, raising the efficiency of GDSF organization, and developing
commercial trading operations.
Forest Management Activities (details in Appendix D, Annexes JA and I C)
4.    For silviculture operations, quantitative targets were generally achieved or
exceeded: tree thinning, 110% at 68% of the budgeted cost; reafforestation (in polluted
areas), 100% (despite some repeat planting) at 83% of budget; and afforestation 116%



2
(on poor quality farm land) at 93% of budget. These levels of achievement and lower
costs partly resulted from less intensive treatments than planned at appraisal. The
deviations resulted from a lack of a definitive scientific, economic and environmental
evidence of the validity of the proposed operations, which generated a certain reticence
by the project staff responsible for their implementation. The project preparation process
did not carry out sufficient analyses of the technical and economic implications of
different silvicultural procedures. Instead, generalized thinning prescriptions were
adopted as a planning base. This tended to ignore traditional Polish methods which rely
on a natural regeneration processes involving very high stand density that produces tall
trees, natural pruning and higher biomass volume. This problem was recognized early on
in implementation but not tackled seriously and, therefore, the proposed technologies
were adapted only to a limited extent. At the same time, no proposals were made during
project supervision to establish research or demonstrations to resolve the controversy and
the issue is inconclusive. This controversy would probably have been tackled more
effectively by organizing a strong program of study tours to Western Europe (especially
Scandinavia), Australia and U.S.A.
5.    The results from the genetic conservation activities mostly met project objectives:
selection of superior parent seed trees (144%), establishment of seed orchards and
conservation plots (108%), and equipment installation (100%). The numbers of seed
stores constructed and modernized (42%) were less than the original target. However,
the handling of seed and plant materials has already improved and the Government might
add units once these are fully operational. These activities will contribute significantly to
the future quality of forest stands.
6.    A nun moth control program was successfully added to the original project
proposal. Some 875,000 ha of forests were covered, most of which represented areas
vulnerable to nun moth attack. The strategy, which employed biological agents as
opposed to chemicals, was very effective and the program created a new attitude towards
pro-environmental protection methods and the success of the 1994 campaign reduced the
need for treatment in subsequent years. This provided a good example of SFD and IBRD
reacting speedily and effectively to the challenge of a potentially serious emergency.
This also induced a strong feeling of achievement in SFD foresters and should provide a
valuable model for tackling future emergencies.
7.    The objective of introducing mechanized harvesting was partly overtaken by
purchases of equipment that were made before the project was launched. At brigade
level, the introduction of new harvesting and transportation technologies proposed under
the project was initially obstructed by reluctance to relinquish traditional manual thinning
methods. However, this was dissipated by project-related training courses and
demonstrations. The size and composition of the forest mechanization component was
substantially reduced during implementation. This was due to changing market
conditions in favor of small wood from softwood species and birch, which resulted in less
demand for choppers and automates for firewood production. Subsequently,
uncertainties within the SFD over alternative types of machinery to be purchased further
delayed this component. To some extent, this was due to the simplistic appraisal
proposal to introduce large timber transporters (on economic grounds), without noting the
fact that few forest bridges were built for loads in excess of five tons. It was finally



3
decided to increase focus on appropriate types of transportation equipment. Uptake of
forest machinery was also affected by uncertainty within the SFD regarding ownership
and procedures for transfer to newly emerging private operators. Monitoring at the end
of the project indicated that the economic benefits from mechanizing forestry and the
convenience of new harvesting methods in different conditions is being recognized and
has led to increased adoption.
Development of National Parks (details in Appendix D, Annex 1B)
8.  Project financing provided $2 million for a core group of activities to support
development of national parks, and it was anticipated that a further $ 10 million would be
co-financed by grant aid. The project was only partially successful in implementing the
core objectives and the Government was unable to raise significant complementary funds
during project implementation. Therefore, the component objectives were redesigned to
include five limited activities: completion of a management plan for one national park;
part financing of an educational center at a second national park; construction of an
ecological center at a third national park; modernization of the museum at a fourth
national park; and computerization of park operations.
9.  The objectives of designing management plans for all national parks, and
supporting professional development and training were only partly achieved. However,
support was given to the design of planning guidelines for park management, which were
prepared on the basis of a consultative process and including social assessments to ensure
support to the plans activities by various stakeholders. The guidelines were considered to
be adequate, although project funds were used to finance only the preparation of the
management plan for the Kampinos National Park (near Warsaw). Subsequently,
management plans have been completed for nineteen other parks, so the project
assistance was positive on this score.
10. Project actions had the limited effect in supporting the creation of four new parks.
However, work on two additional parks and the expansion of another, from 10,000 to
60,000 ha have now been started. In the opinion of the Director of the Board of National
Parks, action by the project contributed to securing the political willingness for the
expansion of the Park system. The outcome of this project component was far removed
from the original objectives. There is no sign that the limited investments in physical
facilities will trigger complementary financing needed to complete works. The project's
role in the preparation of a park management planning structure and in the creation of
additional national parks was marginal. However, despite these negative considerations,
it is likely that the project component did contribute to raising the political profile of the
national park system within the government, thereby advancing sensitivity to the
importance of conserving the nation's natural heritage.
Institution Building
11.   The Government took positive measures to reorganize the management of state
forests: (i) the SFD was made more autonomous and self-supporting and now depends
on fiscal support only for special activities, notably for supporting forest planting on poor
land released from agriculture; (ii) planning was decentralized to regional and district



4
offices (superintendencies); (iii) the former SFD brigades were separated from SFD as
private entities; (iv) a timber marketing department was established, with the objective of
better predicting market trends and identifying actual markets; (v) forestry research was
reorganized to make it more demand-driven; and (vi) the organization of forest seeds
production was modernized. As a result, the overall organization of the forest sector is
more dynamic and commercially oriented. In particular, responsibility for day to day
forest management is now contracted by SFD to private organizations.
12.   Some of these changes had been initiated prior to the project. However, project
actions supported and accelerated these activities. To date, the overarching problem in
this regard is the failure to realize the full potential of these changes by reducing
personnel costs and increasing efficiency, both of which impinge on economic viability.
Despite relinquishing direct responsibility for the major part of the labor force, the
operating costs of the SFD increased during the project. In part, this was due to a
national increase in levels of wages; however the serious national unemployment
problem, which directly reflects on rural employment, had some influence on resistance
toward job shedding. Nonetheless, insufficient attention was given by SFD to improving
its own efficiency, e.g., by exploring possibilities for commercializing its activities, or by
encouraging improved productivity by newly privatized companies. This factor is likely
to become more important as economic activity grows and labor costs increase.
Economic Factors
13.   Regional and international timber markets changed significantly after project
appraisal. In particular, demand for traditional products, e.g. poles for pit props, by
neighboring countries declined. At the same time, prices for most timber products
declined worldwide. These events should have been analyzed more thoroughly during
implementation, in order to assess possible implications on project objectives.
14.   In addition to analysis of the evolution of timber markets, which was realized,
greater attention should have been given to in-depth analyses of project activities.
Support could valuably have been provided to help SFD to develop capacity for
economic analysis of alternative strategies.
15.  Strict budget constraints -- adopted by the Government after the start of project
implementation -- led to reduction in financial commitments to the project. The objective
was to both reduce the level of fiscal commitments and the level of borrowing. The SFD
requested a reduction of US$42.0 million from the amount Bank loan (29.0 percent of the
original loan value and 12.0 per cent of the original total cost estimate). This was
accompanied by a cut of US$17.7 million equivalent in commitments by the SFD (12.0
percent of the total value of government contribution agreed at appraisal). In total, actual
expenditures were reduced by 26.3 percent relative to appraisal estimates.
16.   The effect of the cancellation of part of the Bank loan is uncertain. The cuts
affected five categories of expenditure, of which reductions in the levels of investments
for forest machinery and silviculture activities accounted for more than half. Certainly
the cuts did not result in failure of any of the components. But, as with the early
termination of project developments, continuing with the full program of actions as



5
agreed at appraisal would likely have increased the project's economic impact. However,
insofar as the SFD is continuing with project-related operations and the investment in
mechanization has continued to expand, it is probable that the cuts had no lasting
economic effect.
Co-financing Partners
17. As part of SFD's overall development program, the EIB provided ECU13 million
in parallel for financing for afforesting 17,000 ha of poor quality land released from
agricultural production. Planting extended over two years and was completed in 1994.
However, as regulations for release of agricultural lands were still being defined, most of
these plantations were on land owned by SFD and not on farmland. In addition, some
plantings were made on waterlogged land. Nonetheless, some 20,000 ha were actually
planted, with a survival rate of 82 percent. Bilateral financing from Denmark and
Sweden provided US$977,600 of parallel funding for forestry machinery for the
operations of SFD superintendencies. This work was completed in 1994.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
18.   Positive factors affecting the project included:
*  Poland's exceptional forest wealth and strong traditions for maintaining and
expanding forests and the conservation of natural resources.
*  A reform-oriented Government that encouraged transition of the forest sector
along commercially oriented and environmentally proactive lines. This was
reflected by a determination within SFD to transform forestry management and
strong leadership within the Directorate and the Project.
*  A well-established and commercially oriented timber industry.
*  A strong cadre of professional forest researchers and extension specialists.
*  Participation in multi-country programs that focus on helping to mitigate the
effects from atmospheric pollution, including exchange of ideas and experiences.
In addition, the Government adopted a policy targeted at removing poor quality
lands from agricultural production and expanding biodiversity.
19.   On the negative side:
*  The serious decline in world timber prices, during project implementation,
directly affected Poland's traditional timber markets.
*  Major changes in the demand for Poland's traditional forest products, e.g.,
reduced demand for poles, due to declining mining operations across the region.
*  Deterioration in trade relations with traditional buyers.



6
*  Failure to obtain grant funds for national park development or to provide the
support necessary for realizing environmental policies.
*  Strong adherence to traditional practices and reluctance to adopt new forest
management practices was an obstacle that was exacerbated by inadequate actions
to demonstrate and convince the skeptics.
D.    Project Sustain ability
20. From a production viewpoint, the ultimate test of project sustainability will only be
seen when the benefits from innovations introduced and other changes supported by the
project will start to accrue in the next twenty years. However, for the purpose of the ICR,
the overall sustainability of the project is unclear, due to: (i) uncertainties over technical
procedures for forest management and mechanization; (ii) the impact of adverse
input/output values on economic viability of the forest sector; (iii) continuing high levels
of institution costs; and (iv) weak support for national parks development.
21. From a technical viewpoint, Poland has longstanding traditions for silvicultural
operations, such as thinning, and the intensity of these actions will probably continue to
be lower than the standards envisaged by project planners. The total area thinned is
controlled by the markets for small dimension wood and whether prices are favorable.
Generally, these operations cover their costs and, when prices are favorable, they will be
profitable. Conversely, the sustainability of pruning operations is doubtful, due to
technical and economic uncertainties. Yet, thinning and pruning operations are
interrelated activities and since the advantages of lower stem density and pruning have
yet to be conclusively demonstrated in Poland. Therefore, it is likely that traditional
practices -- relying on high planting densities, limited amounts of thinning and natural
pruning -- will continue to dominate.
22. Programs that support natural regeneration and afforestation of abandoned
agricultural lands and reafforestation of forest stands damaged by atmospheric pollution
are clearly desirable. However, the SFD should give more attention to making trials of
alternative techniques for achieving these objectives. This may now be rectified in some
areas due to the effects of decentralization, greater local autonomy and independence in
decision-making. It is noteworthy that the SFD plans through 2010 include support for
20% natural afforestation.
23. From the financial viewpoint, sustainability of project activities is uncertain.
Increases in the operating expenses of SFD threaten its viability. The evolution of timber
prices is an important factor in the intensification of silviculture. The short-term
allocation of investment funds for the afforestation program is secure, and SFD plans
involve planting of about 28,000 ha per year during the next decade. However,
realization of a long-term forest development strategy will depend on Government's
ability to continue providing investment funds and/or further improvement by SFD to
commercialize forestry operations. The SFD should prepare a detailed strategy should
specifying the sources of funds for financing the proposed development program. At the
same time, the financial sustainability of existing developments will depend significantly
on the ability by SFD to: (i) continue to identify and introduce more efficient production



7
techniques; (ii) control its own operating costs; (iii) assist private forest companies to
raise their efficiency; and (iv) identify potential markets where Poland has a comparative
advantage. This implies an urgent need for SFD to develop capacity for analyzing
economic implications of forestry developments.
E. Bank Performance
24. The Bank performance was satisfactory overall: the project design was simple and
well focused; supervision and implementation support were well organized, and prompt
attention was given to addressing changing circumstances during implementation, e.g.,
addition of an emergency component for combating nun moth infestation, adapting the
types of forestry machines to be purchased, and in addressing the Borrower's request for
reducing the Loan amount.
25. Conversely, there were four areas of weakness. Firstly, the interval between
identification and Loan effectiveness was too long, thereby forfeiting some of the
potential impetus. Second, appropriate techniques for forest management were not
sufficiently analyzed in technical or economic terms during preparation, nor were the
principles relating to the new technologies resolved and agreed during project
implementation. Third, the efficiency of emerging institutional developments (state and
private sectors) should have been followed-up more closely. Fourth, the Bank did not
react positively enough when there was shortfall in the performance of agreed
components, especially national parks development; cancellation of corresponding
amounts of financing should have been considered. The analysis indicates that some of
the project weaknesses might have been better addressed had there been more detailed
attention during supervision. Means should have been found to enable the forestry
specialist task team leader to focus his expertise, while providing other team members to
handle administrative responsibilities.
F. Borrower Performance
26. Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory, particularly in view of the
formative stage in the transition of forestry operations to the market economy. However,
attention to implementation virtually ceased in mid-1997 on completion of the main
procurement of goods. This forfeited some sustainability of developments that would
have resulted from consolidating project developments during 1997/98. In addition, the
Borrower had serious difficulties in identifying a permanent coordinator for the national
parks component. Far more attention should have been given by the National Parks
Department to mobilizing complementary donor financing for these operations.
27. Ostensibly, the Borrower implemented most of the planned technical operations
ahead of schedule and at a lower cost and physical targets were met or exceeded.
However, qualitative objectives were only partially realized for silvicultural improvement
and afforestation, as the techniques employed diverged from project plans. At the same
time, the project management did not take decisive action to resolve the controversies and
establish the merits of the technologies proposed under the project. There was also a lack
of flexibility in the transfer of control of abandoned agricultural lands between
government agencies, especially involving the Ministry of Agriculture.



8
28. On institutional and management aspects, the Government met its obligations and
implemented most of the proposed changes. Progress reporting was excellent. However,
there were delays in producing some of the specific reports requested by various
implementation missions, and annual audits of project accounts. Also, the Borrower was
not sufficiently attentive with regards to reducing operating costs in forest operations
after responsibility for forest management had been transferred to private operators. The
overall costs escalated seriously after 1995. This situation improved at the end of the
project, but levels of operating costs remain excessive, thereby jeopardizing the long-
term viability of SFD and the forest economy.
G. Assessment of Outcome
29.   The Government fulfilled its undertaking regarding policy changes, notably the
removal of price controls on wood products, in favor of market prices.
30.   The project is expected to have a positive economic impact. Current estimates of
ERR of individual components, taking all costs into account, range from 10% to 20%,
with an overall return of 15%. This is approximately half of the rate predicted at
appraisal. The original assessment of the benefits of each of the seven components was
based on socio-economic and environmental impact. In addition to direct benefits from
project investments, the appraisal team assessed that benefits would accrues from a range
of indirect benefits, like hunting, harvest from non-tree plant species, and amenities.
31.   The ICR estimates indicate that the financial results of the field operations were
favorable in comparison with appraisal predictions.
(i)   For thinning and pruning programs and modernization of harvesting and
transportation operations, it is estimated that the economic impact from
project investments will be positive but lower than predicted. In some
instances it is premature to assess the impact made by project-related
activities as opposed to the changes in operations that were already being
introduced by the SFD. However, it is evident that many of these
operations were accelerated and improved as a result of project actions.
(ii)  Improved timber marketing is being achieved due to the development of a
marketing section within the SFD, thereby raising economic efficiency.
This development continues to evolve and, in order to deliver a more
comprehensive service, this function should be transferred to private sector
operators.
(iii)  Building on to the market analysis capacity, it is important that SFD receive
immediate support for developing economic analysis capability.
(iv)   Development of transparent pricing and financial systems has enabled SFD
to assess the relative benefits from different sources of activities. Also, the
decentralized financial analysis of forestry operations, which were
improved under project, is producing analytical data on the main activities.



9
This development continues to evolve and is contributing significantly to
improved economic efficiency.
(v)   The trend in transferring responsibility for most of the forest management
activities under the project to private operators suggests quite dramatic
movements between 1992 and 1996. Production activities carried out by
private companies tripled to 75% and harvesting activities increased to
80%.
(vi)   While this trend offers positive social impact resulting from stimulating
private forest management, sustained increase in income levels will depend
on overall reduction in numbers of employees.
32.   Monitoring in the project area shows a steady decline since 1990 in levels of
atmospheric pollution, and project actions through reafforestation helped to mitigate the
damage. However, as the reduction in pollution mainly resulted from the collapse of
industries in Eastern Europe, it is vital to ensure that levels of pollutants continue to
decline even when East European economies recover and new plants are established.
Therefore, it is important to maintain international monitoring and liaison on these trends
and to ensure an early warning system to detect any reversal.
33.   The most important direct environmental benefits of the project are expected to
result from improved health of the forest estate. This will result from increased vitality
due to: (i) more intensive forest management; (ii) restoration of forest cover destroyed by
atmospheric pollution and greater resilience to such stress and compensation resulting
from afforestation activities; (iii) ensuring the availability of high quality seed to raise the
vigor and potential productivity of forests; and (iv) the control program against the nun
moth infestation, an important component that was added to project in 1995. On this last
point, in the absence of an automatic, extra-budget mechanism for ensuring a reliable
source of revenue for tackling such emergencies, there is a risk that SFD will not have
financial capability to tackle future pathogenic infestations. The SFD insists that funds
for emergency operations are always forthcoming from the Ministry of Finance.
Nonetheless, the quality and timeliness of SFD's vital operations could be better assured
by creating a fund form revenues received, e.g., from fees levied on private forestry
companies or access on sales of forest products.
34.   Improved environmental management should continue to be centered on sound
forest utilization policies and planning procedures. This must ensure constant application
of the following points:
(i)   Improving the liaison between the SFD and the National Parks Department
and adopting new planning criteria for both commercial areas and national
parks. This is vital in order to agree on strategies that better balance, on the
one hand, sound forest and environmentally sensitive forest management,
and complete closing off of park areas, on the other.
(ii)   Ensuring closer supervision of wood harvesting and transportation
practices.



10
(iii)  Improving research into the effects of pollution on forest health.
Attention to environmental management is embedded centrally in SFD policies; however,
it is unclear to what extent this was influenced by project activities.
35. The national parks development will achieve the economic impact, but to a lesser
extent than predicted due to the limited levels of development achieved. It is important
that funding for the development and operation of national parks must be guaranteed and,
from recent evidence, the provision of state subsidies for these purposes is not reliable.
At the same time, raising the necessary funds by increasing entry charges is likely to be a
deterrent. Therefore, an assured source of income will need to be provided to SFD,
possibly from higher hunting charges or taxation on tourism.
36.  Indirect environmental benefits, where project activities were assessed by the effect
on enhanced soil conservation, protection of watersheds and agricultural lands, improved
micro climate, and increased carbon absorption from faster tree growth, expansion of
forest estate, increased hunting and gathering, and better amenities. The economic
benefits from project soil conservation and watershed protection measures will be
realized. Similarly, although the effects of lower forest management intensity on the rate
and volume of tree growth are unclear, it is estimated that project activities on carbon
sequestration will be met.
H. Future Operations
37.  It is anticipated that developments initiated under the project will be consolidated
and that the contribution of the forestry sector to the economy environmental
enhancement will continue to grow.
,r   Key Lessons Learned
38.  There are five key lessons resulting from this project:
Firstly, in a country like Poland, with strong traditions in forestry production, well
trained personnel and sound back-up, and where there is both a clear development
program and implementation capacity, the main benefits of a development project
lie more in the introduction of modem technologies and institution strengthening
than in simply expanding forest production activities.
Second, the introduction of forest establishment and management innovations that
would replace traditional procedures must be supported by hard evidence of their
technical, financial, environmental and economic advantage. In-depth technical
and economic analysis of the comparative advantage of options and alternative
project designs is an essential factor in promoting innovations.
Third, where individual project components depend on complementary financing
for covering a substantial part of the project costs, commitment must be obtained
during the appraisal process on the source of financing. Also, in this regard, Bank-
financed core activities should, as far as possible, be designed as independent
activities with a possibility of generating desirable impacts even if complementary



11
financing fails to materialize. At the same time, it is important to thoroughly assess
the Borrower's political commitment to the project activities, especially for those
involving environmental protection.
Fourth, the design of institutional development activities should emphasize the
need for financial and economic sustainability. This applies equally to public
sector enterprises and private sector operators established as a result of project
activities.
Fifth, the Bank should pay more attention to ensuring that problems arising during
project implementation are thoroughly addressed during supervision and realistic
solutions agreed. Experience from this project also indicates that department
managers should ensure that the skills of specialist task managers are focused as
much as possible.



12
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives  Substantial  Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
Macro Policies               Cl          E             El            0
Sector Policies             O            El            E             O
Financial Objectives         0           10             l            E
Institutional Development    O           0             E             C1
Physical Objectives          0           El            E             E
Poverty Reduction            E           0             E             El
Gender Issues                E           El            El            0
Other Social Objectives      El          E             E             i
Environmental Objectives     0           El            E             El
Public Sector Management     El          0f            E             E
Private Sector               E           0             El            E
Development
Other (specify)             El           E             El            E
B. Project Sustainability    Likely              Unlikely            Uncertain
(1)                 (il)                 (V)
Highly
C. Bank Performance         Satisfactory        Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification              E                   0                    El
Preparation Assistance       E                  0                    E
Appraisal                    El                 E                    E
Supervision                 El                  E                    0



14
Highly
D. Borrower Performance       Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
(1)                 (1)                   (1)
Preparation                   0                    El                    0
Implementation                0                                          C]
Covenant Compliance           0                    0                     0
Operation (if applicable)     00                                         0
Highly                                    Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome     Saffsfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
0 0                        0              0



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose                    Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. Agriculture Sector      Support removal of                   FY93              Satisfactorily completed
Adjustment Loan            government interventions and
institution development.
2. Forest Biodiversity     (i) protection of Polish forest      FY91              Satisfactorily completed
Protection Project (GEF    (genetic, species, association,                        12/95.
21685)                     and ecosystem); and
(ii) pilot conservation
activities
Following operations
3. Rural Development       Promote economic           Board Presentation FY00     Appraisal underway.
Project (APL)              development of rural
enterprises.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                                 Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                  6/1991                    6/1991
Preparation                                                 10/1991                     1991
Appraisal                                                   6/1992                    6/1992
Negotiations                                                2/1993                  2/16/1993
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)           N/A                       N/A
Board Presentation                                          6/1993                 7/29/1993
Signing                                                   8/31/1993                8/31/1993
Effectiveness                                            11/29/1993               11/29/1993
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                         N/A                       N/A
Midterm review (if applicable)                            1/14/1997                 10/7/1996
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if applicable)            N/A                       N/A
Project Completion                                       12/31/1999               12/31/1998
Loan Closing                                              6/30/2000                6/28/1999



16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS Smons)
FY94     FY95      FY96     FY97      FY98      FY99          FY00
Appraisal estimate            8.8     28.5      50.6      71.1      96.4     124.0        146.0
Actual                       11.5     32.4      70.2      100.1    102.0     102.0        102.0
Actualas%ofestimate          31%       114%     139%      141%     106%      82%          70%
Date of final disbursement                                                   10/19/98
The loan amount was reduced to US$ 104 million in 1996 after cancellation of
US$ 42 million at the Borrower's request; the relevant percentages for FY99 and FY00 after
taking into account the revised loan amount are 98% for each year.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No implementation indicators were defined in the present document.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No implementation indicators were defined in the project document. However, reconciliation
of key project activities is shown in Appendix D, Annex 3.



17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
A series of studies was carried out in conjunction with the project. Most of these were
commenced during the appraisal process and were completed as part of project implementation.
Study                    Purpose as defined at               Status             Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. National Forestry P s    To define policy revisions for organizing  Completed   Provided definition for new
forestry sector within the market economy.                forest sector.
2.Environmental studies,   To define range of actions for improving  Completed     Provided outline for national
including expansion of  environmental aspects of forest management.                parks development and
GIS activities.                                                                    wildlife protection.
3.Forestry Research     To establish procedures for economic forest   Completed    Series of studies demonstrated
management and for monitoring impact of                    new, economically oriented
different technologies. .                                 research approaches, and
monitoring of forestry
management activities.
4. Trade and Price      Define procedures for establishing a market-   Completed   Provided guide for
Marketing Study         oriented timber trade analysis capability.                 establishing special
department in SFD.
5.Nun Moth Protection   Added study for establishing procedures for   Completed    Let to effective control
Study                   economic organization of control campaign.                 campaign
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                      (US$ million)
Item                 Local costs  Foreign   Total        Local costs  Foreign    Total
costs                               costs
i . Intensification of silviculture    67.3       25.1     92.4           62.0        34.0      96.0
2. Restoration of demanaged forests    41.6       13.5     55.1            25.5       20.0      45.5
3. Afforestation                       28.2        9.3     37.5            19.5       17.0      36.5
4. Genetic conservation and
improvement                         27.6        12.6     40.2           23.8       17.5      41.3
5. Modernization of harvest and
transport                            0.0        74.8     74.8            5.5        7.5       13.0
6. Ecosystem conservation in national
parks                                6.3         6.5     12.8            0.4        0.1        0.5
7. Institutional development            8.5       14.1     22.6             4.3       10.1      14.4
Total                                 179.5      155.9    335.4          141.0      106.2      247.2



18
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                 ActuaUlatest estimates
(US$ million)                        (US$ million)
Item                  Local costs  Foreign    Total        Local costs  Foreign     Total
costs                                costs
General Directorate of State Forests    146.5        0.0    146.5           128.8           0.0       128.8
IBRD                                      0.0      146.0   146.0              0.0         102.0       102.0
European Investment Bank                 11.9        4.1     16.0             12.2          4.1       16.3
Bilateral Agencies                       21.1        5.8    26.9              0.0           0.1        0.1
Total                                   179.5      155.9   335.4            141.0         106.2      247.1
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
EIRR                         EIRR
Component                        At Appraisal                 At Completion
(%)                          (%)
A. Intensification of
Silvicultural Operations                      22                            12
B. Restoration of Damaged                         10                           10
Forest
C. Afforestation                                  10                           10
D. Genetic Conservation and
Improvement Program                            10                           12
E. Harvesting and Transport                       38                           20
F. Nun Moth Control                        Added Component                     15
Total Project (Weighted)                         20                            15



19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant  Present    Original     Revised         Description of Covenant             Comments
Agreement    Section       Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Loan         3.01(a)      5,10,3,6    C                                 The Borrower under MEPNRF        PIU established within
supervision shall carry out the  General Directorate for State
objectives of the project with due  Forests ensuring efficient
diligence and efficiency, conforming management and
to appropriate administrative,   coordination.
environmental, financial and forestry
practices. Funds, facilities, services
and other resources required shall be
provided for promptly by the
Borrower.
3.01(b)      10,5,3    C                                  The Borrower shall carry out the
project in accordance with the
implementation program set forth in
Schedule 5 to the Legal Agreement.
3.010       2,3        C                      11/25/93    The Borrower shall enter into a   MOF contracted both with
Financing Agreement with the State  Ministry of Environment and
Forests on terms and conditions  Forests and GDSF.
satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank.
3.02(a)     5,10       CP        12/31/93     12/31/97    The Borrower shall furnish to the  TOR for three TA activities
Bank terms of reference for technical only.
assistance specialists to be hired
under the project.
3.02(b)     3           CP      6/30/94       12/31/97    The Borrower shall have obtained    Three TA activities have
funds for technical assistance under  been funded, but support for
the project.                     project activities from other
aid agencies has not
materialized.
3.03        5,10       C        6/30/94       12/31/97    With respect to equipment purchased Privatization rules elaborated
for Part B of the project, the   in January 1995 were mostly
Borrower shall furnish a plan for    implemented by 1997.
selling or leasing such equipment to
private owners, which plan shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.04        5,6,10     CP                                 The Borrower shall ensure that forest Only three plans have been
management activities within all    developed under the project;
national parks will follow the plans  these are now being
of national park protection developed implemented. Other plans
as a result of the Project.      are now being developed
independently of the project.
3.05        6          C                                  The Borrower shall ensure that all
active ingredients in agrochemicals
used during implementation will
comply with relevant standards as
published by FAO. A list of such
ingredients shall be furnished in
sufficient time for the Bank to review
and comment thereon.
4.01(a)      I          C                                 Project accounts are to be audited on  1995 report submitted and
an annual basis and the audit report  found to be satisfactory,
submitted to the Bank within six  1996 and 1997 reports
months of the end of each year.  received 1/99.
4.01(b)      I          C                                 Special Accounts are to be audited
on an annual basis as part of the audit
of project accounts.
4.010        I          C                                 Statements of Expenditure are to be
audited on an annual basis as part of
the audit of project accounts and the



20
audit report is to contain a separate
opinion on these Statements.
Schedule 5,  5,10        C                                   Establish and maintain an Office of   Competent office established
Para. I                                                      Project Implementation; designate an and operational through
officer from the Board of National    12/97 when GDSF virtually
Parks who would cooperate with     halted project
Project Coordinator. Staff would  implementation.
have qualifications and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 5,  5,10        CP       12/31/93                   Establish and maintain a Section for  Work on privatization is
Para. 2                                                      Privatization of Forestry Services.    making progress as an
integral part of the planning
division of the organization
of the State Forests; Bank
mission and GDSF agreed
that establishment of a
"Privatization Section" is not
required.
Schedule5,  5,10         C        9/30/94       12/31/95     Section for Privatization of Forestry   Plan adopted and
Para., 3                                                     Services will prepare a privatization  implemented.
plan for harvesting, skidding and
transport operations.
Schedule 5,  5,9         CP                                  Forestry Research Institute to     1996 and 1997 reports
Para. 4                                                      develop and carry out monitoring and accepted by the Bank.
evaluation of the project under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Schedule 5,  9,5,10      C        6/1/95        12/31/96     Borrower shall carry out a review of  Strategy for forest utilization
Para. 5                                                      the project and prepare a report   was agreed upon during
containing future strategic objectives MTR.
of forestry development in Poland
and proposals for implementation of
this strategy and submit this report
for discussion with the Bank.
Schedule 5,  9,5,10      C                                   Borrower shall provide the Bank    1994 thru 1997 reports
Para. 6                                                      annual reports, corresponding to a    submitted to the Bank.
mutually agreed format, on the wood
marketing activities of the General
Director-ate of State Forests (GDSF),
including detailed information on
prices, quantities, revenues, methods
of sale and scope of technical
assistance needs, by March 31 of
each year.
Schedule 5,  5,10        C        10/31/94                   Borrower shall have prepared TOR
Para. 7                                                      satisfactory to the Bank, for a
program of Professional
Development and Technical
Assistance in wood marketing.
Covenant types:                                                                                       Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                      8. = Indigenous people                      C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from        9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting      CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                          10. = Project implementation not covered by    CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds                   categories 1-9                           NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                                  I1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency   other resource allocation
6. = Environmental covenants                              12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy!
7. = Involuntary resettlement                                regulatory/institutional action
13. = Other



21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No lack of compliance was observed
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                     Revised                        Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks    US$'000        Weeks        US$'000            Weeks       US$'000
Preparation to Appraisal        -          -             -             -                58.4        168.0
Appraisal                       -          -             -                              56.7        147.8
Negotiations through Board      -          -             -             -                38.3        110.1
approval
Supervision                    67.0      161.5         52.8          147.3             130.0        500.5
Completion                      -          -            5.1          16.9                4.9        30.1
Total                 67.0       161.5         57.9         164.2             288.3        956.5
(Bank Budget)                 67.0      161.5         57.9          164.2            (236.4)      (802.1)
(Consultant Trust Funds)                                                              (51.9)      (154.4)



22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance RatinTp
Stage of project cycle     Month/        No. of  Days in  Specialization'    Implem.        Dev.      Types of
Year       Persons   Field                       Status      Objectives
Through Appraisal                                                               N/A          N/A           N/A
Appraisal through Board                                                         N/A          N/A           N/A
approval
Supervision I             08/93            5          14     F,Sp,E,P,FS         S            S
Supervision II             11/93           5          9      F,Sp,E,P,FS         S            S
Supervision III           02/94            5          9      F,Sp,E,P,FS         S            S              F
Supervision IV            03/94            4          9      F,Sp,E,FS           S            S              T
Supervision V             07/94            2          11     F,E                 S            S            S,T,F
Supervision VI             10/94           2          9      F,Sp                S            S              T
Supervision VII           03/95            4          19     3F,Sp               S            S              T
Supervision Vill           10/95           2          7      F,FS                S            S              F
Supervision IX             10/96*          5          10     3F,Sp,B             S            S             T,S
Supervision X             07/97            2          4      2F                  S            S              T
Supervision XI            07/98            4          14     2F,E,FS             S            S              F
Completion                 11/98           3          8      F,E,FS              S            S              T
Mid-Term Review
Total                             43        123
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:      2 - Key to Performance Ratings:    3 - Key to Types of Problems:
F=Forester                                S=Satisfactory                     T=Technical
Sp=Specialist (e.g., Genetics)                                               F=Financial
E=Economist                                                                  P-Procurement
P-Procurement                                                                S=Staffing
FS=Financial Specialist
B=Environmentalist/Biodiversity
Specialist
Etc.



23                         Appendix A
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
Forest Development Support Project
Implementation Completion Review Mission --- November 1998
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.  A World Bank mission, consisting of Messrs. Michael Nightingale (Task Team-
leader); Kishore Nadkarni (Financial Analyst), and Arnoldo Contreras-Hermosilla
(Forestry Specialist) visited Poland between November 9 and 25, 1998 in order to
complete the Implementation Completion Review (ICR) of the Forest Development
Support Project (FDSP). Working with the Project Coordinator, Mr. Piotr Ziemski,
mission members held detailed discussions with directors and representatives of the
departments and organizations responsible for the different components. A field trip was
made to the Bialystok region in order to examine and discuss the impact of project-
related developments. A round-up meeting was held with Mr. Janusz Radziejowski,
Deputy Minister for Forestry in the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural
Resources and Forestry (MEPNRF). Mission members give sincere thanks to Mr.
Ziemski and all colleagues for their hospitality and the time devoted to intensive analyses
of the achievements and long-term prospects for forestry development in Poland. The
mission's observations and conclusions are reflected in this aide memoire, and have been
reviewed by the State Forests Department (SFD) and World Bank management.
2.   The mission reiterated the reasons for the ICR process, emphasizing the importance
of making a balanced assessment of the physical, environmental, institution, economic
and sustainability aspects of the project achievements. The facts that the project
completion date has been advanced by one year (to December 31, 1998) and, by mutual
agreement, the loan amount was reduced by US$42 million were important factors in the
assessment.
Summary Conclusions
3.   Despite the challenges of many disperse but inter-linked components, the physical
objectives of the FDSP were largely achieved. A competent and professional project
implementation unit was established and the management of the different components by
the existing SFD was generally competent. The speed of implementation of the project
(effectively four years 1994/97) is especially noteworthy.
4.   Points of concern to the review mission are centered on the sustainability of project
actions and failure to thoroughly examine controversial aspects of forest management.
Doubts of sustainability relate to the escalation in costs of forest management in the
absence of significant increase in productivity. It appears that the economic returns from
the project will be significantly lower than predicted at appraisal and, in this context,



24
Appendix A
Page 2 of 9
the project will be significantly lower than predicted at appraisal and, in this context,
successive review missions urged the SFD to analyze the efficiency and economic
implications of forestry developments. Action on this issue is paramount There has
also been little follow-up to the studies undertaken during project implementation,
notably on assessing the financial and economic implications of the National Forest
Policy statement (1997). Also, it is important for SFD to confront the reticence for
tackling controversies over technical innovations, in order to ensure the potential benefits
from modernizing forest management and the medium/long-term efficiency gains are
realized.
Achievements in Environmental Forest Management
5.   The mission's preliminary assessment of the impact of physical project activities
related to environmental forest management are summarized as follows:
*  In a general context, the environmental impact of project physical development
was positive. However, greater attention should have been given during project
implementation to considering alternative strategies and analyzing the economic,
social and environmental implications.
*  More attention should have been given to disseminating information and
providing extension support related to the advantages of innovations and economic
considerations, to operational staff responsible for implementing project.
* Project quantitative targets for forest thinning were achieved, but at lower levels
of intensity than envisaged at appraisal and levels of tree pruning were less than
planned. The main reasons for these variations was the lack of a definitive
scientific, economic and environmental evidence of the suitability of some
innovative forest management operations to Polish conditions, which caused some
reticence on the part of the implementing agencies. The project management was
flexible to the evolving situation; however, the preparation and supervision
processes should have been more imaginative and proactive in establishing
comprehensive analyses and demonstrations of alternative approaches and
innovations. Advantages and disadvantages of alternatives should be routinely
evaluated in the context of the broader production cycle and not merely on forest
management techniques.
*  Actual costs of thinning operations were significantly less than estimated at appraisal.
While this partly reflects the lower-than-planned intensity of thinning operations, it
also emphasizes the need for more precision in analyzing costs.
*  The restoration and afforestation activities exceeded the plan. However, it appears
that the present policy should be revised to encourage more strategic planning for
individual sites. In particular, attention should be given to alternative types of
vegetation and natural regeneration that may be more environmentally friendly and/or
economically more attractive. More attention should be given to carrying out routine
economic analyses of alternative approaches for restoration of areas affected by air
pollution.



25
Appendix A
Page 3 of 9
*  Some policy restrictions impose rigidities in plantation practices that affect efficiency
of production. Greater opportunities for adapting to local conditions should be
encouraged, including delegating more decision-making responsibilities for
environmental forest activities to the superintendencies. This will enable
afforestation procedures to be decided by local foresters rather than by centralized
dictates. To facilitate more effective decentralization, urgent attention should be
given to providing training and support to strengthen planning and decision-making
capabilities at regional and superintendency levels.
*  Project support for genetic improvement offorest species exceeded the targets. This
included developing seed storage facilities, modernizing seed extraction, modernizing
nurseries, expanding seed stands and seed orchards, selecting genetically superior
trees, and establishing conservation plots. It is important to prepare a plan for
ensuring financial sustainability of these operations.
*  The objectives of the nationalparks component were only partially realized. While
effective assistance was given to establishing core activities, further development was
constrained by lack of fiscal resources and failure to raise US$10 million of grant
funding planned at appraisal. The reason for the latter is unclear; however, it was
influenced by insufficient guidance to the project management during supervision,
together with the system of decision making that did not allow independent search for
funds by the National Parks Board. In the present situation of limited government
resources, possible ecological grant funds for parks development from bilateral, EU
or NGO sources should be fully exploited.
*  Development of national parks is being affected by uncertainties over the role of
forestry in national park areas. In order to ensure the sustainability of national
parks, it is essential to agree on strategies that allow for compatible development
of forestry activities in harmony with environmental protection.
-  The plannedforest mechanization component fell short of the original objectives.
This was largely due to uncertainties over the appropriate types of mechanization for
harvesting and transportation. This was partially countered by organizing training
courses and demonstrations, as a result of which, SF staff are now more convinced of
the potential for utilizing modern transportation technologies in some areas.
However, it is evident that during appraisal and implementation, insufficient
consideration was given to assessing and demonstrating appropriate mechanization
technologies. In this context, appraisal analysis of the demand for timber did not
identify that the major buyers of raw wood are small-scale private sawmills that are
dependent on traditional machinery and practices. This means that the actual demand
is for flexible sizes of wood product that require whole trees rather than cut logs - as
dictated by the mechanized harvesting machinery procured under the project.
Furthermore, transportation in the formn of logs implies heavier truck loads, yet many
of the roads and bridges connecting forests to sawmills are not adapted to such loads.
* The Bank reacted promptly to Government's request to reduce the allocation of funds
for forest mechanization. There appears to have been little communication between
the Bank and component managers regarding the difficulties in implementing the



26
Appendix A
Page 4 of 9
component as originally planned or on alternative possibilities for mechanization.
Similarly, during implementation, the possibilities of reallocating some funds for
trials and demonstrations of possible mechanization technologies should have been
considered. These might well be relevant in the medium/long-term when
unemployment is reduced and labor costs escalate.
Institution Development Achievements
6.   The focus of project activities for forest institutions involved support to develop
plans for privatizing certain activities and decentralizing and strengthening the remaining
public sector operations. Project support for institution activities was significant in
expanding the horizons of forestry policy in Poland. Interactions, especially through
training and technical assistance specialists for the Forest Research Institute staff were
instrumental in opening-up dialogue with similar specialists in other European countries
and in introducing greater objectivity in developing alternative strategies. There were
delays in carrying out strategy studies (as specified in the Loan Agreement) and it is
recommended that the Director General SFD issue special instructions to follow up on
these issues.
7.   The project had a positive influence on privatization, including supporting the
transfer of routine forest management activities to private sector operators. This has
effectively reduced the number of employees in the State Forest Department. At the
same time, the efficiency of the Department's remaining organizational and supervisory
activities has improved and its routine operations have become self-financing from
revenues of timber sales. Conversely, it is unclear whether the organizational and
economic efficiencies of forest management operations have improved under private
sector operators. Detailed business and economic analyses should be made by FRI to
clarify this issue. A comprehensive study should be undertaken to consider alternative
opportunitiesfor further involving private organizations in forestry operations in the
medium to long-ternL It is anticipated that this would offer economies in operating costs
and provide revenues to the SFD.
8.   Project activities also had a positive impact on other forest institutions that remain
under public control. Research operations by FRI are now more outward looking and the
planning, training and supervisory functions have also improved. In particular, a start
was made in decentralizing state forest management by allowing regions and
superintendencies greater autonomy in planning and organization. Some progress was
made with strengthening the organization of National Parks; however, more attention
should have been given to strengthening their management and financial sustainability.
In this respect, greater advantage should have been taken of the opportunities for
obtaining concessional financing under the project. In the same vein, training
opportunities under the project were not fully exploited, including the organization of
study tours and employment of short-term consultant specialists, each of which could
have assisted in broadening knowledge of international forest developments - especially
for staff in the superintendencies.



27                       Appendix A
Page 5 of 9
9.  Institution development aspects that should receive more attention are:
(i)  develop systems-research (by FRI) to analyze financial, economic and
management aspects of the forest sector, and investigate and provide
comprehensive information on new technologies, such as mechanization for
production and processing of timber;
(ii) promote sustainable natural resource development by relegating the political
influence and fostering harmony between the State Forests and National
Parks Departments to jointly develop compatible management systems;
(iii) develop and implement regular management training programs (including
decentralized organization, information services and financial analysis) for
the SFD staff; and
(iv) develop more pro-active extension operations (by SFD) to support and guide
private sector forestry businesses.
Financial and Economic Achievements
a)   Project Financing
10. Total actual project costs are estimated at US$247.2 million and comparisons with
the financing plan at appraisal are as follows:
Source        Appraisal Estimates  Actual Expenditures Realization
(US$ millions)     (US$ millions)   (percentage)
Government            146.5               128.69           89.8
World Bank            104.0**             102.03           98.1
EIB                    16.0                16.35          102.2
Bilateral Agencies     26.9                 0.14            0.5
Totals                293.4               247.21          85.0
The original loan size, of US$146.0 million, was formally reduced by US$42.0 million in
1996. Total project costs after this adjustment ** were 15% below the appraisal
estimates. However, output from project activities was also less than planned.
11. The mission agreed in principle to the proposition by the GDSF to cancel the
remaining loan amount (US$1.97 million), subject to formal request being made by the
Ministry of Finance to the World Bank.
b)   Financial Performance of the State Forests
12. Net income generated by the entire State Forests operations, although positive, has
been substantially less than the levels projected at appraisal. Thus, against the appraisal
projections of an operating margin (revenues less expenditures) of 18 percent in 1993



28
Appendix A
Page 6 of 9
improving to 39 percent by 1998, the maximum operational margin actually achieved
was 7.2 percent in 1995 (a year of exceptionally good wood prices). The average margin
in the period 1993 to 1997 was about 4.3 percent, with a declining trend thereafter,
reaching 1.6 percent in 1997 before improving to an estimated 2.8 percent in 1998.
13. While the forecast targets of revenues from wood sales have been met, there has
been a shortfall in by products sales and other revenues. Against appraisal estimates of
annual realization of other revenues of about US$196 million equivalent per year from
other revenues, actual income from these sources has averaged around US$150 million
equivalent per year. The shortfall in net income has resulted from lower-than-expected
gains in productivity by State Forest operations. Also, appraisal estimates of annual
operating costs (before taxes and depreciation) for State Forests predicted levels were
US$505 million equivalent a year, whereas actual annual expenditures have been around
US$790 million, some 55 percent higher than projected. This escalation has occurred
despite a substantial reduction in the SFD labor force since 1993, which declined to
41,000 in 1997 compared to 78,000 in 1993, or about 48 percent. To enable a more
detailed assessment of the reasons for the deviations in performance, the mission
requested SFD to prepare and send to the Bank by December 20, 1998 the completed
table (attached in Annex 2(a)) which was requested during the mid-term Review mission
in 1997. It is proposed for the Bank to recruit a short-tern consultant financial analyst to
assist with these analyses (terms of reference Annex 2 b)).
14. The SFD has prepared a forecast of total revenues and expenditures for the period
1998 to 2012. This envisages that operational margins will continue in the range of 3.5 to
6.5 percent annually. The mission recommends that the consultant financial analyst
should assist with these objectives. In this context, it is of prime importance to consider
all means for economizing on operational costs and raising levels of productivity.
c)  Project Financial Management
15. In response to queries raised by the World Bank, the independent auditor has
confirmed that the scope of project accounts for the year 1996 included an audit of the
Statements of Expenditure and the Special Accounts and that he was satisfied in regard to
the Borrower's compliance with the requirements. It was confirmed that a supplementary
opinion to this effect will be added to the auditor's report for 1996 and sent to the Bank
by November 30, 1998. Regarding the audit of project accounts for 1997, this was due to
be sent to the World Bank by June 30, 1998. However, the process has been delayed and
there was a total lack of response by the four firms who had been invited to make
proposals; due apparently to insufficient time for preparing quotations. Therefore, the
SFD has agreed to extend the time period of submission by one month. In the
circumstances and because the proximity of project closing, the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) has requested that the work on the audits for the years 1997 and 1998 be
combined. The mission supported this proposal in principle and it was agreed that the
Project Coordinator would ensure that a combined audit report of project accounts for
1997 and 1998 is delivered to the World Bank by February 28, 1999.



29
Appendix A
Page 7 of 9
d)   Economic Impact
16. On the economic front, the time interval in forest production and the current flux in
world timber markets make it difficult to accurately predict the project outcome. The
current high levels of SFD operating costs present an added complication. Nonetheless,
initial predictions are that project activities will have a positive overall economic impact
but that this will be significantly lower than estimated at appraisal. There are four main
factors affecting this prediction:
(i)  long-term predictions for timber prices are currently significantly lower than
appraisal estimates;
(ii)  SFD operation costs (to date) are significantly higher than appraisal forecasts
(and the comparable levels in Western European countries);
(iii) lower-than-expected achievements (to date) from some project activities will
reduce the overall benefits; and
(iv) over-estimation during appraisal of the benefits from byproducts and social
and economic developments.
The World Bank and the State Forest Department in the course of finalizing the ICR will
analyze these predictions in detail.
Preliminary Conclusions and Lessons
17.  The mission's basic assessment is that, overall, the project will have positive
environmental and economic impacts. In this context, the following series of conclusions
are pertinent:
(i)  Project activities were effective in forging a link between Polish forestry
operations and other European countries, thereby providing the basis for
exchange of ideas and technological and economic innovations.
(ii)  Forest production targets under the project were exceeded; however, it
appears that economic impact of these operations will fall significantly short
of appraisal estimates. It is important to urgently make comprehensive
analyses of the technical and economic sustainability of forest production in
Poland and to maintain such calculations on a routine basis.
(iii) Insufficient attention was given by MEPNRF and the World Bank to
analyzing possibilities for alternative forest management technologies,
appropriate forest mechanization, and state parks development, both during
appraisal and implementation.



30
Appendix A
Page 8 of 9
(iv) While forest institutions were significantly strengthened in the course of
project implementation, it is important for the SFD to maintain progress
towards greater autonomy and efficiency at regional and superintendency
levels.
(v)  Major progress was achieved in privatizing forest management activities;
however, it is important to routinely analyze the implications for financial
and economic efficiency of these actions. In addition, consideration should
be given to assessing the opportunities for developing (on a pilot basis) more
comprehensive approaches to privatizing forestry operations, with the aim of
increasing efficiency and reducing fiscal obligations.
Next Steps for Completing the Implementation Completion Report
18. The agreed actions for completing the ICR are as follows:
A.  by the Ministry of Environmental Protection Natural Resources and Forestry:
a)  submit to the World Bank by November 30, 1998, an addendum to the 1996
audit report on project accounts, confirming the Borrower's compliance with
the requirements in regard to the statements of expenditure and the Special
Account;
b)  prepare and send to the World Bank by December 20, 1998, the following
items:
(i) the completed table (attached in Annex 2(a)) which was already requested
during the mid-term Review mission in 1997; and
(ii) the procurement table (similar to that on page 21 of the Staff Appraisal
Report) updated to reflect actual figures of the distribution of procurements
under the World Bank Loan (this revised table need not include figures
relating to non-Bank financed procurements);
c)  complete preparation and transmit to the World Bank by December 31, 1998,
comments on: (i) the project achievements relative to the original objectives;
(ii) Borrower performance; and (iii) World Bank performance; and
d)  send to the World Bank by February 28, 1999, the combined audit report of
project accounts (including separate opinions on the statements of
expenditure and the two Special Accounts) for the years 1997 and 1998.
B. by the World Bank:
a)  appointment of a consultant (to be financed by the WB), to work with the
General department for State Forests and the FRI and help prepare the
financial and economic informnation required for the ICR (in accordance with
terms of reference shown in Annex 2(b));
b)  transmit to the Government confirmation by Bank Management to the
conclusions of this Aide Memoire; and



31
Appendix A
Page 9 of 9
c)  complete the draft version of World Bank portions the Implementation
Completion Report and submits this to MEPNRF for comments: by January
31, 1999;
C.  by both parties:
a)  agree on the contents of the final version of the ICR: by March 31, 1999.
Piotr Ziemski                Michael Nightingale
Project Coordinator          Task Team-Leader
November 25, 1998
finalized February 26, 1999



I



32                         Appendix B
Page I of 2
LASY PANSTWOWE
DYREKCJA GENERALNA LAS6W PANSTWOwycH
(O922 WARSZAWA                                  TEL 25 0 28
ul. W5weitIca 52154                             TELIFA.X 25 85 56
EZ/2300/1 24199                                           Warszawa, 10.061.999
Mr Mick Nightingale
Senior Agricultural Spccialist
Envirormentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia
THE WORLD BANK
WashinLgton
U.S.A.
atten: Mr. G. Park - World B3ank mission in Warsaw
fax 0-01202 614-0697
0-0 1202 477-3285
Re: ICR - suggestions from Statc Forests
Dear Mr Nihgtingale,
Regarding thc World Bank draft of Implementation Completion Report I would like to
express my remarks which are as follows:
1. ICR present Project impementation analysis prepared by the World Bank spccialists. Thus
opinions in it not fully include very specific of the forest management activity, not only in
Poland but also in othcr countrics (mostly european). Especially Project component of
modernization of the harvcsting and transportation equipment and intensification of silviculture
need careful approach. It should be expressed that density of plantation, which was very often
under discussion, generally decreascd during Project implementation. The Report properly says
about the long tradition of the existing silviculture practises in Poland, which regard all
environmental and social aspects. Considering activity of modernization machinery and
harvesting technology there should be generally expressed that, although the component was
not implemented in planed size, finally wc observe now clear symptoms of private service
intercst of new harvesting teehnics ani mnrh'res. Paralelly existing buyers  nl.lly increas
their flexibility of wood assortment demandl. It really allow thinking that implemented during
the Project new harvesting technology will be continued. That trend could be mainly more
accelerated by the interest rate reduce (there are now quite many private films in Poland able
to buy expensive equipmcnt).



Appendix B
Page 2 of 2
2. Presenting future incomes of SF it should be considered current forestry policy, -which.
although the maximum profit is not main aim  of forest activity, Polish State Forests hao-
creatcd and will support sclfinancing trend. at the same time producing enough wood volume
according to the country demand and  fulfil  all environmental and social fiunctions.
This charactcristics ,,Polish forestry managing rrode!" can be highly recomendcd to the other
foreign countries.
3. Possible financial problcms of the high scale harmfiull insects contr5ll with lack of budget
funds is not iully correct. State Forests has al2wys financially participated in all actions against
harmfull infestatioms. It's vciy important to say that Polish SF is national propcrty suppurted by
statc budget in case oU extraordinary higli scaie catastrophy, like in all deve!oped c^untries all
ovcr the World.
4. State Foramts being awarc of long-tcrrr loan repayment necessity, caref-ully prerared and
submitted to the WB representativcs financial prognosis which clcariv sihows possibilities of
surplus continuation unitill at least thc end cf r:payrnent period. This allow S1 cr2ar.izaLion for
normal activity and dcvelopment.                 'n
The Report should strongly present efflciency and terminate Proic:t imclemcntazivn wlich
only can be carncd by tihe correctly mana2cc organization like State Forests in ?oland. It
guarantee its fianc,l2 discipline and mcect o,lizations of all loan rcpayme,... The Project iI
question is the firs; siuch type of project realizd byv the WB.
gincer-lv your-
a(bf LSe/iS ..,9XM4
Konrad Torriaszewski
General Director of State Forest.



34
Appendix C
Page 1 of 18
FI No. 1.6784
FINAL REPORT
FINAINCE CONTRACr
between X
REPUBLIC OF POLANID AND EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BXNK
1994 - 1995
General Directorate of State Forests
Office of Project Implementation
February, 1996



35
Appendix C
Page 2 of 18
INTRODUCTIOLN
The present Report is a summary of all operations related to the afforestation of
land moving out of agriculture that were financed from the European Investment
Bank funds between the beginning of 1994 and the end of June 1995.
The Finance Contract on the basis of which the above funds were made available for
the State Forests, was signed on September 2nd, 1993 and approved by the
Government of Poland on September 28th, 1993. The Contract was for ECU 13
million and constituted one of the sources of financing the governmental "Program of
the Development of Selected Forestry Branches and Ecosystem Conservation in
National Parks in the Years 1993-1997'. The Program components are financed
from the State Forests' own resources. the World Bank Loan proceeds, the
European Investment Bank funds and from grants. Tle funds of the Contract were
allocated exclusively to finance the afforestatjon of land moving out of agriculture
that is one of the elements of the above mentioned Program, to be carried out
between 1993 and 1995. Afterwards, i.e. till the end of 1997, the costs of these
operations will be covered from the World Bank Loan proceeds and the State
Forests' own resources.
According to the above Program, 17,000 ha of land is projected to be afforested for
the EIB funds.
Due to a postponement of the legal aspect of approving the above Program as well
as the Finance Contract, first disbursements of the EI1B funds started at the end of
the second quarter of 1994. Afforestation of land moving out of agriculture as well as
restoration of air-pollution damaged forests are indirectly financed by the State
Budget from funds provided for a given year.
Expenditures on afforestation operations divided into costs of: workmanship.
equipment. materials and services. are recorded bv each superintendencv and
collected bv each Regional Directorate of State Fores-s on special LPIO-3 forms.
Settlement of -erformed operations and incurred expenditures is done on the basis
of single invoices submitted by superintendencies and collected by Regional
Directorates of State Forests as collective invoices.



36
Appendix C
Page 3 Of 18
THE 1994 AFFORESTATION OPERATIONS PERFORMNANCE
I. Physical target achievement
1. In 1994 an area of 9,779 ha (on the basis of LPIO-3 report) was afforested. Each
Regional Directorate of State Forests had different afforested area. The biggest
afforested areas were reported in the northern and eastem parts of Poland
(Regional Directorates of State Forests in Szczecinek, Olsztyn, Bialystok and Lublin),
which results from the structure of ownership of agricultural land and its economic
situation. In the region there were large and unprofitable state-owned farms. When
the economic transformation started in Poland in 1989, the farms were gradually
taken over bv the specially established at governmental level Agricultural Property
Agency - an Organ of the State Treasury. Sorne of the land is to be afforested due
to its low site bonitet. The majority of Polish grounds are small. The areas where
afforestation operations were performed in 1994 and 1995 are presented in Table 5.
2. The average afforested area was almost the same in all Regional Directorates of
State Forests and varied between 1.11 ha and 3.69 ha. The biggest average afforested
area was in the Regional Directorate of State Forests in Krak6w and amounted to
12.39 ha. Small areas of 0.5 ha to a few ha were dominant.
3. The species composition of afforestation was arranged according to the 'Principles
of Silviculture" and differed according to site conditions. The share of tree species for
afforestation for each Regional Directorate of State Forests is presented in Table 2.
4. In accordance with agreement between General Directorate of State Forets and
Forestry Research Institute there has been elaborated "Monitoring and Evaluation of
afforestation of the former Agriculture Land  Report" performed in 1994 and.
additionally, in early spring of 1995. Afforestation made in whole 1995 uill be the
subject of separate report in the end of 1996. There were selected four regional
directorate ot State Forests, and then two supenntenoencies from each rdSF' to be
put under control. For each plot in chosen in a given superintendency there has been
qualified the following parameters:



37
Appendix C
Page 4 of 18
- area of afforestation,
- preparation of the soil,
- species composition,
- form of mixture,
- number of seedlings per 1 ha,
- effectiveness of plots,
- admixiiires of nurse species,
- damages by game
The total results of the above   mentioned monitoring are summarized within
appendix no 1 enclosed to the present report.
II. Financing
1. In 1994 a total of ECU 7 million was received from the EIB funds (in two
tranches: ECU 3.6 million and ECU 3.4 million) that was PLZ 191.849 billion.
Afforestation operations for ECU 6.475 milion that is PLZ 176.407 billion were
financed from this fund. The result amounting to ECU 0.525 million (i.e. PLZ 15.441
billion) was transferred as an advance for Superintendencies for the next year.
Specification of invoices from each RDSF is presented in the form of a table on
page 16 - 21.



38
Appendix C
Page 5 of 18
THE 1995 AFFORESTATION OPERATIONS PERFORMANCE
I. Physical Target Achievement
1. An area of 10,508.8 ha was afforested thanks to the EIB financing (on the basis of
the LPIO-3 report). Just like in 1994, the biggest afforested areas were in the
northern and eastern parts of Poland (see table 5).
2. A process of land transfer for afforestation was, like in 1995, very difficult. Areas
suitable for afforestation must have new land survey documentation, which needs
additional expenditures to be incurred by communities. Often, the the ownership of
the land in question is unclear. Problems related to the above postpone the land
transfer to the State Forests and, as a consequence, the commencing of preparation
work for planting. Bare preparation work and the planting itself depend upon
weather conditions in autumn and in spring.' The commencing of the above work
influences the quality of operations. Therefore it's important to have funds earlier to
perform works correctly.
HI. Financing
1. The third tranche of the EIB funds of ECU 2 million was transferred in the spring
of 1995, and the fourth tranche of ECU 4 million was transferred in July 1995, which
totally amounted to PLN 18.600.200. PLN 1.544.106,38 was left from last year. In
1995 the State Forests possessed PLN 20.144.660,38. A transfer of the funds in time
benefited the performance of afforestation operations in Superintendencies in 1995.
The area projected was fully afforested.
2. The specification of invoices that were covered from the total amount transferred
to the State Forests from each Regional Directorate of State Forests in 1995 is
presented in the form of a table on page 22 - 22.



39
Appendix C
Page 6 of 18
SPECIFICATIONS AND TABLES TO THE PRESENT REPORT
The following specifications and tables are attached to the present Report. They
present the details concerning the performance of afforestation operations Some of
the specifications include the physical results of afforestation operations for 1993
although they were not financed from the EIB funds. They enable to make
comparison with the results of the following year and a more precise presentation of
afforestation from the very beginning of the 'Trogram of the Development of
Selected Forestry Branches and Ecosystem Conservation in National Parks in the
Years 1993-1997".
THE FOLLOWING SPECIFICATION'S AND TABLES ARE ATTACHED
TO THE PRESENT REPORT:
1. Settlement of the received funds from the EIB for afforestation in 1994 and 1995;
2. The share of each species in the total area of afforestation in 1993 and 1994;
3. The biggest afforested areas in 1993 and 1994;
4. The average afforested areas in 1993 and 1994;
6. Specification of invoices for 1994;
7. Specification of invoices for 1995;
7. Physical target achievement: afforestation of land moming out of agriculture in
1994 and 1q95 (according to the LPIO-3 reports).
8. Selected statistical data of forestry chosen from year-books of Central Statistical
Office.



4o0
Appendix C
Page 7 of 18
Afforestation 1994 - 1995
1994
Received (15.06.1994 - date of remittance on GDSFs account)
under the 1st tranch:                        ECU 3.6 million  - PLZ 91.794 billion
Received (30.11.1994 - date of remittance on GDSFs account)
under the 2nd tranch:                      ECU 3.4 million  - PLZ 100.055 billion
TOTAL(in 1994):                           ECU 7.0 million  - PLZ 191.849 billion
Spent in accordance with invoices:        ECU 6.475 million - PLZ 176.407 billion
Unsettled:                                 E(U 0.525 million - PLZ 15.441 billion
= PLN 1.544.106.38
1995
Unsettled in 1994 (surplus):                 ECU 0.525 million - PLN 1,544,106.38
Invoices issued in 1995 for the
1994 Loan proceeds:                                          - PLN 1,544,106.38
Received (21.04.1995 - date of remittance on GDSFs account)
under the 3rd tranch:                      ECU 2.0 million    - PLN 6,237,265.00
Received (20.07.1995 - date of remittance on GDSFs account):
under the 4th tranch:                    ECU 4.0 million     - PLN 12,363,289.00
TOTAL (in 1995):                         ECU 6.0 million    - PLN 18,600,554.00
Spent in accordance with invoices:     ECU 6.525 million    - PLN 20,144,660.38



Table 1. AREA OF TREES SPECIES IN THE TOTAL AREA OF AFFORESTA TION IN 1993
Pine     8pruce   otherconiferousi  Oak  | Beach  I   Birch   I   Alder   I other broadleaves
RDSF                                            area (ha)
1 IBialystok        175         32               27        65          0          121            51                 27
2IKatowice           77         24                35        30         9             6           49                  18
3 Krakow              5          7                21         3         1             1            4                   4
4Krosno              28         43                56        35         9            10           30                  43
5 Lublln             72         11                15        55         3            50           37                  34
_    -     _ -, -             ---
6 Lodz               90          5                13        41         2            84           12                   9
7 Olsztyri          179         95                52       185        16          189           135                  36
8 Pilo               33          4                 6        30         7            32            1                   3
9 Poznant            77         13                 8        30         4           44            42                  15
10 Szczecin           87         28                17        67        24           66           128                   8
11 Szczecinek        219         22                17        74         8           86            4 3                 13
12 Torun             112         11                11        33         4          128            67                   9
13 Wroclaw            56         20                23        27         6             9           10                  29
14 Zielona Gora       46         12                26        32         5            35           10                   5
t IGdansk             881        15                22        69        10            15           27                   3
1 Radom              31          8                 1         6         2            10            1                   2
17 Warszawa            71         1                 1        9          0             3            3                   4_1               >
( (D
o0 X
0
oo



Table 2. AREA OF TREES SPECIES IN THE TOTAL AREA OF AFFORESTATION IN 1994
Pine   | spruce I|other coniferous|   Oak   |Beech           D itch   |Alder  |other broadleaves|
RDSF                          _         _        area (ha)
I Blalystok         201         137                58        144          1         248         115                  78
2 Katowice           132         37                55         98         19          45         118                  71
3 Krakow               3         41               115          2         22           2          22                  12
4 Krosno              40        141               245         36         35           4          43                  72
5 Lublin             112         26                71        208          3         119         158                 108
6ILodz               207          7                20         76         13         132          24                  11
7 Olsztyn            218        119                64        205         49         215         123                  59
8_Pila                31          8                 6         10          1          18           8                    2
9 Poznan             145         28                17         88         10         101         108                  28
10 Szczecin           164         55                20         74         56          89         186                  19
11 Szczecinek         450         84                26        223        156         279          47                  27
12 Torun              120         14                 8         28         17         186          79                  12
13 Wroclaw            145         66                50        136         25          45          23                  61
14 Zielona Gora        55          8                18         98         21          40          16                  22
1 5Gdansk             145         32                23        159        110          4           42                  65
16 Radorn             162         34                34        135          7         173          17                  10
17 Warszawa            19          6                 6          9          0           12          6                    8
0
Ic.



43
Appendix C.
Page 10 of 18
Table 3. The biggest area of afforestation plot
in 1993 and 1994 (ha)
RDSF            1993              1994
1 Bialystok             15               102
2 Katowice              10              10.74
3 Krakow               11.69             147
4 Krosno                7.1             28.08
5 Lublin                25              63.24
6 Lodz                 22.36            32.22
7 Olsztyn               14              30.49
8 Pila                 18.44             6.14
9 Poznan                11               14.5
110 Szczecin            11.2      j      15.89
11 Szczecinek            27    _90
12Torun                 11.65            24.78
13 Wroclaw              17.35            27.28
14 Zielona Gora         8.04             15.71
15 Gdansk                 4               20
16 Radom                3.84             66.37
17 Warszawa             4.65               7



Appendix C
Page 11 of 18
Table 4. Average area of afforested plot in 1993 and 1994 (ha)
RDSF            1993              1994
1 Bialystok            2.78              3.56
2 Katowice             1.22              1.21
3 Krakow               1.12              12.39
4 Krosno               1.22              1.79
5 Lublin               1.12              1.99
6 Lodz                  2.2               1.5
71Olsztyn              1.73              1.51
8 Pila                 1.88              1.12
9 Poznan               1.31              1.64
10 Szczecin             1.61              1.38
11 Szczecinek           3.03              3.69
12 Torun                1.22              2.12
13 Wroclaw              1.66              1.98
14 Zielona Gora         1.27              1.11
15 Gdansk               0.79              1.28
16 Radom                0.77              1.59
17Warszawa              1.14              1.26



45
Appendix C.
Page 12 of 18
Table 5. Afforestation of agriculture land in 1994 and 1995
(according to LPIO-3 report; without soil preparation)
1994                   3-rd quar. of 1996
ha        thousand        ha          thousand
RDSF                          PLN                         PLN
iBialystok                   987.3     1 376.3      1 194.1         2 060.3
2 Kalowice                   582.0      1 006.5       862.0          1 434.4
3 Krakow                     253.7       561.7        162.0           574.6
4 Krosno                     621.0      1 186.5       472.0          1 328.0
5 Lublin                     835.0      1 391.3       584.0          1 466.0
6 Lodz                       529.3       650.6        385.8           574.7
7 Olsztyn                  1 055.0      1 770.4       814.7          1 732.9
8 Pila                        84.0       174.8       1 398.5         2 634.1
9 Poznan                     577.5      1 019.5       438.6           873.2
10 Szczecin                   663.0       860.0        598.0          1 302.8
11 Szczecinek               1 328.0     2 154.4       1 589.0         2 797.8
12 Torun                      453.9       677.9        625.2      -- 1 230.1
13 Wroclaw                    524.3       786.0        411.0           852.3
14 Zielona Gora               292.9       718.5        298.4           714.6
| 15Gdansk                    341.0       431.8        422.0           816.3
16IRadom|                     578.0       718.4        423.6           627.7
17|Warszawa                    73.1       130.7         70.1           154.0
TOTAL:         9 779.0    15 615.01    10 608.8         21 173.8



46
Appendix C.
Page 13 of 18
STATISIICAL DATA
in accordance with year-books of Cen't Statstial Office
1993
1. Total area of forests: 8,720 mln ha,
including 6,834 mnn ha under State Forests control
2. Percentage of area covered by forests: 27,9%,
3. Harvesting (State Forests):
= total: 19,873 min3,
including: large timber (>7 cm diameter) - 18,576 mln m
(broadleaves-14,010 min
coniferous - 4,506 min m3)
4. Regenerations and afforestations in State Forests: 57 900 ha including 4 600 ha of
former agriculture land.
1994
1. Total area of forests: 8,920 mln ha,
including 7,039 mln ha under State Forests control
2. Percentage of area covered by forests: 27,9%,
3. Harvesting (State Forests):
- total: 20,113 mln m,
including: large timber (>7 cm diameter) - 18,324 mln m
(broadleaves-13,556 mln
coniferous - 4,768 mln m3)
4. Regenerations and afforestations in State Forests: 62 300 ha including 9 700 ha of
former agriculture land.



47
Appendix C
Page 14 of 18
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
OF
AFFORESTATION, SILVICULTURE OPERATIONS AND
RESTORATION OF AIR POLLUTION- DAMAGED FORESTS
AFFORESTATION
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
On the basis of a random selection of Superintendencies where monitoring
and evaluation of all afforested plots in 1994 were carried out one can say
the information is representative for all the operations completed in this
period in the whole country. The conclusions drawn from the informaton
concern administratve units of the State Forests.
1. The plan for afforestation in 1994 was fully completed. It's worrying that
over 75 percent of the area where the plots were established is the
Superintendencies' own land.
2. Chiefly small areas (1-2 ha) of land moving out of agriculture were
afforested, especially forest enclaves and semi-enclaves as well as areas
adjacent to tree stands. The biggest afforested area amounted to 9.6 ha.
There were no really big areas afforested.
3. According to the information gathered during the carrying out of
monitoring and evaluation of plots established on land moving out of
agriculture, a lot of supenrntendencies suffer from serious difficulties in
receiVina land to be afforested.   To implement afforestation plans,
Superintendencies have to afforest their own land that is not often 'typical
land moving out of agriculture.
4. There is a possibility for Superintendencies to afforest bigger land mo-ing
out of aariculture. Afforestation  operations, must not, however, be
perfonrmed chaotically. It would be ideallv if at least one year could pass
from the moment of receiving a given plot for afforestation. Then it would
be possible to prepare soil maps, estimate white grub threat and suspend the
nest -?ehpnically (complete ploughing, harrowxing). Land to be nut into
afforestation should be chosen in accordance with given standards resulting
from, among others, roles that future tree stands would play (e.g. soil or
water protection). Presently, Superintendencies receive land from the
Agricultural Property Agency - an Organ of the State Treasury in the last



48
Appendix C
Page 15 of 18
resort, when there is no chance to transfer it to other owners or to sell it.
The land received does not, as a rule, conforn to the criteria. Afforestation
is, in many cases, accidental. The borderlines of plots received were
demarcated so that afforestation did not shorten the border between the field
and the forest, just the opposite, the border lenghtened. That was
encountered during field monitoring.
5. Generally, the way afforestation operations were performed was found
satisfactory and in compliance with the instructions.
6. The species composition of crops was mainly adequate to real features of
afforested soils.
7. The planting density is various. In many cases the planting deasity of the
pine is too high (the Milicz Superintendency, the Barlinek Superintendency -
about 11 thousand of seedlings per I ha). The planting density of
broadleaves is also too high (the comrnion oak, the eastem red oak, the
common birch).
8. Sometimes afforestation was performed on waterlogged areas (the
Komancza Superintendency, the Jamy Superintendency), in river valleys and
on the areas adjacent to rivers. Such afforestation is ineffective and
unjustified from the ecological point of view. The soil preparation cost is
very high and the results are not good enough. Such areas should be changed
into ecological land that should not be afforested but left for future natural
sowing. Similarly, each clearing in the forest, marshland etc. should also be
left untouched.
9. It's worrvin- that natural seeding is hardly used. There was recorded the
only natural seeding that wNas complemented wNith the pine, the spnice and
the oak (the Torun RDSF, the Jamy Superintendency, the area of 1.25 ha).
Natural seedings are presumed to have been destroyed whlile preparing soil
for afforestation. In the future there should be paid more attention to the
above so that natural seeding method wvill be followed more often in the
process of former agricultural land management.
The carrying out of monitoring was possible thank-s to the deep engagement
of   forest service of regional directorates and superintendencies where
monitoring was conducted.



49
Appendix C
Page t6 of 18
RESULTS OF MONITORD(G AND EVALUATION
OF
THE 1994 AFFORESTATION IN EACH SUPERINTENDENCY
Regional   Supenrnten                                The area   Quality of  Origin of
Directorate dency     The area   of the     1994    afforested  soil in    land to be
of State                            afforest ation    in the first accordance afforested
Forests                                              semester   with
Item                                                          of 1995    agricutuire
Al         class
Total /ha/ spring /ha/ fall Aha/          (%)          (%)
I.a.    Ksosno    Komaficza 43.34         22.1 3     21.21   35.56       IV -9      Superintend
V-44      ency's ow
VI - 16    land - 68
Lz- 31     From the
APAOST-
_ ____95
1.b.                Krasiczyn   6.02        6.02               7.58      IV- 100   Superintend
ency's own
land - 100
'2.a.    Szczecin   Barlinek    11. 13     11.13              2.14        1V - 6     Superintend
V- 15      ency's omn
_____       _______ _______                  _____              VI- 79    land- 100
2.b.                Trzciel    36.55       36.55              25.00      IVB - 5    Superintend
V-37       ency's own
VI- 58    land - 100
3.a.     Torun      Jamy       41.35       41.3 5             51.91      IV - 33     Superintend
V - 21     ency's own
VI - 46    land - 60
From the
APAOST -
_ _ _  __                    _.                       40
3 .b                Osie       6.10       4.52        1.58    26.10      IV- 17    Superintend
VI - 83    ency's own
r. _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   lan d -     1 00
4.a      Wroclaw   Milicz       29.93     '-6.90     3.03     34.84      IV- 12    From the
V-44       APAOST-
VI - 44    56
Superintend
r___s ovI-j
.        {          l        l         l           | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~land - 44



50
Appendix C
Page 17 of 18
14.b.               Ziotor)a   11.54      11.54              7.72      IV - 27    Superintend
V-32      ency's own
V/1-41    land -90
From the
APAOST -
.._____  _10
TOTAL                         185.96     160.14    25.82    190.85    IV- 18    From the
All superin tendencies                                       V-32       APAOST -
evaluated                                         VI -43     75
Lz- 7     Superintend
encies own
-                       -                              -    _ _ ._ _ _           land - 25
The APAOST - the Agnculhral Property Agency - an Organ of the State Treasury.



51
Appendix C
Page 18 of 18
RESULTS OF MONITORING AND EVALUATION
OF
THE 1994 AFFORESTATION IN EACH SUPERINTENDENCY
Soil Pre  para  tion            Plots of                        Average
Survival   Sur vival Rate       Survival
Rate Less                       Rate for
than 50%                       Superinten
dency
Item              Met hod         Season           <50%      _          1%)
1 (%3  2     3   Fall  Spring  Quality            >90  81-   71-  51
(%)  (%) 1993  1994        %                    90    80   -
%     %                                         70
L.a.     20    -       80   100  -        1       0.23/0.5  25   0.5   37    37   74
l .b.           100   -    100  -         I                       2- 25    75    -    77
2.a.     94            6    100-          1       -         6    48    12   34   76
2.b.      100   -      -    100           I       -         33   26    34    7    83
3.a.     65    25    10  100              1       -         52   29    19   -    88
).b.      100          -    74    26      1                156   -      10   34   81
4.a.     99    -       1    100-          I       -         48   25    27    -    87
4.b      68    26    6   80    20         1       -         27  28    45    -    83
TOTAL  68    l0    I2    8    2           I       -         36   21    30    13 82.35
Methods of soil preparation:
1. Furrows cutting
2. Full ploughing
3. Hand preparation with disk harrowing



52
Appendix D
Annex 1A
Page 1 6f 13
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
Forest Development Support Project - Implementation Completion Report
Assessment of Environmental Forest Management Components
A.   Assessment of Project Objectives.
This group of project components aimed at increasing the vitality of forest stands and their
ability to overcome effects of air pollution and other stress factors. It included components to
(i) intensify silvicultural treatments, such and tending and thinning; (ii) restore stands and sites
damaged by air pollution to protect delicate watersheds and prevent soil erosion; (iii) afforest
lands moving out of agriculture and (iv) support genetic conservation and improvement to
ensure the availability of high quality seed.
From the ecological point of view, Poland's forests are among the most important in Europe.
Financial constraints during Poland's transition from a centrally planned to a market economy
resulted in the neglect of Poland's resources. Silvicultural treatment essential for the health
and productivity of forest stands was postponed. Planting in Poland was of on an extremely
high density thus making thinning and pruning very important operations. Given these
conditions, the project first objective of improving silvicultural operations, mainly through
thinning and pruning was clearly relevant.
There was a particular need to restore productivity of stands damaged by air pollution,
especially in areas critical for environment protection, such as heads of watersheds. This
objective was complemented by actions to ensure that high quality seed in adequate quantities
would be available for both sustaining future planting and increasing quality of plantations.
In 1993 a massive nun moth outbreak was foreseen. GDSF staff determined that serious losses
would occur starting in 1994 unless control measures were adopted immediately. Thus a
component was added after project initiation, aimed at controlling the infestation of nun moth.
Savings from other components were redirected to the control program. The objective of
controlling the nun moth attack was very important. In the absence of control measures losses
would have been substantial.
Summarising, the objectives of this group of components were clearly defined and, with the
exception of forestry planting in all abandoned agricultural lands -- where other uses may have



Appendix D
53                            Annex IA
Page 2 of. 13
been more adequate -- they were an appropriate response to the main problems and
opportunities at the time the project was prepared and appraised.
The objectives described above were not particularly demanding for the implementing agency.
Thinning activities supported by the project were equivalent to only about half of the national
program. Poland had a rich experience in implementing planting programmes. Nevertheless,
there were some deficiencies, such as the often inadequate matching of genetic material to
planting sites. This inadequate match made forest stands sensitive to the effects of air
pollution and to the dissemination of pests and to other stress factors. The project's objectives
appropriately aimed at correcting these silvicultural weaknesses. On the other hand, pruning
was not widely practised in traditional forest management in Poland prior to the project and,
therefore, there was uncertainty regarding this technology. The appraisal report correctly
identified a risk of fungus attacks in pruning operations and supported the use of remedial
techniques.
The restoration of forests affected by air pollution posed some technical difficulties as a proper
combination of species had to be identified according to the ecological characteristics of the
various sites and the degree of ecosystem alteration due to pollution. Since air pollution was a
relatively new phenomenon, there was some uncertainty about the long-term results of
restoration. However, there was a strong research capability at the Forestry Research Institute
to tackle the complexity of this component. Furthermore, to minimise risks, the project
prudently avoided restoration activities in areas of high altitude where the effects or air
pollution are much more severe and results more uncertain. Given the long tradition-of
afforestation in the country, the activities did not represent a serious challenge to the capacity
of the implementing agency. The same can be said with regard to the activities aimed at
securing adequate amounts of quality seeds for future afforestation.
In 1995, the GDSF requested a substantial reduction in the size of the World Bank loan for the
Project, thereby modifying the scope of the project's objectives. This request was due to
several factors. A main consideration was the introduction of strict budget controls by
Government. Second, changes in the world market prices for timber raised doubts about the
profitability of GDSF operations and the influence of these events on its capacity to repay the
World Bank loan from routine operations. Third, an increase in GDSF budget resources due to
the introduction of special policies and higher than expected fiscal and grant financing for
environmental protection, from the Polish Environment Fund and EU PHARE.
B.   Assessment of Achievements
(i) Intensification of silviculture
Objectives: The objectives of this component were:
* thinning of 500,000 ha of stands less than 20 years old,



Appendix D
Annex IA
54                               Page 3 of 13
* thinning of 300,000 ha of 20-40 year old stands,
* pruning 39,000 ha of pine plantations.
Project achievements: 484,000 ha of stands less than 20 years old were thinned under the
project. Thus, the project achieved 97% of the original target. The project exceeded target
thinnings (166%) in the next age class, 20-40 years, where nearly half a million hectares were
thinned. However, the intensity of thinning was below the level envisaged at appraisal, which
partially accounts for the fact that unit costs of these operations were also lower than
originally estimated. In 1993-94 the real cost of thinning was less than 50% the estimated cost.
This discrepancy diminished to 75% in 1998 (See Table 1).
Table I
Actual versus estimated costs of thinning operations
(US$ per hectare)
Year                Estimated cost at appraisal        Actual cost
1993                         101                          46
1994                         101                          58
1995                         107                          79
1996                         114                          92
1997                         121                          94
Average                       109                          74  (68%)
The pruning program was less than the area planned at appraisal, achieving only 12,626 ha, or
39.5% of the original target. The techniques used for thinning and pruning were adequate.
(ii) Restoration of air pollution damagedforests
Objectives: The project contemplated the restoration of 43,000 ha of heavily damaged and
threatened forest stands.
Project achievements. The project carried out restoration operations in 43,017 ha thus
reaching 100% of the original target. However, it should be noted that this figure is deceiving,
because treatments of some of the heavily polluted open lands were repeated as many as five
times in order to obtain satisfactory results. These repeated interventions might explain the
discrepancies between estimated and actual per hectare costs observed during project
implementation (See Table 2). However, despite these increases, weighted average costs
during the life of the project remained under those estimated at appraisal.



55                                  Appendix D
Annex IA
Page 4 of 13
Table 2
Actual versus estimated costs of restoration operations
(US$ per hectare)
Year                    Estimated cost at appraisal           Actual cost
1993                            1,172                             691
1994                            1,172                             819
1995                            1,238                           1,239
1996                            1,309                           1,414
1997                            1,358                           1,052
Average                           1,250                            1,043 (83%)
On average the survival rates in restoration areas were satisfactory, and just slightly below the
national averages (See Table 3). Given the fact that conditions in polluted areas were quite
adverse, these results can be considered as satisfactory.
Table 3
Project restoration survival rates as compared with national averages
Year                  Replanting of Polluted Areas         All State Forest
1994                           82.17                           82.84
1995                           87.00                           86.57
1996                           75.50                           89.52
Average                          81.55                           86.31
(iii) Afforestation
Objectives. The project target was the afforestation of 37,000 ha in agricultural lands that were
abandoned but already belonging to the State Forests.
Project achievements. The project planted about 42,900 ha, thus exceeding target by ah,out
16% (See Table 4). During 1995 and 1996, survival rates were lower than the average for all
state forest (See Table 5). Since afforestation took place in mostly poor and very poor soils.
(about two-thirds in poor soils, class 5 and 25 percent in very poor soils, class 6), results can
be considered as satisfactory. Costs per hectare afforested during 1993 and 1994 were
substantially lower than estimated costs, higher in 1995 and then lower again in 1996 and
1997 (See Table 6). The weighted average costs during the life of the project were lower than



Appendix D
56                                 Annex IA
Page 5 of 13
those estimated at appraisal. However, costs escalated rapidly. Density of planting was
generally higher than that planned at appraisal, while the species composition was adequate.
Table 4
Project planting
Year                                           hectares
1993                                             4,581
1994                                             9,848
1995                                            11,580
1996                                            12,012
1997                                             4841
Total                                           42,862
Table 5
Project afforestation survival rates as compared to all state forests
Year                Areas Afforeted under the Project       All State Forests
1994                            83.58                            82.84
1995                            76.53                            86.57
1996                            87.03                            89.52
Averages                          82.38                            86.31
Table 6
Actual versus estimated costs of restoration operations
(US$ per hectare)
Year                  Estimated cost at appraisal             Actual cost
1993                              821                             561
1994                              821                             771
1995                              991                            1,050
1996                             1,068                           1,042
Averages                            925                             856  (93%)



57                                 Appendix D
Annex 1A
Page 6 of 13
(iv) Genetic conservation and improvement
Objectives: The project aimed at supporting the development of the seed storage and
extraction program and to enhance the development of seed orchards, with the objective of
ensuring improved genetic material for future forests. The project component had three
strategic goals: the conservation of forest genetic resources, the development of the seed
resource base and the development of selective cultivation of forest trees.
Project achievements. In most of these activities, targets were exceeded (See Table 7).
Table 7
Genetic Conservation and Improvement
Item                      Project target    Achievements    Achievement as
% of target
Selection of seed tree stands                 1,000                1,148             115
Selection and evaluation of plus trees          500                1,005             201
Establishment of conservation plots            5700                5778              101
Establishment of seed orchards                  170                  567             334
Nursery equipment                               100                  100             100
Seed production line                              2                   2              100
Construction of new seed stores                   5                    3              60
Construction of new extraction facilities         2                    1              50
Equipment for seed collection from seed          50                  100             200
stands
Equipment for collection of seed from seed        5                    5             100
orchards
Seed orchards tending                           600                 700              116
Modemisation of existing seed extraction          5                    1              20
facilities
(v) Nun-moth Control Program
Objectives: this component was added to the project in 1994, with the aim of mitigating the
effects of a serious outbreak of nun moth.
Project achievements: Some 875,000 ha of forests were covered of which 757,000 ha
represented areas vulnerable to nun moth attack. The strategy employed and the biological
substances used proved to be extraordinarily effective, and the program established a new
attitude towards pro-environmental protection methods. This was particularly important in the
case of forests with a low biological resistance that are exceptionally susceptible to damage.



58
Appendix D
Annex IA
Page 7 of 13
The success of the 1994 campaign reduced the need for treatment in subsequent years and thus
this activity did not require further support during the project implementation period.
C.    Assessment of Implementation and Major Factors Affecting the Project
(i) Intensification of silviculture
Project quantitative targets were generally achieved or exceeded. In those cases where there
were shortfalls, reasons include the lack of a definitive scientific, economic and environmental
evidence of the convenience of operations, which in turn generated a certain reticence on the
part of the project officers to implement them.
With respect to the thinning program, while the project exceeded quantitative targets, Bank
supervision missions considered the intensity of thinnings to be too light. National project
staff was reluctant to adopt higher intensities. In this respect, it is evident that the project
preparation teams made insufficient analyses of the likely physical results of different
silvicultural options or their economic consequences. Instead, generalised thinning
prescriptions were issued adopted.
Traditional Polish forest management methods aim at replicating natural regeneration
processes (thus implicitly adopting a more ecological objective) where stand density is- very
high, competition leads to tall trees with good stem form, natural pruning and easy
identification of individual trees to be thinned. The history of Polish forestry shows-that this
method produces quality timber. Higher densities also produce higher biomass volume and
thus contribute more effectively to some enviromnental aspects such as carbon sequestration.
The disadvantages of this management approach include the higher costs of plantation and
thinning operations, and a higher susceptibility of stands to various pests. Higher stand
densities are also said to make stands more vulnerable to air pollution but this connection is
far from clear. There are a number of other factors that are difficult to isolate such as the
degree of congruence between species and origins to site, the type of species, quality of soils,
etc. that may interact with stand density and air pollution damage. For example, it could be
argued that dense stands might be weaker because of their higher vulnerability to pests, which
in turn would make them more susceptible to heavy damage, by air pollution. However
scientific evidence linking stand density and vulnerability to air pollution to date is not
definitive.
The project did not explore the economic, environmental and social implications of alternative
silvicultural options and therefore it could not prove a clear superiority of the silvicultural
reforms sought. Such incontrovertible proof is not yet available and, in the absence of specific
data, divergence of professional opinion will continue. In these conditions, traditional
approaches are difficult to change.



Appendix D
Annex IA
Page 8 of 13
Regarding the shortfall in pruning operations, the reasons are connected to the associated
thinning activities. Traditional Polish practice contends that, if the stand density is high,
pruning occurs naturally. Artificial pruning has the great disadvantage of creating a number of
wounds that are exposed to infection to various fungi, the most important being Polyporus
pini FRI records show that these infections may affect as much as one third of the wood
produced. By creating protective tissue before branches fall off, natural pruning avoids
infection (and also cheaper). Because of these reasons, the touted increase in wood quality
resulting from pruning is not free from criticism. Many of these problems can be ameliorated
by treating pruning wounds but it is not clear whether the combined effect of lower densities
and higher pruning interventions are better from an environmental and economic point of vies
than higher densities and natural pruning. Again this lack of incontrovertible evidence is an
important factor in understanding the reticence of national foresters to accept the wider
application of pruning technologies.
(ii) Restoration of air pollution damagedforests
Supervision missions observed that during project implementation there was a change of
emphasis to accelerate the restoration of open lands. Initially, this was due to a desire to allow
the GDSF to fully utilise project funds allocated for 1995, but unspent due to the slow process
in activating the Agricultural Property Agency which is responsible for formalising transfers.
During 1995, the target was revised in order to take account of these conditions, giving
substantially more emphasis to restoration in open areas. Thus, the change of emphasis seems
to have been motivated by a matter of convenience rather than specific adjustment in policy.
Apart from this change of emphasis, another question is whether alternative techniques, not
necessarily artificial afforestation, would be more appropriate and effective. Natural forest
regeneration is highly effective in these areas but was not pursued. Also, naturally regenerated
shrubs and grasses may have been more appropriate in many cases, e.g., for reducing risk of
soil erosion on slopes. The economic and environmental convenience of intensive human
intervention is thus questionable. However, comparative analyses of these alternatives were
not carried out. The lack of attention to economic values may also explain the unusual practice
of intensive fencing in some areas of afforested land.
Costs increased, sometimes in a very substantial manner, during the implementation years.
Also, there were great variations in costs between different regions and over time for the same
region. The borrower did not provide a clear explanation for these wide variations (See Graph
below).



60                             Appendix D
Annex 1A
Page 9 of 13
Restoration Costs (USDlha)
2000
1800
1600.
1400.
1200
1000                                                                       19 
0800   .                                                             .X-e--a996
600
400
200
0 
Re-gions
(ii) Afforestation
Initially afforestation activities faced the problem of obtaining agricultural lands newly
gaazetted as abandoned (i.e., not already belonging to the State Forests) for planting;-The
bureaucratic process to transfer these lands to State Forest proved to be curnbersome. In view
of this problem, Superintendencies tended to afforest their own land which were not always
lands transferring from agricultural use. Also, in many cases when lands were received from
the Agricultural Property Agency, they did not conform to the project criteria for the selection
of lands to be afforested. For example, small areas were afforested often in forest enclaves
and in areas adjacent to tree stands where natural regeneration would have been a better
alternative. Natural regeneration, which may have been in many cases economically and
ecologically more suitable, was only practised on a small scale. Also, afforestation took place
in areas that were not suitable, such as waterlogged lands. This may have been due to two
factors: (i) that national policy forced afforestation of abandoned agricultural land; and (ii) the
desire to provide employment.
For reasons similar to the ones related to the thinning program discussed above, actual
planting density was higher thian planned. National staff was adamant that the high- density of'
plantation was the best method to produce high quality wood. However, as discussed
previously, even if quality of wood is possibly higher, there is no indication that this approach
makes economic sense. In fact some analysts maintain that it may be more profitable for
Poland to produce larger volumes of lower quality wood. The e'conomic analyses to provide a
definitive answer to this issue was lacking.



61                         Appendix D
Annex IA
Page 10 of 13
Afforestation Costs (USD/ha)
1600
Xw                                             L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.- 996k
400
200
w  c  3 .    .~   C -i   i~ -'   F-    l  -    l  *E l  -  *!    ,   - 
0!  X  .t                                     .,|2'|il!0   l 
*~~~ w                                                    : - oo     
r- 4 
Soo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
'The project faced other minor problems. EquEipment tghat; was supposed to be: allocated to
certain nurseries specified at appraisal was diverted to other superintendencies. This is not a
problem insofar as the equipment was still used to improve procedures as earmarked.
(iv) Genetic conservation and imtprovement
This project component did not suffer significant implemnentation problemns.
(v) Non moth control program
The implementation of this program was extremely effective and faced no significant
problems.
D. Assessment of Project Sustainability
The true test of sustainability in the case of forestry projects takes decades, during which time
the innovations introduced and changes supported by the project will become apparenlt as the
flow of benefits develop. Sustainability also has many dimensions ranging from technical and
institutional to financial and economic, environmental and social. The following is an early
intdication of the probability of project sustainability.



62                        Appehdix D
Annex IA
Page 11 of 13
a) Technical Sustainability. Traditional silvicultural operations, such as thinning, are
firmly established in Poland and, while their intensity will probably continue to be less
than prescribed in other temperate zones. The area covered by thinning operations will
also depend on the markets for small dimension wood. In the past, favourable price
conditions provided a strong incentive for production of poles; however, with
reduction in mining operations in Eastern Europe, this market has declined
dramatically since 1990. Generally, these operations covered their costs and, when
prices were favourable, they are profitable. It is questionable whether pruning
operations will increase, because of significant uncertainties about their technical merit
and economic justification.
Thinning and pruning are inter related activities. Higher stem density (resulting from
high planting density and light thinnings) induces natural pruning. Since the
advantages of lower stem density and pruning remain to be demonstrated, it is likely
that well entrenched traditional practices will continue to dominate.
Natural regeneration for afforestation of abandoned agricultural lands and regeneration
of air pollution damaged forests is desirable in many locations; however, to date, this
has received little priority in Poland. These techniques may receive greater attention
as the government moves towards greater local autonomy and independence in
decision-making and de-emphasises the importance of across the board uniform
technical rules issued at the central level. Also, it is encouraging that SFD plans
assume about 20% natural afforestation to take place during the next decade. Genetic
conservation and improvement techniques were satisfactory during project
implementation and are likely to continue to be so in the future.
b) Financial sustainability of project activities is less certain. Continuing increase of
SFD costs threatens the Directorate financial strength and its ability to self-finance
operations. The evolution of wood market prices is also an important factor in the
intensification of silviculture. The mission was informed that short-term financial
allocations for the afforestation program were secure and SFD plans continuous
planting at about 28,000 ha per year over the next decade. However, the financial
sustainability of this activity will mainly depend on the ability of the SFD to reduce
costs, and on trends in timber markets.
E.    Assessment of Bank Performance
Project component design was kept relatively simple. However, the advantages of
silvilcultural techniques promoted by the project were not evident and, therefore, GDSF
technicians were understandably reluctant to adopt them. From the purely technical point of
view, traditional Polish forest management techniques produce wood of high quality. However
their financial and economic results are open to question. The project appraisal should have
paid more attention to assessing the financial and economic advantages, if any, of the



63                             Appendix D
Annex IA
Page 12 of 13
proposed changes in technical procedures. The analysis of alternatives was either weak or
altogether non-existent. This lack of adequate analysis was particularly surprising in view of
the preponderance of forestry specialists on supervision missions.
Average costs of forest establishment and silvicultural operations were consistently over-
estimated at appraisal, sometimes by a substantial margin. Part of the discrepancy is probably
due to the difference between intensities of operations assumed in the project design and the
actual practices. Thus, thinning operations were not as intense as planned in the project design
and therefore, per hectare costs were naturally lower. Also, at the time of appraisal,
considerably uncertainty existed regarding the evolution of future prices in an economy
experiencing a difficult transition.
The Bank reacted promptly and efficiently to changes in project conditions, including the
reformulation of physical targets and reassessment of financing requirements. In particular, the
prompt response to the nun moth control requirements, implemented in close association with
other international donor institutions, deserves special mention.
F.    Assessment of Borrower Performance
The borrower implemented most actions ahead of schedule and at a lower cost. Physical
targets were met or exceeded. Qualitative objectives were met partially, particularly in relation
to silvicultural improvement and afforestation, as techniques employed diverged from project
prescriptions. To a large extent in many cases this was due to the lack of evidence that-project
prescriptions were superior. Also, there was a lack of flexibility in the transfer of control of
abandoned agricultural lands between goverrnent agencies. The borrower, in various
occasions, did not provide informnation requested by supervision missions.
The borrower appears to have made some effort to control cost escalation, as these tended to
level off during the last stages of project implementation. The borrower also reacted swiftly to
changes in implementation conditions by reformulating financing profiles. However, SFD is
giving little priority to objective assessment of costs and efficiency in forest management.
The lack of response by SFD to proposals for economic assessments was a significant
drawback to sustained project success.
The policy-imposed rule that lands not dedicated to agriculture should be afforested does not
always make sense, because other types of vegetation - including those resulting from the
natural evolution of regeneration - may be more environmentally friendly and economically
efficient. Greater decision-making flexibility at the local level is now being achieved.
The borrower reacted very efficiently and effectively to a nun moth outbreak.



64                         Appendix D
Annex IA
Page 13 of 13
G.   Assessment of Outcome
The project was intended to provide critical financing during a period of difficult transition
from a centrally planned to a market economy and, in this respect, it can be considered a
success. In absence of the project many of the silvicultural treatments would probably have
continued to be delayed. In general this project component produced satisfactory results.
Quantitative targets were achieved and exceeded, sometimes earlier than planned. Some of the
silvicultural innovations were not completely adopted but this was due to a lack of clear
demonstration of comparative advantage. The project component provided financing needed
to implement activities that otherwise would have continued to be postponed. The project
exposed national staff to international environments that rely heavily on market conditions and
to questioning traditional forest management practices on financial and economic grounds.
Also, valuable experience in implementing projects supported by international financing
undoubtedly benefited national staff.
H.   Future Operations
The borrower has not submitted a formal follow up plan to the project. However, it is
proposed that the afforestation program should be accelerated.
1.    Key Lessons Learned
A critical lesson of this project component was that the introduction of technical forest
establishment and management innovations that aim at replacing long established traditional
procedures, need to be supported by clear evidence of their technical, financial, environmental
and economic advantages. The in depth analysis of the comparative advantage of options and
alternative project designs is an essential factor in promoting innovations. In particular, if
economic analyses had been carried out, as recommended by various Bank missions, it would
probably have demonstrated that alternative methods would be more ecologically effective
and economically efficient.
Furthermore, another lesson learned is that assessments of costs and implementation capacity
of the borrower require much more attention in situations of uncertainty due to radical
transitions in macroeconomic conditions and policies. In this instance, these two factors
worked in favor of the project objectives, as costs were generally lower than estimated and the
speed of implementation higher than foreseen at appraisal.






65
Appendix D
Annex 1B
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
Forest Development Support Project - Implementation Completion Report
Development of Ecosystems in National Parks Component
A.    Assessment of Component Objectives
This project component had two parts: core activities, to be financed from the World Bank
loan, and a wider national parks protection programs, to be supported by bilateral and
multilateral financing.
The core part aimed at (i) developing comprehensive conservation and land use management
plans for the existing all Polish national parks and others to be created as part of the project;
(ii) providing investments in selected management resources (computerization and
communications); (iii) implementing selected model rehabilitation projects identified in the
planning process; and (iv) creating capacity for professional development and implement
several priority training programs. The wider protection program aimed at (i) providing
further essential assistance for establishing effective monitoring systems; (ii) providing
investments in infrastructure and management resources (trail protection, waste water
treatment facilities, visitor education facilities) to enable improvements in park management
and mitigation of the risks of pressure from visitors on the endangered biodiversity and natural
resources in national park system; and (iii) funding priority rehabilitation activities identified
in the park management planning process, as well as undertaking priority model infrastructure
project identified under the core part.
The component's objectives conformed with the new law for nature conservation, efnacted in
1991, and aimed at creating a representative and sustainable system of reserves to preserve
Poland's natural heritage. Legislation prescribed that each park should have a conservation
plan for both the core and a buffer zone. There was an acute need for greater emphasis on all
levels of training in key management and technical skills and for the development of expertise
in national park management. Most of the parks were affected by air and water pollution. At
the time of project design, the development of administrative and management resources
(infrastructure, personnel and equipment) required for appropriate park management was
being initiated. Given all this, the objectives of the project component were obviously
relevant.



66                           Appendix D
Annex 1B
Page 2 of 4
The project design did not include a detailed plan for the component, and assumed that this
task would be developed during the early stages of project implementation. Objective
verifiable indicators of project progress and success were not prepared.
B.   Assessment of Achievement of the Objectives
The project provided financing for a core group of activities totalling $2 million and assumed
that $10 million would be obtained from bilateral donors. In the end, the component's core
objectives were only partially achieved, and the raising of complementary financing was
unsuccessful.
Because of the lack of complementary financing the core part of this project component was
later redesigned to include five limited activities: (i) a management plan for the Kampinos
National Park, (ii) part financing of an educational center at Kampinos National Park, (iii)
construction of an ecological center for the Magurski National Park, (iv) modernization of the
museum at the Bilowieza National Park; and (v) computerisation of central planning activities.
However this revised set of activities was very narrow, and opportunities were missed for
linking with the findings of the GEF Forest Biodiversity Protection Project (ref.   - ), which
had covered complementary activities. The project did not achieve the original objectives of
designing management plans for national parks in general, and support for professional
development and training.
The project supported the design of planning guidelines for park management. Unfortunately,
the guidelines omitted the issue of recurrent funding for ensuring sustainable management of
parks. On the positive side, they were prepared on the basis of a consultative process and
included social assessments for ensuring support to the plans' activities by various
stakeholders. The planning guidelines were being prepared prior to the project and did not
constitute an important part of project activities, but were an essential requirement for the
overall management planning exercise. The World Bank proposed involving foreign expertise
in the completion of these guidelines. This did not take place; however, the guidelines were
apparently adequate, with the reservations indicated above. Although the project only financed
the preparation of the management plan for the Kampinos National Park, there are now fifteen
park management plans and four others are being designed.
Although the project appears to have had a marginal role in the creation of new parks, four
parks were created during the life of the project. The creation of two additional parks -
Mazurian and Turnicki -- is proposed, as well as the expansion of the Bialoweza National Park
from the present 10,000 to 60,000 ha. In the opinion of the Director of the Board of National
Parks, action by the project contributed to securing the political willingness for the expansion
of the Park system.



67                          Appendix D
Annex 1B
Page 3 of. 4
C.   Assessment of Implementation and Major Factors Affecting the Project
According to the terms of the project, this component of the loan would be repaid by the
Ministry of Finance and would be provided as a grant from budgetary funds from the Ministry
of Finance to the Board of Polish National Parks. However, the 1994 State Budget did not
include any provision for these funds and as a consequence no significant activities were
carried out during 1994.
The reasons for not raising complementary co-financing are not clear but appear to be related
to the system of decision making that did not allow independent search for funds by the Parks
Board. Thus, the Government never really approached donors to obtain complementary
financing and, as this constituted a large share of total financing for this component, its
objectives could not be achieved.
Administrative problems also affected the execution of the activities programmed, including
the late appointment of a coordinator -- and then only on a part time basis -- and difficulties in
replacing this coordinator after she quit her position. The fact that two government
institutions (The Polish Board of National Parks and the GDSF) were involved may also
explain some of the difficulties in implementing this project component as originally planned.
D.   Assessment of Project Sustainability
The majority of Bank financing supported the development of the educational center atfthe
Kampinos national park. However, the completion of this center requires substantial
complementary financing which the government has yet to rise. Investments at the center gave
priority to facilities for the staff and, therefore, the educational infrastructure still needs to be
completed. The same comments apply to investments in the parks. Since the project
component failed to achieve its other objectives, discussion about their sustainability is
irrelevant.
E.   Assessment of Bank Performance
The project design was relatively simple although the design of the detailed plan of operations
was left for the first phases of project implementation. The World Bank reacted promptly to
changes in the component design when requested by the Government. It could be questioned
whether it was wise for the Bank to agree to finance the initiation of the construction of the
centers at Kampinos and Magurski National Parks in the absence of substantial
complementary financing required for their completion. However it is possible that this initial
investment in these centers may make it easier as well as more pressing to obtain
complementary financing.



68                           Appendix D
Ann,ex 1B
Page 4 of -4
F.    Assessment of Borrower Performance
The borrower was slow in allocating available Bank financing to this project component and
failed to have a proper administrative structure in place. The borrower experienced serious
difficulties in identifying a permanent coordinator for the project component. Also, it appears
that the borrower did not give priority to the mobilization of complementary donor financing.
The borrower did not produce some of the information and reports repeatedly requested by
various review missions.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
The outcome of this project component was far removed from the original objectives. Whether
investment in physical facilities will trigger complementary financing needed to complete
works is a matter of conjecture. The role of the project in the preparation of a park
management planning structure and in the creation of additional national parks was marginal
at best. Despite these negative considerations, it is likely that this component did contribute to
raising the political profile of the national park system within the government and thus to the
conservation of the nation's cultural and natural heritage.
H.   Future Operations
The borrower has not submitted a formal follow up plan, but it is apparent that the
Government intends to continue the development of national parks. However, in order-to
ensure that targets are met and that parks management is sustainable, it will be important to
introduce higher entry fees or ensure guaranteed funding from sources outside the fiscal
budget, e.g., cesses on timber sales.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
In project components that depend on complementary financing for covering a substan-tial
proportion of the project costs, assurance must be obtained that complementary financing will
be available. World Bank-financed core activities should be designed as far as possible, as
independent activities with a possibility of generating desirable impacts even if
complementary financing never materialises.
It is also important to assess the political willingness of the borrower to implement project
activities. If these activities do not enjoy the political support of the decision-making powers,
clearly their chance of being implemented will be low. Finally, project planners should give
greater attention to institutional obstacles, including the bureaucratic procedures to transfer
financial resources to project activities and the identification of project staff that can assume a
leadership role.



69
Appendix D
Annex IC
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
Forest Development Support Project - Implementation Completion Report
Harvesting and Transportation Equipment Component
A.   Assessment of the Statement of objectives
Objectives. This project component had the objective of increasing the efficiency of harvesting
of wood and transportation operations and at the sarne time introduce more environmentally
friendly operations. Also, the project aimed at privatising the harvesting and transportation of
logs.
Privatisation of harvesting and transportation activities was included as a central objective of
the project, as a means to increase efficiency and competitiveness. The levels of efficiency in
forest management in Poland at the time of project appraisal were substantially lower than
those in competing countries. Furthermore, harvesting and transportation methods had serious
environmental drawbacks. Therefore, the component's objectives were eminently relevant.
B.   Assessment of Achievement of Component Objectives
The project succeeded in introducing only some harvesting and transportation innovations.
Original targets were not achieved. The magnitude as well as the composition of this
component was substantially reduced during implementation. In part, this was due to
changing market conditions, whereby, during 1994-1995 there was a surge in the market for
small wood from softwood species and birch. Thus, there was less emphasis on acquiring
choppers and firewood automates for firewood production than originally planned. Other
factors affecting the achievement of the component's objectives are described in the next
section.
C.   Assessment of Implementation and Major Factors Affecting the Component
The introduction of new harvesting and transportation technologies faced several obstacles.
Firstly, there was a natural resistance to change due to lack of information in the
superintendencies about the opportunities and advantages of mechanising forest management
practices. For example, thinning operations traditionally were accomplished by utilising
manual methods. The project effectively reduced this resistance by organising training
courses and demonstration exercises. Economic evidence of the convenience of new



70                                 Appendix D
Annex 1 C
Page 2 of 4
Fig 1. Skidding Costs
140
120          .  .
00       .  .                                   Cost (PLZ/cum) Full
80                        .     ...te
l 60- --_    -----.   .   .  l - Cost (PLZ/cum)
IL                                                Assortment
40
0.
100                              1000
Distance (m)
harvesting methods in different conditions was gathered from several experiences around the
country (see examples, Fig 1 and 2).
Training materials were prepared in collaboration with Finnish institutions experienced in the
introduction of these technologies. As a result of this training, GDSF staff estimate that the
Fig 2. Cost of early thinnings
140 .
120  ..  -  . . . -...---
E 100 .
80   .  .  .. . ...  o. 7 . -------  1    ,I        Fig. 2 Cost of early thinnings
r. 60 -                       D             ---- .(PLZ per cum) Full tree
-                                               40 i  q system
-. 2Fig. 2 Cost of early thinnings
20   - -    -. -- ---  ----    -  -    -   --   -----------  -------------   ---(PLZ   per cum) Assortment
0-                                                systern
100                                     1000
Distance (m)
utilisation of improved practices is irreversible in those areas where mechanisation was-
introduced.
Second, the major buyers of wood raw materials are small sawmills that have a greater
flexibility in utilizing wood that comes as a whole tree. Many of the order they receive are for
particular dimensions, which cannot be, accommodated as easily when the input raw material
consists of standard length logs. The project promoted the assortment method, which only
divides tree trunks into logs of a specified dimension.



71                          Appendix D
Annex 1C
Page 3 of 4
Third, the assortment method requires the use of heavier trucks for transporting the logs.
Many of the roads and bridges connecting forests to sawmills and other users of wood raw
materials are just not adapted to this heavier type of trucks. In some areas local regulations do
not allow trucks over 5 tons to circulate.
Fourth, the magnitude of the project component was reduced because of concerns about the
capacity of GDSF to repay the loan. Thus, original objectives could not be achieved.
Fifth, several administrative problems plagued the implementation of this component. The
project design did not clearly address some key issues and this delayed initiation of the
component, as well as the pace of subsequent implementation. There was, for example,
substantial uncertainty about the types of equipment to be pay for the superintendencies, what
procedures should be followed to privatise the equipment purchased by GDSF, the procedures
for transferring equipment to private operators and to ensure that they would be reasonably
employed and operated on a competitive basis, and whether the programmed equipment was
in fact suitable for some of the operations.
Finally, the mission was informed that there was some opposition from environmental groups
that claimed that the technologies being introduced by the project were to have a negative
impact on the environment. The mission could not confirm to what extent this was a serious
problem. Of course, the project was designed to reduce the harmful effects of harvesting and
transportation.
D.   Assessment of Component Sustainability
According to the opinion of project staff, technological changes will be sustainable in those
areas where they were introduced. Harvesting techniques were effectively demonstrated and in
areas where the market conditions are favorable and transportation infiastructure is adequate,
these techniques are likely to continue to be applied.
E.   Assessment of Bank Performance
The Bank reacted promptly to desired changes in financial allocations. It is a great deal less
clear whether there was satisfactory communication with the component managers regarding
the difficulties faced in implementing the component as originally planned and whether there
was any in-depth discussion of the restrictive factors mentioned above. Supervision reports are
consistent in complaining about the types of equipment procured and how it seemed to diverge
from project objectives, but gave no reason or indication that these factors had been
satisfactorily discussed during any of the missions. Much more detailed analysis of the
restrictions to implementation should have been performed. The government also complained
that the time elapsing between project preparation and the actual implementation had been too
long in terms of the rapid and changing conditions that the country was facing at that time.



72                          Appendix D
Annex 1C
Page 4 of 4
F.    Assessment of Borrower Performance
The Borrower performance in this case was affected by the unexpected increases in GDSF
costs, shrinking profitability and the consequent need to reduce the size of the loan. With
lower financing some of the equipment could not be acquired. Also, GDSF was not
sufficiently proactive in researching and matching machinery types to the needs of modem
forest management.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
The project had moderate success in introducing modem harvesting techniques in those areas
where it operated. It is uncertain whether these innovations will permeate to other forest
harvesting operations outside the project.
H.   Future Operations
The borrower has not submitted a formal follow up plan. However, it is anticipated that the
pace of mechanisation of forest management activities will increase as the number of
personnel involved declines in line with attrition and the creation of other employment
opportunities.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
As a main lesson of experience, it is not enough to plan the technical details of a single-
operation such as harvesting and tranortation without examqining related components that
determine success or failure of such component. Thus, attempting to introduce harvesting and
transportation technologies that are not fully compatible with the needs of industry or the
capacity of the rest of the system to sustain the demands of such technology, in this case roads
and bridges, is bound to face certain obstacles and difficulties.



73                         Appendix D
Annex 2
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
Forest Development Support Project
Implementation Completion Report
Assessment of Economic, Social and Environmental Impact
A.   General
1.    The appraisal assessed the benefits of each of the seven components on the basis
of predicted economic, social and environmental benefits. There are strong linkages
between the criteria, especially for potential socio-economic impact. In addition to direct
benefits from project investments, the appraisal team assessed the impact of a range of
indirect benefits. The ICR mission was able to make an assessment of actual costs of
different operations compared with those predicted at appraisal (Section D below).
Comparison of benefits is more difficult to estimate for four reasons.
Firstly because of the significant and exceptional fluctuations that have occurred in
national and international markets for timber and forest products since the appraisal
and uncertainties for the future prospects for the forest sector. As a result, the
demand for roundwood has declined; although this has been partially compensated
for by increased demand for pulpwood.
Second, the general decline in world prices for timber, especially for conifer
species. In an effort to reflect possible long-term scarcity of timber, the economic
analysis at appraisal was based on current timber values and a predicted real price
increase of 0.5 percent per year. In fact, this has proved to be over-optimistic, at
least for the short to medium-term.
Third, the uncertain impact of US$42 million (29%) reduction in IBRD Loan size.
Fourth, due to the uncertainties over lower than estimated costs of management
operations, set against the reduced intensities of technical forest management
operations being followed in Poland and lack of evidence on the comparative
merits relative to practices in other temperate regions. While this might prove to be
justified, no effort was made under the project to assess the relative merits in
economic termns.
B.    Socio-Economic Benefits
2.    On the economic front, the final vestiges of price interventions were removed as
agreed, in favor of market forces. The analysis below assesses the estimated socio-
economic benefits of actual developments of key operations, relative to the expectations
at the time of appraisal.



74                          Appendix D
Annex 2
Page 2 of 8
a) Improved economic retuns from forest operations - resulting from the thinning
and pruning programs and modemization of harvesting and transportation
operations. The overall conclusion is that the economic impact from project
investments on these activities is expected to be positive but lower than predicted
In some instances it is premature to assess the impact made by project-related
activities as opposed to routine State Forests Department (SFD) actions that were
already underway. However, continued monitoring should help to establish the
degree of sustained change resultingfrom project activities.
ai) The actual costs of the thinning andpruning activities were only 68 percent
of appraisal estimates; however, long-term productivity is likely to be lower than
predicted, because: (i) although the area of thinnedforest was 120 percent of the
target, the work was undertaken at lower intensity; and (ii) the area ofpruned
forest was only 40 percent of target. Table I shows the trends in thinning,
increasing from 10, 715 to 12, 065/'000m3 between 1988 and 1997 (12.5 percent),
with no immediate impact apparent due to the project. Also, the ratio of thinning
to harvesting fluctuated during project implementation, from 0.53 in 1992 to 0.62
in 1995 to 0.55 in 1997.
Table 1 - Evolution of Tree Thinnings Between 1988 and 1997*
Year      1988   1989   1990   1991 | 1992   1993  1994   1995    1996        1997
Early thinning  1860   1824  1724   1772   2174   2071  2466  2903.8  2857.5   3002.7
(in thous m3)
Late thinning   8855   8002  6449   6541   7925   8639  8211  8701.5  8293.6   9062.2
+ Sanitary
thinning (in
thous m )
Total (in thous  10715  9826  8173   8313   10099  10710  10677  11605.3  11151.1  12064.9
Total harvest  20519  19269  15906  15511  18986  18559  18330  18791.9  18617    21789.8
(in thous mi3)
Ratio (total    0.52   0.51   0.51    0.53   0.53    0.58   0.58   0.62    0.60  0.55
thinning/total
harvest)
* up to 7 cm. diameter
aii) Regarding the impact of harvesting, skidding and transporting equipment,
estimates show that the economic benefits appear to be higher than predicted at
appraisal; however, due to the lower than expected quantities of machinery
purchased (Appendix D, IC), the overall economic impact will be reduced. Tables
2 and 3 show that the technical costs offelling, debranching andprimary
conversion over a distance of 1, OOOm declinedfrom PLZ 21 to PLZ 18/m3 (16
percent) using a harvester compared to the traditional chain saw method
Similarly, for forest stations using agricultural tractors, skidding costs over a
distance of 1000 m were reducedfrom PLZ 82 to PLZ 92/m3 using traditional
horse-drawn methods.



75                          Appendix D
Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
Table 2 - Technical Cost of the Wood Harvesting in Early Thinning
* (Source: Forest Research Institute)
Skidding distance        100 meters      500 meters      1000 meters
Cost in PLZ/m3, horse       58               76              92
skidding and chipping
Cost in PLZ/m3,
skidding with an            50               68              85
agriculture tractor   _
*These figures apply to a full tree system where harvesting involves felling and de-
branching with chain saw and axe.
Table 3 - Technical cost of the wood harvesting on clear cutting area with an average
diameter above 26 cm *(Source: Forest Research Institute)
Skidding distance          100 meters     500 meters     1000 meters
Cost in PLZ/m3, felling,
debranching and primary        15            17.5            21
conversion with chain saw
Cost in PLZ/m3, felling,
debranching and primary        12             14.5            18
conversion with harvester  I                  _
* All these figures are for a short tree system, sortment method, skidding by forwarder,
one shift work.
b) Improved marketing - resulting from the development of a marketing section
within the SFD. The marketing section was established and is making some
contribution to improved economic efficiency. This development continues to
evolve and, for the long-term and in order to deliver a more comprehensive
service, consideration should be given to transferring this function to private
sector operators
c) Development of transparent pricing and financial systems, to enable SFD to
assess the relative benefits from different sources of activities. Decentralized
financial analysis offorestry operations was improved under project and is
producing analytical data on the main activities. This development continues to
evolve and is contributing significantly to improved economic efficiency.
d) Creation of employment in rural areas. The trend in transferring responsibility
for most of the forest management activities under the project to private
operators, as shown in Table 4, suggests quite dramatic movements between 1992
and 1996. The quantities ofproduction activities increasing by three times to
more than 75 percent of total operations; while the percentage of harvesting
activities (which was already half undertaken by private operators in 1992)



76                          Appendix D
Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
increased to 80 percent. This trend will have a positive social impact resulting from
stimulating private forest management. However, income levels will only increase
when there is an overall reduction in total numbers of employees. Significant
reduction in numbers of accidence within the forestry sector reflects improved
regulations, monitoring and enforcement offorest operations.
Table 4 - Trends in Private Sector Forest Operations
Year                 1992           1995           1996
Afforestation (in % of area)      27            58             80
Supplementing (in % of area)      24            52             77
Cleaning (in % of area)           23            50             76
Cutting (in % of area)            28            51             76
Harvesting (in % of cubic         50            77             80
meter)
However, the economic impactfrom "privatization" is uncertain, because: (i) the
thinning and pruning was contracted to private forest management units that were
previously work brigades in the SFO; and (ii) a large part of the labor force
involved with tree planting is people whose land has been transferredfrom
agricultural production. This suggests that tihere was little net increase in the
number ofjobs. Infact, from an economic viewpoint, positive impact would
depend on substantial increase in output. Nonetheless, for the long-term, these
activities are likely to result in a net increase in jobs, thereby having a positive
economic impact. This concern is borne out by Table 5 which shows that the SFD
net income declined during project implementation, from 5.3 to 2.5 percent of total
revenues.
Table 5 - Evolution of the Net Income of State Forest as a Percentage of the Total Revenue
Year      1992   1993   1994   1995    1996  1997
Net income* of  8.5    1.17   5.3    4.6     4.1   2.5
SFD (% of total
revenue)                                    l
*profet before tax
e) Enhanced amenity value from increasing both the hunting and public accessibility.
There is no record of increased in these activities; however, insofar as they are
affected by increases in leisure time and standards of living, the impact is likely to
be positive.



77                           Appendix D
Annex 2
Page 5 of 8
C. Environmental Benefits
3.   The appraisal estimated both direct and indirect environmental benefits.
Monitoring of levels of atmospheric pollution show a steady decline since 1990. This has
been mainly due to the collapse of industries in Eastern Europe. An important challenge
is to ensure that levels of pollutants continue to decline even when economies recover
and new plants are established.
a) Direct environmental benefits, where project activities were assessed by two
measures:
(i)   Improved health of the forest estate, including: increased vitality
resulting from more intensive management; restoration of forest cover
destroyed by atmospheric pollution and greater resilience to such stress,
and compensation resulting from afforestation activities; and ensuring
the availability of high quality seed to raise the vigor and potential
productivity of forests. By and large, it is expected that these benefits
will be realized - in the long-term. Although the management
techniques applied during project implementation were less intensive
than planned, the restoration offorest cover and afforestation are likely
to be more positive over time. Table 6 shows that the expansion in
growing stock; of ]. ] percent per year since 1988, accelerated between
1994 and 1996:
Table 6 - Trends in Growing Stock between 1988 and 1996
Year            Growing stock (in     Growing stock
thousand of m3)    per ha (in m3/ha)
1988                1 217 360             181
1989                1 238 750             185
1990                1 260 000             188
1991                1 280000              191
1992                1 293 700             192
1993                1 300 100             194
1994                1 310 230             195
1995                 1 322 630            195
1996                1 341 100 
Table 7 records the overall survival rates for afforestation and reafforestation between
1988 and 1997, increasingfrom 87.4 to 89.4 percent. Disaggregated results between
1994 and 1996 show a rise in survival of afforested areas from 83.6 to 87.0 percent, and
for reafforested areas from 82.2 to 85.5 percent.
Table 7 - Survival Rate (in % of area) for Combined Afforestation and Restoration
Year        1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Survival    87.40  87.30   86.50  86.40  84.10  86.70  82.84  86.57   89.52  89.43
rate average
*for trees of 2 years old or more



78                         Appendix D
Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
The seeds selection andprocessing developments under the project are likely to exceed
the original target.
The addition to the project of the controlprogram against the nun moth infestation in
1995 had a positive economic impact. Table 8 shows the trends in areas offorest
suffering more than 25 percent of defoliation due to insect attack, with a peak of 54.8
percent in 1994 declining to 36.3 percent in 1997, following the nun moth eradication
campaign:
Table 8 - Percentage of State Forest Area Affected by Defoliation
Year    1 1988 1 1989  1 1990 1 1991 1 1992 1 1993  1 1994 1 1995  I 1996   1 1997  1
Total    49.4 1 31.9  1 37.8  44.5  48.5  49.7   54.8 1 52.6  1 39.7    36.3
*defoliation of 25% or more.
However, in the absence of an automatic, extra-budget mechanism for ensuring a reliable
source of revenue for tackling such emergencies, there is a risk that SFD might have
financial capability to tackle future pathogenic infestations. This is countered by
statements thatfiscal resources are guaranteedfor emergencies. Nonetheless, it would
be an advantage to guarantee timely availability of resources by creating a fundfrom
revenues received, e.g., from fees levied on private forestry companies or access on sales
offorest products.
(ii)  Improved environmental management centered on sound forest utilization
policies and planning procedures and including the adoption of the
following: forest development strategies that are environmentally sensitive;
new planning criteria for both commercial areas and national parks; closer
supervision of wood harvesting and transportation practices; and improved
research into the effects of pollution on forest health. Attention to
environmental management is embedded centrally in SFD policies;
however, it is unclear to what extent this was already in train and how
much it was influenced by the project. The national parks development will
achieve the economic impact, but to a proportionally lesser extent than
predicted due to the limited levels of development achieved. Visitor figures,
between 1994 and 1997, show increases from 75.0 to 97.0 thousand visitors
for Bialowieski National Park and between 1995 and 1997, from 10 to 30
thousand in Magurski National Park.
As part of the move towards better planning, regulation and supervision,
the efficiency of SFD management has improved and research has become.
better focused. In common with the needfor assuredfunding for SFD to
tackle pest infestation, funding for the development and operation of
nationalparks must be guaranteed From recent evidence, the provision of
state subsidies for these purposes is not reliable. Also, raising the total
funds required solely from entry charges is likely to be a deterrent to the
public. Therefore, an assured source of income will need to be provided to
SFD, e.g., from higher hunting charges or taxation on tourism.



79                           Appendix D
Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
b) Indirect environmental benefits, where project activities were assessed by the
effect on enhanced soil conservation, protection of watersheds and agricultural
lands, improved micro climate, and increased carbon absorption from faster tree
growth and expansion of forest estate. The economic benefits from project soil
conservation and watershed protection measures will be realized Similarly,
although the effects of lower forest management intensity on the rate and volume
of tree growth are unclear, it is estimated that project activities on carbon
sequestration will be met.
c) Work related accidents in the forest sector declined significantly during project
implementation, as a result of improved management practices, training,
supervision and enforcement of forest regulations.
D.  Cost of Technical Operations
4.   In general, the actual unit costs of the main forest development operations included
in the project have been less than predicted at appraisal. The estimated variations, as
assessed in Appendix D Annex 1, are summarized in Table 9.
Type of Operation        Costs per Hectare (US$)      Comparison with Appraisal
Appraisal       Actual*         Estimate (percentage)
Thinning                 109          74                    68
Forest Replanting         1,250        1,043                    83
Afforestation             925          856                    93
* Average figures 1993 to 1997
To a large extent, these apparent savings resulted from the fact that actual operations
were less intensive than anticipated at appraisal. At the same time, it is too early to
measure the impact on long-term survival rates, productivity and quality, resulting from
technical actions that are less than planned at appraisal. For example, afforesting in
furrows without deep cultivation, or significantly lower levels of thinning of growing
trees.
Trends in Expenditures in the Forestry Sector
5.   In constant terms, public financing of SFD operations increased from PLZ 32.6
million in 1992 to PLZ 37.5 in 1997 (Table 10). This is a minor part of total costs,
starting at 3.9 percent of total costs in 1992; it declined to 2.9 percent during good sales
seasons in 1994/95, but increased again to 4.2 percent in 1997, following decline in world
timber prices. The trend reflects labor costs where, for all categories of SFD employees,
costs increased (in real 1988 terms) from PLZ 38,717 to PLZ 55,892 between 1992 and
1997 (44 percent). Funding for forestry research between 1992 and 1997 was equally
subject to the vagaries of tirnber revenues, declining in real terms by 30 percent, from
PLZ 6.5 million to PLZ 4.6. (Table 11).



80
Appendix D
Annex 2
Page 8 of 8
Table 10 - Evolution of the Funding of Public Function Between 1992 and 1997
Year            1992       1993       1994        1995       1996        1997
Research+Education     7,730       9,000      7,050     11,302     14,396.2    21,047.4
(in thousand PLZ)
Forest tax (in thousand   24,910.2   30,663.2 i   34,548    67,260.6   89,553.90  97,086
PLZ)
Total (in thousand PLZ   32,640.2   39,663.2   41,598    78,562.6   103,950.1   118,133.4
Inflation induce       1      1.353       1.789      2.286       2.740       3.152
Total (in thousand    32,640    29,315     23,252     34,367      37,938      37,479
equivalent 1992 PLZ
Share of the public    3.9 %    3.9 %       2.9 %      3.1 %         4 %       4.2 %
function in total costs
of State Forest
Table 11 - Funding of Forest Research by SFD - 1992 to 1997
Year   Funding from SFD for forest  inflation   Inflation rate   Funding from SFD
research (in thousand PLZ)   indices  j              for forest research
(in thousand
equivalent 1992 PLZ
1992               6,520            1              43 %              6,520
1993               8,400            1.353         35.3%              6,208
1994               6,350            1.789         32.2%              3,549
1995              11,302.7          2.286         27.8%              4,944
1996              14,396.2          2.740         19.9%              5,254
1997              14,545.4          3.152          15%              4,614
6.   These figures highlight the fact that the costs of SFD operations have not declined
despite apparent moves to privatize forest management operations. This emphasizes the
need to adopt more aggressive strategies for cutting costs and improving efficiency.
However, it underlines the basic problem that increased efficiency will only be realized
by reducing the overall labor force or raising productivity through increased output of
forest products. This in itself will depend on the competitiveness of Poland's forest
economy relative to other comparable countries.



81
Appendix D
Annex 3
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
Forest Development Support Project
Implementation Completion Report
Reconciliation of Project Indicators
Each component of the project can be evaluated through these indicators.
Component              Indicator of component results              Evolution
Intensification of silviculture  Share of thinnings in total harvest    Intensification achieved under the
project, but long-term change in
practices uncertain.
Nun-moth and other defoliator   Defoliation                    Emergency defoliator control
control (added component *                                     operation effective; however, long-
term sustainability uncertain.
Restoration and afforestation  Survival rate                   Successful, with survival rate for
project area similar to overall national
average, despite polluted conditions.
Genetic conservation and     Seed production quantity and      Information lacks (OPI has not
improvement program          diversity                         provided data yet); however,
indications are good.
Harvesting, skidding and     Harvesting costs (nationwide, in  Clear advantages from limited project
transport equipment          superintendencies with and without   activities; however, uptake less than
modernization                modem equipment)                  expected.
Ecosystem conservation in    Number of visitors in three national   Records indicate some increase in
national parks               parks supported by the project    visitors, but unlikely to be due to
project, because of limited activity.
Institutional development
(i)  Research development    Funding of forest research and of  Research funding is vulnerable to
public function                   fluctuations in income from timber
sales.
(ii) Privatization           Privatization of forest operations and  Partial success, but long-term impact
work accidents                    uncertain due to continuing high costs
and static/declining output and weak
world timber markets.
(iii) Financial management   Profitability of State Forest as a  No real increase in profitability due to
strengthening           percentage of total revenues       only partial restructuring and some
continuing direct involvement of SFD.
Some improvement since 1994 due to
Ratio of direct cost to indirect cost,   good economic conditions in 1995
and ratio of wood sale revenue to  and decrease in costs (personnel,
personnel cost                    direct and indirect) in 1996.
Social benefits associated to  Employment generated by project  Significant transfers from SFD;
these components             activities                        however, uncertain nets increase in
job numbers.
** Component added as emergency action for controlling nun moth investation.






IBRD 24307R1
I'4'                           iP                                                                                         22B
- j   ;, , i.  ;    :      ; 0-                        RUSSIAN                                                                                                                                        _
C : l :; ,t STOW(ISKI                   S:         ;        : :    ,FEDERATION                  L I T H A NIA
I-'                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~POLAND
/   - upok                                                 A. a                                                                                             FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LI                                         ~Ksi-   =S-   (rFOREST DISTRIBUTION  AND  TYPES
,Kosxolin                                           El bIog        -                                                                                                             NATIONAL PARKS
WOVIN                              o  VBIOAFORESTS
DISTRIRUTION OF NATION  PARKS TO RE
/  14R:                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STRENGTHENED ENDERALPROJECTS:
EXISTING
PLANNED
Pile    R       ,                                                             -, _R1o;11lysin  .            e /La           BELARUS g                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
-)                            -WiNSOFtlK.-0.-                                                                                                                        @ CiTIES AND TOWNS
_ $                                                                                                                                                                   2> Wrci.wh,  RIVERS
.,  PORTS
z                                                                                                                                                                                   tNTERNAT ONAL .   3; P,O,L(JND,AR IE.STornobrzr   RO tTOCZ .- NT AN RODR
< ~~~~~~wiEi wopoisiKle*W                                                                                   -    ,Zge                                                            2
.u-Y  ,  ,!8 ,,,, S Y a S~~~~W.,dlc
-52. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~               + f,                                                                        Bif P-lA                                     52-  Rrr6w*zszw 9 -/<KLMT
/                                  *                               SLOVAK REPUBLIC                                  j                                                               .U.b6#* Koh.
Pi.t,k6s                          RedeM
Wreele      -          ~~~~Trl,b-veki &
Aojelns G6eeS
%',    JURA~           ~ ~ Sov    SITO</                                                                UKRAINE
Wehereych                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RO7 Ckx
50'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~pI                                                                            Tonbre ,Ter.6w  Rensdwzey6                                                                              KILOMETERS
50'                       r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                             t ~       ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~010                              102
CZECH  REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                 __
/        AB\CrORA                        NeM peLJS                                                                                                   5     IT
Xso*    ,.SITRCE@      -       MAG&                                                                                                Sen IE
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
AUSTRIA                           ~i                                                5                                   0                                  4
MARCH 1993



