Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11318-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL AEPORT
POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
JULY 6, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 11318 POL
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central As a Region
This document has a resticted dibibution and may be used by reipienb ody in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not odhewise be disciosed without Wodd Bank authodzation.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = zloty (zi)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1990    1991    1992   1993 (May 11)
US$1.00 = zl  9,500   10,576  13,631       16,691
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAC  - Annual Allowable Cut
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
PHARE  - Assistance Program for Eastern Europe (EC)
EEB - European Investment Bank
FAO/CP - Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
GEF - Global Environmental Facility
GIS - Geographic Information System
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GDSF - General Directorate of State Forests
IBL - Forestry Research Institute
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
LCB  - Local Competitive Bidding
IJB  - Limited International Bidding
MEPNRF - Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry
MOF - Ministry of Finance
NBP - National Bank of Poland
SOE - Statement of Expenditure
WHO  - World Health Organization



t
RPUBuC OF POLAND                           F  OFFICIL USE oNLY
FOREfST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTES
PARTI. L PJRODUCTION                    .......................................   I
PART II. THE FORESTRY SECTOR AND THE ENVnRONN NN ............                                    . 2
A. Forest Resources and Their Distribuion ..............................                     2
B. Forestry and the Env ironnt   ........t...........t.... .                                 3
C. RoleoftheForestry Setr intheEoonomy                             ..             .    4
D. Institutional Setting andLegalFramework                         .       .       .  S
E. SectorPolicisad Ie s        ...................................  7
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement  ...............................   8
PART m. THE PROJECT ........................................ 9
A. Project(Objectives  .        .......................................   9
B. ProjectDesrdption  .          ......................................   9
C. ProjectCostsamlFinamcing  ................................. 16
D. Project Promr mem                      ............................. 18
E. BankLoanAocation andDisbursements  ......................... 21
F. Environuntal I        t l act..................................... 22
PART lV. PROJECT ETPLEMFNTAIION                                         ..                         24
A. Organizationad M5 anagement                ................................ 24
B. Technial Assisace andT    ..............................T .                             25
C. ProjectMonitoringandEvauaion  ............................. 26
D. Auditing andReprngReueme                  ........................... 26
E. Supervision Plan ......................................... 27
P.ART V. PROJECT BENEFI'S AND RISKS  ......                         ..................... 27
A. ProjectBeunefits ......................................... 27
B. Maretsand ticing ....................................... 29
C. EconomicEvaluation               .........................                               30
D. FinamncialAnalysisoftheGeneralofDicSubForests .                          ........... 33
E. Riks ................................................ 35
PART VI. AGEEES ECBE ................................36
This report was pepaed on the basis ot ao appraisa mission to PJand in Ju, 1992. Ihe Task Maer was August
Sc J r cher Jr (Se 1i_ Agiulr         EMC2AW), the Deputy Tas Manger was Chdiste ConIi  (Opeio
Officer, MCAW). Mission m-mb  incmlded Inat nan           (FOrest Economis4 FAOIP3 and Mes. Leois
Caronni, Maw xaraine, St  Hwr   and C rph  Upto WFestry Consuan). The Por Reviewer is F.
Wncelias MTAG). Andrew Bond and Seven Bewck (Conat Ecologis) ppraised tho _         mel mviw.
The Dvision Chief is Mr. Rory C. O'Sulan (EC2AW) and the Depatn Director is Mr. Kema Dervt (BZDR).
The report was assembled by Parvin Baharmas.
This document ha a rstrtd dstibutiona   may be usd by rdpnt on* I. tbe 
of ti oiaduteas. Its conteS MY  t   is be od osd w mt WordBnut



TABLES
1. MainChaaceistics eoftisePoh Wo        Wood lnustry(19919)  ..................... .S
2. Project Cos Summay ...................................... . 17
3.  Finming  Pln, ...................         . . . . . . . . . . . 0   ..          18
4. Projea Procurenmet ..  ........................................ 21
5. DisbursementPlan .        .       ..        .............. - 22
6. Ecommic Rates ofRetu    .......               .........               ..... 32
7. Ssitivity Analysis    ........................  33
GLOSSARY
Tecb  erms................... 39
ANNEES biduded In Staff Appraia Rpot
1. Selected Douments in the Project File
2. Deled Project Cost Tables
3. Disbursement Schedule
4.           i  Schedule and Major Procuement Packae
5. Enviromental Review
6. Organiza    Charts
7. Project Organization ad M g         Research and Training
8. Supeviion Plan
9. Harvestg Potential of the Polish Forests
10. Detailed Economic Analysis
ANNEXES Ildudes In   pemntafbn Vlum
11. Terms of Refeence - Stagies for E onmeay Son Forest Utilzion in Polad
12. Domestic and Export Markt for Wood
13. Pricig
14. Technical Papers Related to Project Components:
14a.   nnification of Silviculre in Existing Foet
14b.  Restration of Air-Pollution Damaged Forests
14c.  Afforesaon
14d.  Genetic Convation and       vm Poam
14e.  M izationof Havestig ad Log Transport
14f.  Ecosystem Conseato in Naionl Parks
15. Financial Aalysis of the GenrlDirtorate of State Forests
MAPS
IBRD. No. 24307(R1) Forest Disbtion and Types, Nation  Park
IBRD No. 24308R) Air Polution Impact on Foss



REPuBUC OF POLAN
FOREST DzvOPomENT SUPPORT PRojECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUAMMRY
Borrow:   Republic of Poland
Amunt:    US$146 million equivalent
Terms:       17 yeas, including five years of grae, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Objective:   The overall objective of the project is to assist the Goverme  in executing its
Progrm  of te Dekpmem  of Selected Foresty Branhes and Protection of
Eoysstems in National Par*s for 1993-1997, thereby ensuring the protection of
Poland's forest ecological caital, providing for social benefits,  d accomdating
suainble forestry.
D    pin: The project consists of seven components grouped into four categis:
() Enfro          Forest Maemen   le project would fund actvivtes to
rease the vitalit of forest stands and their abilt to overome the effects of
p t and fte levels of air pollution and other stess factors. FPmds would
be provided for: labor-intensive actvites such as tnding and thinning;
restoration of air polludon damaged forests to protect deliat watsbeds and
prevent soil erosi   afforestati  of land moving out of agriculture; and a
genetic conservation and improveme  program to ensure te aviabilit of high
quality seed.
(0ii) M e aon of Hanestig, Skiddig, and Tnsport Equipment. Modern
and efficient harvestng, sidding, and aport equJpmen that would reduce
the negative environ    Impact of cet  practices would be financed under
the project. The General D irctorat of Sate Fores   (GDSI) will develop a
prvatiztio plan for barvesting, skiddig, and tansation operations by June
30, 1994.
(i) Ecosystem  on       n In National Parks. The project would provide
funding for the core componen of a program to conserve Poland's ecosystems
located in the national park system. Manag   acdvities within all national
parks would follow the plans of national park protectin developed as a result
of the project
(iv) ni     i   Development.  Technical support  eqpmt, and relaftd
investments to the GDSF and the Board of Polish National Parks would be
funded to assist he orgtional, ma m    and financial restructurg of
the GDSF.  Funding would also be prvided to develop a srategy for
environmentally sound forest utiizato to balace en enal and economic
consideratios. in addion, an information system, including a Geographic



Information System (GIS) itgrted wih a planing systm  would be eqx ded
t Improve mangment through proCedU   for th staegic and oeationa
planning of forest operatons, marbet informao, logistical plaing, and
administraon. A Section for Prhivazation of Foresy Services would be
established withi the Office of Project Iplemeatio In the GDSF, and the
existing Divisions of Trade and Markeg at the GDSF level and at the regnal
level would be strengtend. Pinancial manaement cpabies of the GDSF
as well as forest research capabilities would also be stgthed.
Benefits:    To varying degrees, each of the seven project componen  is expected to achieve both
environmental and socionomic benefits. Environmental benefits are primarily
from  those coponents desgned specfiay to adrs evomt  issues-
inesification of silviculral atments, forest restratn, afforestation, genetic and
ecosystem  consrvation, and spprt for research and planning tD imprve
environmental management.  Environmental benefits also incxlde enbanced soil
conservation and watershed protection as well as ineased carbon absorpto from
faster tree growth and easion of the fort  estate. The main socio-conomic
benefits are both short term (employment, improved productvity, enbanced
efficiency, and assistance to economic transition) and long tem (to maintain the
productive, protective, and ameity vahles of the forest estate). In addition to the
mcremenal economic benefits from the sale of wood and cost savgs due to
increased productivity of new harvesting and tansport mhiry, the economic
analysis of dhe project estimates the benefits from hunting, other non-wood products
such as mushrooms and berries, recreation, and the amenity vahle of the forest. Tre
overall economic rate of reurn for the project is estimated at 18 percent
Risks:       Air Pollution. Project acdvities are designed to incrse tolertance to air pollbio
by improvig growmg condio   for healthy trees. Te efbcts of pollution on
Poland's forests are localized at higher elevaos in the south and soutwestern
regions (complete deforestation), while the impact in other areas is more subtle. The
scale and timing of required abatement control measres are subect to conditions that
are not possible to assess at this stage, and inchlde factors both within and ouside
Poland's borders. Polbltion levels have been reduced in the last two years due to
shutdowns in former East Germany and reduced production levels in inutry as a
result of the recession. A further decrease in levels of air poLton is now
considered lilkely becaue of major efforts, both diaonl  and domestically, t
control emissions in the region. With these actions being aken, the risks for the
project are manageable. To furdher minimize these risks, project activis are
targeted to areas of lesser polluton, and silvicultral practioes are being adapted to
maximize tolerance to the remaing lkely polluton levels.
Restucturing of the Wood Industry. The Polish wood idustry requies  btatia
investments. The proposed prject does not incude funding for the wood industry
sector, for which local finacing as well as World Bank lines of developmet credoL
are available, such as Loans 3166 and 3167-POL  Idustry ad Agroindustry
Development Projects) and  3467-POL  (Private  Enrprise  Deveopment).
International consulas have comleted sub-ector reviews of the restructuring of



the pulp and paper industry and the privatzaton of the firniture and particleboard
industries. Privatan, especialy of the funitr industry, is being expedited by
the Ministy of Privatization. A World Bank investmen in a pzrticleboard factory
and an IFC investment in a furitue fctory have been realized to date, and the IFC
and the International Paper Company are involved in the privatization of the largest
pulp and paper mil in Poland, at Kwidzyn.
As long as Poland remains a competitive wood producer and the EC, as Poland's
major export market, remains a wood deficit region, investment in the Polish wood
indusry wil be encouraged, although it will depend on the initiative of private
investors. The uncertanties regarding private sector response to such investment
opportuities are at prsent substntial, but medium and long-term interest is libkely
to increase. This risk has been taken into account by estimatng the beriefits from
incremental wood production at rcadside, based on conservative assumptions of wood
sales to the domestic and export markets.
Hrvesing Effldency. Analysis has shown the project to be sensitive to achieving
ful effiency gains from modenizing the harvesting, skidding, and transport
equipmenL Consequently, project supervision would carefilly monitor the timely
purchase and proper use of harvesting, skidding, and transportequipment, and assess
the extent to which the anticipated cc st saviags are actually realized.
zEonomk
Rate of Retur: 18%
Cost Esdaft (US$ mi llon)
Local    Foreign    Total
ntesification of Silviculue              58.1      21.0     79.1
Res   of Damaged Forests                 35.9      11.3     47.2
Afi estin                                24.3       7.8     32.1
Geetc Conservation ad Imrvement          23.9      10.6     34.5
Modeon of Harvest and Transport           0.0      62.6     62.6
Ecosystem Coratdon in Natioa Par          5.4       5.4     10.8
lbstona Developme                       _73        11.8    _1.1
Total Base Costs                     154.9     130.5    285.4
Physicaoniges                             7.4       6.2     13.6
Price Cotingence                                   19.2    _.3A
Total Proect Costs                   179.5     155.9    335.4



-iv -
Adcing Pk (u$M WVW)
cal    Foein         Total
GeneralDleco     fSateaorestF    146.5       0.0      146.5
IBRD                              0.0      146.0      146.0
European ivestumt Back            11.9       4.1       16.0
Bilateral Agencies               2.          S.8
Total                        179.5      155.9      33S.4
E_imated Rank Dkbnnements (US$ moUlln)
3RD FISCAL YEAR
1994  1995   1996   1997  1998  1999  2000
Anul         8.8   19.7  22.1   20.5  25.3   27.6  22.0
Cumlative    8.8   28.5   50.6  71.1   96.4  124.0  146.0
Closing Date: JIwe 30, 2000
Maps:         IRD No. 24307(R1) - Forest Distribution and Types
BRD No. 24308(R) - Air Polutio hpct on Forests



REPUBIJC OF POLAND
FORUT DEMWMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
SrAFF APPRAISAL REPRT
PART L INTRODUCTION
1.1   Poland has a significant forest resource and the country's wood industry is weUl est lished.
Forests cover some 8.7 million hces, 28 percent of the land area of the country. They contribute
2 percent to GDP, over US$350 milion in exports of roundwood and wood products, employ a total
of 350,000 persns in the forests and the wood and paper industies, and provide substantal
nironmta benefits in erosion control, watershed protection, CO2 sequestration, and biodiversity
protetion. Following severe destruction during World War II, Poland's forests were subsnially
replanbed in the post war decades. In recent years, however, a major new threat has emerged: local
and transdary air pouduion, which is affecting portions of Poland's forest cover and putting at
risk Poland's forest wealth.
1.2    While major inernadona effort are now underway to contai this hazard, air pollution
generated both internaidonally and domesucaly has already bad an impact on some Polish forest
zones, especialy in the south-west (Sudety) region and other southern regions in the industial
heartland of the country. At higher elevations in the Sudety region, 16,000 ha of forests have been
destroyed, with addiional deteioration noted in the southeastern mountain region. The introduction
of improved forest managem  pracices is necessay to mitigate the damagng effects of this
poltion. This task bas been faciliated by the political and economic reforms over the past several
years that have resulted in the possibilit of inducing a new approah to the management of the
fores in Poland. A new Forest Law (1991) codifies this new approach. However, the severe
budgetary cnsis facig Poland has made it difficult to implement needed actions.
1.3    Against this bac     , the Bank and the FAO/CP asssted the Ministry of the
Bnvironmen_ Naural Raerces and Forestry with the identification and prepaton of this project
in 1991 and early 1992. The project was originally developed during the work on the Forest
Biodiversity Prtctn  Project (Report No. P-5675-POL), supported by the Global Environment
FaciLity (GEF) in Dember 1991. A number of components in the Forest Development Support
Project have built upon the lesson deriving from the GEF project The Forest Development Support
Project is designed to asist Poland in addring current envnm l problems, to identify and
categorize affected forest, and to develop restoraton programs for those forests able to susin a
regeneraion  wih suiable forest genetic material. As air pollution levels are conained and
eventuay decline in the longer term, efforts under this project and under the ongoing GEF Forest
Biodiversity Protection Project (Gene Bank componet) will sustain fe gene stock appropriate for
restorig the more heavily impacted and degraded forest zones. The project also aims to compensate
for this loss of forest resource due to air pollution by expanding the total forest area through
afforettin  This project was appraised in June 1992.



-2-
PART IL THE FORESTRY SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMET
A. FORSM RESOURCES AND THE    S)rRIDUTION
2.1    Poland's forest cowver an area of 8.7 million hectaes, corresponding to 28 percent of the
nadon  territry. The bulk of the forests in Poland (83 percent) are publcly owned and comprise
established forests, mostly under the managemn of the General Directorate of State Fore
(GDSF), a statutoy body of the Ministry of Environmental Protecdon, Naural Resources and
Foresy (MEPNRF). Privately-owned forests comprise 17 percent, owned almost entirely by
individuals.
2.2   ITe state forests comprise production forests and protecion forests. Production forests are
mostly plaaion forests that are managed for the production of wood for industry while also
providi  enviro          benefits. Protein forests (about 2.5 million ha) are managed with the
aim of protecig various national resources, such as delicate soils from erosion, and conserving
water resources by protctig vulneal e fore'ts at high alttudes. Protective forests also maintain
microclimates around health spas and provide recrtation areas. These forests are stil harvested, but
with less intensity than full production forests. Tbe-. ; ve longer rotations and fewer interventions,
whih leads to a lower allowable cut  On average,  by produce 10-20 percent less wood for
consumption. I some cases, these forests are treated as forest reserves, i.e. they are not logged at
al.
2.3    The faested area of Poland is scattered all over the country with some concentrtons along
the mountain ranges in the south and in the western and northwestern parts of the county (see Map
1). The average size of state forests is large, but the average private forest is one bectare. Many
of the pvate foats have been planted as protecion for agriculture.
2.4 The dominat species is pine (69 percent), principally Scots pine, which is of variable quality
dwepeing on the sites. Some of the naturally regenerted pine is of excet.&at quality, while the
plned pine in geneal is poorer. O     species of impornce are Norway spruce (6 percent), silver
fir (3 percent), beech (4 percent), oak (4 percent), and other broadleaves (14 percent). All main tree
species are indgenu. Oak and beech are importan hardwoods, especially for the productive
furniture    stry of the country. Poland has been a traditional supplier of good quality oak for
fuiture and floorig on the Europen markets.
2.5    The age distribution of Polish forests is skewed with a lack of older age classes. The
average age of state forests S 54 years. Totl stading stock of all forests in Poland amounts to 1.4
biUio m3s ob.' The overall average stding stock per hectre is some 160 m3s ob, which is quite
high condeng the reltively high proportn of young stands. In general, the private forests bave
a lower standing stock per hecte, reflecig a higher proportion of young forests. Almost 70
percent of the privately-owned pine forests are less      40 years old, while the coresponding figure
for the state forests is 45 pernL
J/  Muusiuwat _ of volm of wood which cluds bark (cubic meusn solid over bait).



-3-
B. FORESrRY AND TiNE ENVIRONMENr
2.6    The main sources of envimnmental pollution affectg Poland's fOres are the energy, steel,
and chemical industnes. Polish emission levels are about 4.2 million tons/year of SO2 and 1.5
million tons of NO. emissions. The inpact of pollution from neighboring countnes is higher ta
that from domesdc sources.
2.7   In the 1980s, sone forests began dying in Poland, as well as in the fomer Czechoslovaida
and Germany. During the period 1983-1988, the sanitation felling (removal of dead standing trees)
constituted 69 million in3, and there are still 12 million m3 of dead trees requiring sanitation
harvesting. I addition, a number of forest regions in Poland are suffering from depositions of sulfilr
and nitrogen. Accordig to estimates, a slight decline in foliage attributed to air polUtion effeOts is
observed in 54 percent of the forests, moderate decline in 18 percent, and severe decline in 2 percent
(see Map 2).
2.8    Forests in southwesterm Poland, particularly the Karkonosze arem of the Sudety Mountains,
are partcularly affected. In this area, 16,000 ha of forests are dead. Tne southwestern Sudety
Mountain area is an important zone of ecological biodiversity. The region where Poland, the Czech
Republic and Germany come wgether is known in environmental circles as the "Black Trangle."
Here, in a relatively small area, are 16 large coal burning power plant and smelters. It is the region
of the highest industrial pollution in Poland, and there is evidence that air pollution has directly
icreased the presence and spread of insect pests and fimgal diseases due to lowered forest vitaliq.
For example, the lach bud moth, which appeard in large numbers in 1977, damaged an area of
approximately 30 km2 and was a major contributor to the complete deforestation of some of the
mountain regions. Root and stem diseases have also played a role in killing weakened trees. The
result has been almost total deforestation at the higher elevations, extensive deforesation at mid-
elevations, and weakened stands at lower elevations in the southwest area.
2.9    Recently, an agreement was reached between Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, and
the EC to undertake an urgent program to reduce pollution in this Triangle. Proteon of the forest
resource and forest biodiversity in this zone has featured importnly in the initial working
discussions of the participants. Tbe Global Environment Facility Forest Biodiversity Protection
Project (P-5675-POL) cunrni., under implementation wil make a signp at conttion to
biodiversity protection and, more generally, to the scientic understandig of the pollution impact
on the forests of the Triangle.
2.10   The forest descion in the Sudety is both intensive and serious, yet not entirely hopeless.
The forest destruction is concentat  at elevat,ons above 800 meters, while the forest cover below
that level is still relatively intact. This elevation effect is a combination of reduced forest viaity
with icreased elevation aad the direct deposit of chemicals carried in clouds or fogs more prevalent
at higher elevations. Above 800 meters, there are still, thughout the Sudety Mounis, some
remaining forest stands of Norway spruce, Ebropean larch, Scots pine, and silver fir in various
stages of decline. The declnig forest health situation is not unformly distnruted across Poland.
The Poles clssify 24 percent of state forest districts as being in areas defined as ecological hazard
areas. Regios as Wroclaw (61 percent), Katowice (33 percent), and Lublin (31 percent) have areas
of hih ecological risk. By contast, Bialystok, Pila, and Olstyn are situated outside the most serious
areas of ecological risk. Current assessments suggest that 24 percent of coniferous forests are



-4-
essnially udamged cmprd to 47 perent of broadleaved fores. Even in the daaged fosts,
there are still ample oppos to protct the remaiig biologic resource. The rat of formst
destruction has, accmding to the MEPNRF Forest Deparme, subsided over th last three yoe.
The effect of air pollutio can be obscured by otier phenomena, such as weathr, pest, and disease
conditions.
2.11   Despite the onslaught of man, Polish forests conte to conibwte substtially to a heaty
enviroment. Fore fix carbon from atmospheric CO3, eace soil conservation and  _atrhed
protecdon, and protect biodversity as well as mic-climates and agriultul areas. Forests prde
natxral envir-m-ents whica have import   amenity valus for the popaion, Icluding recreatonl
use, the collecdon of secondary forest products such as mushroom and berries, and huntg.
C. ROLE OF THE FORESY SECTOR IN TIE ECONOMY
2.12   Total an-al harvetng from the Polish Stae forests has been grdually decreasing from 22
mi*lion m3s under bark (ub) inl 1986 to a level of 16 milion m's ub in 1990. This havestng blv
is lower in relation to the growth of the ste forests, which preseny hiesdmaed at 4.9 m?s
ob/ha/year, cosping to a total of 33 million m3s ob/year. The underlying reason for this
reduction has been the combined effects of:
* the worldwide recession, which bas reduced the demand for wood product and
roundwood;
* a run-down Polish forst industry which has diffculdties competing in European marke;
and
* a fear of overusming a resource which is heateed by air polluto
2.13  In spite of this trend, the forests and the wood indtry employed 350,000 pople in 1992,
corres ing to a little more than six percent of the total Polish instrial work force. The sector
produced two percent of GDP in 1992 and over two percent of Polish exports in 1991.
2.14   The domimating species in Poland of pine, oak, and beech are well suited for prduciag high
quality, high vale wood to be used in the futre and joinry iustry. Poand's lcaton in
relation to the heart of tie European market, as well as competitive wood costs, give the country an
excellent opportunity to expand within this sector. This oppotuity could well be sa_ by
the diminishin supplies of tropical hardwoods to the European market.
2.15   The wood industry is already well established. However, poltical and economic reforms
during the 1980's have left the industry with litte new investments duriog that period. The currnt
recession has hit it hard,    ti  in rduced demand for wood from te Polih forests. The
industry is, therefore, in acute need of restuuring and new inesmetThe main  d
of the industry are shown in Table 1 on page 5.
2.16   The sawmilling industry bas a large number of producdon units, but thre are only 15 with
a capacity exceeding 60,000 m3/year. Poland's wood-based panel indury consists of 24 pln
producing plywood, blockboard, particleboad, and fiberboard.  Three parile boad plants



-5 -
iorporate modern technology and are of a scale to be   ionally competitive. The remainder
of these plants supply the local market and the ftuniture industry. The  dstry has the potenial to
absorb some of the long-term increased volumes coming from the proposed forest management
program, especially from early thinnin where reduced sumpage shouli be e:pected.
Tabl 1. Main Chacterstls of the Polsh Wood Industry (1992)
Approx.  Export
Raw Material                           Value of   for
Number of Consumption                 Number of   Output   1991
Industry         Enerprises  (million mn)    Output     Employees     US$ milimon
Sawmilhing         1,030        5.5       3.7 million m3    33       405       40
Wood-Based Panels     24        2.8       1.5 million m3    16        163      40
Furiture             230       n.a.           n.a.          94       700       180
Pulp and Paper        32        3.5      1.1 million m ton  46       465       90
Other               n.a.        1.2           .a.           21       n.a. nLa.
Totals           1,336        13                         210       1,733     350
Source: histte of Wood Technology, Pozafi, Poland.
n.a. not availabk
2.17   Beginning in the 1970s, special efforts were made to develop the furniture industry wth the
specific objective of orient  it towards exports to Western Europe. These have been rather
successful-output of the furture industry has been as high as US$500 million annually, of which
more than one-third is exported (prmarily to Germany and Scandinavia). One of the large
purchasers of Polish fumiture is the Swedish group IKEA, which markets Poish-sourced units
throughout the world. Both the sawmill and panel industries in Poland are geared to serve the
fture  industry.
2.18   There are 32 operating paper and paperboard mills in Poland, but only four produce more
tha  100,000 tons/year. Quality standards are generally lower than in the neighring paper-
-producing counties. The privizton of these mills has not been very successful so far, but the
-lager mills have attracted foreign interest. For example, IFC and Ilternational Paper are involved
in the privatzaton of Poland's largest pulp and paper mill in Kwidzyn.
D. INSrT UONAL SETTNG AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
2.19 The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MEPNRF) has
the overall responsibility for the forestry sector. The MEPNRF has four Vice-Ministers, in charge
respectively of (1) Fortry, (2) Nature Conservation, (3) Geology, and (4) Water and Air
Protection. The Vice-Minister of Nature Conservation, through the Nature Protection Department,
exercises general supervision of the National Parks. The National Parks are supervised by the Board
of Polish Naiona Parks (see Annex 6 - Organizadon Charts). A National Council for the Protection
of Nature advises t- Minister on the formulation of policy. Before January 1990, the forest
resource was supervised by the Ministry of Agrulture, Forestry, and Food Economy. State wood-



-6 -
processing industs have been handled by the Ministry of Industry since 1985, when the Mistry
of Forestry and Woodworking Industries was dissolved and  he two responsibiities were split
between Agriculture and Industry. A complete discussion of organization and management is
contained in Annex 7.
2.20   The Vice-Minister of Forestry, through the Foestry Department, exercises general
supervision over the forr' 'r sector. The Forestry Department, which serves as a policy and
planning unit to the V - -Mkister, has a small central staff working closely with the General
Directorate of State Fo, . )SF). The Forestry Department also coordinates forestry reseach
work, which is partly exmatd by the Forestry Research Institute and partly by a number of other
institutions including Agrniltural Universities.
2.21 A Forestry Council advises the Minister on the formulation of forest policy and associated
rules and regulations.  The 35-person Council comprises representatives from the forestry
community, forestry faculties, the GDSF, and private persons, and meets about 3-4 times a year.
2.22   The GDSF has the direct technical, administradve and financial responsibility for managing
state forests under the direction of the Director General. The GDSF is an entity of the Mistr and
manages state forest property. It is, therefore, not a separate legal entity. According to the new
Law on Forests, the GDSF also provides extensioLt and supervision of non-state forests, if such is
ordered by administration units. The GDSF operates through 17 Regional Directorates of State
Forests and 412 forest districts (superintendencies) and various free-standing enterprises.
2.23   The basic law on state forest management (1949), together with laws enacted on game
mnanagement (1959), the management of private forests (1973), and the protecdon of forest lands
(1980 and 1982), provided the legal instruments for forest policy and management in Poland until
very recently. On September 28, 1991, a new, consolidated Forest Law was passed. It legislates
the protection, preservation, and expansion of forest areas. In partcular, the Forest Law mandates:
(a) an expansion of the forested area; (b) the practice of biologically sustainable foresty; and (3) an
expansion of MEPNRF powers to manage the whole range of activities in the forest, including game
management.
2.24   This new Forest Law, which took effect on Jamiary 1, 1992, has bad substanial impact on
the organizational structre of the GDSF. The main effects resultng from this change are:
decentralization, provision of services to the public, financial aragements, and the creation of a
Forest Service.
2.25   Prior to the new law, each of the districts and superintenencies were self-financing entities
which were governed by a central plan. Now they are subdivisions of the GDSF, to which certain
authority has been delegated. This has already resulted in substntially ireased reponsibilities,
parularly at the superintendency level. These responsibilities include the right to implement the
work program by GDSF's own employees or through contracts. Furthermore, the sud
can sell wood to local customers in their superitndency at their own discretion, but at
recommended minimum prices. Inter-regional and inernational sales are coordinated at regional and
central levels.



-7-
2.26   The sperintende  are now given a budget allocadon from GDSF, which is based on
estatd mcomes and ependitres for the entire GDSF and the past performance of the particular
superintendenc. To allow for the operation of the central GDSF, and for different revenue
capacities between the suprind   , adjustments are made in the allocation of budgets to the
superintendencies .
2.27   Previously, the entire GDSF was self financing. The new law, however, stipulates that
certain functions be financed by the Treasury. Items to be financed by Treasury include afforestation
of farm land and the restoration of forests that have been damaged by a party that cannot be
identified. Under the new Forest Law, the ODSF also has the obligation to provide advice to private
forest owners.
2.28   The net effect of this changed structure has been a substandally increased cost consciousness,
which in turn has stiulated the privatization of a number of forest management activities. It is
estimated that the mmber of employees has been reduced by about ten percent since the introduction
of the new law. The number of employees is, however, still far above normal levels in similar
counties. This is to a large extent due to a tradition of undertking a number of auxiliary services,
such as housing, road consuction and wood processing, which now would be undertken outside
the GDSF. The law provides for the formation of free-standing enterprises to carry out some of
these functions.
E. SECTOR POLICIES AND ISSUES
2.29   As Poland moves from a command economy to a market economy, the forest sector is being
impacted substtally. In 1990, the GDSF was trnsferred from the Ministry of Agriculture to the
newly reorganized Ministry of Environmental Protecdon, Natral Resources and Forestry. This led
to a more e          approach to forest management, an approach sustained by the passage of
the new Forest Law in late 1991. At the same time, the Govermment began its general economic
restctn  and privatizaton effort, which, with newly instituted market interest rates and hard
budget constraints on the activities of the wood industry sector (pulp, paper, particleboard, and
furnitre), caused a major drop in domestic demand for GDSF harvested wood. Cutting rates were
dropped, to 16 million m3 in 1990 from 22 million m3 only four years earlier.
2.30   The GDSF began to be significantly affected by aging receivables from the state-owd wood
industry sector, causing it to initiate its own restructuing and employment redon efforts.
Privadzation of plantg, logging, and tansor previously only done by GDSF enployees, was
started, with a program to reach 20 percen privatized silvicultural activities by 1995 and 85 percent
privatzed loggig and transport by 1998. At the same time that domestic demand was dropping,
export remained consta, a       able perfnce considering the international market
recession facing Poland for its wood exports, both in log and value added form.
2.31   Under the new Forest Law, the GDSF is responsible for the enviromntal and commercial
management of the national forest estate. In fulfiling its new legal mandate the GDSF has to:
ensure that the management of existing forests is undertaken on a enviy
susainable as well as self financing basis; and



-8-
* obtain Ministry of Finame budget support for afforestadon and for the restoration of
forest areas damaged by air pollution.
2.32   In imple g this new Law, the GDSF is facing a series of challenges. These include:
* the need to define a long-term management stategy for the forests under its control that
accouns for both enviromental considerations and the production of wood for industrial
purposes;
* the need to improve wood pricing, a pardcular problem as the GDSP adjusts to the
market-oriented policies of the post-1990 Economic Transformation Program;
* low productivity of labor and capital, particularly in harvesting and transport operations;
* insufficient resources with which to clear up a bacldog of necessary and long term
silvicultural needs, partcularly thinning and pruning;
* insufficient resources with which to invest in genetic conservation and inprovement,
* lack of sufficient central government funds for afforestation and restoration of forests
damaged by air pollution;
* identification of sites for restoraion and afforestation that are not affected or only
inimally affected by transboundary and locally generated air pollution; and
* ening stability in the national park system and developing longer term conservation
management plans.
2.33   The proposed project would provide the resources required for the GDSF and the Board of
Polish National Parks to properly husband the forests under their control by addressing the issues
above.
F. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.34   Sustning the vitauity of the Polish forest estate is a priority sector policy objective for the
Polish Government Forests are an important part of both Poland's economy and social fabric.
Forestry provides the raw matrial to an important wood industry sector and the forest condinues,to
play a focal role in Polish cultur. It also provides numerous non-wood products of significance such
as game, beries, and mushrooms, and has major importance in the recreational life of Poland.
2.35   The proposed project will make a major conibuton toward assistng the MEPNRF, through
the GDSF and the Board of Polish National Parks, in restructuring its operations into a more
sustainable and environmentally sound forest and park management system. Coniung Bank
involvement in impletai  will provide both needed investment capitad and a focus for
environmental policy formulation in the forestry sector. The Bank has also been a catalyst in
securmg multilateral co-fiancing and bilateral gnt financing for the project duringrva- tight fisca
times for the Govemment.



-9-
2.36   The Bank has wodrkd closely wih MEPNRF staff on the prearaton and appraisal of project
Ca _POnOUtS to help design effort to privatize silvicultural activie, harvesting, skidding, and
transport, develop a fore resoraon and genetic conservation program, detmine prorities for an
Fm_forstaion efflwt   proven of forest and park managemnt praices, and foster improved
pricig and accounting methodologies for the GDSF. The Bank bas enouaed the esablishm
of            for m       te transition from   at-nm to market economy for te GDSF,
especiall in its privadtzion efforts. Finally, Bank support to the development of the overall sctor
provides basic sector data, access to exising lnes of Bank development capitl, and guidance on
Iaure prospec  for wood availability to potental private sector investors exploring private forest-
relad sevices and wood indtry investmets in Poland.
PART m. THE PROWECT
A. PRojr OBJECTiV
3.1    The Project supprs the Government's Program of the Dewlopment of Slected Forestry
Brawhes and Prm     of Ec&sems in Nationd Pars for 1993-1997. It has tree objectives:
(I)  asistace in introducing biologically and eromllysound magem    practces
in the fory  sector and amelioraton of   me tl damage, partiularly by
iesi  the vialit and productvit of Poland's i t   forests;
0  improvement of the efficiency of forestry activities (afforeat, regeneration and
restoration of air pollution damaged forests, sivicultural uteames, and harvesting); and
(iii)  Imprvement in the organton,    n t. and financial sructue of the General
Dhreorate of State Forets and the Government's progrms to modernize, restructure,
and privatize elemts of the GDSP and the downs_tm wood industry sector.
3.2    The goal is to carry out a program for the development and use of the forest resource in
Pland on the basis of suinabilty, not oaly in tms of ecological capital, but also in commercial
usage and socia benft. Poland is nOW at the juncre of a transbon to a market econamy. This
is h opportune time to pursue saminable forest development as an inegral part of at transition.
is means that each step in the development process must be envir      ll as well as
ecomambcaiy driven and that each component of the proposed project is designed with the objective
achieving a baine between competing interests.
B. PMMor= DESCRIPnON
3.3    Summy Descrito. The project consists of sven componets grouped into four broad
categories:
* Evm a  Forest M          ment. The project would fund activiies to increase the
vitity of forest stands and thei ability to overcome the effects of present and fuure
lvels of ai polution and oter strs factors. Funds would be provided for: labor-



- 10-
intensive activites such as tending and thing; restoration of air pollution damaged
forest to protct delicate watersheds and prevent soil erosion; afforestation of land
moving out of agriculture; and a genetic comervation and improvement program to
ensure the availability of high quality seed.
* Moderntlon of Harvestg, Skidding and Traport Equipment. Modern, efficient,
and environmentally sound harvesting, skidding, and transport equipment would be
finced under the project. The GDSF will develop a privatzation plan for harvesting,
slddding, and tasportation acdvities by June 30, 1994.
* Ecosystem Conservation In National Parks. The project would fund to conserve a
significant component of Poland's forest resource in the system of national parks. Forest
management and future investment plan activities within all national parks would follow
the plans of national park protection developed as a result of the project.
e InstltutlonDevelopment. Technical support and related equipment to the GDSF would
be funded to assist in carrying out the organizational, m, and financial
restrucrig  of the GDSF. Funding would be also provided to develop a stratgy for
environmentaly sound forest utilization to balance environmental and economic
considerations. In addition, an information system, incng a Geographic Information
System (01S) integrated with a plannig system, would be expanded for the proper
implementation of the decentralization process in the sector. The system would consist
of procedures for the strategic and operational planning of forest operations, market
information, logistical planning, and administration. A Section for the Privatization of
Forestry Services would be established within the Office of Project Implementtion the
GDSF and the exising Division of Trade and Marketing at the GDSF level and at the
regional level would be stengthned. Financial management capabilities of the GDSF
as well as forest research capabilities would also be strengthened.
The project excludes investments supportng the wood industry on the assumption that these
are aready covered by existig World Bank development credit lines available to investors.
3.4    Detailed Project Description.2 An overview of each of the seven project components are
as follows:
(i)  bntensification  of Sflvicue  in  Eistng  Forests (US$94.0  M  Including
contingencies). n order to reduce the effects of present and future levels of air
pollution, remaedial actions have to be takbn in both impacted and non-impacted stands.
The project would include some 50D,000 ha of dhimning in the age <20 years and
300,000 ha of 20-40 year old stands. Due to financial constraints and the fact th  more
dhan a third of the pine forests (1.65 million hectares) are in dhe age group 10-40 years,
large areas have been negected for some years. A large backlog has accumuled
causing a serious treat to the health of the forests. Project actviies represent about half
of the total thiming requiremen during the project period. The balance will be filanced
Deled echnicadm   descriptions of core project componen   gineO in Annex 14. Project costs ae detaed in
Annex 2.



direcdy from GDSF resoures. The viality of young forests can be increased by
carrying out thinning, which would reduce the number of trees per ha, ad remove sick
or weak trees. This will incrase the vitality of remaing trees. These activides are
labor intensive and improve the fiutre value of the forests by concentrating the growth
on seected high quality trees. The quality should be futher iproved by the additon
under the project of some 38,000 ha of early pruning of pine plantations.
(ii)  Restoradon of air-polution damaged forests (US$56.0 M). Forests in the south and
southwest  parts of Poland are subject to air-pollution damage, which has caused the
death of 16,000 ha of forest and severe damage on 64,000 ha. There is a back-log of
affected areas to be restored. The project would assist in restoing this land to achieve
mixed forest stands using improved technologies such as soil preparato   suitable
species, specially prepared seedlings, and other methods to stimulat forest growth,
prevent competition from invading grasses, and minimize rodent and game damae. For
ftis purpose, specialized equipment for soil preparation and nursery production would be
required. About 43,000 ha would be restored under this program at an average cost of
about US$1,400 per ha, most of which is labor cost. The species chosen for the
replacement of dead and beavily damaged stands (about two thirds of total area to be
resored) will be adapted to local conditions and will consist of a large variety of
broadleaved and conifeous species. The other one third of the area, consistig of
coniferous stands which are under high ecological threat but still contain live trees, will
be interplant  with broadleaved species which are generaly less susceptible to air
pollution. The  search cmponent of the project would assist in the development
testing, and ie      o of these technologies.
(iii)  Afforestalon (US$37.0 M). Approxinately 700,000 to 1.0 million ha of agcturia
land (class V and VI), which is not considered viable for agriculte, is pottally
available for afforesion. This land, which is suitable for mixed species affostion,
would consate for part of the losses of forest production from the effects of air
pollution. Site selection for this afforestation concentaes on lands in or adjacent to
forest areas anm on land with important wateshed functions. Wetlands and other areas
with special ecological interests will not be imcluded. This program has already started,
but has been very limited due to reduced allocatons from the state budget  The
afforetion wil occur on former Stae Farm land (with the transfer of land to the
GDSF).  A leter from the Geneal Directorate of State Forests presented at the
negotiations provides the locations for the first year of affosrestaion under the project and
indicates the timetable and criteria to be adopted for completing this component of the
project
The project will provide for about 37,000 ha of afforestation at an average cost of
US$1,000 per ha.3 A mix of conifers and broadleaves would be intrduced to the areas
according to site conditions, and natural regeneration will be used when feasible. Project
research activities would be important in refining the   lmologies used in this
component.
of ft 37,0  ia, affoztdon of 17,000 ha woud be uppoe by fian frm dh European Investmen
Bank and 20,000 ha by the World Bark



- 12-
(iv)  Genetic conservation and improvement program   (US$40.0 M).  The GDSF has
developed a nationwide program to construct seed storage and seed extraction plants to
cover all the 17 forest regions at an estimated total cost of about US$70 million
equivalent  The purpose of tlhe program is to ensre  t  high qualt  seed is available
at all times. At present, seed of desired quality cannot be collected dunng years with
insufficient seed production. Furthermore, due to environmental stress caused maily by
air pollution, some seed sources are endangered if actions are not taken to preserve gene
material in ex-situ conservation of growing tree populations. The GDSF has also
developed a network of seed orchards to reproduce superior genetic material. This
complernents their policy of creating conservation plots as a means of preserving future
biological options. The proposed project would support the development of the seed
storage and extraction program as well as furter the development of seed orchards. This
will assist the Government in ensuring improved genetic materia for future forests. The
impact of this support will be better environmental stability as well as better commercial
value of the forests.
(v)  Harvesting, Skidding, and Transport Equipment Modernization (US$74.0   .
Modern and efficient harvesting, skd"ding, and road transport equipment that would
reduce the negative ewnironental impact of current practices would be fina ed under
the proj, t This modern equipment will have an impact on the harvesting of 6.5 million
in3 of wood anmaly, primarily in thinnings. The principal objective of this component
is to improve productvity. However, at the same time it is possible to reduce tie
environenta impact of harvestng, sddig, and transport by fostering a change from
the stemwood method of barvesting to the assortment metd.'. The main benefits from
the m nizton of terrain transport are more efficient operations, the elimination of
central processing depots, reduced damage of remaining trees, and better protecdon of
forest soils. In road transport, fuel consumpton per transported volume can be reduced
by 75 percent using modem eq ment
The GDSF is developing a substial progran to privatize these harvesting, skidding,
and tansport activities and it expects to privatize 85 percent of these operations by 1998.
In order to promote the change of harvesting technology simultaneously with the
privatization process, the GDSF is likely to take a leading role. In practice this would
mean that the GDSF would prepare the necessary changes by acquiring machines for the
( Poland's curnt  arvestng method is the stemwood method. In this method, tees are felled and delibe  n te
fores, but no cross-acing (buci) is made before skidding wih the weeion of bucking apart te sawtimber part
of the odter sem (loong log, German Langbolz) the length of which is usually from 8 to 14 m. lbe skidding (in
whic the weight of stem is only pardy on the vehicle and the rest against the ground, or totaly on the ground widt
horse sddin  s made to the roadide. An atmative method is the assentw  arvesig method where the
trees are felled, delimbed and cros-cut io various lengths in tie forest. Ught pupwood bolts are collected
alongside the strip roads which are 20-40 m apat. Transport widin the forst is made only on the strip roads with
horses, agricutural tracts equipped with trailers or special forest tctors (forwarders) equpped with hydraulic
loading devices. In all cases the weight of the wood is on the vdeicle which prtects the soil especially when high-
flotation tires are used in vehicles. For further protecticn of the soil it iS a common habit, when agricultual tuacors
or forwarders are used, to fell the tr  in such a way that the tops and branches are left on the strip road.
nvionmenay, the stemwood method has serious drawbacks, especially when thining. Compared with
assorum  method, the steiwood method crau  more damage to the remaiing trees. Most of the damage is caused
during terain trsoration. The effect of fellng is nelible with the exception of two-story stands where big
trees are removed in thinnings.



- 13 -
assortnent method, and  Vimltnly  ain its pesnnel to use henm effectively and in
an environmenlly friendly way. Thus, the equipme  would be owned by the GDSF
in the iial years of the projecL Through evenual equipr-   -sing/sale by the GDSF
to quafied and traied enepren s, this componenm  bud suwort emergig
individuals and small, medium, and large companies in the forest sector in establishing
and operating commeral activities. In ln wih the GDSF's stated privatization goals,
some of the equipmnt would be sold or leased after a few years to qualified operators
as tey become private enteprenurs. Many of these  atRpreDlUIS would be former
GDSF equiment operators who would fom their own contractng companies.
(vi)  Ecosystem consevation In national park (US$12.0 M>. This core component of a
program for protecting and frther developing the system of national parks builds on the
early lessons of the original Global Environment Facility Forest Biodiversity Protection
Project ($4.5 million), which supports two park systems at Bialowieza and Karkonosze.
The program will also complement the envonmental strategy of the project by .brther
protecting the enalangered forest biodiversity in the overall nutional park system. The
program wiXl support Poland's new iniatives to improve existing park mangement,
prepare long term conservadon m         plans for each park, improve criacal
infrastructue and provide essential mitigation invesunents for a.- and water pollution
within and abutting key endangered parks. In late 1991, a new law for nature
conseraon was passed that provides the legal basis from which to build a representative
and susainable system of reserves to protect Poland's naural and cltural heritage. The
core component financed by this project wil be the first phase of the program, which will
assist in the furhr development of policy, institutions, and protected area management.
The core componen to be fiaed under the project will: (i) develop comprehensive
conservation and land use management plans for the exisig 17 Polish nadonal parks and
possibly for 3 to 4 oer parks to be created as part of the project; (i provide
investmaents in selected management resources (compraon and    ations);
(iii) implement selected model rehabilition projects idendfied in the planning process;
and (iv) develop a capacity for professional development and implement several priority
traing programs.
The wider national parks protecion program, which will be supported by bilateral and
multilateral financing will: (i) provide further essenial assise for the establishent
of effective monitoring systems; (ii) provide investments in i         and
management resources (trail protection, waste water tratent facilties, visitor education
facilities) to enable park mnagement to improve the management and mitigate the impact
of visitors on the endangered biodiversity and natural resources in national park system;
and (iii) fund priority rebabilitaion acties ientified in the park mnagement planing
process, as well as underlake priority model inf  projects identified under the
core projectL
During negodato, the Government committed iself to the magement of sustinable
forest ecosystems. The borrower will ensre that forest _e     actvites within all
national parks follow the plam of national park conservation plans developed as a result
of the project. Board of National Parks will develop plans to protect al 17 national parks
with a target of three plam completed by the end of 1994.



- 14 -
(vii) Institutional Development (US$22.0 M).
(a) Development of a Strategy for Environmentally Soud Forest Ut fatIon
(US$2.0 M). The present method of strategic plaing for the forest resource will
be strengthened to incorporate al the ecological, commercial, envfonmetl, an
social aspects of forest development. Various interests need to be quantfied in a
consistent manner in order that a comprehensive analysis can be made. A method
has to be developed which does not only, as is the case at present, include the
rational treatment of forest stads, but which also includes the whole economic and
ecological system of which commercial forestry is a part. This would faciitae the
evaluation of the consequences of related decisions on importan fields. For
example, environmental considerations such as ecosystem conservation,
biodiversity, soil and water conservation, recreation, and public ecologica
sentiment should be balanced with commercial considerations such as wood supply
to the primary and secondary forest industies, mining, housing, and
transportation. By implemenig a full economic valuaton of the multiple benefts
of the forest sector, the results of such an instument would be a prerequisite for
the efficient allocation of resources to the sector. The project would provide
technical assistance for developing and imple    such a coordinated approach.
(b) Completion and Implementation of a Forest Mnoant Informationl Sysem
(EJS$11.0 M). The GDSF has anextensive database regarding its forestresources.
Systems to make this information easily accessible at various levels of the GDSF
for analysis and planning need to be expanded.  The development and
implenentation of such an information system is a prerequisite for te
decen-raliZAtion and privatization of activities in the sector. The system would
include software for the strategic and operational planning of forest operations,
market information, logistical planning, and the administration of personel and
nancial functions. The strategic and operaional planning of forest activities
would ensure that stratgies defined under this component (see (g)(i) above) are
continmously updated and transformed im  operational targets. A first stage of a
management information system is already being developed by te GDSF with
external support. Under the project, the management information system would
be integrated with a Geographic Informatin System (GIS) to incrase the
efficiency of the m _anment of the forests and to aid resch. Computer
hardware and software, training, and tecmical assistce would be provided to
achieve this goal. In addition, the component would include an improved intra
communications system for the GDSF.
(c) Office of Project Implementation (US$0.2 M}. A five person unit will be
established in the ODSF. One full dtme Project Coordinator, a Deputy Project
Coordinator, two support staff, and a computer support person would be provided.
In addition, an officer of the National Parks Board would be appointd by the
Board and would be responsible for codinati  the investment under the project
in the national park's component. Vehicles, offie equipment, and salaries wwld
be provided by the project for the Office of Project Impni       The
appointment of the Project Coordint  and the officer from the Board of Polish
National Parks is a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 15 -
(4) Secdon for   vatizatlon of Foresfty (US$0.3 M).  A section would be
established in the Offce of Project Implementation of the GDSF to promote and
facilitate privatization of activides of the GDSF. The unit's initial focus would be
in harvesting, skidding, and transport. Currendy, the privatization of these
activides is being primarily carried out through the initiative of individual
superinteddencies, but there is little informaton exchange between these loca level
units. There is, therefore, a need for a central unit to provide information sharing
and guidance to superintendencies carrying out the process, develop models, and
disseminate the lessons learned from successful privatization initiatives. The
project would provide for a vehicle, office equipment, and salaries for the unit.
Durig negotiations, assurances were obtaied that this Section for Privatization
of Forestry Services will be established no later than September 30, 1993. This
Section will also prepare a privatization plan for harvesting, skidding, and transport
operations by June 30, 1994.
(e) Divions of Trade and Marketing (US$2.5 M. Recently established at the
GDSF level and the regional level, the Divisions of Trade and Markeing will be
st     d  to improve the information network for timber marketing and export
opportnities and to identify priority areas for marketing activity. In addition, a
price calculation modelling system would be developed with external technical
assistance to assist in establishing price levels for different assortments. The
component would provide for vehicles, office equipment, salaries, technical
assistance, and traiing. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Govenment will maintain the Divisions of Trade and Marketing at the GDSF and
regional levels and will develop, by June 30, 1994 in consultation with the Bank,
a price calculation modelling system to improve wood pricing.
(f)   ituonal Strengthen  for GDSF (US$1.5 M). The project would include
provisions for funding essential technical assistance to umprove the organizational,
management, and financial operations of the GDSF. Support will be provided in
the form of tehnical assistamce (US$0.8 million) and international and domestic
training programs (US$0.7 million) to strengthen the financial management
capabilities of ie GDSP, support improved domestic forest worker technical
training, and further develop GDSF professional forest and financial management
skills. Terms of reference for the technical assistance would be submitted for
review and approval to the World Bank.
(g) Forestry Research Support (US$5.0 MW. Forestry research will be strengthened
to ensre sufficient scientific support for the transidon of the sector to a market
economy. It is particularly important that economic criteria be incorporated in
updatig tecnical and biological recommendations. The proposed project would
also provide facilities for establishing links with other research institations to
resolve outstding technical problems related to: (a) afforestation; (b)
intensification of tending operations; (c) seed production and selection; (d) Sudety
mountain restrtion; and (e) utilization of wo4 as fuel. Priority areas for
invesgation uted in the Environmental Review (Annex 5) have been inchded



- 16 -
in the reserh component In addition, the economic research capacity of the
Forest Rearch Istitue (IBL) will also be streagd ened. A deaed descripton
of this compoe t i given in Annex 7, pages 5-9.
C. PROJECT COSTS  F1NANCING
3.5    Esthmated project costs are presented in Table 2. Detaied project costs are given in Amnex
2. Physical contngenci of 5 pecent have been added to aU project costs. Price contcies
corresponding to projecdon of the Manufat's Unit Value index5 bave been applied to
hinrationUy sourced items expressed in US dollar (which represent 46 percent of project costs),
and a loal inflation raft applied to local costs.6 A costan purchasing parity exnge rate has
been calclated to adjust local price contigencies to US dollas.
3.6   Fl-oject Thmancg. A World Bank loan of US$146 million would support the following
compnents of the project: intensication of silvicultre (US$20 million), restoraton of damaged
forests below 800 m (US$44 million), afforestaion (US$20 million), genetic consevation and tree
nusey development (US$20 million), modrnization of harvest, sddding, and tamsport
equipment ($27 milion), ecosystem conservaoa in national parks (US$2 million), and instionl
development (US$13 million). A Financial Agreement would be entered into between the Borrower
and GDSF, on terms and conditios satsfactory to the borrower and to the Bank, to: (a) clarify Ihe
portion of the loan amount which wil be passed ftrough the Mistry of Fmance to the GDSF for
the afforesion and nr ration comonent7 (US$66 million), and to the Board of Polish National
Parks for the national parks compont (US$2 million); and (b) ouie  rms for th repaymet  of
the portion of the loan amount (US$80 million) for the remainder of the project, which will be repaid
by the GDSF.
5/  3.9% in 1993194 ad 199, ad 3.8% tha
fI  30% in 1993/94,20% In 199, 10% in 1996 and SS% taftr.
y1  Mm ew Fong Law _ades that        and resoraim activi  be fine from ceta bedeay
res.



- 17-
Take 2. Projedt Cost Snwary
BilUons of Zlotys    Millions of US Dollaus    %  % Tota
Foreign    Ba
Lowcl Foreign Total    Locl Foreign Tot  Exch9n8   Costs
Inxtsiicationof Silviculure   795   312    1107     58.1   21.0  79.1    28         28
Restoraion of Damaged Forest   498   162    660     35.9   11.3  47.2    25         17
Afforestation                 336   114    450      24.3    7.8  32.1    25         11
Geoneic Conservation & Improv.   333   151    484   23.9   10.6  34.5    31         12
Harvming & Transport            0   877    877       0      62.6  62.6   100        22
Ecosystem Conservao in Parbks    71    79   150      5.4    5.4  10.8    53          4
Insiutionl Development        102   165    267       7.3   11.8  19.1    62          7
Totd BaseHne Coos            2135  1860   3995    154.9  130.5  285.4    46        100
Physic Contingercies          103    87    189       7.4    6.2  13.6    46          5
Price Contingencies          2321  1993   4314       17.2   19.2  36.4    53        13
Totd Project Coss            4559  3940   8498    179.5  155.9  335.4    46        118
3.7    The European Invesm        Bank (ETB) has completed negodations for a co-financing loan of
some ECU 13 million (IJ$16niillion equivalent) which is foreseen to be presented to the EIB Board
for approval in mid 1993. The EIB loan would sort 17,000 ha of affoeson during the period
1993/95 inchded in the project, witi paralle World Bank financing 20,000 ha in project year 3. The
Government may seek follow-up financial support from the EIB for tis afforestation component for
the years 1996 and 1997 covering an additional 30,000 ha fom the FIB in 1995, which would take
intoD account a detailed review of progress durng the first tee years of the project.
3.8    Blateal grant suppott is being actively sought to support technical services (US$4 million)
for the development of the strategy for e mentally sound forest utilizaton, development of a
timber pricing model, technical assistance and training m tie GIS, s iport for international training
amd technical assistance in financial management, local forester training, and assisamce in applied
forest resarch  Bilateral investment grant fding is also being acdvely sought by ttie MEPNRP,
with World Bank support, to support the forest res on component (US$11.3 million), as well
as for a major portion of the national parks component (US$10 million).
3.9     Three components of the proposed grant echnial assistance are considexr  by the World
Bank to be an essenial part of the project:
(i)  development of the strategy for envirnny sound forest ulization;
(ii)  trn   and technical assistance for the      onal anm  financial management
improvement in the GDSF and the development of an Improved marketing and pricing
system; and
(ii)  technical assistamce and trahinig in improved management and geographic infbrmation
systems.



- 18-
TWbl 3. Fnachg Pla (US$ xdlUe,)
Emve
Poland  World  }nvest-  Bilateral
Project Copons                        ODSF   Bak  mnt Bank   Aid   Total
1. Ieificaton of Silvcute              73.8  20.0        -        -   93.8
2. Restoradon of Damaged Forests              44.0        -      12.9  56.9
3. Afforeaon                            -    20.0       16.0      -   36.0
4. Genetic Conservation and Tree Nurseries   20.1   20.4  -       -   40.5
S. Modlaf IHarvestng and               46.6   27.4        -       -   74.0
Transport Equipment
6. Ecosystem Conservation in National   -      2.0        -      10.0  12.0
Park
7. Institon Development:
a. Development of E  m               -      -         -       2.0  2.0
Sound Forest Udlizaton Senta
b.   Y _gemem _dormation System      -    10.7        -       -   10.7
C.      zational Stegtheing         2.3    1.5        -       0.7  4.5
d. ApplHed Rcarch Supp              3.7    -          -       1.3  5.0
Total                 146.5  146.0      16.0    26.9 335.4
3.10   While here are  ica       hat European biaterals are likely to provide bilaeral grant
support t cover these acdvides, there is curreily no firm assuance that such finding will be
fomaly approved. Thus, a provision has been inchded in the World Bak loan and agreed upon
at negotiations for financing priority tebnical assice as outlined above. If the Govermnt
cao prvide written evidence by March 31, 1994 that this Techni  Assistance is being covered
by grant aid under tm  of refrene satsfactoy to the Bank, then this sum would be financed from
the loan and would be repaid by the GDSF.
D. PROJE  PROCUREENT ARRANGEM S
3.11   To the exten practicable, items to be procred under he project will be grouped into major
packages to e uage competitive bidding, permit bulk pruremen, and to ensure sn
Procurement wil be untirtaken in the following maxmWr:
(I)  ProcureMn of Equipm_e.  The purchase of harvesting, sidding, and transport
equpment computer epmn, and seed extaton equipment will be caried out
through Iternatil Competitive Bidin  (ICB) procedures in accrda    with the
Bank's 'Guidelines for Procurment Under IBRD Lns and IDA Credts' May 1992).
To the exnt practcable, iviao  for bids will be grouped in sizable bid padages so
as to enhace compedton ad benefit from eonomy of scale in bid prices. In the
evaluadon and comprison of bids for equipme  to be procured throug ICB, domestic
wmil be granted a margin of preerence of 15 percent-or the rela  duty,



-19-
whichever ls lower-in accordane with te Bank's Guidelines. Equipment procured
through ICB wil accunt for about 80 percent of equipment reuiem    and will be
grwped into a suitable quantity of packages (see Anmex 4). Procemen of the
remaining 20 percent of the eqipme  value will be in packages suitable for procedures
other than ICB.
The exceptions to ICB procuremen will be as follows:
*  Limited ntetional Bidding (LIB). For goods and mateis such as seedling
producton equipment and specialized harvesters, which the Bank agees are
supplied through a himid number of suppliers, and for the procrement of related
parts and supplies, prcurement will be done following LIB procedures in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. It is estimated that the above mentioned
equipment and parts will be procured in approximately 3 UIB packges at an
aggregate cost of about US$5.0 million.
* International Shopping (IS). IS procedures will be used for small amounts of
where the cost of ICB would clearly outweigh possible price
advantages. Contracts for equpment and materls estimated to cost less than
US$300,000 pcr package, not to exceed an aggregate amount of US$10 million
equivalent, will be awarded under intenonal shopping procedures, based on
comparing price quotations obtained from at least three eligible suppliers frm at
least three different countries.
* Local Shopping. Sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 per package up to an
aggregate amount of US$500,000 equivalent will be procured thrugh prudent local
shopping according to proceduis acceptable to the Bank by comparing prices
obained from three different suppliers.
(ii)  Civil Works. Conacts for the construcion/moderization of seed exactorie and
stogges, estimated at ess than US$500,000 each (total value of US$2 5 million
equivalent) will be awarded on the basis of local conpeie bidding (LCB) procedures
sadsfactory to the Bank. Because of the small size of those contracts and the availability
of a competitive domestic consuction industry, itrnatonal firms will not be intesd
in these conacts. LCB pwcedures will be agreed with the GDSF for proum  under
the project. The Borrower will prepare draft standard bidding documents for
procuremet of civil works through LCB. This draft wil reflect the agreed LCB
procedures and will be reviewed and approved by the Bank before it can be used for the
procurement of civil works under the project
(iii)  Fart Establshmnt  d Silvikull Aivi. The establihment of new forests and
the tending of e g forests, being widely disbursed operations with small individual
task assigniments (ranging from US$100 to US$5000 per contract), will be carried aut by
the GDSF thrugh 412 forest srndencies all over Poland by force account. Half
of the US$78.5 million dollars allocated for these activities will fmance a fixed
percentage of tese force account conacts durmg tbe first two years of project
implemenation. The remaining 50% of this allocated amount will finance similar
opatdons that will be caried out by autonmous small private ContraCtors (incldg



-20-
local fames) after the first two years of project i           These private
contracto  will be selected according to proced   and practc  acceptable t te Dank.
The GDSP has been judged t be fully capable of carrying out these task by foe
account and later supervising the work done by private contractors. Procres for Bank
review of force account activities is covered in para. 3.14.
(iv)  Techmical Asistance and Training. Qualified short-listed fims will be invited to
submit proposals for consultant services in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants (US$2.7 million). As needed, the services of individual specialists
will also be contracted (US$100,000). Key technical assistance will only be financed by
the Bank if grant cofimancing does not materialize (see paras. 3.8-3.10 and para. 4.54.6).
3.12   Retroactive Financing. Equipment and activities related to: (a) the advamne prepaation for
spring planting under the afforestation and restoration components; and (b) harvesig equipment
needed due to xctensive forest fires durmg the summer of 1992 will be eligible for retroactive
financing. This financing for eligible expenditures will amount to approximately US$10 million.
Procurement under retroactive finaning will be carried out in accordance vith the Bank's guidelines.
3.13   A positive assessment of the capability of the borrower to carry out prowrement procedures
has been made due to their ongoing implementation of the GEF Forest Biodiversity Project and the
use of Bank procurement procedures under retroactive fmancing. Their capabilities will be
strengthened through ongoing training and support in Bank procumnt during the i ntn
of the project and through the use of standard bidding documents.
3.14   Procurement Review. The Bank will conduct a prior review of procuement packages over
US$500,000 (and the first two packages above US$300,000) in accordance with paras. 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 of the Bank's Guidelines. Prior approval will also be sought for the use of the L1B
procurement method. Other contracts, including force account activities under pars. 3.1 l(ii), will
be subjecttopostreviews in accordance with paras. 3 and 4 of said Appendix 1. In order to
facilitate the review, standard bidding documents based on Bank sample bidding docxients will be
drafted and submited to the Lank by the borrower for review and approval.
3.15   For forest establishment and other silvicultural activities financed in part by the World Bank
loan, agreed production standards for the various work activities involved will be set that will link
Bank disburem   to the production of predetermined physical units, such as hectares of forest
planted. The financial plan for the entire GDSF provides cost analysis by activity and economic unit
(the superintendency). Individual superintendencies are induced to brmg their costs down to the level
of the most efficient economic unit by the selective reallocation of the forest fund, the central
investment fimd to which all superiftndencies contribute. Tls analysis will be caried out by the
GDSF and reviewed by World Bank supervision missions. The estab   t of the first year's
average unit costs will be detmined during the project start-up mission. Agreed unit costs will be
finalized and adjusted yearly. Evidence of expenditures made will be retined by the GDSF and will
be subject to World Bank review and approval. Assurances on all procrement procedures were
obtained during negodations. The proeme  arrangements under the project are sumarized in
Table 4.



-21-
71bk 4. iVJect Prment (US$ mUM)
Procurement Method
Item                   IB    LIB       LCB    Other    N.B.F.  Total
Foremt Establishmet & Silvicultual Activities    -  -    39.25   147.45     -      186.7
(39.25)  (39.25) a         (78.5)
Equipmet& Materials                      74.2    6.1    -        16.0       -       96.3
(38.7)   (5.0)          (10.5) b          (54.2)
Technical Asistance & Traing              -       -      -        8.6       -        8.6
(4.7) c           (4.7)
Civil Works                               -       -      8.5       -        -        8.5
(8.5)                      (8-5)
Salaries, Labor, & Operatiois and Maienance   -   -      -         -       35.3 d   35.3
(0.0)    (0-0)
Total                  74.2    6.1   47.75   172.05    35.3    335.4
(TOWa)                 (38.7)   (5.0) (47.75)  (54.45)   (0.0)  (146.0)
NOE: Fes in parendhesis are IBitID Loan-
N.B.F. - Not BakFinanced.
a 50% Force account and 50% Local competiive ContaCting.
b nratal Shopping (US$10.0 M) and Local Shopping (US$0.5 M) .
c Inclde US$ 2.7 mMion for key  cal assistance which wil only be financed by Dank if biae gant sowurces do
not materiali. Consnts will be hired in accordance with Bank Gudeines for Us of Conslats.
d lking of staff and procurement of recurrew inputs fimced by dte Govemnment in accordance with local procodures.
E. BANK LOAN ALLOCATION ANDS
3.16   The loan is expected to be disbursed over seven years as shown in the disbursement schedule
(Anex 3). The Bank-wide disprofile for forestry projects Is 8 1/2 years, but the general
regional profe is much shorter, at 6 1/2 years.  The loan closing date is June 30, 2000.
Disbursemen  will be made as shown in Table 5.
3.17   Disbursemen  against cotacts for goods and services exceedig US$500,000 equivalent
would be made against normal do           For conacts below hat level, disbs would
be made on the basis of Saemes of Expendihtre (SOEs), and kept available for examination by
Bank missions, widi approprit  doc       o   retaed by the project magent uit. The
establishmet of the frst year's average unit costs for actvities conducted trough force account
(silvicultural actiitides and forest establishent) would be deetemined during the project st-up
mission. Appropriate unit costs would be agreed upon and adjusted yearly. Evidence of
expendit    made by force account would be reained by the GDSF and would be subject to World
Bank review and approval.
3.18   Two Special Accouts demid in US Dollars would be established in banks aceptable
to the World Bank under terms and coditons satsfactory to the BaL  The World Bank would
make an iniial deposit of up to US$7.5 million in the Mistry of Finance Special Account and up
to US$5 million in the GDSF Special AccuL This amount is judged to be adequate to meet about



- 22 -
four months of disbursements fom te Special Accou  under the prjecL The Special Accounts
would be administred and replenished in aordane with acceptable Bank guidelines.
Tablk S. Dlsbwwent Pla
Amount
items                     (US$ Million)         % Fimancing
1. Forest Establishment and Silviculural Activities
(a) Intensification of Silviculure             18.0                  20%
(b) Restoraion of Forests                      44.0                 100%
(c) Affosaton                                  20.0                 100%
2. Proection of Ecoems in National Parks          2.0                 100%
3. Equpment and Matrials
(a) Harvesting, Siddding and Transport Equipment  26.0    100% of foreign expenditues,
(b) G1M0S 0%e 7.0                                          100% of loa ependit
*IS/MIS  ~  7.0  (ex-factory cost) and
(c) Equipmet for Genetic Component             10.0       90% of local expeur for
(d) Equipme for Insdtutional Development        0.5        oter items procured locally
3. Civl Works                                     7.0                 100%
4. Tecbnical Assistance  i Training               2.0                 100%
4. Unallocaed                                     9.5
Tot                         146.0
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMACT
3.19   The overall objective of the proposed project is to achieve sustinable d&,velopment of the
forest sector through environm y sound forest management. As the composition of the festu
in Poland are anthropogenic (modified through repeatd cutting and planting), and the application
of project elements with potential impacs are selective, sitspecific, and small in area, the project
was given an Environmental Category "B" designation: "Projects/Components Which May Have
Specific E           Impa   - More Limited Environmental Analysis Appropriate."
3.20 Polish forest management activities as currently conducted are intrusive and have an
envAronmental impact on wildland systems. This project has been designed to reduce and mitigate
suh impacts. An idependt environmeal review was carried out by the Forestry Research
Instite which determined that "all elements of the project would conute to forest stability and
fitnes by  woving the structre of the forest, and woud positively impact the natra environment"
(see Ann   S for a full description of the environmental review, includg a component by
compe  analysis).



- 23 -
3.21 The affect of this project on biodiversity has been reviewed. The increased mixed forest
cover on previously forested sites and the restoration of areas affected by pollution as a result of this
project wil have significant biodiversity benefits. The silvicultural practices indicated for this
project, particularly the thinnin of pine plantations, will improve biodiversity by incrasing the
understory vegetation. The forests will also be more sustainable due to the implemeion of the
prescriptios needed to improve their vitality. The increased harvestng level is welt within the
current projection of an ammal allowable cut determined from a detailed forest inventory five years
ago. To ensure that the effects of pollution are fully taken into account, a more precise estmate of
the allowable cut will be established as a result of another component of the project.
3.22 The specific environmental concerns resulting from project actions are:
* possible long-term impact of the herbicides and pesticides used for soil prepartion,
weeding, and protection from pests in the forest;
* impact of chemical repellents, and accelerated harvest of wild game popuao,
especially deer, to protect areas of regenerating forests and plantations;
* impact on wild animals from the commercial uses of minor forest products such as
mushrooms and berries;
* the need for exclusion of sites of environmental signifiance in the afforesati
component, such as wetands and high meadows;
* the need to time thiing, pruning, and other forest operations to minimize wildli*
disrbance
* the need to establish ecosystem conservation plans for eah natonal park; and
* impact of harvesting and transport operations, particularly as these activities are
privatized.
3.23   Not all of these concerns arm seen to be highly detrimental, but they merit invesdgatiOn. The
environmental effect must be evaluated when the physical location of the specific activities is
precisely known. Therefore, an annually updated mitigation plan will be developed to addres the
issues above and any further environmental concerns that may be idefied as the project progeses.
3.24   Alternative miftgaion measures for the anually uda    mtigaon plan for each of these
potential impacts will be developed under the project. They include, for exampLe, the employment
of benign, degradable, and target-specific chemicals, the careful development of analysis to determine
different levels of game harvests required, their periodicity, spaial disposition, and other methods
designed to enhance the survival of seedligs untl they have reached the point they are not
threatened by deer. With intensified mange_me  of adjacent hunting grounds, and mproved hunt
marceting and management, Polish hunig clubs can achieve an improved game harvest compared
to curren conditions. Finally, to ensure minimum environmenl impact on steep erodible slopes
during harvest and transport, investinets in cable systems, horse skiddig, and moddied tracbon
tractors would be assessed, and, as feasible, supported under the projecL The project's research
component will address many of these areas.



-24-
3.25   The use of  rc is, inchuig fungicides and pesdcides, will require special atnion
in the mitigato plan. Each product will need to be idenified by active ingredient, conenton,
and formlation. Specific measures will be detailed to address any occupational health and safety
issues as well as operonal procedures to minimze the risks to non-target areas. These measues
should also inchlde operator traing. The use of any pesticiO- will need to be related to clear
integrated pest management principles. FAO/WHO reonmenuations described in the document
"International Code of Conduct on the Distribution and Use of Pestcides" published by the FAO in
1991 would be the guelines for use and selection of pesdcides under the project. Pesticides
classified as "extemely hazardous" and "highly hazardous" by WHO would not be financed by the
loan. A list of acdve ingredients shall be furnished in sufficient time for the Bank to comment
thereon. The Annual Report of the project will include a listing of all pesticides used durig the
preceding year by active ingredient.
3.26 The development of control, regulatory, and enforcement mechanisms for harvesting,
skidding, and transport operations, so that detrimentl environmentl impacts are minimized, will
be included as part of the asnnal mitigation plan. A letter on technical implemeion conditions
of the project, including the general principles to be followed in drawing up annual mitigation plans
and their timing, was discssed and agreed with the Bank during project negotatons (para. 4.2).
PART IV. PROJECT IPLENA          ATION
A. ORGANnATioN AND MANAGEMENT
4.1    The Ministry of Envionental Protection, Natural Resouces, and Forestry (MEPNRF)
would be responsible for the overall implemention of the project. Within the Ministry, three
administive units would have the following specific implementation responsibilities:
(i)  The General Directorate of State Forests (GDSF) would be responsible fo implemenig
the following project components:
* Afforestation of 37,000 ha;
* Restoration of air pollution damaged forest systems;
* Moderniadon of havresting, skidding, and   o n   eqpment;
* Genetic conservation and improvement program;
* Developmnt of enviromental forest strategy; and
o Intensification of silviculture in existing forests.
(ii)  The Board of Polish National Parks would be responsible for implemention of the
Ecosystem Conservation in Parks component.



- 25 -
(iii)  The Forestry Research Instfie (ML) would be responsible for implementaton of the
appLed research componen.
4.2    Projet   plementaton Aran ments.  The Bank and the GDSF ageed durmg
nlegotations on the technical aspects of the project in the form of a Techical Letter on Project
Implemen_ation. This leter includes agreement on the rate, spacing, thinning, and locations of the
afforestation and restoraton forestry work, the locations of the proposed seed storage, processing
and tree nurseries, and the proposed changes in silviculture practices.
4.3    Office of Project Implementation. This office, to be established as a condition of
effectiveness of the loan, would be located witin the GDSF directly under the administrative
supervision of the General Director. One full-time Project Coordinator, a Deputy Project
Coortinator, two support staff, and a computer support person would be provided. The Project
Coordiatr, to be appointed by the Ministry of the Environment Protection, Natural Resours and
Frstry, and whose qualifications and expenence would requre World Bank approval, would be
responsible for:
 the management of the Project Account;
= coordinatng Bank finaning of project operations;
* coordinating with other agencies involved in the project, such as the Agriculture Property
Agency; and
* developing and submitting quarterly progress reports and an amnal project report to the
Bank on a timely basis.
4.4    The Board of Polish National Parks would also appoint an officer whose qulations and
tem  of referce are satisfactory to the World Bank to coordinate the funds made available under
the loan for natonal park improvements and who would work closely with the Project Coordinator
in sbmiting joint quarterly and anmual progress reports to the Bank. The MEPNRF's appointment
of the Project Co"rdin  and National Park Coordinating Officer, whose qualifications would be
subject to World Bank approval, is a condition of loan effectiveness. A detailed implementation
scedule for the project is given at Annex 4. Detail on the implemention of different components
ae give at Annex 7.
B. TEICAL AsSTNCE AND TRAING
4.5    Technica support is inchlded in the overall Program for: (a) the development of the strategy
for ey   sound forest utlization; (b) the development of timber pricing models; (c)
stngt     g financial   nagem  accounting and auditing in the GDSF; (d) development and
taining related to the GIS systm; (e) development and implemeon of field taining for foresters;
(f) the development of conservation management plans for the national parks system; and (g) an
epnded applied forest research program.
4.6 Grant financing from bilateral sources is being Fought for this technical assistance (para 3.8).
A provision has been included m the World Bank loan and agreed upon at negotiatios for financing
Ihe priority technical assistance as outlined above. If the Government canmot provide written



- 26 -
evidence by March 31, 1994 that thi Technical Assisuce is being covered by gmat aid under em
of rference satisfatory to the P nk, then this agreed Technical Assistance would be fi=anced fotm
proceeds of the Loan and wouu be repaid by the GDSF.
C. Ptoncr MoNiToRING A   EVALUATION
4.7    The Forestry Research Institute (IBL) would develop and cay out a monitorg and
evaluation of the project. The results of project monitoring activities would be an inegral part of
the amual project report and would form the basis for the project completion report. Assurances
that IBL would be contracted under the project to undertake detailed project monitorig and
evaluation under terms of reference acceptable to the World Bank were obtained at negotations.
4.8    The Government, MEPNRF, and the Bank would carry out a Mid-Term Project Reiew in
1995 tbat will: (a) assess project implementaon progress to date and adjust implenon schedule
asccrdingly; (b) review results of the Strategy Study for Environmentaly Sound Forest Utilization;
and (c) review results of a sector policy report which will be prepared by do Goverment,
summrizing its overall concepts for restucwt     the forestry sector. The popan  of the
Government sector policy report would be based pardy an the conclusions of the project-fiaced
Strateg for Environmentally Sound Forest Utlization. The overall strategy of the ftport will be s
estabish and clarfy: the GDSFs regulatory and commercial functions and their ntreaiosIp;
GDSF funtions to remain managed by the public sector and those to be restutUrd and/or
privatzed; future relatianships with privatzing downstream firms (pulp, =funre and particle
board); and the strategy for GDSF's finacial and managerial autonomy from nbENRF. The
egy would provide a tine frame for carrying out agreed implemenaton of ths ativities, a
number of which would be undertakn as part of project impemenation.
D. AUDMNG AND RE:POTIG REQUREMNs
4.9 A separate and auditable project account would be established in the MEPNRF and project
expenditures would be kept separate and identfiable. The project accous would be audited
annally by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank  Sept audit stme   would be
prepared for the Special Account and for Statements of Expenditur. The GDSF will prepare and
furnish to the Bank, by December 1 of each year during the disbursementperiod, a forward looking
tecnical and financial report in a format acceptable to the Bank, and review with thae Bank the
conclusions and re dons of this report, includig the proposed forthcoming amual budget
for the GDSF and the Board of Polish National Parks and any meaures that need to be tken during
the foUlowing year to ensure proper execution of the project. Assurances on t     auditing and
reportig requiements were obtained during negotiations.
4.10   A quarterly report on project progress and staments on project expendium would be
submitted to the World Bank by the Project Coordinat and a compeensive annual report would
be compiled which would include the resultt of IBL mmioning actvities. A project completion
report would be prepared by the project unit and IBL upon the completion of the project.



- 27 -
E. SUPERVISON PLAN
4.11   Since the project involves a series of innovative components, including an innovative
ecosystem protection program for the national park system, careful project supervision would be
undertaken by the World Bank. The project would be supervised by the World Bank twice a year.
normally in conjunction with the supervision of the GEF Forest Biodiversity Project. In the first
year, however, one additional start-up mission would be necessary. Technical support from forest
ecologists, forest manamen specialists, a forest pricing specialist, and nadonal park speciali
would be required as well as detailed supervision by the task manager and bank operations staff.
See Annex 8 for the details of the supervision plan.
PART V. PROJECT BENEFITS ANID RISKS
A. PRoJECT BENEFrrS
5.1    To varying degrees each of the seven project components is expected to achieve a mix of
both enviromnental and socio-economic benefits. Environmental benefits result primarily from those
components designed to deal specifically with environmental issues-intensification of silvicultual
treatents, forest restration, afforestation, genetic and ecosystem consration and support for
research and planning to improve envirmental management. Benefits also include enhanced soil
conservation and watershed protecton as well as increased carbon absorption from faster tree growth
and expansion of the forest estate. Enviromnental considerations are also important in those
components whose primary focus is to achieve economic benefits-modernizaion of harvestig and
log transport and support for improved pricing, marketng and financial management The main
socio-coomic benefits are both short term (employment, improved quality of life, enhanced
effiiency and assistance to economic transiton) and long term (to maintain the productive, protective
and amenity values of the forest estate).
5.2    Direct Enviromental Benefits. The project is expected to improve the envmironment diect
in two main areas:
(i) Improving the health of the forest estate by:
* intensifying silvicultural operations so as to improve the vitality of eistig forests,
thereby increasing the vigor of individual trees and makig the forest more resistt
to stress factors associated with air pollution;
* restonng forest cover in areas that have been deforested or have died as a result of air
pollution with move tolerant indigenous species;
* afforestation in areas of relatively low air pollution to compensae for reductions in
forest growth and loss of forest cover in badly polhted areas; and
* eurg the availabilit of sufficient quantities of high qualuty seed to improve tree
growth, vitality, and biodiversity.



- 28 -
(ii)  Improved environmental magemnt by the development and proper implementai  of
environmentally sound forestutlizaton policies and planningprocedures. This includes,
inter alia:
* hicorporatig envr    al considerions into a strategy for forest utilization;
* improved planing and management of forests as well as national park areas to
preserve importa  ecosystems;
* the development and supervision (in the case of private operators) of wood harvesting
and transport systems designed to minimize adverse environmental effects; and
* further research into the effects of pollution on forest health.
5.3   Indirect Environmental Benits. The project's main indirect environmental benefits are
expected to be:
(i) enhanced soid conservation and watrsbed protection as well as improvements in micro-
climate and protection of agricultural land where the project's activities are expected to
have a protective role (restoration of forests damaged by air pollution in moun
areas, afforestation of agricultural land and ecosystem conservation); and
(ii) mcreased carbon absorption from faster tree growth and expansion of the forest estate.
5.4    Economic and Sodal Benefits. The major eonomic and social benefits expected from the
project are:
(i)  Improved economic returns from forest operations.  The thiing program and
modeztion of harvestig, skidding and tnsport operations wil contribute to better
ecoomic rehtrn. The thinning program has long-term effects by concenuatng the
growth on valuable trees and reducing future logging costs, while modernization has
imedae effects by lowering costs.
(il) Better marketing. Funds will be allocated to furlher the development of GDSF marketing
capabilit. Increased sales opportunities froa better market intelligence will improve
wood sales, particuly exports.
(iii)  Development of improved pricig and financial systms. Improvements in these areas
wil enable the GDSF to manage the Polish forest estate in a manmer which addresses
benefits in addition to the production of industrial roundwood (amenity value, huntig,
conservation, etc.).
(iv)  Rural Employmen  Several components wiU require signiPf t amounts of labor and
will provide opporniis in nru  areas facing difficuties during Poland's period of
economic transition.
(v) Recreational Forest Use. Polish forests are ranked highly by society and play an
important cultural role. The GDSF must by law allow public access into the forest and.
permits the free collection of beries and musrooms.
(vi) Wild game. Game is a significant econmic resource and hunting is an important part
of Polish culture. Huntig is also an increasingly lucrative earmer of foreign exchane
in terms of exports of meat, hunting trophies, and sales of lienses to foreign humnrs.



-29-
B. MARKEfS AND PRICING
5.5   The total supply of roundwood from the Polish forest estate is estimated to increase from
18.3 million m3 per year in 1992 to 22.7 million m by the end of the project in 1997. Of tis, over
90 percent would be produ :ed by the GDSF. It should be noted that the projected volumes for 1997
would simply bring harvested levels up to where they were in 1989. The domestic market is
currenty depressed and likely to remain so in the short term. Recovery of the Polish economy will
first influence sawlog demand through increased house construction activity; increases in domestic
demand for pulpwood will take longer due to the long planning and construction period involved in
new mills. However, the recent foreign investment in Kwidzyn, the largest existing mill in Poland,
will stabilize the situation. Increased exporte, especially of pulpwood, are likely to be required if
the planned harvesting levels are to be achiev3d.
5.6   Polish wood is currently competitive in prce and quality with neighboring markets. It is
expected that increased exports of roundwood can provide a sound basis for the planned expansion
of wood harvesting in the short-term, while the domestic market is unable to absorb all available
wood. It should be possible to increase exports, mainly of pulpwood, from 1.7 to 2.2 million m3 per
year between 1992 and 1997. Roundwood demand is forecasted to grow in Poland's major export
markets (Austria, Sweden and Finland), providing prospects for increasing pulpwood exports.
However, Russia, as a major supplier into these same markets (mainly Sweden and Finland), wiUl
determine to a large extent the price level for imported wood, with which Poland has to compete in
order to expand its share. Although Russia has a potential to expand its exports on a sustained yield
basis, inefficient harvesting and transport operations can be expected to bamper this development
Russia is currently facing problems in fulfilling its commi   to export markets. See annex 12
for a complete diwssion of the domestic and export market for PoLish wood.
5.7   The GDSF bas established marketing units at GDSF and Regional Directorate levels. These
uiits wil be strengthened under the project to improve export and domestic marketing of industial
roundwood. An effective informatonal network to correctly identify and take advantage of both
export and domestic market opportnities will be developed as part of the proposed management
iformaton system. The study tours and long term training proposed under the project will also
assist the GDSF in policy development and planning with regards to improved marketing sagies
and policy. The present freedom of superendenies and Regional Directorates to idenify customer
and marketing channels would remain but be strengthened through more effective organization,
coordination and better access to market intelligence. The GDSF Wood Selling Regulations (4 April
1992), which cover both export and domestic sales (see Appendix 2 of Annex 12), are a significant
step forward in providing for a more coordinated and planned sales policy.
5.8    At present roundwood pricing is coordinated cenally by the GDSF. Information is
provided to Regional Directorates (under a contract with IBL) who produce guideline prices. These
are issued to superitendencies who then realize sales in accordane with the GDSF Wood Selling
Regulations cited above. The Wood Selling Regulations specify that roundwood prices should be
based upon supply and demand conditions (Section VI Clause 3) as well as the "superiority of
cultivation and conservation objectives in economic actvity" (Section VI Clause 4). The Wood
Selling Regulaions also specify the respective role of the difent GDSF organizain. The GDSF
is responsible and the Regional Directoates for specifying current prices (Section VI Clame 5.2);



- 30 -
and the Regional Directorates for specifying current prices (Section VI Clauwe 5.1) and approving
price discounts offered by superintendcies (Section V Clause 5). While effective, this system
canm  explicitly provide assurances that the roundwood price will cover al the costs of forest
manwagement or that forest industries will obtain wood at fair prices. As the GDSF is a monopoly
supplier of wood to the forest industries and steward of almost 80% of Poland's forest area it is
reommded that the existng pricing mechanism be strengthened.  The improved pricing
mechanim would be transparent and the GDSF accountable; and it would aim to safeguard the
interests of the forest as well as provide the forest industries with an assurance of wood supplied at
a fair price. During negotiations, agreement was reached that a revised wood price calculadon
system would be developed by June 30, 1994 in consultation with the Bank.
5.9    To assist strengthening of the exiting pricing mechanism, the project will provide funing
for technical assistance and the opporunity for GDSF representatives to study wood pricing
mehanisms in other countries
5.10   Due to the current economic difficulties in Poland, relatvely high inflation, absemne of an
agreed approach to the estimation of stumpage costs, absence of incentives to reduce forest
management costs (important should a floor stumpage price become institutionalized) and weak forest
industry associations, it is recommendc,d that strengthening of the pricing mechanism be ntroduced
progressively and after wide discussion between the parties involved. It should, however, be
developed by June 30, 1994.
5.11 In the long term, the GDSF has a vital interest in a healthy domestic market and forest
industries sectnr. As part of a planned and coordinated marketing policy the GDSF should consier
sblishing long term supply contracts with important buyers. This possibility has been allowed for
in the GDSF Wood Selling Regulations (Section V Clause 1). Long term supply contcts wil help
guarantee important forestry units assurances of supply which witl help to foster an atmosphere of
business confidence with investors thinking of placing funds with the forest industry sector. Long
term supply conacts will also help the GDSF to systeantically plan its harvesting operatons.
5.12   Any alterations to the existing pricing mechanism should still reflect the current system's use
of prevailing market prices. In addition, the floor stumpage price should reflect the GDSF's legal
obligation of "... sustnable maintenance of forests and insurance of condnuity of their use ...
(Forest Law - 30 August 1991 - Section 13 Clause 1). Subsidies that may be required by forest
industry plants should be explicit to the industry in question rather man ftrough manipulaton of
roundwood prices. See Annex 13 for a more complete discussion of pricing.
C. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.13   The economic analysis of the project components stresses incremental enviro l
benefits.  Some of these environmental benefits (carbon sequestradon, land reclamation ad
watesed protection) have been quantified and are included in the overall economic analysis. In
addition to the inemenal economic benefits from the sale of wood and cost savings due to
inreased productivity of new harvesting and transport machnery, the analysis estimates the beneis
from hunting, other non-wood products such as nmshrooms and berries, recreation, and the amenity
value of the forest. See Annex 10 for the detailed economic analysis of the project.



- 31 -
5.14   The major benefits of the project which have been quandfied are:
Wood Production:
The project will invest in activities that will produce mncremental wood volumes of 55
million m3 over the next rotation. Also, improvements in assortment quality will result
from intensified silviculture, improvement in wood quality will result from improved
genetic stock, and there will be efficiency gains due to improved harvesting and transport
technology (Annex 10, Appendix 1, pp 1-3).
Rural Employment:
The project will provide employment in rural areas that currendy are badly affected by
the economic recession. The employment expected to be generated will amount to
93,000 person years over the project, or the equivalent of 18,000-19,000 jobs. While
employment creation is not an explicit project objective, the additional employment
opportnities to be generated as a result of the project can be expected to greatly assist
affected areas.
Crbon Sequestration:
Ihe project wiU stimulate incremental tree growti which wil inwease net carbon
sequestration by Poland's forest estate of an estimated 21 million tons of carbon over the
first rotation. Poland has agreed in the Montreal protocol to stabilize carbon dioxide
emissions by the end of the century. Increasing forest areas will contribute to this goal
(Annex 10, Appendix 1, pp. 7-10).
Wid Game Manament:
Expansion of the forest area will replace and restore habitat for many wild animals. The
project will also assist i the determination of sustainable game populats with  a
defined carrying capacity. Game is a significant economic resource in Poland. The
incremental benefit from game that is attributable to the project is valued at zloty 179,000
per ha per year (Annex 10, Appendix 1, pp. 3-4).
5.15   Additional benefits of the project which are of lesser imporac   are:
Wid Ber/Mushroom Gathering:
During Summer and Autumn, millions of Poles from both urban and rural areas collect
berries and musrooms from forests. The value of these activities is valued at zloty
51,000 per ha. The project will increase the incremental production of berries and
mushrooms by further opening existing forests through more intnsive management and
by creatng new forest area (Annex 10, Appendix 1, pp. 4-5).
Forest Recreation:
Forests in Poland play an important socio-economic and cultural role and are valued
highly by society. The amenity vahle of the forest is estimated through the wllgness
of the public to travel to the forest, measured by travel cost incurred to get there. The
incremertal benefit attributable to the project from this benefit of the forest ranges from
zloty 25,000 to 500,000 per ha per year, depending oa the age and species composition
of the forest (Annex 10, Appendix 1, pp 5-7).



- 32 -
Land Reclation:
Degraded and marginal agricultural land that will be afforested by the project will have
a beneficial effect on micro-climate and long term site ferdlity.
Watershed Protection:
The restoration of forests in mountainous areas severely affected by air pollution will lead
to improved water regimes and control. This will contribute to soil conservation and the
reduction of peak water flows and downstream floodig.
5.16 The overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 18 percent. Table 6 below
summarizes the economic rates of return for each project component.
Table 6. Economic Rates of Return
Component                                    Economic Rate of
Return
Intensification of Silviculure in Existng Forests .... . ........ 22%
Restoration of Air-Pollution Damaged Forests ..... ......... 10%
Afforestation on Agricultural Land ............ ......... 10%
Genet.,. Conservation and Improvement Program .... . ........ 10%
Modernization of Harvesting, Siddding and Transport . .......  38%
Overall weighted Project Rate of Rern .... ......... 18%
5.17   Sendsity analys: Analysis was undertaken to determine the project's sensitivity to a
number of hypothetical scenarios. The results indicate that the project's weighted rate of return is
relatively robust (Table 7). The weighted rate of return is most sensitive to delays in modernizing
harvestmg, skidding, and transport equipmen and low harvesting efficiency, which together result
in a fall of the weighted economic rate of return (ERR) to 11 percent. The project rate of return
would be only modestly impacted by a 20 percent drop in incremental wood production (18 percent
ERR), and slightly more impacted by a 25 percent drop in wood prices (15 percent ERR). Project
supervision will pay partcular attution to those elments showing the greatest sensitivity on the basis
of this analysis, such as the timely purchase and proper use of harvesting, skddding, and transport
equipment. Supervision will also assess the extent to which the anticipated cost savings from new
harvestng, skiddig, and transPort equipment are actually realized.



- 33 -
Table 7. Sensivky Anatysis
Weighted Project
Rate of ietum
1. 5-yea Delay in Projec lnvestments for Intsified SilviculuralOtim   .....   .......... 13%
2. S-Year Delay in Nursery and Orchard Compone ntI .............................. 18%
3. 3-year Delay in Modemization of Harvesting, Skidding and Transport and 50%
HarvestigEfficiemycyAdieved 2   ....................................... 11%
4. 20% Dropin wremenWt  Wood Prduction3 .................................. 18%
S. 2% dropin Wood Price . ............................................... 15%
6. 50% Drop in PiceofThits ..........................................s 15%
1 Assumes a 5-year delay in benefits and no delay in investmentcosts. A delay in this componentwill not affect
the project afforesaion component as new genetic materal will only become available 15 years after project
stut
2  Analysis 2 and 3 assume an opporunit cost over the delayed period equivalent to the average anmlal incremena
cost savings discounted at 12%.
3  Analysis 4 afects components B, C and D and assumes assortments to be unchanged.
5.18   Analysis also incates that individual project components a  relatively imnsitive to a
marginal change in any single benefit. The only exception is intensifiaon of silviculure, which
is sensitive to changes in wood price. A 10 percent increase in wood price increases the ERR for
this component to 33 percent, while a 10 percent fall reduces it to 15 percent
D. FINANCIAL ANALYSI OF THE GENERAL DIuCTOWRATE OF STATE FORlE
5.19   The GDSF is empowered to adminster 6.7 mllion hecares of Polish state-owned forest
It is a significant business unit total sales in 1991 were zl 7.1 trillion (US$637 million), of which
wood sales of 16.4 million mn accunted for 70 percent The net tradn  surplus after tax for 1991
was zl 331 billion (US$30 million), equivalent to 4.6 percent of sales. Balance sheets and income
statements for 1991 are given in Annex 15. Differences from international accounting practices,
such as combiniig capital and operating costs on a cash basis, the treatment of tax, and the
reconciliation of year end differences with s          accounts, make it difficult to assess the
true profitability of the GDSF.
5.20 The GDSF balance sheet shows accounts receivable to be over zl 2 trillion (US$183 million)
as of January 1, 1992. Most of the outst        receivables are due to delayed paymens from wood
sales. The value of these receivables is now stable and new contracs are on a cash only basis,
except for the large pulp mills, who have to pre-pay a significant proportion of their order.
Accounts payable are also high, indication of the GDSF's difficult cash position. Almost aU cash
coming in is used to meet basic orating costs and to settle outstanding accunts. This has resulted
in a backlog of long-term forest management activities and other investments. This situation now
threatens to undermine the future vitality of &.- forest and is one of the important areas addressed
by the project.
5.21   The GDSF recognizes its financial imperatives and responsibility. Since the begiming of
1992 considerable advance has been made in establishing a system of acountig and fiancial control



-34-
appropriate to the current move towards a market oriented economy. A few recent developments
are worth highighng:
(a) Improved Plannig. Since the beginning of 1992 the GDSF has, for the first time,
produced a financial plan. The financial plan provides detailed cost analysis by activity
and economic unit.  For forest management and harvesting the basic unit is the
supentendency. The performance of each economic unit will be measured against
annually revised and agreed budgets.
(b)  Producivity. Superintndecies are encouraged to bring their costs down to the level
of the most efficient superintendency for comparable activities. In some instances this
is eoized to require capital investment. In such instances spmtndencies submit
requests for capitl development that can either be funded from their own resources
where there is a surplus, or cenrally by a repayable credit.
(c)  Decentralzatlon. Reorganization of the GDSF has involved development of a new
financial and accoundng system. The principle is now to combine decentralization with
cental monitoing. All superintendencies completed a financial report on their 1991
activities and from this they developed a detailed budger for 1992 together with a business
plan.
Under the new system, before the beginng of each financial year a detailed budget is
submitted by each s   d       to the GDSF in Warsaw. An analysis of the different
budgets is unertake   Where costs for individual items exceed levels from the most
efficient superintendencies they are reduced and, if agreed, incorporated into the business
plan.
Once its budget is approved the suentendency is free to conduct its business in order
to meet the agreed targets. Control is by way of regular reporting of key financial data
and indicators. If a suy  makes a surplus over its budgeted revenue and cost
targets, then it can retain the surplus as retained revenue.
(d) Accounting Procedures. The GDSF is currently installing a computer based
man-agement information system which incorpoates an accounti  function. This system
will include the collection and recording of cost and sales data. The processing of
collected fmancial data will be done according to EC accountcig standards and will
produce consoLidated financial information at three levels for control and reporting
purposes. Basic cost and sales data is first consolidated at the superintndency; secondly
at the Regiona Directorate and finally at the General Directorate in Warsaw.
Effective use of the new MIS can be expected to result in further fmancial planning
improvement.
(e)  Independent Auditing. Prior to the 1992 fiancial year all Polish state orgations
were mxependenhly audited by the govermment Finance Chambers. From the beginnig
of 1993, and including the 1992 financial year, all Polish state owned entrprises,
including the GDSF, are free to chose their own auditors.



- 35 -
5.22 The project will assist in the development of a management information system ftat will
provide many of the tools needed to imove the finial mangement of the GDSP. Nevertebss,
external technical assistance wi1l be requied in certain specific areas, such as the development of
an effective system of financial control within the existng decentralized financial system, reportig
accrding to international standards, asset valuation, and audiing.
5.23   A projected income statement for the GDSP (included in Annex 15) includes projected sales,
efficiency and productivt improvements, and servicing of the World Bank loan. It shows that the
cash operating surplus generated by the GDSF would comfortably meet its repayment of that portion
(US$80 million) of World Bank loan (US$146 million).
E. RLsxs
5.24 Air Pollution. Project activities are designed to increase tolerance to air pollution by giving
improved growing conditions for healthy trees, bui air pollution could jeopardize realizadon of
project befits. The most dramtic effects of pollution on Poland's forests are locaized in higher
elevations in the south and southwestern regions (complete deforestation), while the impact in other
areas is more subtle. The scale and tming of required abatement control meaures are subject to
conditions which are not possible to assess at this stage and include facts within and outside
Poland's borders. Pollution levels bave been reduced in the last two years due to shutdowns in
former East Germany and reduced production levels in industry as a result of the recession. A
further decrease in levels of air pollution is now considered likely because of major efforts underway
both internationally and domestically to control emissions in the region. With these actions being
aken, the risks for the project are manageable. To further mmime these risks, project activities
are targeted to areas of lesser pollution and silviculture pracdces are being adapted to maximize
forest tolerance to the remaining likely pollution levels.
5.25   Resrturing of the Wood Industry. The full domestic udlization of additonal wood
producdon by the Polish wood industry requires substantial investments. The proposed project does
not include funing in the forest industry sector, for which local financing as well as World Bank
lines of credit are available, such as Loans 3166 and 3167-POL (Industry and Agroindustry
Development Projects) and 3467-POL (Private Entrprise Development). Inernatioral consultants
have completed sub-sector reviews of the restructrig of the pulp and paper idustry and the
privatization of the furniture and pardcleboard industries. Privatization, especialy of the furniture
industry, is being expedited by the Ministry of Privadzation. A World Bank investment in a
particleboard factory and an IFC investment in a furniture factory have been realized to date, and
the IFC and Inlernational Paper are involved in the privatizaton of Poland's largest pulp and paper
mil in Kwidzyn. Such investments, however depend on the inidative of private investors. The
uncertnties regarding private sector response to such investment opportuities are at present
substntia but medim and long-term interest is likely to increase. This risk has been taken into
account by estimating the benefits from incremental wood production at roadside, based on
comervative assumptions of wood sales to the domestic and export markets.



- 36 -
PART VI AGREEMSS REACEED
6.1    During negotiadons on the Loan Agremn the following agreements were reached:
(a)  The Governent presented a joint letter at negotations from the Agriculture
Property Ageny and the General Directorate of Stae Forests providing the
locatio  and areas to be planted for the frst year of afforestation under the project
(pan. 3.4(iii)).
(b)  Forest manageme  activiies with  all national parks would follow the plans of
national park protetion developed as a result of the project (para. 3.4(vi)).
(c)  A Secton for Privatization of Forestry Services of the Office of Prect
hmplemntation would be established in the GDSF no later 1han Sepember 30,
1993. This Section would also prepare a privatization plan for harvesting, skidding
and transport operations by June 30, 1994 (par. 3.4(vii)(g)).
(d)  The Govermment wl maintai the extng Division of Trade and Markeig at fte
GDSF level and the reonal level and will develop, by June 30, 1994, a price
calculatn modelling sstem to improve wood pricing, in condltaion with the
Bank. (paras. 3.4(vii)(e) and 5.8).
(e)  Procurement and disb     tprocedures will be satisfactory to the Bank (paras.
3.11-3.18).
(f)  FAO/WHO               i    described in the document *Intnational Code of
Conduct on the Disbuon and Use of Pestides- published by the PAO in 1991
wil be the guidelines for use and selection of pesticides under the project.
Pestcides classified as "extremely baadous" and 'highly hazardous" by WHO
will not be financed by the Loa. The Anmual Report of the project will include
a lising of all pestcides used during the precedig year by active igedient (par.
3.25).
(g)  A Letter was presnted at negotations by the Gover,nm   dussed and agreed
with the Bank, on the tical mpl      ion condiins of the project (pan.
4.2).
(h)  An Office of Project Impmen   wit  the GDSF would be man ed during
the execution of the project with staffg, functions and authorities acceptable to
the Bank (para 4.3).
(i)  Terms of reference for the agreed technical assisce and traming under the
project wuld be submitted for review and approval to the Bank no later than
Octber 31, 1993. By March 31, 1994, the Borrower will have obained grant
funin for this assitance. If the Bwer is unable to obtain grant support for
this purpose, provision in the loan has been made for financing the agreed
tecnical assistance (pam 4.6).



- 37 -
()   The Forestry Research Institute (IBL) would be contracted to undertake detailed
project monitoring and evaluation under terms of reference acceptable to the World
Bank (para. 4.7).
(k) The Government would carry out a review of the project, and on the basis of this
review would prepare a report containiing future strategic objectives of forestry
development in Poland and proposals for implementation of this strategy, and will
submit this report for discussion with the Bank no later than June 30, 1995 (para.
4.8).
(1)   Project accounts would be audited annually by a firm whose qualifications are
acceptable to the World Bank (para. 4.9).
(m)  The Government would develop a revised wood pricing system by June 30, 1994
in consultation with the Bank (para. 5.8).
6.2    Loan effectiveness is contingent upon satisfactory compliance by the Borrower with the
following conditions:
(i) A Financial Agreement will be entered into between the Borrower and the GDSF
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.6);
(ii) An Office of Project Implementation will be established (para. 4.3); and
(iii) The appointment of the Project Coordinator and the Officer from the Board of
Polish National Parks, whose qualificatons and terms of reference will be
satisfactory to the World Bank (para. 4.4).
6.3    On the basis of the above mentioned agreements and the staff appraisal, the project is
considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$146 million for 17 years, including five years grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate to the Republic of Poland.
:  f,:. 



- 39 -                                      -M    1
Page 1 of 1
RzPUBC OF POLAND
FoREsT DEVELOPNENr SUPPORT PROJECr
SELECED DOCUNMS IN THE PROJECr FILE
Seleced Reports and Studies Relatd to the Project:
1. Polnd. Forestry Development PqJect, Project Idenicat  Report. (fTe Viw!d Baik,
Washington, D.C., June 5, 1991)
2. Poland. Forest Developmne  Project. Proect P hpilon Report. (Minsty of
Enironmet, Natral Resources and Foresty, Warsaw, March 1992)
3. Glol Environme  Facilt. Memorndu  and Reofmmdation  f the Director of the
entral  rpe Departmet of the IMD to the Regional Wee-Pe t on a Gro&tJfPm
the Global Environme  fut Fund in an Amow  Equvalent to SDR 3.3 mion (US$4.
milon) to te Repubc of Poladfor a Forest Biodrsiy Protecton Progm  Part n.
Techncal Repor. (GEF, Whiwt, D.C., Januay 8, 1992)
4.  The Act of 30 August 1991 on Forsts and &ecutve Order No. )) of te AEPNRF of
May 27, 1992 regardn the Stawe of the General Directorate of Se Porest.
(MEPNRF, Warsaw, Poland)



-41-                       AEX 2
Pogp  of 22
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES



Utwli09,'"                    43
Is  mms- ",
US"ge  OASC go   go    K    $a                      WAS   n   u   I l                   I             &VM4 bp W   MA
_..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33 pu.~I                                                                  . .m  sqfsmu
gm2    zu       sst     Cos      Ad*     S112       OU        Sa    a1    09    K        K     a       iw    4   as *4
110 11ZIS           t  mh O              U91133 OM
*MA -       aum     nom    usu   tMwinI                                       9     A              4MO      0o
I=       o Nu   WA         n "AS    gm   a i                 n      e                           "i iS
?Wi   9S       95?     9UC      463     33         65J    .3    01    3                       S      OJmq       .t~ Jq'qh33UZ
oM      Nu      ts"     gms  gm          u          Wm^  0           n     a      a      It    et    IR^J
AM      A     9        Ogg  _m         am         or        W6   an  81Z    m0 du    "t sgo 
eae0st   351    a91  9                   t911 W u'    am  ms etJt 3SW                                           * _
mm= oe          6ffS        OS "to  5>          9 rn         f       f   xs ft Wu0 Ms    6  _J   g
mm       ons O          oen      oeesz ol_lns       oroo      O4   Sy  0      Wp    or SSqn
oMS     mm 9 lt   gms went  s&9s  d1 *1 
3161    105l   1b Mut   399  *        m   SEm: . o            G            9 m    ",so         9S bin                          Su 
SF~05            IL      19      359       1      95           105    D       1?  11Z   ElO   11| S 01    sqSq                    1103.4,u
O5M    06       Lus      "SHe   1       l          Gil       "a   61       0    on    at   9=0    GC          8       JSAJ. 1S9PIm
00596   am18    00691   6019    mm89                 wan160   005   Ot    SU    OR    pA    es    sq                      NSS p
*a   on1   95911    auhIss                         a                         1      9                     m13 361 .5 mq.aq.
005W    9531    3611    03691   *391    10551  WE?  0001  99?   33?   009   3*3   9613 WaS80P    ON   3O33     I
55  ll    660        511     93      15     ~     1        SE 99        ?      0    3(3     3    eqsp K             mmJ upu.,VM
gm  ou---w---- --;  ...                                                                                               1OA
on#    St3    9099       Uo      a 0oni i0u                   aa     OM         on  S on     o   eon qm          er"JJ%a
gmi    OK       OKI      OK5     Mt1    gm1        9LiUS      on    35    S5    a       56    9       34M   CWiW  35  sq=W
~~~~~~~~~~ It
0031    93  59  363   363     Ii                                                                              31100 1U1111 13A9
P1      91       AO".  36        au      903                                                                                 11Mus d g S6
93      01      09      05       @6      P          W         00011o PM01  00om   0063   005 Io CO5laWL     w    os_p.3
_      _____                                                    _   ______                                                           .
13) 35          951    3t66     ffU1   101       PPX         13      61*5   95           5      a
5333a
^  _                        wo$^             bUN A
41~~~~~~? NJ



Table 2.1 (continued)                     of SFlycul    and Tending O0erain
DeNIed Cost Talkb
DJ Thoad)
3am Cots                          Too"  1ink.tfu  c9miftlu
959  19      199     19W      196   Touta       95/9     199    199     1W    1"a   Toutl
1. tr  e57
................
A. UqupEm
clmteon       _18                          22      22      n2    22       106        1t      25      26      27      28    15
UP dluefoe Pnafrs                   4.     6       6       4        2     24          5       7       a       5       3      as
.............            "O.0 - - ---.. ne         .. .       . ..b.  ....... ...,...
subTotal                           22       26     28      2a      24    129          24      32      34      32      31     153
....... s...... **..* --*--  "    .*. ..... -*.--. -*.**C.* ****            e.... ..l.. . ........
Tout IU STW          com         *         22      2        8      28     24      129        24      32      34      32      31     153
II.    m_  omi
A. Thimingr 1n F9e Cls I <1t
SkitOng Roes (ftlllfg)    m       23      237    231      265    279    1254        244    2        296    32       354   1487
Tre Ftlting                        19   28      3021   3172   332    1504          2s      3259   352   38         422   178
PeP of A=semt                    2445    2596    2747   2B98   3049   374          2872   294    3239   3547   38W4   16280
Toal.n Tranport                   662    702    743    74        825   371?         7       7y877    960   1048   4406
Prooesulng                       1078    1145   1211    17       1345   607         1178   1500    149    1564   1709   7180 
.....0....   ..... e.. **.. CC** ..   ...    ....... ..... *C ...C O.. *e*C ...   C..aSC.a   ..
Sebtotul                          7126   75S0  7973  8a              0  3966        718  8573   90    10279  11207  47m1
3. Thlrwl n Age Clas It 4s
kitIng of Tren                   1100    1200   100    1200    10   6000             202   13      1415    19    1S        7101
Prep, ot Assoitmnta              2646   3110   330    3594   37         1637       2892   352   3W7   440    40    1952
Twain   rrurt                    1245    1463   155    1691   1m9    7734         1631    1612   14   207o   2261   9187
Prosessing                        435    572 ,08          6 61  696   2972          475    M50      717    809        4   S5
Fuproo  Ag 346    403    436    461    518   2164                                   378    456    514   S5          6S9   2572
PrmInA1 UI* 0ainIIty Tnm  2       256    356    410    410    512    1946           20      407    403    S01        51    222
Fmuwlpsoof aft.,gpr o             180    252    286    23        360    1366        197    286    340    353    47           u2
................... ,*    ....*.......    .......  ...   *.......  ......             ...... .. ..C ..
SibTotl                           6208   7159   7800   DO05        8                6785            9199   10146   13a9  456
C. Netesa1
FimgIk for   S                    61      6        4      65      69    324          67      73      76      80      a      8m
rftlal  for pfnwg=    *           20      28      3s      33      41     I55         22      32      36      40      52    1a
..... 0000-0... 00... .0.0.0 O.... .          . ..... .... .....  ...... ....... ..... ......... W.....-............................ ... ...... ... ..... ...
81bTotal                           81      93       T 7    9       110    479                105     114    1O 140    5
-----.  .....     . ...... ----- .   .  .. .... . ...... ...... ---..... -------  -------  ------    ...... 0........... ......................................................
Totl       T C  00818                   1341    1f02    1       U160    1761   765        14      1703   1m    2064  221   g5695
TOW                                  u1 W    1585 1O   99   16626   fl93   1909                        597   2WM    SW
kb l0  we       . 146m a 90otvhmn t1"i
P6-2L  fee fuuposf lug d tue_P
4*    e     foew        of uuud aftw pnimin



Table 2.2                  of Stnds Damaged by Air Pollution                                                           4
Detiled Cost Table                                                                             I4hItJ
mseite. *                   nt ct                           c
18~~1S    93~%  1995    1914    19I"  1998   TotaL    sns-e        9w"       1995    1996      19W      1995   Tauta
1. t_5iUUt                                                                            =--15
A .  g U i  C h                  h a           2 01               322 O     0 0     5 0     1 1 0 0*   1 .1 0     2 1 11 9   a w    2 4 1 1   2 1     a 2      1
8pui 0br.s   *4       tfh__as.            s  ..    t4000    u  w     W   e    31sio  t 6M         O .        18970    189m0     32  f  ' 3612   3107      9171
Dkctw   1                      Um..m.   ~S            4"00    130    14660   160         4000        0.5        tS       30      3.9       *.              14,s
SO-Te"t                                                                     .* ...... . ...... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* ...... . . .... .......* **Of
1 * -   t==   $7WOO    381    X1lO    "448         _        w          09Xo     215730   3015    312    2185    20975
Sm= Of iftost""  tUa-P..   476         496ll 4061        5        49500M 44so00                                   154l               0 520   I=
oFt         ea t                              ,                                                                j t              1300              1 360     7 520
Ikurnsvrnrgd last Sy00m  ttma.p...   17010   17900   15100 1660"   13500 OU 1000M  0.30     3100    510        53      490=    445    3436
. . ..... _...  .                    .". *-..
~4stet                                                                                                        j T 2  1710      173    1sm        18m      6ri0
6. S~~p4i~~tn~~ ~W  ha  1~~~0    1760    1700    1806    1860    3600~~~a       3.0800 am            900    a50       9010    966      4366
000         35       30         6      30       31060  16100          0.16 co6            77                9m      55   32
% -tr                                                                         am                             16i5 46  0  13165    1406    4I60  10    150    7am
3. latrX"arl"a}olo                                                                                               93       936o  9.36     956         956;   4460 
lamitliWs 'U Swassi re t ts.p      UN34    3530    30        s       3544      am45        0.7o'    s..   37640    21424    31493   34    12761
tt  _T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 0  ...... 
onto,Wtu                     ,      0      360            *      29702   30    130       3                              62 t 5          10       981
'~~60    ~~  49.            32610   360~~~0 340        346 3400   1do061                        81k      '        39       47    14NM45
34                                                                   3      4        4    .  418        75 22
*C2t3. uuinm     mtel_*
a. usu ct,^ a wt c.,er
t~~~~~~~~~.Tota1    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.*...   ...                          .. ...
'otts     lu      si                                                                                                       -.. ...o~~ . ....... *.                 .
3187   4454   1625n  1W"    13105   408
44b 4000 osudUags aim  ho.~im                   30M     4m       4m                 00         ei                                    I
4. towtsamlaiwi     Cyr  as  mtdma   a..am.ow(605).o                                                                                                     a
doosft2w6d                                   " om ttle ag  Mt sW
RePaSt             an 6110ltss1.poos
546-/1993  16.044



ANNEX 2                                                          - 45-
Page 6 of 22.
Table 2.3 Compnatory Afforetaon on Former Agriultural Land
Detailed Cost Table
(Zloty MliDon)
Quantity                omlt Cut                  gm cost
Unit   93.94   1995   1996   9-98m To7tl   19W945            9S394     9  19 96 t       7 -98   Total
I. INVESTME  COSTS
A. Land ClettaIg (2051)       , h            Ul4O   2000   4000       0   7400        0.13         164     26       u 56      0 
B. 8011 prepeatl
pi.smi"Inuo  Rippivg (701)   ha       49o   1400                 0  a0            2.63      121    18113   361           0   6127
Rilp tt9 (20)              he           UO1    2000   4100       0   7400         1.10       1534    2192    481         0    8110
mal   prpert eion (102) 41b h            700   1000   2000       0   30           0.48        335     47       9          0    1
Sb-Totl                                                                                      14      ZN    421a4          0   7
C. Plmnting  Model A (60
Pine (SW                   uItt.pcs.     19       3      46      0      aS     456.44        a7o    104    t3            0   404
Bfrch (50X)                dll.pcs.      22      21      56      0    106      280.32        6167    7"9   159s          0   29
Larch & Oak 493            thd.pcs.       I       1       2      0       4     2W.03          2m3     331      de2       o    12
shrift                     Xtl.pos.       8      1t      2t      0      41      30.32 .    2243   3s04    617            0   11493
Sub-Total                                                                                    1725 216         43615       0   677
0. Planttng- MOdel 8 (20) 
$"sitt Oak (70lS)          a1l.pC.        7       8      16      0      31       0.4o        198     2429    4656        0    9269
Pns C3e7                   ml tl.pos.     3       4       8      0      15      458.44       1284    14    36                  671
Oeach. Lnden, Lach  9b    oftt.pen.       1      1      .3      0       5      3.3.40        304     425      as        0    159?
Sub-Total                                                                                     350    46        933        0   1451
t. Ptanting* Moal C (20)"B
*BOech (501) lOkIC as s   mitt.ps.        0       6      12      0      18     354.20           0    22       4250              376
Spuc (50OX)                Ill.pos.       0       4       a      0       2     354.20          0    1417    2834         0    4250
... ......
Sb-Totl                                                                                          0    342    70           0   106S
P Swptentt7 (20 <B4             ha          140   2O   4000           0    40         5.70       12186   17       3416        0  O4410
4. GmProection (tabr)
Repetllnt AWlicatin 4>   ha            4000  1000  2200          0  3600         0G6         12      40      1050        0   120
ifn of Lto                 dwi.pc.        I       1       1      0       3       0.70           a       0        1       d        2
Fenctog (201) 453          hA          140    2000   4000        0   740         2.50        3500    l00        m 1000   0 1
Sib-Total                                                                                     5420    9_0    251          0   3578
HI.  atrtlsX
AnirAt  epet lts 4,        ton           12     352    72        0   1201       7*O          66    S6        5061S W
ta2ino n4                   tn           8      1 120    240     0    4"4         1.12         94     134      29        0      4
fencirn materials a                    8100 W  2000  24000       0  4440         0.24        2016    a0    570           0    05
mub-Total                                                                                     3006    5478   1109         0   "S1a58
I. seedtfro
Pene dn.pc.                              21      27      54      0    102       120.00       520.- -30         4O        a   12240
siroi                      vlitpcs.      22      28      56      0    10        300.00       G00    100   U10            0   3130
lef to Oak                 ml .pos.       6       a      16      0      so     400.110       20      3200    6440        0   t1200
44100                      uittl.s.       0       4       6      0      12    10000             0    4000   S000         0   12000
aCh                        mill.pia.      0       6      12      0      1      600.00          0    4800    ffQO        0   14U00
C01101cantay Species       MIUtt.         2       3      5       0      10     260.00        476      6?9    13          0    a21
Shrb                       mitt.pe.       8      11      22      0      41     240.00        1go    240    5280          0        O0
.-.  .......... .....a.;
S*i-total                                                                                    13916   a99   51             0   947
Tot tSlltEIIT                                                                                       MOT Zis93   iiiO1    t7      a  406
It. ItECllR0   WSm 
...............
A. Tadifig opel t1is
Xschninfl Otuttvetion      ha          3500  12000  t55o         0  41000        0.78        22    9366   19902          a   3Sam
lonust Mutivticn           ha          1700   6000  lago         0  a0100        0.30         510    M8O       40        0    6150
atltycttemilng 03)         u              0       0   70w0       0  000          0.30          0        0    2100        a    210
SJTotaI                                                                                      3242   11146   25342         0   405
D. A,ticfftea rtilltfng         he             0       0   350        0   30o         0.60          0        0    2100        0    n0oo
C. Mats
ldmat Fertilies            tOn            0       0   10         0    115        1.50          0        0    2m          0    2625
...... .........i;
Tout  .omE   CST                                                                                    326    111"   235            0   449sn
Tota"                                                                                           73U43  12519   5375           0  44967
41, an Sit  ewAstpemm           = 8i are added, ltavwi  ratut  rege.
4) an cltas Vis aid VI Soito.
4V  on  dlass V soil.
43  h64011 of war, at 5K of d A* seedt tns.
4, WfIn  tbin ad fro  thamineg.
4dW A_ap8ft otd bat
47* Protet mn against Sn.
4, Incla   ots foe laf rafdlinWs. ad traspoet of seedings.
d49  In pees of bhttew sat!.
o40W On etas N and V sotis In sleactad.
4/S11/m 10*43



Ta   22 (amtinued  Resration of Stand Damad by Ar PoLion
Detaled Cost Table
(SU Thsm
am      1995      t    "19     15  To             NM       19    *1996   "Pr   1t    To"
1. Lo 
a.1.MicftmV                         an   m  m   7n   Ism  IV0  61                     ^I  US "a   "a                       T
$mmtv5 tb                     i,   136    1274   1301    1s2%                    .       7     u      s       -      UN
en* . ... .................... **^*** .......... . .......   ....... ..
etal                            1541   157n   1509   1561  tU148 t6 5   5781     1N    T1        7M      911    90 9O6"
C. T _wt of S tq                     1      7       7       769    7      33          604    an             96    go    4514
RmaUin*  . wpm      5      914   9g        97     17    48          95    15   1112   1UO    1s4   551G
womwed Nft syst_                364        364         351    3_2   17T          3       41      m                      " 4
sub-Totl                        121    279   n6   1              04  t9          1S   1452   1493   161    18    16
I. NWlm 1n re                        57I    60        7    64      643    062 45    419    716    ?V                5      381
P. 0t.mt Un agaIt Gmt
1!inbota of hwaUa               410    411    411    43        423   24          437    467    405    Ste    O37   2A4
P 6 fah( 3)                   117    1        i2n    130    no    4            13t    142    147    "P    48         742
hrut  (O               StO    St4 51           510    540   s54    560           55.    9    6t         "1    6       3052
6. ~~**.   *n._                             *e     .                                       e n nel    .ee
-tz=       "a  saw               34      34      21      1      a1    1n          as      3       a      2t      so    1432
elb ohI                          43      43      43     43      43    24          4       4U9     1      52     54    s33
U. *.r1e.                                                                                  .
sadHw  v/ --Mw      t e        UN 92 1154   17        1614   172   am           159      m052 21   244  1
Utwd%    wI wwmusd              419    43      42      449    441   31T5         455    49      50      53     561  237
smut O"mtZ 4o                   1       1 up    12     12         a   M4         1       14     12    12         S     764
aig ltaIao 4d>                  6K      no    "C0   105   105   460              97?   low    11a    12,S   1m    s5
313   S39   19   340    3361  14                3421   3        S1     410    43    19
S            _*   _**n             ...        C..*   ..e.      .. n.e.. _...  _-----e*
TOWal           alm                    am    SW9    Om    95    oZ0  d4                92gm    gm6    13  1106  114  51817
tl.  mI       wit
Nhdwdest -  m  LAn              1W      411    67      46      447   25            O    4W 7?           a1 81         3
N1wal-omud           t1  O 4                     96     96    1       366         25      73   1SU      115    as    4
en..   n..   n..          ne.....na...  ...n _... _... _... _n.. eee.
wb-Total                         155    475    m        7o             n o23      m       54     9       53     a      nu3
6. tr v1hua1qr4-5)                     0       0      0    1n       16       4          0      0       0 !            1     441
TOW_ 1"S  M M                                                      0  3m    as . so 912uo  tw SW
ToWta 135311 6515                    158    415  t5  U151    13    3311 1OM                  540 96 13 1at         11    33
40   -                                        m      m-                       m               -P-
T$a                                 51      926    9_       b.    965    76           55151 116sa 16                       57
(I:^ .                                                  _ ,IO laau MAS m ,1 O mcmto tna
4di       Ii.--.
b                    (tto and e tmrAg  arl  0).
adl 1       t     lSta 311.  d Wire (S0 dI),
551      15a23 



-47-                                                        ANE2
Pop 7 of 22
Table 23 (continued) Compensory Afforaton on Former                                               Lad
Detid Cost Table
(USS TMousand)
Use. @oat               Tt'fats tmusbib  OmttiU.wl
994    1995   19       76  ToWta n s s   94    19          1           so
1.. I N o
UiiCteeb(o 203)                      13     19      30       0     70         4     31      44      O      95
U.     (705)        921   1515               0~~~~~~~~~a 456  00    149    3103      0   is5
I Pt>"tPtw     0    a5                  1 Igo  I17  34    0  4
Nom.t pr.s5.r811 IM    021      a4      34      a6      0    12i         3        9     81       0    14
tib-Tf tl                       105    106   30           0    51        11a    10   3            0    464
co ptiwm     * mata A (am19                         s'        o tm             s       s    s               1
10k                                     24|,    47 S" U2 75  5I  "        8.    W7      56       0    10
P i n   a m           .                                       2 gw l 8   a
ffi                       "I0    l0 441            0    m u        175    W       1         0     6
ftk 4SO*...I?  a.                **O* **           a    *tO*O*e  *O**          * t        I"
sb-T.t                          189to     5    31         0   59         in' tis    39C4   *            us
D.PlUatIt;ed;OstUl@I                 142    113   *347        0               155 n   a  9g 4& 9     0   6
Pilam                            91    131    262        0    40         100    140 309          0       S
uuedi. LibnLwdat *               22l    30  Q8           0    114         24     34      n        0    "1
,,.,.......  .... ..... _ . ..... .  ..... ......
-Tot                             m      3s    67          0   11                                       U 791   o  5
v.  nplstE   - miIc m
Saab cIw1     eQar                0    Ila    306        0    455          0    172    356       0    51
BP MIN CM               ~0    101    35         0    3%4          0    115    *3         0    334
904Tota                            0    53      506       0    15                 6      57       0     5
F. s         i                      8      143   SW07        0   4401 941   1413   2933               0 
_t!t bwlste                  137    343    M          5   151         SO    389    890        0   1420
a  0   a       0      a~         0      0       0      0       0
250   *357    714       0   13          M       406    8         0   153
sb-Total                ~~~367    75    149      0       6       43      WS t             0 m
motertl    d                     64    171    33 S       0  a    0        t0    8       43       0    do
MnsIONMO                          7      IS     19       0     36          V     I1      53      0      41
Feift ato se                    144    304    411        0    1#1        1S     U4    45         o      F
Sib-ToteR                        352   391  '9            0   19          m      444"            'o'1414
P. iU                                   31     4a        0    54         1t?    mI                     o w 15
Birch                           471    4DO   1200        0   a71         519    Am      4u 512
Mftf lek                                322    457       0      7        17    80       50    us
e._le.mwvv IpmIua          46      97       0    17s        37 5s    11            o0   "67
s   ug  ~~m    o                            30 ts                 1198  o
Uwihs                           137    189    377        0    7          1      214    445       0    so
*.fo* *0e                  ...   ..... ..... .......
gib-TeimI   &           9%~~ 195    3o1          0   627        105    21      4530       0    Ms1
Tott   EUT MM                          Sl      21  M1591        0  2a0          49    908   189          0      1=0
it. o-o       m
usalsmslaa  alttgstm            195    449   142         0   2286        31            i6 176    0       9
N_It VAdutfon                    36    129    24         0    439         40    146    35        0    SW
rty Clmlow  c                     O      aO   ISO 1           1o          0       0    m         0    VT
.... ...    . ..... *.***~ .o.... ......
ft-TOt                           82       %    1846       0                3     9      37        0   336
so krf a FrCtf11ru                     0      0    1o        0    1o           0       0    17        0    io n
. . . .... .. ....... ...... ..... .    ................ *..-      * *0000
TOW t          am                      anT  3         21#3      0   3212                904   31         0   574
SW     a725  182         0  3212        54s9 9912  3u7    o
4' ~d5 o  W%  m  x of MMage emiftSu.
odilli w d t vu tw of esuirog.
4'       t In pe*eW o baSte i sell.
$11   Otas :W u   _.elS IResea__.
4319   10s4



MM{N 2                                                                        48-
Page 8 of 22
Table 2.4 Geneic Improwement, Producio and Preservation
Detaied Cost Table
(zloty Millon)
l.otItt         imt   ?s
___  __- g-n-
W   95194   1995  1196   1197   199$  Total  1993.98              93/94    1995    1991 t     119      19"6   Towt
t. IbSlllalta  1Sal  .it
tue   '            ha b    200   200   200  2no   200  100                0.10          20      g0       20       20        20      1
'Mffto of                   he      2      2      20 0   2NO    20   100           1.20         20       so      so          0      V .  12
kl. of tVWt fertto    h             20 0    200 n                     100          0.10          20       20      20        20       2       1
.. 4 0          ...            .     ........... *....fb..................
Sdt-outl                                                                                         280      280     280       20          280    140
to 8.1. of high qal. tress
kstsmatiss                   .1         100    100    0  100   100  50             0.10          10.      10       10       10       10      50
for sleatan                 e      100   10O   100   100  1i   s0                 0.10          10  '10           10       10       10      so
9Mtetol                                                                                    4      20       20       20      20        20      100
C. cOiMUNtin Pts ,
8.11 gnipn tadluw           ha    1000 I   0= n  1000  1200   100  5700            20          2 T M    20      2        2       .31   1 110
ractNstwllab                ha    1000 1000h    100  1200  1500  570m             11.00       11000   11000    100    13100    150    O
wse dd, FIrfds              ha    1000  1000  1000  120    15010  570              1.50        1e0      100    1500      1t00    2Z0    J*0
Lieu                        ha      100  m10    1000  120   10   5700             10.00       10000   100e0   t1o0     12000    15000   3
trlq por. l                 ha    1000   1000  1o00   U0   I          50          10.00       10       10000   1000      10       1  
frotout                                                                                            34572 35              41        518    1970
saw *NW
loIt I  pestIe'             ha       20   30   30 40             1 70              5.18         10        155   15       20?      89 0      81
ktert(S                     he       20   330             40  50    170           40.           800     U12N0    120 0100         2000      80
d n of rftfi         ha      20    30    30    40        50   1=1         30.00         400      90      VW0      1        1500      100
nw111,tmlu ul,*fmel           s      20    30    30    40        50    170        50.0         1000    1500         0    2000      200    8500
_-= ~....... e...-. ..._ .......,
Sub1TO                                                                                          204      375S    3755    500W       of9    21
_, Cotlete    SW Stle
U    m #fwS NW   dl.       me       50      0      0      0      0    SO         300          1500        0       0        0        0      1O50
floesws for NWd"it.    11             2      1      2      0      0      5        7200          3"      62    134           0        0      we
S ssd8t.fr                   N        I      I      I      I      I      5      5000.00        5 0   5W         500   50eo    5W00 20 eo
==,,* .,               _ e    ... Cecoe   e..C.   ...._.
UTtaI                                                                                          76d4    5672    6344    5000    SOO0    2m0
- ia 1         rfals         No    1   0   0   1   0   a 2060    106                                       0  0 10         0         0  2O
_tMl attdptt                 Ni       I      o      0      1      0      2      40.00   O 00               0       0 00              01200
~I  2tt1!qda                 Ni       1      0      0      1      0      21t3140.00           13440       0        0144              0UIO2680
C"lo,                              I  1      0      0      1      0      2      5180.00        51W        0        0     518         0   1UN6
List                               I         0      0      1      0      2      300            3500       0       .0   350           0  700
ab-T.ts                                                                                        348          0       0   3o8           0   746
0w     t1eEqd zAt            .b          1      1      1   1      1      5      20O            2011    20       a        2000    2001    1000O
tsutd   tpsI                 NI       1      1      1      1      1      5      5400.00        5600 56005600             56D      5600128000O
daIwa                        cm        1     1      1      1      1      5      510.00         5I80   518      5180    S58       5180   gm0
Labsi                        Ni   I   I   I   1   1   5   25000  25  0025 0  200 0250018
..._... __ ._...e. _.._... ._._.C
r6TO                                                                                          a1          2        m20    130    1         I5 7400
3.PrLI trnfum swa. 40-               i  I                1      0      0      3           .0         3       5        500         0        0   10
1. Mury Ev        l pmtv          sab         50    2   a0             0    100       616.00       30    182m        1320    6160         0   6100
Tol           I3511     WS                                                                           1300   7            m 7    1114              48061
tl. now cers 
5. 88816  0065
A. Tada  ofud NW4    ha                   100   1      10 120  1G0 1O         m         5.0          5ilO0    500      400      650      250    m00
Total      C1                                                                                           s _                        a               30
"a                                                                                           '  tw    n89  7a4n1 1124  m97y1
4b  Esti I hasI of  "efto caum tfu piaq sftv"gA" s
*31 on of auifns  fat kmt FMo Ismitr             owl.  mociftnrw
* eat. of    wii          o"tt a
O CamS. of tif          In CUb  If.Iu*u,g_lomu.J_wJ..U1I.W
* cmst. of a                                 1d  6  Led a Lad
*W ma.  fpl     ot Exm3.uat~ KOWU.J. UIllfl,al
ud> s prpqtl* pro  lm  1w osrora  aediq
*   lIne        p     ,.sfr *rsasg     ad             lsmMuma
'lb T_ u                     a           U.jisd sar  sha 



-49-                                                                -
Page 9 of 22
Table 2.4 (continued) Genetic Improvement, Production and 
Detailed Cost Table
(OS$ Thousand)
-     s eas                       Touls lltt1wt Cantiiiau
S"194    1995   191    199?   1990  Total   t         9     195   16    147 19    Total
_~~~~~~~~~                          7
I.  l T    mmI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ... .... .......   ....... . s...                                     ...
h.  8t    d    . S Ugut.
bRhy1trt1mb41 1>                           1 t              1       1      7         2        2       2       2       2       S
thlrnlfB~~1    ot                         17n    e 17     17      06         1       19     21      21      22    101
Ul.oftr.. sf.rcutttII              1       1        1       1       1      4          2       2       2          2    2       8
..   ...~.       ........       .....  .~.  v     Z s--          - * --.--- ---,.. .-.- -C    - C  -.
ai1rTott                           2D      20      20       20     2       160        22      5       24      24      25    tt
C.  se, dm v  qt. 410
Igltafer                                  81ct 1            1       1       4         t       1       1       t       1       4
..... ............ .C.C*.           n.e.................................... C........................
sTotFl                              1       1        1       1       1      7          .2      2       2       2       2       a
S-l         tsl                  148      14      14              M 7842   9        1               9 1  1   " '1?    2    10U4
,iitod., '"saigods           10      167    107      12n    161    611         1IV      152    126      15?       4     7IV
LOW                     ~~~714   714     714     57    1071   4071          73      oi1    543    109   1361   484
$dfln  proftlai                  714     714    71         7    1071   40n          78      all   8s2    1049    11   48
==wv o   * fl*  C * *-    w-*  _--  -_-o-          C.e  .*e-**   ....  .o*   @@ ***...
ui*-istul                        249   2W9   z6    2                0   1406        269W  23a04       12   3627   40   I
0.saw 0IOIIUd 44,
SsIlPt r wstln                     7       11  u I         i       1       3          8       3                      2 
1otfate                           ST                      114 IJ 4S aZ    Z97    101    140                         "a    5
ofteItf4l ofs        47                           a411i    7                                                1 0       6   4
71tl,nl,dqt  187    1  14#3    12V    40?         is8   123   1t         1n      ;3      7
siblotsl                          119    265    248    255        447   1520         1S5    36       316    435    56       12
Collootlwtfand ostorge"
L4um sfor u etott.               10        0       0       g       g    1             7       0 0  0                        117
Elmoosstfar saw  olt.             16      48      96       0        0    260        16        5     11i00s7
lou  Storag  4, 0537                     35      W       57      357   178          390    406    421    43         454   3165
, .fC..__ .n_.n.._ .......   ne...n        n..    n.n ....... ........ ..................... .  ....e.eno.......
86Totl,                           30      40      45      3       35    2a1          62    4C0    536        43      4      Wm
kdtdl ,mats              n       10        0       0     740       0    11          U         a0      0    906        0    1715
3u..ttoSqtdpm*                   4         0 0           4219      0       ?        466       a       0    so         a     9
zatop   . t fd                   160       0       a     1         0    10         1O 9       0       S    15         a
cuimearab                        No0       a       0     30         0    740        464       a       a    455        0     65
Labor                    50~~~~~w  0       a     30        0    50          Vs        0       0    so         0     5Ng
mb-Total                         279          49    9a0 56gm10 0                                       0  336          0    56
8.i. adstlng oWtsU2toe 1X
Dametis *Aipm                     14       4       4      14      14      71        156     12    16    I5          to      so3
I   I to  W ONt                  4       4       40      400       0   3            4       4       4; 2    49      5       m6
C"~ ftaj                          37     521    31        37      37     I=5        40       2      43      45       7    213
labar                    129~~'  179    1l9a      1 19    29 t    65        195    NO       111    29    2up   1G4
kbTtaZ                           1091    1091   1091     11    101   5657          1155   19    137    135         13      661
1. Prod. tIbs fo    _ora& di          329    39    379          0       0    116         414    40       446       0       0    1o
I. I buey Upl_ vn 41,                .            m           440       0   4400        2405    9i      1n8      99       0    4910
.en... . ;i                                         -- _Z   -                      ". n*Ce  *C  C*Cl.
Total 1e1         CfST                  1649      14    556        0    g2   S5           14                5      97      7142  40277
ts.  in,     COS
A. TWOnluiof sasdorubs d.              36      36      43      46      54    21           39      41      51      ST      de     25
.... .........  .                .. .. . .......
tlt NCO= cOSIS                            36      36      43      46      54    214          BP      41      51      5T      a      a
Tota                                 14       5      505     8       55   3450         10       802    46t 1    95 A      1MO  411
41* sostlos Nd    feeul of stnbo.
40  otottuhsSA    oft stu COameutlen plt o  lof        itat   s       ta.
4, Mt of mulnn for Mm  rot e flng    d               PbWd       .roi
44o 1st. of os-sfts said archau* Nd ouln   adoae
4, come. of staras ia Crn s S          l.               J         u 
.4  Cas. of ottWt1n          zn                    wsaelo ,_adasj.
co *wn of ptsm at              3.1  I        tt e u, J. H    slec
s  n od         tw C- p                   s     o   nr         ud s.
4101 TondIa of s1st1 g# midhasy ostabiabed  _ee  orue
4/2/993  10*45



Detaid Cst Tabk
hu1*it                dit cost                      _  Co.t
Unit   99   "95 9-9  196 T"tt    1993-ft              9.        9     91                  Totat
1. IWSNET00
A. narwtb 3w1"        i
Traiors with mloe  (1  eOch  150   150   150  ZOO  800             30.0        4300    42000   42000   56000  224000
futwod Prid.  chines         eOak   as    25   a5           113    1005.00       25200   25O00   5ZO    131 100I
ftnmrdws                    each   12   12   I5   IS   69          166000        20160   20160   OM20    2520    1139
lp. for fuelod Prod.   each   10   20   20   30   100               560.00        S0    .11200   11200   16800    0M00
nw dity tr3i                 eoh   55    35   35   35   115    2016.00           70560 ,70560   7560   7060  352600                        o
*AtFurp. macirms        each     I    I      1    1    5    260.00           2800    2100    20         280    140
all ,,14,, 1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                 . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .   . . . . .   . . . . . .
Soattmb.ottOS                                                                        16632    MM96    17696   la46    676621
Totail INVSIET  005T                                                                    1662    t7s20   17690   1846   8762
I.t.t                                                                                16632    17196   176960   184464  67662
eta For uss with xehtio #       lt a= t tre=ter.
4          10:46



TaIble 2.5 (condonued) Mouarlof   Hwvsting, Skidding sod Transpot
Detaled Cot Table
MSSThou.an4
_a   Gaet                           TtW   fntudiW  CmthWintmp
95'%     199M   *97    19"B    Totat        93.94    1995    1996    1967    1996   Total
1. 1Uww 0tl _7u
..............
T8tWSr asthptogdBt43              00 30           00      00r                 M      3V      38   3<e    SW          W
fulud Prod. NWns                  M0      160     1600     966   8136        196      204    2123n    20      119    952
Foenrd                            44O    1440    1800    180       80        1574    ls       2123    20      27        22
Esdp. for Fawtood Prod.           AM       800      OO    1200   4000          437    906      943     979    1S25   473
bwy daty trucs                       5    s0      540    5040   25200        5508    572S    5944    6169    6       27
Nuttfpurpoe mihlnm                 200      0       0      20     1000         219     W       236     245     234    1161
..    .     ....  .......  ....... ....... .. .....    ....... ....... .......  .......  .
SubTotl                           160   12280   12640   13176   4266          126    19       14906   15473   16742   74050
Total I IST    OSTS                      11C0   12210   U1640   13176  62616         12964    395   14906   15473   16742   74050
Total                                118D    1220   12640   13176   62616         126    1M    1OU    1473   1742   74050
41t For us with uIst1ui swl=ult  tractos.
4/ 195  lot46
II>



TAble    t                    a Nt EAsy*m in Nam h
DUeIbd Cas Tae
qZaI ai.  a  1$ Thmamd
_e omt diMt1 ~ I)                                                _sis CintS SUS'WS)                  Tetab IuskiI,w  .z(awmshs CmqgtS
19W      11Z999   1997     Il        Otal                                                            UA"    19        1999   199          m. it.
1. _t3  UT
LbP!jIIS~~~~!~~f    Ip?        0        6 ~~~    0        0SOig                          0       6       0                                   6       6       0       0      s
Pm1Wb.                         26        6        5                15 91                   g                g    g4   UK                 m            as 13."    ine  in   m.
-  *  - - ~~~~~~~~o ...~
SSTotft tW z D tS _ 2"t42  r  1;  tot                  U                    l1a6   4    .
bbot                         lItSt        5         5   9    2              _NW             6              5    iSU    1            01                W    2                  17 103
C.fr.f.PSV.auuiTi6101V,*"* SW*v*                                  * --  .-         U***         33**.    76**    76***   76*    281*        54*  _.-        59. -----       56      1
Total Iloif u4t                43    41   3520  "A    "no 15S                               m          15   "    m    7   an                  1    n0   am    2                 3  19
_~~~~~~~~~~~oo . ..                               .... .... ^-- ....... ..... ........ ...................  ...........................  . _ ................ .. ... ____......... .... _     --_
"W  e.a  mtts                       M        3tr  low            a        O 449                Z * 20    2 w6   7                 6A                        0    It_  so__ _        so-- -
-           -        -        -         -        -               -       -         -         ------  ------                                             m   .
1010   441     3983om   350oo    56M42111 151:65001B   am  110138  152    30     194     1789   10713mo    0161591  541100 311 6    556AM   8131   1191



Table 2.7 S Stratey for Envronmentally Sound Forest ULtilztion
Detailed Cost Table
(ZlIty Mmio and US$ TMousand)
gmse Costs (zloty mtilion)           as  Cots t(USS'O)    Tottls Includin Contingencies CUSSO0O)
3-94      195   96-98   Total   93-94     995 96-96   Total    93-94    1995    96-98  Total
I. IRWIWJN COSTS8
.       ....
A. DaY. of Strategy          21504   5376        0   26800      1536   384       0   1920.      1536    34         0    1920
.. .... ....... ....... .......    ...... ...... .. ... .... ....... .........  
Total IINT   OSTS               21506   5376        0  26880       1536   384       0   1920       1536    384        0    1920
Totd                         21504    S376       0   26880      1S6   314        0   1920       1536    384        0    19Z0
412;4M  5 10I



Table 2.8    a              ad Geographi Information System
Deted Cost Tabl.
0UUtity                    unit Cost                        aM  Costs
unit   93/94   1995  1996   1997  1998 Totat    193-98            93/94     1995   1996    1997    19    Total
1. INVESTN OTS Cam
................
A. Data Cotlectlon EquLp.
Terminals for Foresters each      0      0   400   400        0   800        20.16           0        0    8064    8064          0    16128
Nodem Couincatfon        each      7     25   515      0      0  547          3.36          24       84     173O        0        0     1838
SLb-Total                                                                                    24    , 84    9794    8064           0    17966
B. ARCIINFO Software for G1S
Terminal Verslon        each      5      17     0      0      0    22       739.20        3696    12566        0        0        0    16262
PC Version               each     0  ,  0    200   220        0   420       127.68           0        0    25536   28090         0    53626
i4     . .      . .. . .. . .   . . .i ; . . . .. ..... .......... ..... ......... ..... ......... ..... ....... .....
SthrTotal                                                                                  3696    12566   25536    28090         0   69888
C. Computer hardware for GIS
A-1 Plotters            each       1      I      0     0      0      2      710.08         710      710        0        0        0     1420
A-3 Ptotters            each      2      22     0      0      0    24       171.36         343    3770         0        0        0    4113
A-1 Dlgitizers           each      1      1      0      0     0      2       33.60          34       34        0        0        0       67
A-3 DfgItfiers           each      2     ZZ     0      0      0    24        28.00          56      616        0        0        0      672
Graphfcs Worketations    each      0    30    190   200       0   420        2B.00           0      840    SW20    5600          0    11760
............... ,.... ....... ..........   ........... .... .....  ........
Sub-Total                                                                                  1142    5970      5320    5600         0    18032
D. Training                   each    50   200   800   400    50   1500           12.80         640    2560    10240    5120        640    19200
E. Cmutting  ervices         sum       1      0      0      0      0      1    1120.00         1120        0        0        0        0     1120
~~~A.  ...... _....... . ......_. ........
Total INESTMNT COSTS                                                                             622    21180   50890   46874         640   16206
Total                                                                                          622   21180   SOW         4674       6f   126206
C1     t Coiq tert  date collection equt for integraed syst  of State fr.
4b Purdhase of   ice wn software       INO type 6.0
4128/1993 10:51



Table 2.8 (continued)              mnt ad G  eographi                      Syse
Detailed C0st Table
S$ Taousd)
BIe  costs                         Totils fncluarte Contimencses
93/94   1995  1996  1997  1996 Total          93/94    1995   1996   1997   1998  Tout
1.  WTEW         ODSTS                  m
A. Data Colection Equlp.
Terminals for Foresters       0      0   576   576        0   1152         0       0    679    705         0   1384
Nodem Commication             2      6    124      0      0    131         2       7      146      0       0    154
Sub-Total                      2      6   700   576        0   1283         2       7    825    705         0   1539
B. ARC/INFO Software for GIS
Termna lVermion             264   898       0      0      0   1162       289   1019        0       0       0    1308
PC Verion                     0      0   1824  2006       0  3830          0       0   2151   2456         0   4607
..... . .. .?-;   ..... .  ....   ......0               ---  -------  ------     -------  ---....----....... .......,,*. ..... ...
Sb'Total                     264   898  1824  2006         0  4992        289   1019   2151   2456          0   5915
C. Computer hardware for GIS
A-l Plotters                 51    51       0      0      0    101        55      5B       0       0       0    113
A-3 Plotters                 24   269       0      0      0   294         27    306        0       0       0    333
A- Disitlzers                 2      2      0      0      0      5         3       3       0       0       0       5
A-3 Digitizers                4    44       0      0      0    48          4      50       0       0       0      54
Grahics Workstations          0    60   380   400         0   840          0      68    448    490         0   1006
Sub-otal                      82   426   380   400         0   1288        89    484    448    490          0   1511
0. Training                       46    183   731   366    46  1371            50    208    863 .44            58   1626
E. Conultnf Services              80      0      0      0      0    80         83       0       0       0       0     83
Total IIJESNIE05TS                  43   1513  3635  3348    46  9015            513   1718   428t?  4098         8  10674
Tota                             473 1513 363           3348  46 9015         513   1718   48    4098         5810674
'1b C"paIlutar  dat coltestion eWfp for intrated system of State For.
42p- Purd=e of licence and software ARCINIFO tpe 6.0
4/2~995  10:51
I k
Ou



Table 2.9 Fory    _                  Offioe
DaldCost Tabl
Zbb Mim ad US$ Thoumd)
emt1ty         IAf t CusS       amo eCo.           S.C. to Th.       Ttalts IeItwsui   ContIuntfee Th. S
93/94       Totl    19      9-          f-9  Totl       /          Ttl   95  196  9                 9 tol
A.0Offtc.S qu1p'mt                   1    0    1        89.6   90           0    90         6    0    6         7    0    0    0    0    7
.P   _es Cars                        I    0    1       13.40        134     0   134        10    0   10        10    0    0    0           t10
Total tIllVEITIE  COSTS                                                224     0   224-       16    0   I6        17    0    0    0    0   7
II. ReOL_ST  CoSTS
A. Salartes & bmir  Costs            4    4   20        4.00        180   1S0   900        13   13   64        14   15   15   16   16   76
B. Acttvfttes  0                     1    1    5       600.00       600   60   3000        43   43  214        47   49   51  52   54 253
Total lauREQT COST8                                                    780   780  3900       56   56  279        61   63    6   68   7i  329
Total                                                              1004   780  4124        72   56  295        78   63   66   68   71  346
(12' $ttin  up privatistlon office ln Gen Board of State Forests (4 people)
b  Inforoation, trainire, etc.
4/28199   10:52
r6



Table 2.10 Maketig and Export Pj                  J C
Detalied Cost Te
antltv *           hut cost               1B" COt
jt 11    1995           Total    19MS45         93^    199  1996-8  Total
1. IVSI     com
......... ......
A. Iqfpmm
Paswae Cors                           19    0      0    19      134.40      2554       0       0   2554
Caquut.rs                  eacS       54    0     0   54        26.8   O               0       0    1452
Fax Machines               each      lS     0     0    18       15.00        270       0       0     270
....... .......... .... ........... .................
Sub-Total                                                                    4275       0       0   4275
S. Ow. of NaItilngs trat. 42   sstem        1    0    0       1      700.00       700       0       0     700
C. TAITraining ahwn Prqfr        eac        1    0    0       1    1610.00        120     322       0    1610
....... ........ ..................... -.----*.............. 
Totad tKU Hm    COSTS                                                               620      322       0    4585
II. -1 COPS1
...............
A. Salad.. &  mundg eats         emci      56   56   56  230          45.00       2D    2520   2520   12600
3. 4etIn Ost                    eah        1U   16   18   90         120.00      2160   2W       2W    10600
....... ... .... ....... .......
lttl  _AIT    COli                                                                 4UtO    460    460   240
Tolat~~~_                                                            _    _
Totol                                                                            tQff5   5002   4a60   29985
Z1  Uswl=Ur        of 3m  mu*mtlu  emts 1tIno    aid Suglemt 3o*.
v 01mI_-t Of prlce Cate mist adM   str it byftw  ewl tmts
*0, Sli std  to   M1          eT000mdi ad TA     fw am prisilu  system.
4/WISP)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 110
I 



00
Table 2.10 (contne  Makeng ad Export Promom "
Deted Cost Tab
0    T60800
am  Caet In a.L             Total Inslsdbw c.ntli- as lb. $
lkidt    95%  19    9        Total           15            19  15 Touta
t-   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
;................
Passa,Wsrce16                                  01             19I9    0      0      0        019
C     _                        104      0      0    104       11      0      0      0      0    113
faxmshfns                      19      0      0     19               0      0      a      0    21
.. . ...... .....  * ..   ...... ..... .           ...... .. ... ... i..
SIh-total                       36       0      0   35        33       0         0   0      0    v
B. 0f. of Nwkstig qSt.               50      0      0    50        52      0      0      0      0    52
C.   Trainin an Pricin4s             92    23       0    115       101    a       0      0      0     V 127
Totl IuVWaySW    1                     447    23       0   470       466    26       0      0      0   5U
11. REOMM COSTS
..................     ...0                   ..       ...       ...     .......0   ...      ...
A. Ielas4s & 3iudn~ OoSt            160   160   160   900          19?   204   212   2ZO   Z9   1002
S. Oeaetng  ozStS                   154   154   154   m7            6     7 ,,,t ,,18e2  16t9,,19    911
Total  eoMI  OTI                       334   334   334  1671         365   360   394   409   425  1sn
- - inu .s. -   m.. -  U r =
totat                                M2   35    33  242             . 2OR    406   3   409   425  2AM
Zt Est, gist of 3 an   Ilsig  It n fro             luleoimit NWsllo.
2 Det elegat of price C o  MO        d as st  by foalgi comaltwat
4,w,  sS    tis (                                   an0  otoo)    T  setou.
412W1! 11:0?



.59-                                                          X2
POP 19 of 22
Table 2.11 Forest Enviroment Rese1ch Support
Detabied Cost Tabl
(Zlo  Miin and US$ Thousand)
_em(t 1t     63d  _u      ur.bw h.bl  SiXU0)  Tota 1_ _ltib  b reon(O
Mt  3-IS  Total   1193-95    U-iS  bldl  U-IS  legatt    l94  195  1"a   19   1"is Tot
1. Uff613c
A. Afftneuttom* OOISa14 4b V                       A          %     =        o m                   6n                a     a
kfttdwmalluvlm           arn         I 5     I 3.40      VA6   13=     1      U        ii     19    21    Al    at    p
..e.. .. .         ..... ... ..............c
adbrothl                                                  4*    339     4?   236        51    53    55    sT    It
Uqialprfnt    -l                             5.s 15 0    so       an110                59    41    40a    44 .41w
5aatsw1Aum               -      I    5      1*000        1       60    12    to        1t    a      1     14    15    4?
ec...  e... c.... ;c.   ; c.* ........  ..   ;c. _ .c_
$1k-7ea141 s                                                       5s   45 ,6           a5    14    56    3       de   U0
C. laud kVod. Salomon        V 5aut ia=                                     7      3                    aa                 "
ktrntbsevla       Sm 1a        5      446.30      443560    32160               3535        14      V 3   3561
lotal                          c                       1494   1443e   10    5         111   119   1a    13    at   01
a                        am      I    5    109.02        1440 IM       119   293       1             A 14         1   In
5   3Sez    331"s  3140                          3   30 a   3   33  a  )
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                 J=     V41    M       Is          lE9a TR    m  s Ip10X 0Wt   m
IL 1tt  nws                                      Ao    "it  In0 Z                   v     4   a Yw   9 
-nee      .e.. f**.fl   Ccc ............ e... c.... .   
At                       am                                2  10   14    5    9  1   m   n                              w
8qas -  1    5  100.40  103     512  7 M 200      5     9      9 U       SW
ktsniS                   urn1s   MOO                     is  3                          a           " 4 5
eec    .   _  * . v......................... ee......* ec e .  .   ....... ne . * ..........c...........   ee   _c ..
1111016                  VA                                     32    4    27           50    a2    a4    56    13 
Totl IU$d1-OW                                                          zS 3 7    19 37       4      4     4      4V    45   3
I. w"ff"uolste     TWA"f
Salaeso                  VIM    1    5       506         0             ao   1. oo a          591   53    a      n 
_e to                    Om no. 3  m4o   t                                    n         4 1t   4   4   5  a
e.-lo                    3m     1    5                          00 U          7    U           ? U1        U     1     U
fted ftvm14 I                             .0         54    180     11    56       12     13    13    14     1S      6
mAlweta                                                  196   496      7     36       7    151 I  1140  III   VA
Mau  mea                 urn    1    5         AO       a4   21                        4?    49    5       3 3    3
010.                     -         1    3    10.0                       a     15 1U           4      *     4     5    #
lie.                     ean    1    5       800          85    4       6    3      6       *        7     7     7    34
_Xed                                  to  Noo  w  2~~~~~~~so    n   in   VA   us  46
_3_ ...  em..1  5  ~.0  13  4     1     15   1o  _      .         1
1dTotal                                                  140 tUm    119 S0 1m0 1" 3S                 14    14    a    S00
0. kil   rm
Salaries                on    I w          1.           "O   #00    131    36         1       s     1      9  u       1
rOm                       m     I    S      50.00               15000    15    i0           2 as    v1    I?     3     3s
'ie .  OS    5  265.0  tr00         ST              19    19    II    T        2 1m
e.e..c  ...... e*e        .   C........... _ee   e.e..ee......e......... ...._ e.e_.C..___
TOWa                                                     21WO  510   45    SW   m       1      I78  .     w 9    1
Se FeIot lem3Me
4 a0                     -   1  W             0          53            3 9                 41   43  4   41
Kslsal.s                        1    5      100.0        io     56      *    1          8     *      6     9      9    42
ties                     mu    1    3X  20.0             3     00       14    71       16    1      17    n?    16    4
.eC.CeC CCC.  ...  _lee.      cc... ..^  _C.. e.c  Cc.. e_
_ o  _a mm  n  mm                                                                   mm  m        m on Pw rm
t4lsV                                                      115  5          85 4M                        9 "         1     4507
mnla  rosod a pruning.
412>1195 lIs tS1



0 IX
Table 2.12 Officeat Project            etle ion "'
Detae   aost Table
(Zlot Millio  and US$ Tl_omd)
StIty         nit Cost _ee Cost (zloty adl)  m". ont CS'00O)   ot  1un1"u61   Mtfi,ne COOO)
Wmm                    mwmm                       mminni
__.% 95.96 I.t.t   19__         5       9  I.t.t   95.94 W9  lout   93-94  95 196 I9? 199  Tout
t. 11_       00O'ST-''S
1      34.40        4     0   i3       1S    0   1         10    0    0    0    0   le
Coq,uw10              web    3    0    3         26.3        el     0    #I       6    0    6         4    0    0    0    0    6
FuIIla.kfna           eh10    1    0    1        15.00       1S     0    Is        I    0     1       1    0  - 0     0    0    1
******          *.   .....*......... . ...    ............ . ...
b-Total                                                     DO       0  20         16       16        1     0    0        0    16
...... --- ----. . .... ***    ..... so...
Tot twu T T                                                        230     0   20        16    0   16        1     0    0    0    0   18
It. -t CosS
A. Salaz *rleO&R    Cost  Sub,       5       a       90.00      45    450U  0         3   32  161         3    V 3   3        41  190
TotaIinJRRENTCOm450 41O                                                  U       0  3z2   32  161           3      7   30   39   41190
TOtal                                        3*        m~~~~~~~~~~SED  3mm~     - - o= m  mm   -    M amm  mm
otoa                                     -40    450  amO                              49   32  177       5S   37   36   39   41  208
t Est. of 3 profe    l unt In 61WF for aIn1stration of project.
4b Three rfest.r sto t O4pot sff.
55/195A 13:57



S.                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Tab le213 t_ _ddftmb tnb   GD6FO
-asx      m     m w~           = ;    mam
tAt   1"9  W tog   19S"ff  10f   "   964  TOM                   9-"ff n9"  im           l        ;to
................                                                                                   .
-A_ flm   -- a   I 2UI a                       42@ @  am    n  us  Om           "a In  "a  mI   1   Is  In  a
ORA IttX -                          11 I       2 !                                     a  -              -S
loW                                                     =it "Ss us    l04        34  25  "a-      SN  13 t 1  19 0   1r1
* Iasti65 IMertInIV   aS  ig        6**
mis   us|tr__e.
_tbt_Q-u-v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m



Tal  2.14 FPasTer a6tg
DeM Cut T
ZbMOM and US$ _bant
l*fty    Sift Oat         GuI    zodte )            lase C   Ot ")   Totls bimlow  bntlfli _wO
__                    _                                                               now
A. WW itntalus dt* 4       1   1   1   0           931.   Tob  t1    1156    a1  1W6               3I M.t   45  15 1M   1ff   0   0  4tt
L 6.TauV   tmh1            1   0   O   0   1    50           5      O    *       O          1O  .0          4O   4    0   0   0   0  44 
3197  1     51 13 1M                        0 45  1    16 3 t           0 51 5*
Tot                                                          7     5    56  61 6 SK           13  to        An  311  M   2M   54  56  IV7
tdn*  T     I  n T         u ad 9Ime.
*TftItJu d eoli*1 t e anauXs bZ muo
40. tfl*  ot ub = Mbt llithb s _33
Ss-[-~~~ 1                    At,__e



- 63 -
Pape I of 1
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOREsr DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROwCT
SCEHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ M ollos)
n Disbursement                              DP es
Der. Qtr.   CuCulative      cumulative
Total(%)         Sect        R     2
FY94
Sep. 1993        0.00           0.00             0.0
.)ec. 1993       0.00          0.00              0.0           3%
Mar. 1994        4.00          4.00              2.7
Jun. 1994        4.80           8.80             6.0          10%           6%
PY95
Sep. 1994        7.90          16.70            11.4
Dec. 1994        3.90          20.60            14.1          18%          18%
Mar. 1995         1.60         22.20            15.2
Jun. 1995        6.30          28.50            19.S          22%          26%
FY96
Sep. 199         9.50          38.00            26.0
Dec. 1995        3.90          41.90            28.7          30%          38%
Mar. 1996        2.40          44.30            30.3
Jun. 1996        6.30          50.60            34.7          34%          46%
FY97
Sep. 1996        6.30          56.90            39.0
Dec. 1996        6.30          63.20            43.3          46%          S4%
Mar. 1997        3.20          66.40            45.5
Ju.m 1997        4.70          71.10            48.7          S0%          62%
FY98
Sep. 1997        9.50          80.60            55.2
Dec. 1997        6.30          86.90            59.5          58%          70%
Mar. 1998        3.20          90.10            61.7
Jun 1998         6.30          96.40            66.0          66%          82%
FY99
Sep. 1998        9.50         10S.90            72.5
Dec. 1998        6.30         112.20            76.9          78%         100%
Mar. 1999        3.90         116.10            79.5
Jum 1999         7.90         124.00            84.9          86%
FY00
Sep. 1999        7.20         131.20            89.9
Dec.1999         6.80         138.00            94.5          90%
Mar. 2000        7.00         145.00            99.3
Jun. 2000         1.00        146.00           100.0          94%
Dte of Signaue: Juy 1993
Dte of EfEtevess: Octber 1993
Cloing DtMe: June 30, 2000
1 Al Fresy Projec BaWMd.
2 AlD pojs all sectrs i Europe and Central Asia Region.



-65-              ~~~~~~ANNE" 
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ]POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPNENT SUPPORT PROJECT
IMPLEENTATION SCHEDULE
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 _
-; - --   - - a   - --    - - - T   -    I
W_E~~ - l -           I * T I I I T T -  * -  I
0 111gI~E
r -          ar  -  a  _              
|"    _T          ~~~~1           1111*)|, 
,, il _ I.T    I  I1_ I *  I_j
.m.Ui .UUiE             *UUUEe U *  I_ Eini



ANN "                                             .-66-
P4gp 2 of 2
REPUBUC OF OaNw
"?O01F DEVELOPNM4T SVORT PROJWT
MAJOR PROCUREMENT PACKAGES
Bstimated ValeAprxmt
Packag                                       (US miin)                  Tmn
Haves8ti  EqBipm    - Packg One                   25.0                  Fal 1993
Haestig Equipmet - Pacge Two                      25.0                  FaO 1995
Harvesdtig Equimn - Pakag Thre                    25.0                  Fall 1997
MuIltipurpIe Harvestes - am)                      1.0              Winter 199V1993
(retroactve Finaning
Seed NEoto  Eq _pmen - Packg  One                  2.0                    1993
Sed Extacto  Bquimen - Pack   Two                  2.0                    1994
Soad Extra      E   _t p  - Packa  rbee            1.0                    1995
Sed E3toty Eqipmnt - Pa e FMo                      1.0                    1996
Production line for
Macroveeatv Prooato (J)                          1.3                    1994
Tre Nubsq Equment - Two Pakg                       2.5 eacb          1993 nd 1995
Comptr_ Softwae for GU - Two Pacges                3.0 each          1995 and 1996
Computer Hardware for 01S                          1.4                    1995
Haudhed terminals for Fresrs                       1.0                    1996
Comnp t   Hardwar for Parab                        1.0                    1994
3m  Root Seoelg Podci    Line (ID)                 0.6              Winter 1992l1993
(retoactiv finacn
For speffis on oqupmnt s  Ann  2 (DO"  Cost Tables) nd Annet 14 (Teha Decipio
of Plodot COmponet).



- 67-
Page 1 of 10
REPUIC OF POLAND
FORSr DEVEWPNME SUPPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENAL REVIEW
I. lNTRODUCI'ION
Genieral Ob at_
1.    Mhe overal objectve of the proposed project is to achieve sustable development of the
forest secor throug  envio     ly sound forest management_ The project Wi  asst the
Govenmet in execing its Prograwn of the Develope  of Selected Forestry Brxhes and
Proteton of Ecosystew In Nadonml Parws for 1993-1997, thereby enuin  the protcton of
Poland's foret ecological capital, proviing for social benefits, and accommding sustanable
forestry.
2.     The projec consists of sven components grouped Into four categories:
(a) I!hfronmental Forest M agement The project would fd activies to increase
the  ity of forest stands and their ability to overcome the effect of present and
fitu  les of air pollution and oter ss factors. Funds would be provided for
labor-inteve activides such as tending and thining; restoration of air polution
dmaged forest to proect delicate warsheds and prevent soil erosion; afforestion
of lad moving out of agriculture; and a genetic conservation and improvement
program to ensure the availabilty of high quality seed.
(b) M I aI  of Havestng, Skidding and Transport Equipment. Modem and
efficit har_veng, skiing and transport equipment that would reduce the negative
envirwonmel  pac of current practices would be finaced under the project The
General Diecte of State Forests (GDSF) will develop a privatzaon plan for
Improved harvesting, skiddig and transporaion operations by June 30, 1994.
(c)  Eosystem Conse ion in National Parks. Ihe project would provide funding for
he core component of a progr  to conserve Polad's forest ecosystems locatd in he
national park system. Forest management activites within all nadonal parks would
follow the plans of nadonal park prtction developed as a resuk of the project
(d) In i           D opment. Technical support, equipment, and relaed investments
to the GDSF and the Board of Polish Natonal Pars would be funded to assist the
organizatiol, _mnagement and finc  restrucuring of the GDSF. Funding would
als be prvided to develop a  atgy for evironme   sound fet utilizaion to
bance environmental and economic coniderations (input into this stegy will also
come from the resul of the related GE  Forest Bldodiersty Project). In addion, an
ihfthadon system, cWuding a Geogaphic Inf ation System (GIS) biteratd with
a plnng sysem, would be expwded for the Imp tion of the _ Sl
process In the sector. The system would onsit of prees for the sagc and



~~~~          _~~~C
CT1~
I~~~~~~~



- 69 -                                            s
Page 3 Of 10
when sap flow is mamiun   The suggested tming of pruning could miti   negative effects on
breeding birds and the period of birth of wild mamml such as deer.
7.     If this change will not result in unceptab  losses due to  na diss, it will conste
an effective mitigation to increased diturbanc In t  forests due to pruing actives. Ibis topic
is included in the reseach component of fte project (Annex 7, para 33). It b also obvious that a
number of mitigation meares can be targeted only when  e physical loction of the various
activities is precisely known. For exmple, the siting and tming of for  harvests can be adusted
if it is likely to impact an importat riparian or fluvial habi   Hence, individual local harvesting
plas will use local maps of ipor   envron       esoes, and  e location of the various
project-related acdvities will be linked. (Che cical reous which can affect hvt planning will
be enred and evaluated in the CIS described In 2 (hv) above).
8.    The env        l mitgatio plan for the project (Table 5.1) will be updaed annually,
employig the most current resul of monitoring, evaluon and project supervo.  he inM
aual Supervision Mission will review the input data, and dte second Suevisio Mision will
review the revisions to the migation plan suested by new data, maps, etc.   e resus wil be
described in each annual project report.
H. SlILVICULTURE
Conclusions from the Environmental Review
9.    During the review, the tchnical spralis ised the quesdon of  the silviulural
possibiliies on varied sites. Th viability of broadeved species on m   sites ib nt assured but
would certainly be positive in its environLenl impacts.   he review noted how the increased
flinning of the dense young stands will impact favorably o  e increse of healt and resistance
of trees.'
10.   The Environmental Review of the Polih Foresy Research bstitte as questioned the
completeness of the evalution of the herbicides, fi  , and insicdes. Much of the
discussion treau the impacts to the forety project, ralher th e env_ir aI m  , sas
sao  (e.g. the discussion of fungal inectDion       the coermcial plantions and the
suggested pruning regime). To address tis concen under the projec, for each fomulatin of
fungicide, insecticide or repellant t  is ued, the actie Igedien  mut be IdnOed so that the
active residence time, and occupational healt and safety aspects are fly nvestSgad. Although
the quanties of these materials are believed to be smal In relation to *e areas to be treated,
operator tr g and supervision under the Project will be empasied even If toicities  e relawvely
low. Several of the proposed chemicals are toxic to fish and cae wll need to be exercisd to ense
tat there is no accidental drift or run off no wetads and streams.
11.   During negotiations, asrances wwe obtained that all pedeWs propoed for use under the
project which are labelled as extrmely hardous or highy hazdous under the 1992/1993
Guidelines to Classification of the WHO  R     Con of Pecides by Hand wod
not be financed by the lo  and that any pescides prposed fo use under d  project whose actve
ingrednts are not include In the  delin  will be sbmitted to Ihe Bank fr Wroval prior to



- 70 -
Pags 4 of 10
uso. To enue compliance, dhe anmnal report of te project will Include a lstg of all posticides
used duing th precedig year by active Ingredient under the project.



-71-                                                   ANNI] 5
PAge 5 of 10
Table 5.1 Po S.ll Rswrmeata Inacb and AMpbl Mom=
PROJEC                      POTENTIAL
COMPONENTr               ENVIRONMENAL                                MITGATION MeASURNS
eIIACTS
Thining and te  e of       To be m otnior  as part of th reserch coponnt.d AU hemials
liquid   gii    h th       subje  to ana mig    pln requmeb  onld n con MO
poet  fr midgion of    Nad           t    heal and safety  q mt.
of    chs, dib on m
sOiviultue in existing  blots.                   Agreement wer obtained tha active Igredients use under the project
forests               ______________  wil be subject to WHOIPAO Guidel     nd                 n wvaL
_ P     Pruning - migaion ad        Chmclmpat to be monirWe a part of th r           h componead
Ms"m)                 daiyec of  nicid and        11 chmals an sujectto ann   mWtgon pn requrmt inldn
wil  distbance.             applict  aft NdW occupational h hod N-aft  rquirments
Roach to be undetnbt idti  cosd ad benfs of advancn or
,__________  ______________   delaying pruing to avoid disturbance to breedg birds a idwb
LAnd hoaring, IDt          Incsed upav           of ind l opato  aN  p rn#        s f  sitd
prparaton and ersio        preparao wE be developed to reducde tem  clard nlo Include
_________   ~~provision for intoducing erosion control measre.
Restoraio of Air      P_ott   against game u    The rsearh  mponoot wMil  n d   Investiaion of the pow l for
Pollutio Dam_         of repellen  reduon and    migto of eules. All chemia  opplatons Wi be su Dc to t
PEwiiiamnanW For"   fncing                               e  of h anual miigation pla  Specific reerch acvi
hav bee included for mainten  aN  man mt of g
populAatin and culling progrmo, wil Include conrolled hunting to
_________________mkitiat the econoni afet of the shor tem reduction of game
Protetio agaistrodent        Citgaion measur  as specified for i. us of 4 achmials. Te
and us of ontrol chemicals  reseacbh om     wd  deeop bilgc  cool meas    to swsiu
=:~~~~~~~~~~~~o Ih mieloonm
Inuion Of sits of          Sits suh as wioands amd Woelfiat ars wl b   udd  In
envviomental               iniia sits selatdon.
AffmmdRtion     Impac of land prepmarain    See above (but note tha the area hav bee extensivey ploughe
(Evihromema Poret                                 -r"1Y.
Mangement)       j Use of falize  nd              Se above.
_____ _____ _____ Diazinon__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
-eal impac asoiaed    Miaton mesu  for havesing m  to be wInld  in harves  pla
wih havesting an traport  whi  wgl prvd enfocable odiion ad reg"ons ad idm*
oper_ton      an soil      sensitiv sie for each   vidual hrvig opaion.
erosion, so compactin,
Mod_nirio of          Imact on ripai              Introduction of the lse   envioWn   beig harvest
Haresigand Log    vgti, acciel fe                 eq_ui       tecdnlo  to rplae eisotg old equipme  wih dam
T    _npo             spills, impct on therd    tres ad soil durig econ w  be perioaWa rewd duwl
fitigation measues wih  pecto tranpo    h   ua  of minor
signica ) ar nt proposd at this time, noneh    , ths ae to be
addressd and included in psojec moniorig and ealuation
Cncai              _AI_-iona mwbedt vknudd _,*
Ecosystem             P12nning - Impat frm       prpation of approprilte  i  consrutong            in the plan
Conselvation in      Implementtion, tourim and   proces and supervisin
NadonA Prs            d_eopnt of vior
.   ~fcfii                                   _      ____
1/  nsiution  Development sagnifiat compone  of the pect will supt te developmen of  *e necsry
financia and human resource to undertk the miptmgto measurea  As suc it is n  ot nlue in this table.



AN_                                         -72-
Page 6 of 10
Impacs of Component Acivit
12.   Tho tning of about 800,000 ha wUi encourage healhie stands of a better miix of narally
seeded species. They will providgreater st a dversity, forage diversity, and production, and
cover for a w r variety of animal spcies, enhancing biological diversity and stability of
ecosyems. Th impac of this element will efaoe be gerally positive.
(a) Thinnig of older stands with poorly developed crowns (possibly 10,000 stems/ha by
the second dtnng which will leavo about 2,000 stems/ha), is to be accompanied by
applicadon of a liquid fungicide to stumps. Although localized to the stumps, any
migration of chicals, efects on soil biota, and any potential consumers would be
studied as part of the monioing  d research plans. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained tha fangicides used for protect  stps and branch wounds from
fungal infcions wi not hae any long lasting derment effects on soil biota and
usage will follow the procedures agreed in para. 11 above.
(b) PNang. About 38,000 ha or 9,000 ha/yr will be prned (before the proposed
thinnin program).  his is a labor iensive actvity which will require about 10,000
person days over the course of the project. Since normal practice in Poland is to
schedule such work In the spring when sap flow protects against infection of the
wounds, e applied resarch component under the project will analyze the costs of
advancing or delaing the prunin a month to avoid human disturbance in the forest
during the breedn season (birds) and the birth season of mamals. The migraion
ad effects of the fungicide, Furaben, will also be assessed in the research component.
One fomulaton of tils fungicie purportedly contains Captafol, and since this Is on
the hazado  WHO ast (see pana 11 above), the project has obtned assurances that
tis omuaion is not to be used under the project. In addition, agreement was
obtaned hat prug would be done during t  time period when the risk for fingus
attacks are at a minimum and heang will be quick, and at the same thie disturbance
to the resident ad bree     wildlife will be at a minimum.
I.L RESTORATION OF AIR POLLUTION DAMAGED FORESTS
Conclusions from the Eln a Reviw
13.   The Review indicated that the restion of air pollution damaged forests will have a
sgnificant net environmental beneft  A number of impacts however require some fither
consideration In the conduct of the project
Impacts of Component Activi
14.   Land Clearig, Site Pepwatlo. and Erosion. h techniques indicated for land ciearig
and si prwation will ievably lead to negatve environmental impacts (soil disturbance, erosion,
etc). The magntub of the  Impacts wi be neglgible provided due care and supervision of the
operations are undtaken by the GDSF. Extdve clearcut ae  with significant soil disurbmce
on seep slopes wll need to be avoied. Ins   the prescriptons for site preparation will be



0
d9frA                I
Iii      T1Itp  it                     I
m
iliji                .=uhIII              gig'
11111 liii" jig  AI.O8U              ji   11111
a              El
I              4041
      IiJ!j!,a       I Ij
81!I                                *      I
JI              S           * *:  to
I.
111*1
6



ANSX5                                        .-74-
Pag 8 of 10
18.   Ihe are a sever apec of this component that mi  have negative Impact tat require
nestigaio and possibly mitigation meurs tat may need to be applied.
(a) Excluslon of Sites of Envhreoatal S    ce  S   suh as weands and othw
signifcat areas will excluded from the afforesalon areas and these are bein
identified in the field as an initi part of the site selecdon.
(b) Lad Preparation. Ploughing, a one-off actit under this coment, will hav a
minor net Impact compared to the agricultural practde which k replaces. k should
also be remembered that Poland is gnerally quite flt. TMe often sandy fors soils
are to a large extnt of alluvi origin and are therefore not sensitive to more eroson.
Pbughing to breac the hard pan give dramatic effects on the site's fertlty. Ovea
the net hnpact should be positve.
(c) Fertzw Appliction. he amunt of ferdlizer planned to be used is wiin the mid
range of applcation rates for agricultural land in Europe and wlI threfor hae a
relatively mir  difference in impact from the previous land use. Nonethls It is
recommended tha the monitoring plan takes positive steps to check for any
eutrophication which might develop as a result of the use of fetlzs. Particul care
will need to be exercised in the supervsion of the frtlizer application so dth all watr
courses are avoided in the operation.
(d) Use of Diazinon. Diazinon tr_eaent of 14,000 ha of land to be afforeoed was
originally proposed for use in the project without an indication of any of the basic
toxicitles or eniromntal efflcts of this chemical. Altogh diaznon has been used
extensively in foresbty and agrkulure, ter can be loalized impacts on non target
species such as birds partculay if the gramnlar formulaon is used. A letter has been
sent to the GDSF requsting ht the liquid formulation and not a grauiar formulation
of this compound be used so as to protect wild lfe. This cbemcal, as well a the
other agocheicals to be used will be subject to the swe r      regarding
application and World Bank approval. hese   eements rdeaed during negotaons
on chemical use (see para 11) will be closely moniored during supervisio
V. MODERNIZATION OF HARVESTING, SKIDDING,
AND LOG TRANSPORT COMPONENT
Cond       f tom the EivromenReview
19.   The Environmt Review of the Polish Forestry Research nsttte did not Icludn
anaysis of h enviro tl benefits suggested from the simplified method to form assortment
bundles. (his simplified metod is deWibed in Annex 14e).
Impacts of Aives of the Component
20.   The assortmnt method being proposed wil result in a  btatal d   in the amount
of dame to rema        trees during bwesting. This soulW result In posi ti v



.75                                           -
Pag 9 of 10
as we as project related Impacs.      wilg also leav needles and foliage on si aidn In
ntrie  cyclIng, which would bneft the foet environmet Ote potiy ngaive Impacts tha
can be dnified are tihose asscIad with gener havesi  and aporttoperations. These inchdx
soil erosion, soil compaton, Impacts an rpr  vegetatop and nest te, accdenw fil spillge,
Impact on th road netwrtk, and mainnane.
21.   MWitgaon wmeaes with respect to havesting wil be embodied In hrveti  plans wh
IdeIy seitive areas for eac  indivia hvesting operadion (wetands, rlpa   veWaon,
specily sigidficant areas, etc) and provie enforceable conitions  d regulations for contr
and others involved In    operation. Th    hvestng pla  will bh   provisions to dose certain
forest are  during wet wther. Seasonably Importat sites for wild ife will also be ideified and
actored In to the havestng plans. Mitgation wfith repect to the Impa  from t porton (which
we thougt to be of minr significanc) could be adheved by a number of me sin    die
use of low compaction tie. Addlonal traffic flows around each harvest area will be of relavly
short durat. No mtgation measur  are proposed at this im  but his Wi  re qui inusion In
the moniing and evauaion of the project
VI. ECOSYS  CONSEIIVATION IN NATIONAL PARKS COMPONENr
Cod _slns &from the E.vlrone_el Review
22.   lhe E     n     en  vw carried out by the Forestry Resa    Instite idcated that this
componen would have a favrab  ffect oan the environment It Inicated tha an a ln scope
of activides should Inch de pu   of aeas destned for afforesttin inhe national park system
t also Indicated     the Fotry Rearch   s    was omiod from the pmming of rules for
th development and prtcton of the namon  park.
23.   Undoubtedly he planning process wil necesriy invobe the Fortry Research Instit
a well as oter institutions and bodis which have enical and scentifc eperts. The inclusion
of furdier areas has also been I d   witin the planming process, hower this woud need to be
consstent with the objectives of the partidcular park In qusdon and the desrabii  or otherwise
wuld have to be evauated from a pc     mi agelepusfyw                  tbsi   of *e
lands for an essenIal         pupmose.
24.    The Nadonal Protected Area Systm  equi   evaluation for eoystmM
Project-related ucusitlons should resod to such a gap alysi and consIderat   of mi=Im
vble popatin zes and minimum crical babitat ara required to sustain the nain biota Mm
actiitIes of all elemen  of this project should conorm to tis analyds of babi  pioriies as hy
emerge. Regula consulatio and project    _          repon  will be dmoored through the
supervisionmissions.
Impats of Avites of the Componet
25.   Ihe ecosystem conservation in naona pas componet has a number of tainly desIrable
Ipac. lbese are  vwed below.



-                                            -76-
Pag 10 of 10
(a)  Co     ao MPlaguim                 By tNi very atr some of the actvie to
be iplt  fm  tho                 planning procw  wMI reut I en iroiJnental
impact Of prinen  bh   is tourim and the devopment of visitor fames. T
mitigation wme s which need to be adoed here Includa
and apriae sit  and conuctiuon gu s  and supervision. t should be noted
tha the mas    are alre    covered In ho planing proem and furter mitgation
niss_m cumaobe ndcaed at hds tdm. lilaepcted dtih as a result oftheplanlng
proes die itegrity of theor  resrved owsy s wi be propely safeuded and
protecon will be enhanced lading to the sustnab  pron of natural vau.
(b)       b Wfuuctr Jestments. As noted above some of the Ihndbv d Investments fom
the plnning proces wil require                _        bb w    n
require some idication and a mnt of      l . At this stae die Impacts from
such atvtes wil be part of the planing process.
(c) PI!hfealond   D      _! --iad dan Mmhe profesonadevelopmt and train
Wi  have a posiie Ipact and wM reult In a high stand  of on ground management
of the park systm



-77 -AR
Pap lof 4
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOREST DEvELOIPMENT SUPPORT ftOJECT
ORGANIZATONAL CHARITS



POLAND - FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources & Forestry
EPNRF
1195~~~~~~~~~CW
SmWInIeui .       F                                     a
Mod-       
Ifetu  ofPo
Oufte~ ~~~N-r
_ 41t                         S



POLAND - FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Regional and District Administration
U-T
se~. See                                                sess
bFo
Saspeilseftmt        Fhe  a
a"$I                          .
US    _Se
htZd_~~~i



POLAND m FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
General Directorate of State Forests (GDSF)
Saud~~~~pwano
- ~ ~ ~ ~ s.   -   -1---_ '  1   'vai'"     - I  -
DC    __ F .r 
590"afts  Adobbbs"  mmem    1.0* aot_
DNA"  .MS.3 01"W.



Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FoREsT DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PItOJECT
PROJECr ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT, RESEARCH AND TRAINING
1.     The Mity of Environmen   Protection, Natal Resources and Forety (MEPNRF) as
th overall rAjponSibility for e ft     or. sW  MENRF has f   Vice-Ministers, In cap
respwectdvely of (1) Forestry, (2) Nature ConervatIo, (3) Geology an (4) Water and Air ProWebon.
The Vice-Minister Nature Consevadon, through ts Naure ProWcon Depmet, exerdcs gederal
supervision of the National Parks.
2.     Mhe Vice-Minister of Forestry, through the Forestry Dexeri. es genral
supervin over the forey secor. The Forestry Departm, which serves as a policy and
planning unit to the Vice-Mier, h  a smat cenal staff wodkng closely with the General
Diorate of Ste Forest (GDSF).  he Fortry Depmet also corda   festry rearch
work which Is partlY executd by the Foresy Research nttue and party by a number of other
initutions Including Agricultural Uniersites.
3.     A Forestry Council advises  e Minister on fte fomulaon of foret poliy ad aoaed
rules and regulations.  The 35-peron Council comprises representates  from  the foy
community, forestry  clties, the GDSP and privae  persons, and meets about 34  a year.
Genea  Dhietwate of State Forest
4.     Ihe GDSF has tie direct tehnical,    sd finana respoibilty for maaig
the State Forest under the diecton of the Director General. The GDSF is an entity of he Miistry
and manages the state forest propert on behalf of the Teasuy. It i, therefore, not a separe legal
entty. According to the Law on Forets of Septeber 28, 1991, te GDSF also provues exasio
and sevision of non-stae forests. The GDSF operates though 17 Regiona Forest Directa
and 412 forest districts (pe  nces) a   arious free-standing eepiss.
S.     Acord    to he Fores Law and related executive oders, th GDSF, has dh following
functions inter a1la
- represen the Stae Tresuy In clvil and leg  rlafto regarding the se ownd fo;
- issue  nive orders, decisions, udelines, insucon and ongoing diectdvs for
the performamce of sqtay tak reltd to foes  ta ar the property of the Sta
Treasy;
- establ   proper fiacial manaement systems for the State Forests and accounting
methods for the indivual uni of the State Feo;
- rescind such ac     and orders by rgional dhectors, yede and heads of
subordinate frest    g enterpris, ssued In contraventio  to fth  L4w  and te
inruction  sued by the Director Generd;
- detemine the prinples of maketing activiis cad out on behaf of the Sut  Foo;



ANN"                                         -82-
Page 2 of 13
. adminbter the budgetary resources available to the State Fores;
- provide credit guantes secured by assets other than forests;
- detenrmne the numbers of State Forests employees, and appoin and dismiss psonel;
- make proposals for the creaon, merger or dissoluion of, as well as titoral scope of
the operations of organizonal units of the State Forests;
- detmine detailed rules for the creation, operation, merger and dissolution of free-
standing directly subordinated enterprises and supervise their operations; and
- mandate the inpection of organizonal units of the State Forests to be aried out by
the bspectorae.
O rp  Impact of the 1991 New Foret Law
6.    The new Forest Law, passed in late 1991 and effective In January 1992, has had substantal
Impact on the org onal structure of the GDSF. The main effects resulting from this change are:
* decntrlzto
3 provision of services to the public;
* establishment of new financial organizaion; and
* the creation of a Forest Service.
7.    Prior to te new law, each of the Regions and Districts were self-financing edties which
wre govrned by a cetal plan. Now they are subdivisions of the GDSF to which substatl
financial and management authority has been delegated. This has alrady resulted In sub tally
ncreased responsibilides, particularly at the District level. These responsibilitIes Include Xt right
to Implemet the work program by GDSF own's own employees or thro    engaging private
contrsact   to undertak  planting, thuining, logging and espeay              District
superinten ts can now sell wood to local customers in their District at their own discretion, with
reconded   nimum  prices provided by the GDSF central office.   Inter-regional and
interational sales are coordhiated at regional and central leveis.
S.    The Districts   uperintendencies) are now given a budget allocation from the GDSF, which
is based on standard costs established through statisdcs of past operations in all Districts. To allow
for the operation of the central GDSF, and for different revenue capackles between the Districts,
adjustmts aremade Ihne allocatlon of budgetsto the Districts. If Ihe Dlstdcts are able to carry
out the actvity at a lower cost they have the right to utilize dte savings' at their discretion either
as rerves or as inducements  the staff.
9.     Previoly, ie enire GDSF was self-financing. However, the new Law stlates that
erain functions should be financed by the Treasury. As a  sult, for the 1992 budget year, the
Mistry of Finance is providing the zloty equivalen of $6 million for the following mand
acdvites to th GDSF:
* provion of eteion guidance to privat. forest ownM;



- 83 -
Page 3 of 13
* afforestation of low quaty stae farmland; and
* restoradon of forests that have been damaged by a party that can not be idetified
(migating damage primaly for acid rain damaged forests in S.W. Poland).
10.   The increased decizaton has increased the need for an effeve management
infrmation system. Such a system is being formulated. The first pbase of the intrduction has
sted with GDSF fids and will be frther epanded with project-provided funding. A paricularly
impornt compont of the management information system is the improvement of the finacial and
accounting system. The need for reform of the present finacial reportng system is dicussed in
Amex 15.
11.   The new Law has also made provision for the estab  t of a Forest Service, which will
include those officers that have direct field maagement and law enforcement responsibilities. The
Forest Service has special employment condidons, including free uniforms and, when on field
assige  free housing, special leave allowances, reduced public  porai  and special pension
benefits. Al these befits will substatially improve prestige and reduce the temptation to violate
the Forest and Civil laws for personal beneit.
12.   The net effect of this changed sructure has been a substially incsed cost consciouss,
which in mr has stmlated the privadation of a  nber of forest management activities. It is
estimated that the number of employees has been reduced by about ten percent sice the introduction
-"f dhe new law. The number of employees is however still far above normal levels in sinilar
coutries. ITis is to a large exnt due to a tradition of underting a number of auxiliary services,
sucth as housing, road construction and wood processing!, which could and the fuure wil be
eoutide he GDSF. The law provides for the formation of free- standing enerpris  to
carry out some of these ftions.
-estructued GDSF Or---o   and  aaeet Systm
13.    The centra organization of the GDSF has also been revised as a result of the new Law. The
work at the central level is orgnized under the following units:
- the GDSF Inspectmte, headed by the Chief Inspector of Stae Forests;
- the Acconti  Division, headed by the Chief AccoDunt of State Forests;
- the Adminisve Division, headed by a Division Chief;
- the Financial Division, headed by a Division Chief;
- the Sate Forests Policy and Development Division, headed by a Division Chief;
- the Forest Management Diviio, headed by a Divsion Chief;
- the Resource Magement and Legal Division, beaded by a Division Chief;
- the Trade and Markeig Division, headed by a Diision Chief, and
- the Public Access to Forests Section, headed by a Chief Speciali
1/  Por exam, de MDSM Iad a hctory fbr It. prodcdod of 1e uhinhy, 21 macir1y pair c_s, fiv fish
fimand 21 mpot cmpwi.



ANNEX7                                        - 84 -
Pag 4 of 13
14.   Th Regional Director osees the work of some 20                and us eecutd
orders, guidelins  d decisions to t  effect He or she shll:
- cooperte with other gov rnmnt organzatons In the reion, and if delgaed authority
over mn-govme  forests, carry out uperv ion of such fom";
- appoint and dimis perel of te Regional Directo;
- as a follow up to completed Inspections of s encles and fre-standing eneprises
in the Region, issue executive order, and supervise mpl ion thereof;
- rescind those acdons talken by supeintendS or heads of festanding ent ies tha
ae again  te law and man_gement principbs In force; and
-  superse t  operations of free-standing en s In the region.
15.   The orgional structre at the Regional lvel is silar to tha at he cent  level,
Includin the following secdons:
- amnstrtve;
- financial an accounting;
- cultivation and seed producdon;
- fors conservaton and na     enviprotcton;
- forest and resource dveopment;
- fe  udlization, engineering and work;
- Uade and mareting; and
- ptction against fire.
16.   The s             who i the dhief fores officer at the District levd,  al according to
the LW.
- pcipdae in the preparation of a forest development plan and supervise is
Implem ynatn;
- ensure proper appraisal, protection and mageme  of the fores  in h  area, and If
wwar ed by special clrcumstancestake decisions to deviate from  e for development
Plan;
- updae economic acdvity map and land regser
- cooperate with oher local govemnt organizati  and if delesated auhority over non-
government forests, carry out supervision of such forests;
- provide asistance to private foret  owners, within the limits of the Law and fluds
available;
- regule borders beeen forest areas and crop fields;
- participate In the prepaton of loxl land use plans;
- appoit and dismiss persomnnel of the s;
- carry out sale,lease or conracting out for the use of foress, land, amd other property as
wel as purcae of land accordig to pertnent legal ruti; ad
- determine  e o     Itil framewk for protecing forwests agat destrcton.
17.   Each s rinede ids lsoproviding supevision of some 20 Forest Ran , each managing
an area of  least 700 ha.
18.   The reoraaton of the GDSF, in the short dtme th  it has been Implmened, has already
reud In the reduction of ctivities not directly relad to forete    and has ested in



-85-
Pp 5 of 13
a reducton of sa  emloye. The project will include prvsion to alyze th possibility ibr
furiher reducing these activities carred out directly by the GDSF, as well as the possibilit of
reducing the number of regions and superintendencies to Inprove efficiency md reduce costs.
Forestry Research
19.   Forey rsearch Is carried out In te Forestry Research ntiue (FRI) and In dth three
Universides with forety faculties, namely Warsaw, Krakow and Poznan. IThse o     have
about 93 professors and assistant professors and 220 scientsts with Ph.Ds, or classifted a senior
resrchers.  In general, the Forestry Research Insute is doing applid reseach while the
universities are doing basic resch. Forestry research i8 also caried out a thde Research -
Development Center of the Forest Mahinery Industry, the Polish Academy of Scienoe In Kornlk,
the Intit of Wood Technology in Poznan, and in other academies ad scienic insttutes.
Foresy reeh is coordinated by the Polish Research Council, thgh its Commte on Scienific
Research. Thus, the forestry research complex in Poland is well staffd with highly qualified
scienot.
20.   There is a general lack of coordination between the research program  at the different
resrch  instittes. In many cases, research is carried out In solation from the problems of the
ical forester. The Borlaug I mission in 1989 came to the conclusionthat h*e research program
cunty in place appeas to have litle beneficial Impact on forestry operations". IIASA concluded
the same year that science in the forest sector must be made more relevat to the needs of policy-
makers (mandtd science) and the policy-makers must be made more sensitie to the use of
scietific Ino tio. These recommendaons and the now dchalleng  emergin from the transfer
to market economic condkions, has led to a resolve to reve reearch policies and strategies.
21.    Under the project, an in-depth review of the fors re ch program would be undertaken
and results provided to the Bank for its review prior to disbr _mt of project fwuns for inestm
In the applied forest mesrch conmonent.       review should aim at setdng re ch prioritie. All
xperinces concerkig the reorieaion of research indicate that insiutional rniztn is
necessay to chang old reseach patterns. This point is especially valid In cases such as Poland,
where a trnitlon from normatve to radonal planning is taking place.
Forest Research Institute
22.    The Instute is headed by a Director, assisted by three deputy directon. Te Dior is
swerabie bto th Vime Minister responsible for forests. The main part of te budget Ii provided by
the General Dietorat of Stu X Forests, but funding is also provided by Treauy, through  e
Committee on Scientific Research. It has a staff of 20 profesors and asitant profssors, 54
doctors, 52 senior- reseachers, 166 engineing and technical workers, and about 190 other staff.
It has 20 resrch sections, including three outside Waw, namely one In Baowlz, one In
Kaowwce and one In Cracow. It also has one fleld statio In Szkldr Poreba and one in Suwalki.
23.    The size of building facilities are generlly sufficient forr t  program. Specizd  rearch
equipmen is firly upto-de. There are some 70 units of computer hardware, of whch 55 IBM
comatible, and about 40 vehicles.



ANNEXC 7                                     -86-
Pagp 6 Of 13
24.   Th bas  scientific, tecnl, social and economic alms of the research program has been
as follos:
- sustaining forest production during changing conditions of the natural environment and
Increasing ecological dtea  to the forests;
- lsseing of biotic and abiotic danue to forests;
- enlaging the woody biomass production per area unit; and
- mechanizing forestry works having taken proper egonomic and social concerns in
consideradon.
25.   Research has been undertaken within six major groups of topics:
- forest ecology;
- silvicultue;
-seed sence and selection;
-       proteton;
-   ad on and ergonomy; and
- foret economics, forecsing and progming.
26.   In silvicultre much attenon has been paid to regeneration of mountin forest being
destroyed by air polluton, phytamelorton of poor forest sites, reaction of trees under air pollution
ste, and pwrnce tials. In the field of forest protection, research has been aimed at prophylax
against inet, Ata deceases and noxious agents, and minmizing the damage from forest flrs.
In th  field of         n and egonomics, most of the research has been aimed at forest
harvestng, but research has also been undertaken on regenraton, nursery and seed haes  The
Institt has alo assted te GDSF in preparing Intuctions and manuals and hi foecating.
Appiled Fot Research supported under the project
27.   The project would support inremental resarch in five major areas closely relatd to project
(1) Aforestatn
(2) Intensficutlon of tending operations;
(3) Seed producto and selctio;
(4) Reducton of the effect of ak polludon in the Sudety; and
(5) Forest policy and economics.
A draft rsearch program has been prepared by FRI, which has been discussed and mvised
during the June appraisal mbsion. Thi program would form ft base for the resarch component
However, dld aual rearch programs will be prepared, drwing on the needs idendfied by
the GDSP and odhr patie concenIed wkh forest mnagement and scientific reseacl. Ihese wuld
be reviwed durig Bank suersion missions. The proposed applied research progr  sall Include
quantified taes for each componen sting the expectd yearly achievemes.  he aual plans



Pap 7 of 13
will be subjec to review by a project reearch committee, appoitd by the Vice MisWer for
foey, and such yearly rearch programs wil be forwarded yearly to th Bank for commens.
Such review wil also nclude the aswssment of the rate of achievement of specified r h trets.
28.   It Is proposed that the contents of tho ial resewch program should be as follows:
Afforesttln 
Selection of appropriate indigenous and non-indigenous species and provnAnces for
afforestatlon of former agriculture land.
- Deerminon of species compositon for trees and shrubs for afforesatlon of area
threatened by industrial pollution.
- Classification system of giculue soils for forest purposes.
- Effect of plnting density on rowth and quality of forest stands.
- Development of metods for itensive cultivation of tee planadons on fom  aiclu
land.
- Study of the naural succesion on former giculture land and appriate m g
regimes for fores which have been eablished this way.
- Monioring of negative long-em effect of chemical preparations used to control do
larvae of Melolontha hipocastani.
- Elaboration of methods to secure proper mycorrhization of sseeling to planed on
agriculture land.
- Furthr development of neth   to define preferential area for afforstatlon at naton
as well as local level.
SIviatue
Improvement of tending methods in young forest stands In regions tongl afected by
lndustrial pollution.
- Effect of ensified thining on sability and productiviy of phi stands in ae ls
II ad m, and their influence on the rotaon of forest stads, wh envion   and
economic  pects duly considered.
- Study of the effect of p_-conimercial thnnis on the health and developnt Of spruOc
stands in th Sudety mountains.
- Study of the technology and economics of puning In young forest stands w   difft
density, Iui  assessment of volme production of differen quales and 8of m,
and sutable ting and techques to avoid fimgal and other danages.



-88-
Pag 8 of 13
Study of the possibilities of Increased use of smal diameter wood from thnig fr
fueWood, including he oaptation of existing cod burning fPue.
Soed Production and Seleci
Germination power of pine and spruce seeds selected from differt zones endangered by
industral polution.
* Development of in-vltro" reproduction methods for selected trees with high productivity.
- Comparative study of morphology and growth of indigenous species wih different
provences.
Reduction of the Effect of Air POUtoD In the Sudetys
- Monitorng of the ft  environment In the Sudety, including t  sudy of tihe s     of
soils, micro flora and fa and dimatic conditions in air pollution affected areas and In
dying fores.
- Study of the usefulness of spruce (of selected provenmces) for foet restortion in th
Sudeys (prsvaton of spruce genedc resources for moun  regions.
- Methods for biological control of rodents.
- Symptomatology of damages: biological reactions of trees and bioceoc chane In
forest ecosystems with diffent expose to pollution.
- Sue and formatloh of database on hydrographic conditions in nwuntn catchment
areas.
egenli at    d silvicusturef of deforesed aras .
heory and methods of pest control in mouninous forests affectd by air pollution.
Forest Economicsa
- Financ  ad ecowmic evaluaion of he environm   damage on forest productiviy
In th Sudety region.
- Conmpratve finanW  ad economic analysis of different fortry practices.
- Deveopment of metods for Inorhpoing the benefits of non-wood products and sevices
Into all economie c i.
- Develom         of appropiate meods to calcube finncal and emomic sumpag cos.
- An ongoig program to anaslye t  effects of GDSF roundwood prices and mecanm
on te foret and th fot ineusis.



'4
IiIt                  II   2AI    ii 11
ft
di
141       F I"
'UI    Ii             'Ii
a
=3 
1%   -                                           11
Wc
0
a       sq                0          2,
ins   a
0                     B
ii.i                                             U
'g                                    U
0       2;            3
U"                H.
*1  '.       -i
I.'
iii.                                Clb  I.



AN NEX7                                      - 90 -
Page 10 of 13
31.   It can be concluded fom examinn the forestry currculum t   a   mnizadon of th
education system Is rqed. Forestry education must be dieced twards taiing In subje s which
are central to the fAure transition of Poh forsy, such as foet eomics.   e modeon
of the curiculum b urgent, ad special antion must be paid to such subjects a forest ecology,
forst m, economics, and systems analysis of foresy problems.
Training of Fort Worws under the Ptojed
32.   Only a small percenge of th 140,000 fores workers in Poland are  ined at forety
schools. Most are trained by their fars or have taken short courses offered by some 47 forest
swperintendenles. To overcome this lack of professional forest worker traning, a traing system
is being orgadzed under the project. This worker tinin system would be located wihn or nearby
the work place, using a low cost mobile tranig sym
33.   Tes major advantage of mobile uni is that the trnng can tae place at die work place of
the forest workers, and in condkiom which In regard to tree species, loggn methods ec. which are
typical for the daily working situaon of the participas. During the Wani local problem can
be incorporated in the  cing.
34.   lhe proposed mobile unk trainn system has been successful In ote  ountis, such as
Denmark. where it was Initiated in 1974 and has been runnin since then with reat success. The
system would be an hitegrtd component of te Polish vocatonal tang syem. It i the Ii
stage In an extnded series of courses for the fors works. The mobile unib have mad  it easy
to draw the workers atton to the benefts they gain from Xtrnng. These benfs ar, among
others, efficec, qualit, personal safy and increaing Inome. Furtherm} It va dte workers
opportunit to work with less supervision and hereby improvilS their working oondilos.
35.   Applied tnng of fore       ers in   niqs, e'ficiency and person sa is via for th
Income both for the worbrs and for the employers. Couses on silvicu , operatona tchniques
and alike wll enable the worker to be more unassisted.
36.   Ihe trann at the mobile units would Include:
* use and mainece of chin saws   luding filn of the can)
* fengmeods
* pesonal saft
* tinni  tenques
37.   In the ini stat, traiig would concentue on basic chain saw coum so ihat the optmal
numbr of forest workr are rined. Latr on more       a  subjects would be enrolled in the
curricula. At dths stag, the participas can be doubled fom six to twelve In the classes.
38.   Tle mobile traiing uni contains a c=ssoomlwrkhp and a conto_n  for tools used In
th trani    The mobile unit s built on a truc and a trai  and it i thierefor pbsible to transport
tem by use of only one person (nomaly the tacher). To a de  the driver aher, a small
room is fted wih a bed a ktchett, toiet and shor. Shicw the              In Poland Is
nortiern European, bothe teacher's room and dhe dasoom would be heed and In_aed to keep
down  he heatng costs and to secure the opmldoor cmate.  be dasroom should conta 6



-91- C
Pap 11 of 13
work places. Each work plac is to be supplied with a hai, table, vice ad work i ot. Noesy
toob for teaching would be involved (e.g. overhead projeor, blackboard or whiteboard and elci
light).
Sdieulng System and Taining Numbers
39.   A cena scheduling system has to be made to opfti    th beeflt frOm th nubil un.
Te system would be made In close conncon to one of te existig fortry schools. lbT  wMll
mabe the system more flexible shInC a mber of tacher from h s8chool can take over I CmS of
dchmess. Over six year, 4,000 wores ae expected to be raned.
TaMk 7.1 Trmbag Scheduk 1993-1998
1993     1994      1995      1996     1997      1998
Unh In Opeation                1        2         3         3         3        3
Workers Trined Annualy       270      540       810       810       810      S10
Cuulave Tranees              270       810     1620      2440     3250      4060
Trainn Superintendences
40.   The forest superintnnles involved must see to at there Is a training  ,  whih In
regard to tree specis, age, logging method, etc. is typical for Ac daily working diat  of do
tic ipats. The mobile unit is parked close to this logging sbe.
Teauber Trainin
41.   In order to give te system a solid start, 2 teauhers per mobile unit will get 2 weeks training
at an eistg system. Specialized consultants will assist te units the fim monh In Poland. During
the frs year, consultants wouwld be used approximately once a month to help adjust th systm to
Polish condtions.
Cost Fdmts
41.    he oval budget (Table 7.2) is based on a mobile unit, a truck (includes    -
for the tacher ad store room for tools) and a trailer (dassroomlWorlshop). Mm  mobile ui
would be suppoted unde the Project. This is to be seen as a pilot pject, as eventaY 20 uns
will be necessary to cover a fres superi.



ANN1S 7                             -92-
Pag 12 of 13
Tabl 7.2 Esb8ed C eruexa Cast
Year 1        Year 2        Yer 3         Totl
Unit Cost                        155,000       155,000       155,000     465,000
Anul Operaitg Cbsts/UnIt          20,000        40,000        60,000      60,000
Teacher Traing                   40,000              -             -      40,000
Total                            215,000       199,000       215,000     565,000
One Mobie Unt (US$):
Track and trailer            120,000
Tools for tainin              25,000
Sundries 
Tool Coss                 155.000
Teacher Trainng (USS):
Trahig 2 week                 10,000
1 consutant, 1 month         15,000
Conulant assistance (periodic) L
Tod CWos0
Opwdng Cost Per Yeaw for 1 Mobile Unit ([S$):
Salay (tacher)              3,000 (1 year sWaay In Poland)
Administratio               3,000 C. month salary In Pold
Maintenance                 3,500
Fuel, elc.                  3,500
Alowances                   350
Totl Costs               16,5W
NOTE: Costs are based on the following: The mobile uni Is workng 45 week per year. Monda
Is used for drving the mobile unk from the forestry school or sewhere to te fors and
make evething ready for th course. The course s runing Tudy , Wednesday and
Ihurday. Friday is used for driving home and for the preaation of the coming course.
In th  way the nrunig of a mobile un wUI not ead to extra costs due to overdme. In
total, 45 X 6 - 270 workes can be traind at each mobile unit per year.
Projec    Dm      o
43.   The Mistry of d  Envin           Prtcn, Natural Resour, and Poret (MEPNRP)
woulM be resonible for the ovell impntation of Ote projecL Witn the Ministry, tr
nie unit would bhae     following specific implmen          reonsibiliti:
(1) 'he Genad  Drcoate of State ForestB (GDSF) would be responsle for
Impementingte folowing project compo:



-93-
Pag 13 of 13
* Afforestation of 37,000 ha;
*  Restoration of air pollution damaged fore systems;
* Modernization of harvesting, skidding and transportation equipment;
* Genethc conservation and improvement progrm;
* Development of environmental forest strategy; and
* Intensification of silviculture in existing forests.
(2) The Board of National Parks would be responsible for Imple tn of thw
Ecosystem Conservation in Parks component.
(2' The Forestry Research Institute (MlL) would be responsible for   1i  of
the applied research component.
44.   The Office of Project Implementatie.i. This office, to be established as condit  of
efctiveness of the loan, would be located witin the GDSP directly underthe administai
supervision of the General Director.  One full tme Project C        a Deputy Project
Coorinat, two support staff, and a computer supp;ort jerson would be provided. The Project
Coordtor, to be appoin*cd by the Ministry of the Envkonment Protection, Natural Reo    and
Fortry, and whose qualifications and experience would require World Banlk approval, would be
responsible for:
(1) the management of the Project Account;
(2) coordinating Bank-funancing of project operadons;
(3) coordinating with other agencies involved in fte project, such as Ihe Aricultur
Property Agency; and
;     (4) developing and submitting quarterly progress reports and an annual project report to
tie Bank on a mely basis.
Te Board of National Parks would also appoint an officer whose qlificI  and wms of
refece are satisfactory to fte Bank, to coordinate ue funds made aval  uder the loan for
naional park improvements and to work closely with the Project Coordor in smting joint
quartely and annual progrs reports to the Bank. Appointnent of fte Project Coordior   and
Natonal Park Coordnatig Offier, whose qualifications would be subject to World Bank approVa,
is a condion of loan effectiveness. In addition, the Ministy would establish tho OffiCe of Project
Implementation and the Park Coordinating Officer as a condition of loan effecdves.



^-95 -                                          t8
Pae 1 of 2
REPUBLJC OF POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
SUERVIION PLAN
1.    DurIg the mont    and superision of thle project, ihere is the dbdnct dWer of a papor
blizzard with lot of raw data but little analysis and useful synthesis of the Prog    Repo
ubmied by 'b Project Mt. he supervision plan suggested Is more frequet (averag
te times per year) as wnll as more tecncally oriened compared to to normal schedb of semi-
annual stafconutan efforts in regular Bank projects. The sdheduled upenision vib mpond
to mietone prposed in te project. With th  project being implmntd over i year, a
comrehensive inesve prga  of sueviion is proposed, avergn 34 staff w          amually,
for a totl of 204 supmv on staff weeks.
2.    in formlat  t  prposed  wpervision plan, the focus on the timing and sk!I mi of staff
was based in part ot  rel of the sensoiivity analysis carried out during aWpr . Is nalysis
idicatd dt the prcject benefits are sensitive to dmely prcement and proper us of havest,
idding, and transport equm t to improve havstn  effiiency.  Tho comosition of thO
superision misions in the early years of the project i skewed to ense that C     are
completed to te agre  schedules.
3.    A Mid-Tern Project Review is recommended for the summer of 1994 to tak stock of
Govement's efforts to restructre, m   ,  and in some cases privadze secons of the General
Dieaorft of Ste Foes. This review would alo   iew the fia cosvation management pans
dre by the Nsa al Park Board.
4.      me sdi mix proposed in the table below is tena , but suggests the mk of the iial staff
andmconsunts recomended for he supervision tas. Tle   onale is driven by  e desabilty
of compari  progms or uncipatd ches agait the conceul baseli  at project
developmeni The             tois  maintain the vision of the goals of the project wile avoiding
rigid adhrce to the original design if cnmges are warratd.
S.    Tree sersion missions are planned for each year of the proposed six year project
Impleenti  perod (es      ed at 2 wee  each, wth 1 week of reptwtuporturn). The
Core Team would include the Task Mager, the forest ecist, and the forest ec t/fanal
andalys supplementd by additonl scientist. The first servision is proposed for July 1993. At
thl: ctical    e, equipment and inf a       pt would bunderway,    e woud be
finalizad, the GIS Imple  n plan completed, and the applied research initiated. The second
sprvbsA misson wl tabke place in October 1993 when the afforestn and resation ftry
work and transport equipment is underway, and the init  design work on the seed extrcin and
strge  fles would be undera.



ANNE"                                          -96-
Pago 2 of 2
T 8.1 _PdpWI SaoMam St/ek Alokac
Staff Web (FY94)        Staff Wekl (FY95)     StasWeek
soten     Juy   Oct.  April       July    Oc.   April      Y 96-99    Total
1993  1993   1994      1994 2   1994   1995
TaskManagr                    3     3      3          3      2       2         25        41
PotwBoP onoiiall             2      2       1         3       1      2         20         33
Ponet SpeaIt                  3      3     3          2       1      2         15         29
Faredt  R _not  %MSpoihiit    -        -    1         1       -      1         15         18
(Trwt Fund)
HIaSlin&Torpolt              3      3      2          2      2       2         10        24
Specalstd (Iua FIund
Natow PPrb Spedai             2      -     2          2       1      2         15         24
(stm Fud)
Fort Nusetim & Stop           2     2      2          2       1      2         10        21
biur(rrast Fund
P    tEAoioit( ruatF uon      1      -      -         2       -      1         10         14
Sub-Told              16    13    16          17      8      14        120        204
1 bwludos field ma offico wodk
2 An inteve Mid-Tem Review of th Projec would be underten in the eadly summer of 1994 to ausc oveall
projec progre. ad to mak e -     1dfi  for 84smnsin project imlmnaima required.
6.     Te prped bd9et for this Itn     supervision work is 204 saff week. Mm esmated tota
supervision cost Is esmad at approximatel $300,000 (Inclusive of staff cost, consulta fees, tael and
s sen) accrig to th detailed pro    outlined in the matri above. The Division expet that a
minmum of 100 staff weeks of the spefic teical suervision work would be eligible for Tnr Fund
port Ibis would ea  a diect  pervision cha    of 87 weeks, which h in line wth regular    vison
coefficients on an annuiald basis (17 staff weeks per  annum).



_97-                                      MM
Pag lotS
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FoRErT DEVEOPTNENT SUPPORT PiOJECT
HARVESTING POTENIAL OF THE POLISH FORESIS
L. lc0o
1.     Te sustainable harvesting level of the Polish foe  has been debaed extensivy In recet
years. This annex reviews the tehical Issues on the susinability of tie haesting of the Poih
forests utilizing the infmtion available In June 1992.
2.     The analysis is based on th   sources of infrmation regdg the harest  potal In
Poland:
* Simaons carried out by the hternional lInsdtute for Aplied System  Alys
(JA) where different sceaios regading the ifu          of air polutdon on forest
growth wero considered.
* Harvestig plans presented by the General Dircorate of Stee Forest in their
ation Report datd Febnry 1992.
* Rough calcaions made by the June apprai   msion based on avege yield
informaion povided by the Genea  Directorate of Ste Forsts.
I. HASA SImulaOm
3.    MTe simulations were cared out In connecto with. th Project Idenification Msion In
April 1991 utiling the most updated foret infonation avable at tha tme. The model dneloped
by IA   is used in all European  ounes In order to esme the ifluence of air polluto on
fte  bharvesing levels. It utilizes infomation about the forest In tem  of speci, ag  ad yield
class distuton. The model also considers asmption regading prese  and  te dmages by
air pollution to the fores. None of the above information has  anged substily sinc Apri
1991, so the res are stil vid.
4.    The resus are summaized in Table 9.1. Although scenaio 1 does not take In  account
effects of fuure defoliadon *om air pollution, lt is considerd (by 11AM) a a consevatie estime
since the standin stock will hnreas by some 20% durn the simuaon perod (100 years). The
second scenario portays a vey negative siuation where the high polluton levels will gradually move
the Polish foests from light dama    into modere       imately into sevee damag csses Jt
is generally accepted ta the IIASA model tnds to overestimft the negve effects of air pollution,
especially ong term when ctical loads are assumed to shift areas into more seious damage claes.
Alo It has not yet been veified to what exe  defollaton actually reduces gh, while the IIASA
model assumes a close reladonship betwen degree of defolaton and growth reduction



-98-
Pape 2 Of 5
5.    Ihe third seario Is inbtded to reflect t  reulb of he efforts to be unetaken by this
project, Le., to rendce the damaging effc frm   air polation by injting slUvWuual trent
which wll open th foet and mak them vigoru with lar  green crowns. The estmated efflct
is th  the barestng level could be hIeased by some nin milon m3s ob.
Tabk  .l Remuts of Siuden, Cwed out by HASA bs AprIl 1991
Harvesing level
Havesting level   consMidering planned
Sceario                                       Efrom exstg                  of die
forests           frest aea
(milionms ob)      (millionms ob)
1. No  rher effects of air poludon                  30                 31
2. Conted air poltn at 1989 lvels,
rewduo  until year 2000 by 30% of SO2           16                  17
and 10% of NO, (agred policy) and thee-
after no reducns
3. Item 2 but intensified silvitre wil
miia   e effects of ddoliation                  25                 26
RlL Genal Dfetate o State Fosts Bavstng Phls
6.    The Genral Dhecra  of State Forests, which contibus more tan 90% of the wood
supply, in Polnd pln thic harvestg based on the folowing principles:
* Eah                 b Inventoried every 10 years estmating the standing stock,
grwth, and other c   ts forests for each stand                   forest area
in tem  of pecies cmp      age and growth normally such an area wod cowr 10-
30 ha).  Based on the invetoy, a forest m em    plan is made for the
Superintenency, specyinga harvt   kvel (anna allowable cut) for the next 10
years. It aso conn suggesfio  r what shuld be done wth each individual stand
durn dhe piod. 
* Based on the           pla, the Sueitnent elaborates anal harvesting plans
whih estia_t vohlmes to be cut for dfferent assormt. The tota vo e should, an
averae  over the 10 year period, not exceed the harvestg level specified by the
_  plL Tbis ghes the  9q -   - - -atcertain fleiility to adjust his harvest
according to market requrements for individual years.
* Both the amnal cut and the harvestng plans are compled centrally in order to provide
te naonal toas, to check that indiviu  Sies are folowing their
gidn  and to veri  hat volumes are in accdnce with market projecdos.



Pap 3 ofS
7.     At pren he allowable cut for the state forests  17.3 millon ms ob. TWs fgure has been
redtcd significantly dring tho 1980's to reflect a fear of nasing air pollution damg  and a
policyto save t  foest capital. I is also very low due to the facttt  alm   one thr of td
foret have been assigned proteion status for diffrent res, which severely redce tir
havestg potei. The new fores act b designed In such a way hat te proptcD  aras w  be
reved and only those areas with very clear protecton purposes will renain under such m
It should alo be pointd out that te tem anua allowable cut (AAC) as applied In Pond is really
an aggrega  of managemen plans. Normally AAC would be used for indicating th biologial
potenial for cuting a resource while mainaning a sustanabble yield. The biological potent  figure
woul be considerably higher for Poland.
8.     The act  cut si    198 and the Genera  Direct       of Soae Fos forecst for dh
project period are shown in Figure 1.  he nationwide harvesting level ha been decning since
1986, wen it wasjust under 25 mllion Os ob, and was iel to reach its lowest kvel in 1991 at
dightl less than 18 milion mOs ob. Th dmsdc reductons In 1989 and 1990 hae been explained
by very poor demand from th local forest indutay which b passin thogh a vey diffiult period
with old machiney and a worldwide recesion causing considerable reductions In demand for orest
products. The General Diecto    of St  Forests forea  is that harvesng leves will graduawly
pick up and reach 22.5 m3ion m's ob by 1997.
IV. B giadl Potential
9.    In order to asse above fgures produced by IIASA and the Gener  Direcoa of Sttel
Forests, the mission compiled basic forest inrmation regarding avera  yield class by region and
eies group for forests manaed by the General Diretort of Stae Forests. T  avera  gowth
expressed as a theocal mean anual Increment (MA), was ardved at by calca    an avea
si indeoc for each species, and through the yield tables used by the Geeral Directorate of Stat
Fo       translaStd irto a MAI. This MAI indicate what would be te average production for a
cran species over a rotation expressed In ms ob/ba and year. This figure could be consiered the
theorec' biological potential of what forests of that spes ar capable of producing over a
rotaion. Muldplied with the area of the species, it gives an indication of wht that are theoreUcally
would produce per year, if the age disbution was even over a given rottion age.
10.   In realy, a forest resource would nevor reach th production correspondig to t  MAI but
It would give an inicaton of what would be the biological potenta of a forest aseL The results
of the calculaton of the product of the MAI's and the reas ttal some 45 millon mes ob. Thi
figure relaes only to the forests mnaged by the General Diectorate of State Forests. If the age
dibuion is not drastcaly skewed, which it  not in Poland, k is reasonable to assume that the
potenal harvesting level for these foress would be 60-80% of the biological potential, ie. 27-36
million mes ob. Behind tis estmate lies the detailed fore  infomaton collected In the forest
inventory, carried out as an average some five years ago. It does not consider an evenal fture
rducton of gowth due to conted high levels of air polution. L is therefore impont tbat
informaton is collected as soon as possible on how the growth redc-dons are relatd to easily
observable chg, like defoliation, so tha such factors can be included when estmating th truo
annual alowable cut In the futre.



Actual and Forecast Removals in Poland
Esimates by the SUt Forst Board
R.lvimova in vomih m3s ob
1      ~~30                                         otw     w   f
t   -~  s  ...   .. . ....................           _fw    W
I                                                      EFuwIodt *-mI SF8
[i   2~0                                              VOW bo*mS1
sPitpop etorn SF
*Sawlog from SF8
Fusiwoo Indudes other mnr use
SF-Sa  Fores Board contolled forst
PrlV.-Prlva  forests



f e    tfI  g      XJ 
tliii'8  iiai          a-      Iii{
;illt    !i f J                 * I jIt
ltS~~~~~ d    SXt        3|g |t
1{|1 gE]   IIIilX   



.  Zl l    1;'jf1l  i,'             I i .I Iz    ,I  'I
]}II1Llii 8IIT   '                     @



ii 1[1              'SElll        r1'11
Is~~~~~Js
us~ I                  j    ijtjl  I



-105 -                                   a=    I
Page 3 of h.
(d) empWloymet in rural aeas. Despite the fa that It k  not one of the projecs principal
alm to provide employment opportunida, seprl compoens will re      significant
amovlns of labor.  The Investents that are vo be mad  In  tnsIficatIon of
sI1vJcural operaions, forest restraton and afforestatio  of agriculturl land, In
pardeular, are labor Intensive. These components wll provide sgniflcnt employment
opporundes in rural areas over the next flve years (1993-1998). The project
contributes to mitaning economic acdvity In areas facing difficuldes during Poland's
period of economk, transition;
(e) enhanced anity alue from improved hefath of the fore  estae. Forest cover in
Poland b ranked hi&hly by sociy and plays an Iportant cultur role. The Forety
Department has to aWiow public acces Into al foret and to perit the free collecdon
of berries and mushom s; and
(fl  aditional hunting from extension and restrion of the forst. Game I a dgnificat
economic resource and hunting Is an importa and Integ  part of PolIh culture.
Polish huntng laws were enacted as trly as 1775. Hunting is also an increasingly
Important eane of foreign exchange in tems of exports of meat and sales of licenses
to foreign huners.
6.     Fie   1 schematically illustrates the main inputs and outputs (as project benefits) of the
project ?., well as thek expected effect ard Inpact.
V. Quantitatve Alalysis of Benefits
7.    Seal of the benefis desacribed above and  lustrad In Figu  1 can be quantifed to give
a pLai quanttatve economic analysis of the project. ITis ha been completed for componen A
to B. ITh result are summaried In Table 10.1. The weighted averag projwe tconomic raw of
tun, taking into acount all financial cost is 18%. If only ths fici coo asociafted with
componen  A to E are Wncluded in the weighing then  e economic rate of retu  Is 20%.
8.    Theee quanate economic analysis is.discussed in more detail below with rads to spcific
pect compon    and a detailed explanton of assumptions s given in Appendix 1 to th  anx.
9.    In additon to the benefits from the sale of wood this anysis esdma   benefi frm
huning, other 'on-wood products, recreation and amenity and cabon seq   Even so, weli
reognized benefits remain Ounquantifieda. These include - to mention a few - I neti   time
prefe es, fte shadow price of land, the protcive role of forests (particularly on wmrsheds and
agant erosion), the landscape value of foets, conservaon of flora and fama, conrvation of rura
coties and Io                in micro-elimae. As a result he quanfied analysis rmains a
prti  eco    c assessment of project benefits. In contst, project eoomic costs a  rate  better
Lnfi
A$q~



I
* 901. -t )rUse



-107.
Pop 5 of 11
abe 1b.1 Wse Avwe h*d &.amI Ratef R#ftm
W44
F 1nu  eCst            M Pe
US$          (%)      ((% )
CmoonbA llmb B
A. Jusmficm o  ofSibioUhmlTembagOp _uom        93.8    31         22        -
B. R.amtion of Dmaged l4s                      55.8     a         10
C. Aforuation                                  37.0    12         10        -
D. Oeo Comdi &              o      m           404   i            10
IL H4sIig&Twsoft                               74.0    25         38          ,
Totdl                       301.1   100          -       20
All Pjsct loial Cos.
A. kimfficaadoSlilrkuwareaiuOp _g Oum          93.8    28         22        -
S. R1do1_tion of Yawed Famsb                   55.8    17         10
C. Affoustal_                                  37.0    11         to        -
D>. GenWe Cotwuficm &    aveoPmgm              40.5    12         10        -
L  Hsdag &Trampoat                             64.6    22         38        -
TOWl                        335.3   100          -       i8
nmponlto  A -               of Sleltrd and Taedu  Opeaus In Edding Fort
10.    Calcuatin of the        economic rfte of rou  for ths            takest  a WItout
project duat  as one wher stn  a    t Ohned until ag 27 and a wil8 projea duatn whr
ds a  available to start thlng at p twelve nd to sm  stands, the better ons, to commoc
at th sant tme. PWin se cs   has bee used to rprse  die avae 'fores type' a
-_ ---benft due to  proved mOmes frm  wood only havo booe  used. In do  wW"
projec s i  It is a aned ta 45% only ofthe  wood fom ealy  inning I sold. Tabls 10.2
to 10.4 show the basic tedical dat used.
11.   ih  net          l econoc benefit nuaures de effec of hopovhg t  andtus wood
quaity. hI bot 'with' and 'ww t project siad      a total of 424 m3 of Industrial rouodood
i produced over the otaton. In th unthinnd w&out proct suaton 398 m3, or abmost 95%,
of ts b pulpwood. Whero eay tbhig ar hclded under ie prject t  prponin of
pulpwodfal to lesns ta 60% of to total, 252 m3. For heb  stas whebr ealy tnig s
aco paed by pruin t  popoo of pulwood In thotoa falls ftotde to 51%, 216 3. To
poetIrase th proporon of sw ad             I to pulpood.
12.   Ibe ecnmic Irnal rat of rer for this os b 20%. Th aalysi masr
in wood rven and, s can be expe , th ERtR bs sesti  to chgs In wood



C    10                                      - 108-
Pae 6 of 11
price. A 10% Incrase in wood price Incres the EIRR to 33% whIle a 10% fail reduces th E13RR
to 15%.
Componet B - Rcstoration of Damaged Forest
13.   The economc   lysis of this component uses a combiaton of differn stand models as
appropri  for the various fores types and elevation. Thes are Illustaed In Table 10.5. The
analyss takes each stand model over one rotion and i should be noted ta the second rotation will
also beneit from site   vements produced by the firs rotaton. For the seond rotaton one
would expect relatively cheaper establishment costs and beter growth. The main objectves of this
componern are watershed protcton and conservation. In additon, a portion of the costs involved
in rsoring te forest areas are one-off Initial costs whose benefits accrue to second or tird
rotations. It has not bcen possible to quantfy these benefits within the analytical framework adopted,
therefore their effect has been measured in terms of a reduction in establi   costs of 40%.
14.   The economic Iterna  rate of return for this component is 10% and the analyis incudes
.inrmnal beneis from wood production, hundng, other non-wood reveme, recreation and
aenit ad carbon sequestrin. The EIRR is relaively Inensitive to a marginal change in any
single benefit. For example, a 10% increase or fall In wood prices baves the EIRR uanged.
Component C -  forestaton 
15.   The project has identified three classes of agricu   land for   ores     Three
slvicuural models have been developed to analyze the economic retms to afforsting each area.
These are based upon six standodel for five species and six site clases.   with component B
abve, the analysi consid  only the fist rtadon. Similrly, k should be noted tha the second
rotation wlll also benefit from site improvement produced by the first rotaton. Ftre benefits from
site and micro-clate Improveme have been included in the economic analysis as a reduction In
establishnt cost. Many of these co   relate to one-off site preparion cost that have long term
benefts which are not possible to quantify or do not fall wit  the one rotaton anytical fraework
used here. Mhe relatve Imp e  of such benefits b llcely to be greater for poor sites than for
sites of better qualt. The costs of first yea blhmen of plantations on grade six agricultrl
land bave been reduced by 40%, nd for other agriculral soils, by 20%.
16.   Mmeeconomicinternal rate of returnforthds component s 10% andranges from9% to 11%
pending upon se type. Table 10.6 below iustrates BRs for the various stand models used
as*weil as ste type. As cam been seen In tie table, and as with component B, the EIRR Is relatively
inensitive to a marginal c e In any single benft
Component D - Genetic Corvation and Impvmet Prom
17.   There are two main benefits from this component. Firstly, an immediate hpovemnt In
producdvity and efficiny; and secondly a long term Increas In fore  growth.  Im aediat
Improve    s iin productivity and effciency will come from the Invesmen  being made In new
equim  and a reorganization of seed collection ad processing. The vlue of the imroemen
Is estmad at 5% of tie Investm   cost over a twenty year period (te economic life of fte
Investment being made).



Tabk 1ZO2 Cowpwet A -        _    fSllBbffd and Teadig Ope,n X ExinAingdFern
Pkn* Se Cbl n: WWet?me4 No ma(? Thbmig,, B Das
ptmng1               12            0.0 2.0    0.000            12      0.0                       0.
2t    2              17            0.000    0.000    0.000     17      0.0                       0.0
t    3              22             0.000    0.000    0.000     22      0.0                       0.0
tthIrnin 4          27             4.749    2.086    6.784     27    a39                        3
6t    a             32             4.032    1.728    760       32    35.8                       35.8
11t    6            40             4.138    1.773    .911      40     42.2      0.0             42.2
Vft n7              60             3.818    1.636    5.464     60    49.1       0.0             49.1
harves              60            11.191    4.796   15.987     60    238.7    26.8             262.9
total              _0.000   27.927   11.969   39.896                 37.7    26.3       0.0   424.0
e~~                                                      = _
12      so            60.0    60.0  11,260   1 1,250O            0.0   0.000       0%       0
17     100           100.0   iOO.O  10,913   10,913       0      0.0   0.000       0%
22     163           163.0   163.0  10,565  10,585        0       0.0   0.000      090
27     212           212.0   169.6  10,26    6,674    3,594    38.9   0.009       35%
32     266           22.6   178.9   6,474    4,337    2,136      35.8   0.017     33%
40     361           263.9   211.1   4,207    2,945    1,262    42.2   0.033      30%
s0     447           307.1   245.7   2,857    2,000      857    49.1   0.067      30%
so     53            3281I7   -0.0   1,940        0    1,940    26Z9    0.130    100%    I
to taw   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   9,789  42 4.0



Tall i*. Ceat_po A -              4fSuIawl dad Tae_ig O,ewa I Exiut  Pen
paw. - SkeCA  B.-, MO PA*c  E.* Thinnin IncbdedK Phown   Ehckdd Bha. Duab
pnrb toLoM           12                              0.000      12
pntoI&6 m            22                              O.OOO      22
purk4o65m            32                              O.OOO      32
U*wunl               12             2.71    0.418    2.790      12       9.6                       9.6
Vmft2                17             1.892    0.473    2.36      17      14.1                      14.1
_thin 3              22             2.225    0.742    2.967     22      21.3                      21.3
hmtb  4              27             1.963    0.837    2.791     27      24.9                      24.9
fthinn               82             1.780    0.7     2S48       32      28.6                      28.6
fthnge               40             1.837    0.787    2.626     40      29.2     7.8              36.5
thun   7             s0             2.088    0.86    2.9683     60      26.7    17.8              44.5
hwvst                60             9.087    8.878   12.910     60      97.8   146.7            24.
total                      0.000   28.186    8.789   81.974            262.2   171.8      0.0   424.0
12      so            00.0    48.0  lt,26       S.67    7.673      98.    0.001     689i
17     100            88.0    70.4   3,470    2,426    1,041      14.1   0.014      309
22     163            1884    106.7   2,8       1,606     660     21.3   0.032      28%
27     212            165.7   124.6   1,64      1,201     444     24.9   0.066      27%
32     266            178.6   142.9    1165      851      316     28.6   0.091      272
40     851            227.9   182.8     82M      602      228     36.5   0.164      27%
s0     447            278.3   222.6     584      438      146     44.6   0.305      26%
60     530           306.6    -0.0      425        0      425    24.6   0.576    100%    1
total  _____________  ______________   _____________-   10.926   424.0



TaMe iGA  vpeAM -               #1 hMcakara and rening OIpewtea a isIigiwsb
n.. - Sa t. s,m .-Wva Pft*4 Ea* Thinxin ead Pnmlng Indu.4 BAse Da
pvuntntom            8   2    0.040    0.860          0803
ONt Innn             12             2.371    0.418    2.M9       12      9.6                        9.6
VIlnn 2              17             1.892    0.473    2.36I      17     14.1                      14.1
_*mnto.          |   92             2.|2     0.742    2.967      22     21.3                       21.8
2t 4                 27             1.958    0.837    2.791      27     24.9                       24.9
"    6tnn            32 2           1.780    0.76     2.543      32     28.6                       25.6
thInn 6              40             1.837    0.787    2.625      40     29.2      7.3              8S6.
(MuIg             s0o               2.086    0.886    2.983      so0    287      17.8             44.5
havsst               60             9.037    3873   12.910       60     61.1    146.7    86.7   244.5
tW    |0.160   26.235    .789   85.174,               2155    1.8        8      424.0
19      110            $0.0    4801  11,260    3,57,17 , WS        9      0.001      88*      209
17     100             88.0    70.4   8,470    2.429    1,041      14.1   0.014      80%
22     163            1834    106.7   2,856    1.696      660      21.3   0.032      28%
27     212        | 567    124.0   1,646    1,201         444      24.9   0.066      27%
32     286            17.6    142.9    1.16      8651    315      286    0.091      27%
40     851            227.9   16.8  | 825          02     228      885    0.164      27%
so     447            278I    2226       584      488     146      44.5   0.305      25%
60     580            305.6    -0.0            I                         O         1        I
W                                                         1_  .  1 _  106  424



am    1                                  -112-
Pag 10 of it
Table 1.5 C.mU.aea t - ue&*o  a Stad, Dantge by A* Poeh fn
tot                43,000    8.000    8500    8,50      9000    9,000
op                 24,000    6,000    5,000    4,700    4,800    4,600
dosed              19,000    3,000    3,500    3,800    4,200    4,500
- restoraton of denuded area   24,000   56000    5,000    4,700    4,800    4,500
elevation:  O0 to 800 m       2,500     521      521      490      600      489
400 to 600 m        4,000     833      833      783      800      750
under 400 m        17,500    3,646    3,646    3,427    3,500    3,281
- reston by n       t          19,000    3,000    3,500    3,800    4,200    4,500
elevatn:  600to800m           2,171     343      400      434      480      514
400 to8OOm          3,800     600      700      760      840      900
under 400 m        13,029    2,057    2,400    2,606    2,880    $,088
ape"le selection
- restation of douded areas
areas between 400 and 00 m    6500    1,354    1354    1,273    1,300    1,219
- spruce - Si class 11 (40%)  2,600     542      542      509      520      488
-beech-sisecla 11 (30%)       1,950     406      406      382      390      368
- oal - uit dass  (30%)       1,950     406      406      382      390      366
areas below 400 m            17.00    3,640    3,646    3,427    3500    3,281
- pine - it cdas 1(30%)       5.250    1,094    1,094    1,028    1,050     984
- oak - te dass 111 (70%)    12,250    2,552    2,52    2,399    2,450    2*297
-restoration by  d l
areas"    e400 and 800 m      5,971     943    1,100    1,194    1,320    1,414
- spruce - ste lass 11(50%)   2,986     471      550      597      660      707
- beech - sit clas 11(50%)    2,086     471      550      597      660      707
as below 400 m               13,029    2,057    2,400    2,606    2,880    3,086
-oak-soteclssa   l (50%)      6,614    1,029    1 ;200    1,303    1,440    1,543
- beech - sO cla  11(5%)      6,514    1,029    1,20     1,303    1,440    1,5



-113-                                     ANNE0I
Pag 11 of 11
Tabl 1G.6 A        .a.uxax ..r A.t calm .d .imm .a .Rat  qf.               R
Site Typ                       StdModd
Tntal                        Pi=   Pis  Sp=mc   i     Oak   Beoc
A     B     C         TV    11    on    m       m     li
Baa.          10%       10%   11%   9%      9%   19%   11%   10%   10%    7%
Wood (+10 %)  10%       10%   11%   9%      9%   14%   11%   10%   10%    7%
Wood (-10 %)   9%       10%   11%   8%      8%   13%   11%   10%   10%    7%
18.   In the long trm a 15% increas In ft   ow  Is eapected. In        the
benefit from       increae 15% of the wood rve   and value of carbon    daton for pin sie
clh   ha'sbeenused. Tbishabeensppedto50% (34,00ha)oftenal reafforestat
program. Improved genetic materal wil becomeavailable l years afer project sa    Te fiSt
planting of improved seeln  will be in 2008 with wood coming from the fs thinnIng 12 yeas
later.
19.   Forty percen of the cost of this component is concerned with genetc conservation to
maintin bo-diveity. It should be noted that the beneffts from this, in teWms of fot  production,
have not been quantified.
20.   ITe economic internal rate of return for this component is 10% over one rotaton of
Impoved planting material for pine sie lass I
ComponentE - M     i ton   Harg     La Lo Transot
21.   The economic anaysis of this component compar  th  ivestm   in new agrcul
ttrs, trailers, skidder, forwarders and heavy-uty trucks to a "whhout" project dsat  where
exting equipment is maintined and replaced. The analysi does not inclue  an evaluin  of dt
112 ma ache     nes for fiuewood production to be puraed by the project. Th    are a small
propordon of the total cost and are being Introduced for research and en  purposes.
22.   A   Wlhout" project soenario assumes tha the Genal Dieoa  of Stab Fores will rey
on existing technology and equpment.   i Implies the use of over 1,750 hors, 30 skddders and
120 small capacty tucs to harvest and asport the sae  voblme of wood as the ismet In
nw  equpment being proposed.             economic benefts a  calcultd as he inrease in
producdvity and Improved effidency from the new equomnt as compared to the old.
23.   The cange  haein d   in-forest tranpot methds from the new equ nwi abo
reduce environmenl dame from tee activities. t shoud  be noted tha these benefits have not
been qnified.
24.  lhe economic hnternl rate of return for t  cmponent is 38%.



-115.SANNEX IQ 1-APED
Pag 1 of 14
REUBLIC oF POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT ]PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - MAN ASSUMPIIONS
1.     The paragraphs below discuss th main assumpto  which have been used to derive th
economic values used in dh quntfled part of the economic alyis.
Rlouldwrood Value
2.    Wood is an I-terIonally traded good. The econoc value of roundwood used in ths
nalyss i based upon expected long un traded valu. At presen  Polish wood Import ae
neglWiible and exports one to two nllion nd per year or about 10% of tot wood supply. Thle
are no substatial tariffs, Iys or other taes raised on either wood imports or expo
3.     Anex 13 gives deti on cure  and paut roadside prices for wood In Poland. It i ony
sin  1990 ta wood prices have reflected domestic and itmration  market conditions. Given ft
depresed ste of both the domiesdc, in pardcular, and fte world economies since  a time tse are
consdered to porly reflect medium ad long term wood prices. They are not used here as the base
upon which to callate prices for fte economic anaysi.
4.     Table 10.A.3 shows projected long run roadsie valu  (per m& sub) for vener logs, sawlogs
ad pulpwood according to the main specie used in the vaious stand models. These values hav
ben derived fromn genedc long-nm pine saw ad pulplog export par  prices (Tables 10.A.1 and
10.A.2) with vaiation albwed for qualt ad species differences.
S.     Buing economic wood values upon th  international price may stil understate the true
vaue of afforestatlon. a   r a   in  Te market may fall to anticipae fb        scwcity of
wood.
6.     Esmation of long-nm prices baed on short and medium term economic conditions falls
to allow for future sccity. To account for this, real price h esa   Incorporated Into the
economic nysis.
7.     A recent survey' of varous price projecdons concludes that a rangp of 0-2% per yea
Increa  In fut   red wood prices would cover all reonable assesents and that projection at
he lwer end of the range, paricularly for pulpwood, are more likely to be reaized. In this aalys
a real price hnease of 0.5% per year, effectve after the year 2000, for veneer logs and sawlogs
only is used.
I/  Wood pa... aepsol*l for pulpwood whwm only marina quantites am raed an quit aenaiti to dames in
busines cimabmte a ed t oI.iw thepeaks ad toughe f teooeaomio oyole. Tb fhee eftsa,.romoved fiom
th border - used in cak ludlo oof tonomic impo at opt part vdau
11  AodK IL no Lon Tem. Gkd Dasu.d FPr ..d S  ir WoS OodW Fo=7 Jaitut lUK (1991).



t~ ~~i                                  'I
3~~~~~~~                                                  3
s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~u



-117-                         Am= 10  AlDm=
PapeS of 14
.       bting  Poland b a s         _niicat sconoi actvity. The fit Nh h    is wee
enacted In 1775, In 1926 the Polis Nunti  Unio  (PZL) wa fwuniec   . . In 19217 de mos
advaced gam  rulion Ik Eoe mm encted  Today dEeo PZL h abi                     nm bers
belongg to 2,500 hu g clubs.
9.     Hutng for elk, red der, low doer, toe dor and wid boar aes pla  In fted ae.
Huntig plas submitted by tdhe  ntig  ub ban to be aroved by h o fot
10.    Poland . widely reognd as having som  of di         hunt in    Erop and ales of
'unting t*r   to foegmn  are _4pobr tao
11.    The  is no comoUdaed accoou  shon di  e  of hunti  In Pobh foe. Basd upon
die stu of existing game  p       In 1991 and assuminS   a 4ppriate  usainb harvest Oe
dwe vabe of h meat alone would be amos USS35 mlion per yea. Equivale  to US$5.2 per
boctare of force - Tble 1.A.4.
Th. 1OA.4 ZctmeadW O M jifiwaNab
Population                 Amup
a  1991)         A_uI        Caom        Unit Va1        TOt Va
SpecNlee                         Harvee    WegtOW"         (US$"kg      (U8ulm
k               S,340      22     1,160        130            33            0.50
Red dew        99,7        35    34,800        75             3.5           9.16
w dee           6,630      20    1i320         40             3.5           0.18
RoD doew      567,600     24   137,480          13            5.9           10.54
Wfid bow       65,110     110    93,610         50            3.1           14.51
TOWl                                                                34.8
Not. US$petha i 8.0
1  Ripoi ypdiyl        tbow m m  sutdtlogun emmao  iturimeaL MOAP.M
game eat tat I.ezpedd I. .In*tumm.        Mp ibmwbeeu .d 1US$ uda
of DM 145 pw US&
12.   in estmatg di to   vue frm hunt  - dt  Is heo coum r uplu  om  sti, dio
vue of opes eoc. - It would not be    _t  to doubl th anl per hectre vau for gm
meat For eample, evn at curnt               uralued ras, a red doee or lk ophy may
sel for up to US$1,500 and wid boar b_wee US$100 ad US$1,OOO based on die tat  In
adion huntn  provies   DOt          _ and ere"  not   iconoi atvty in odr
seorsn tugh th povo  of hunti    arlernalIcluding  s,  uclothin,
biculas, etc.
13.   In his economic aalysis a ta p': hecte anal vale f  hunti  of US$13 (ZI 179,000
per haper year bha bee 0used on    m    fed as    Tiscondd to b a convai
esta_t  Simila lod In Sweden wih not a good hunt   pe woul Cost at es USS1S
per ha per yea for te sporti  alo.



AS=  1 PP -                                  - 118-
Page 4 of 14
Vaue of Other Non-Wood Products
14.   Oh on-wood product Include the collecdon and consumption or sale of min, Chstm
trees, stump wood, bark, needles, frit, berries and nmshrooms.
15.   Oter non-wood products are an Important part of Polish rural life. Under the Augst 1991
Fort Act the Stae Forest Board i responsible for managing aivities concerned with: *resi
Chris s trees, sump wood, bak, needles, fruits, berries and musbroomns. In addWon, th Stoa
Foroe Boad has to allow public acoes to forest for the free collectkn of fuit, berles and
mushooms to satsfy individual needs. Collection of these Items by commercidal operators is paid
for under a contract wih the Superiendncy.
16.   During 1991 the State Forest Board eaned a surplus, from resin alone of ZI 41,148 mdilon
(USS 3.7 mIllion) equivalen tojustover Zi 6,000per ha If the value of non-commerci coliection
of other non-wood products Is included then this flgure would be significanty highe. In opening
up existlg stands and reducing inidd plant  densities the project can alo be expected to enhance
the per hectare vau of other non-wood products.
17.    Ihe economic analysi uses a conumer surplus of Zi 51,000 per ha for forests over four
meters in helghL Table 10.A.S illustaes the age of stand by main species at whic this value Is
used In the econmic analysis.
Tab;e ZS5 Ase qf Swzad by MAn Specks When Non-Wood ?dcls aiw CoGeId
Pine - Sie Cas IV ............ ..... ............ 16 yes onwards
Pine -Site C.ass   . ................. ............ 12yearsonwwds
Spruce - Site Cl as   ........    ...... ........... 19 years onwards
Birch - Site Class I .....       . ............            12 years onwards
Sesse oak - Site Clss M   ............ ............ 12 yeas onwads
Bech -SiteClas H. ... ............                          16year onwards
18.   Researh work in Sweden ha estimatd that the consumer surplus, in constant 1991 prices,
fom fuits, berdes and musm    is about SEK 52 (US$8) per ha4 - or ZL 89,440 which i more
thn the con er surplu used in this analysis.
eer_eam and Ameity Vale
19..  Forests in Poland play an hIportant soco-economlc and cultural role. A forest cover is
raned hihy  by society. Forests are valued hil for their recreadon  and amenky vau.
Woodlad which i currn    being sold privately for meny purposes  d where an Individual b
/  PWbi eoau s gm to A stt owed foet except for tho under 4 mdet in hgt zequid for seed and
usesrob, odlsufisdm nt    m, aound sprin, in aes thetme by erZos; and where   dw
_ us          to be at  d  - rich as ddud S haervesing, we is a high fir rik a   damp to vaetaioi i
osoo
it  Wib. . ?rwas - Ma*& and Mtervauis Pak  &wim. OBD (1g9.



- 119. -ANNEX 10  AEMi
Pag 5 of 14
permitted to construct a simple summer house Is beig sold for Zi 45,000 000 (US$4,25O) p
hectae.
20.    Table 1Q.A.6 provids eomas of to net benfib to Polish society for different types of
st.  he M st   of forest development ad typ of trees planted determ  t  Ivel of net benAft
used. In general, coniferous plntatons a  considered to have a low  recreaon and amenity va
than broadleaves. Although such benefs wil tend to accrue more quickly In conio  plantatons
due to their faster growth.
21.   It should be noted ta for th afforestatlon component tho benefi are trated as *grs
In the sense tha recreaonal and amenity benoef  from the altrave use of land are not accounted
for.
22.    An exhasive study to aess the recradonal and amenity consumer surplus attached to
foresy In the UK5 was cometed in 1990.  bIb study used the 'tavel cost methodoloSyw whch
assu_esdtt the recreational value which rational individuals gain from ving a forst must be at
lea equal to the tvel cost Incurred to get tere. This b 1kty to be an u      of theO 1ll
user   onal  ue. The results from this study gave an average consmer surplus over aU for
tpes of GBP 47 (US$89) per ha per year. he rae was 3 GBP (US$6) per ha for upland conier
to GBP 424 (US$784) for lowland broadeav.
23.   Work in the USA6 suggests a capital value atttable to recreadon and anity benei
(at a zero discount rate) of US$1,100 per ha of foret  - equivale  to US$11 per ha per yea ove
a 100 year rotaion. in Sweden" an averae figure for the country has been estmated at SEK 35
(US$6) per hecte. As expee, the lower density of potion and her proporion of fors
cover in the USA and Sweden than the UK reults in lower per ha consumer  rplus vahl.
24.    The vables used in this analysh are whin ra estimated for other cou    ad reflct
Poland's reladvely dense populaion; tie easy acce for amenity and recreation of most forests In
Poland; and the obvious importn  that the forest plays In Polh socety. No value has been placed
on young dense stands.
25.   Just as wood prices may rise in rea terms over time, so recreational benfits may rs. Data
from the UK shows hat outdo  recreational activity has been grwing at a rat of 2% per year.
As real per capita incomes ar to rise In Poland rel increues In recetoa and meiy valu
gI  Ban, 1. P. & K.0. WGlis. 2w Aw*gct VaIu qhh N.s-Paka Ref.m Boo% .1d'h F.wb7
cansta   a Pt  Cmm (1990).
Bowes AL D., nd . V. IrutIla.  *ipk Use ManaWpn    : 1 &eIc  4A 1IC FWWda. Rouc
for the Fut= (1989).
2I SeeNcte3.
1/A  copiman be mad basd upon die differnc in pwer cpita icosme betwee countrime.  r pvits Incm
in Poland i 10% di of th UIK  On   basis, tei doaoamer wupus ejiis for ietlan ad a iW in do
UK quoted in paragrh 1.16 would Siv an averp for Polad of US$8.9 (ZI 99,0 per ha pw ye VW al
foredt -ps.U =Vage would be US$0.6 (ZI 6,700) for upland conifrs to USS78.4 (ZI 876,50 for lowlad
brudaw.



ANE 10- ANDX    ^                                            120-
Pae 6 of 14
ca be expeaed. Mh& analys a_ue a ral t of  orem of 1% per ye  fom the yea 2000
Tb 1.AX6 Rd  Au*  Coawr Swpkus by Fomr Type
(Cnatan 1991 Mca)
AP n Years                                              Comaume Swplus
(by Fred Tp)                                           TZI _yr)
P:   Site Cla  IV
2-2 -2 Syen  ................  .............. 25
26   30 .............. .....  .............. 175
31-37 .....................  .............. 7S
2327 -   ...*........          .....  ............. 100
46-65 ......................... .  .  .... 000#*  lSO
66 .   ....................   .........*..    17S
pnao: Sie Cls U
18 -22 yea   ....................... ....... 2S
23-27 ....................  .............. 50
3-432 ....................  .............  75
334-540 ......           ............ .  ................  100
4150        - .  ................. .      ............. 150
51 .  .............. 0... .                ...........   17S
sw.O: sits C lm    I
2t - 25> yam...... .......... ....... IS
26-30 8   ..................  .............. 25
31 -37 ......................... ............   SO
3$ -45 ......................... ........                .     . 7S
46155 .     ................ ...... .. ... 100
15 1   .....................  ......400
B        Sit Class Um
26 -30 yom  ................ .............. ........S
231-37 .. ........... ... . ..............                      75
38-45  ....................   ............. 100
46 - SS .............. ...... ....... ......... t50
56 .  ............... ........... .....                .      .. 200
28 -32 ya    ............... .. ............ ....... 7S
33-40 ......................... ............. 100
41-SO ......................... ............. 150
51-60. ......... ..*...........  ,   ...  . o..... *. 200
61-100 .......... ............. ............. 300
101 +  #.*  ... ...                            ...... ..... 40
26 -32 yme ...............    .............. 7S
33 -40 .................    ............. 100
41 -SO .. .   ** ............... ISO
SI1-60 .................    ............. 200
61-90 .................    ............. 300
91 + .......   ..........  Soo



- 121 -                      ANNEX 10- AND1X
Page 7 of 14
ValueofCrbo  Squstato
26.    Under the temperat clmac condit   of norhen  Europ afforestaton produces a nt gan
in carbon fixing (carbo  suton) for a period of around 100 yeas for coifer and fS
growing broadleaves and about 200 ys for other broadleaves. Afer thi carbon  r i s
mtched by decay and  ere s no furtr Increase in stae.
27.    The rationae for including cabon se ion in thi analysis i  a Pbland togeer w
many other natons has agreed to at leastabilize carbon dioxide emissions by ely ne  century.
Creaig cabon "sinkLs (such as fores) is widely accep  as the negato of an allowabl emision.
The creaton of any carbon sinkshould consuoe an "offset for any carbo dioxide e ous of
equa awounts. The offset dea is effwvely the sustainability a ai   I emIods dlshe underlyig
reqiment that te tot of carbon dioxide emissions should not exceed a fixed annual level.
28.    WMa Is t  value of fixing a ton of carbon dioxd?   ere are two powh  dt have
been used:
(a)  th dama  avoided approach which eims the walue of a ton of cabon dioxide as
being equal to the dmage t   would have been caused if  e cabon was not
sequestered; and
(b)  the offset approach would suggest th he value of carbon fixing is equal to the cost
of offsetting carbon dioxide emisions by investng In carun dioxide reduction
tchology. This value shd be equivale  to the cost of subsmt      a non-bo
fuel for a carbon fuelt the rnwgin
29.    Using the damage avoided approach global wamig damuge estimas have been calued
reltd to losses of GNP9. A "medium damage scenario sugge  a figure of about US$13 per ton
of carbon. The damage avoided estmtes range from US$20 to US$40 (in 1991 prices).
30.    Work in the UK using he offset apoacsugges a figure of US$28 per on of caon -
wibin the range of the damage avoided approach.
31.   In Sweden, where It s proposed to tax carbon dioxide emisions at SEK 0.25 (US$0.04) per
kg, the value of an offset carbon sink would then be SEK 920 (US$146) per ton of carbon! The
value of carbon sequesradon could be of great value to society and f It  wer to be finucilly
rewarded would give a new dbmension to the value of ffresy. Some ektricty gent
companies are studying plans to establish forest plantions so as to offset carbon dioxide emisions
from   ir generating plants.
32.   In tis analysis a value of ZL 345,000 (US$30) per toan of net carbon seqesteed, in 1991
constant prices, has been used. khe anount of net cabon being sequesteed s callated as folows:
21  Waiw, I. ad L. Ayre. Okldi Wenuia Dmuamiaad Cost and Oldie Warning Ab.t.u  Pc&*a aid
CoM tLUA (1990).
IN  Andm _    D. Mmi Fawy hAdwy aid di Omaliw ff  For Comm (1990



ANNB  10 - A      X                          -.122-
Pap 8 of 14
(a) Pollsh yild data" are used to give the growdh of coummercial wood (wood wih a
diameter over bark of 7 cm or more) in in' per ha per year for each species;
(b) commercial wood volumes are convtd to biomass volumes using a converson  ctor
for eac species (Table 1O.A.7);
(c) the amunt of gosw  cabon sequestered is then calculated accrd   to the amoun of
cabon per in of fresh wood (blomass) for each spciaes Cable 1O.A.7); and
(4) a net figur for sequesred carbon s caculated by allowing for decay. Redons
have bwen allowed for the decay of removals and wood left in the forst Logs for
veneer d sawn  goods are assumed to decay conmletely over 40 years; logs for paper
over an average of 22 years (40% over 40 years ad 60% over 10 years); and tops and
brches left in the forest over 10 years.
Table 1OA 7 B1ma_  Cnverion Pacor and Carbon per asi e/Preh Woed
Biomass
Coneion   Carbon per af of
Factor     Freh Wood (tnt)
Pine                              1.2           0.200
Spruce                            1.3           0.190
Birch                             1.2           0.245
Sessile Oak                       1.5           0.300
Beech                             1.S           0.290
33.    Ihe esinates of net carbon being sequered mado for ths analysis ad using die
assumptions  tdetled above are comparable to thos calcuastd for the UK2. Avea  per hectr
and per year net cabon sequesion rues for the main spec  used the aais o' the Poland
Fores Deelopment Project  Illustrated in Table 1O.A.8 togetr with net figures cal ed for
the UK. Fig   estmaed for scots pine in Polad - the main speies - appear to be consevave
compared to those esmaed for the UK.
Cost of Labor
34.    The Sta Forest Board comples most of its forestry operations with pmanently empobyed
sta    he tota employment cost of these employees includes a number of taxable and nontaxable
benef1 in additon to a badc cash wage. Mm financial cot of labor to the project i   these
beneft on top of te basic cash wage received.
IV  PRau  by Zf Pt Coiw^ UL.            (1990.
W   lauzeb by b Foma~ Camuu UlL



- 123 -                       ANNEX 10 - APPENDIX
Page 9 of 14
Table 10A.8 Net Carbon Sequestrat9on Rtesfor Poknd and UK.
Average Net Carbon
(mt/halyr)
Poland:
Scots Pine: Site Class IV  ....0.86
Scots Pine: Site Class I .1.47
Spruce: Site Class I .2.29
Sessile Oak: Site Class II .1.65
Beech: Site Class I .2.23
Birch: Site Class nI ................        1.08
United Kingdom:
Sitka Spruce: Upland .1.70
Scots Pine: Upland .1.40
Birch: Upland .1.00
ScotsPine: Lowland .1.70
Corsican Pine: Lowland .2.70
Oak: Lowland .1.50
Poplar Coppice: Lowland .4.00
35.    Labor costs are a high proportion of project cost. Over 85% of forest establishment costs
and 70% of thinning and harvesting operations are for labor. The large amount of permanently
employed labor used results in fixed costs being a high proportion of total costs. To apply the self-
fnancing principles under which the State. Forest Board operates about 9 million e3 have to be
harvested and sold to cover annual fixed costs.13
36.    The problems in terms of a lack of flexibility that can arise from maintaining a relatively
high level of fixed costs are recognized by the Stae Forest Board. A proportion of the basic cash
wage now includes a task related element and contract labor is increasingly used. During the frst
quarter of 1992 the State Forest Board employed 55,000 workers. Of these 41,000 were permanent
employees (with piece rate earnings being the dominating form of payment) and 14,000 casual
laborers.
37.    Determination of the zloty piece rates is complex and based upon an comprehensive set of
work norms. These reflect historical command economy thinking rather than an appreciation of the
relationship between labor productivity and level of technology used to complete a certain task; or
the actual market cost of casual labor in a particular locality. Each work category (such as the
cutting and processing of wood) is assigned a number of points which reflect the arduousness of and
level of skill required to complete the task. The points weighing combined with the number of
hours, it is considered are required to complete the task, determines the piece rate for that particular
work category. This is then added to a base amount to determine the actual base cash wage.
1Y Based on 1991 accounts and an average wood price of ZI 295 000 per in3.



ANNE  10- APPENDIX                           -124 
Page 10 of 14
38.   The financial reporting system of the State Forest Board does not separate out the fixed and
direct cost or piece rate elements from the total wage of permanent labor. Nor do the accounts
separ&e out the cost of casual labor from permanent labor. For these reasons the derivation of the
basic cash wage shown below and used in the analysis is an average for all labor used by the State
Forest Board, permanent and casual, and includes both flxed and direct cost components.
39.   Table 10.A.9 and Table 10.A.10 give a breakdown of the total average cost per hour for
labor employed bv the State Forest Board during the first quarter of 1992, in constant 1991 prices.
Onto the basic cash salary are added:
(a)  Taxable benefits: amounting to 17% of the basic cash salary and which include bonus
and firewood allowance;
(b) Income tax: which is deducted at source and equivalent to 20% of basic cash salary
plus taxable benefits;
(b)  Social charges; which cover unemployment benefit and eligibility for State pension
rights and are equivalent to 47% of basic cash salary plus taxable benefits;
(c) Social and housing funds: contributions to these two funds average out at 3% of fte
basic cash salary plus taxable benefits; and
(d) Work place benefits: these include food, protective clothing and transport to work.
The cost of providing the work place benefits amounts to 9% of the basic cash salary
plus taxable benefits.
40.    Comparison with the cost of labor in the private sector. The average basic wage for labor
in private sector employment over the first quarter of 1992 is about ZI 1,800,000 per month. To
this should be added compulsory employer costs of income tax (20%) and social charges (45%)
giving a total average private sector employment cost of ZI 2,970,000 per month. In some Instances
private sector employers may also provide food and transport to work.
41.   By comparison, the average cost of labor for the Forestry Department at ZI 3,470,800 per
month is slightly more. In terms of cash received by the employee at ZI 1,747,250 (basic wage plus
taxable benefits) the rates are about the same.
42.   Economic value of labor. In estimating the economic value of labor to the project it is
assumed that the private sector rural labor market in Poland is competitive. Expressed in economic
terms - that the marginal value product of one unit of labor is equal to the price of that unit in the
marketplace.
43.   Direct transfer payments (taxes, social charges, subsidies, etc.) are removed from the
financial labor cost.
44.    The shadow wage rate is estimated as the total average employment cost of labor employed
by the State Forest Board during the first quarter of 1992 (in constant 1991 prices) at Zl 19,499 per
hour less transfer payments (ZI 8,559 per hour) and adjusted to equal the opportinity cost of rural
labor in Poland at Zi 7,303 per hour.



- 125 -                             ANNEX 10 - APPENDIX
Page II of 14
Table IO.A.9 Breakdown qf Total Average Employment Costfor State Forest Bocid Labor
Durng Frst Quier of 1992  (Zlots Isa constant 1991 prices)
Breakdown of
Zlots per  Totd Employment
Hour          Cost (%)
Total Employment Cost                                                 19,499              100
Non-taxble Benefits:
Transportation to work, food and clothiing                      1,124               6
Employer Charges:
Taxation, social charges, social and housing fund contribution  8,559              44
Taxable Benefits:
Bons and firewood                                               1,452               7
Basic Cash Wage:                                                   8,364               43
TabI. 1O.A.1O   Dedivaon of Total Average Employment Cost for State Forest Doad LIbor
Drang   rt Qua         fr of 1992 (Zlotys in constant 1991 Prices)
Breakdown of
Zlotys per Totd Employment
Hour          Cost (%)
Basic cash wag                                                         8,364
Taxable Benefits:
2onus 2                                                              755
Firewood allowance 3                                                 697
Gross Wage (excluding tax and soci cges)                               9,816             100
Income Tax4                                                            2,454              25
Excessive Earnins TaxS                                                     -                -
Social security (2 % of taxable income)                                 245                 2
Social in_sr       (pension) 6                                         5,522              56
Contibutions to social fund 7                                           225                 2
Contibution to housing fund 7                                            113                1
Non-taxable work benefits:
Food                                                                 169                2
Protective clothing                                                  506                5
Tanportato n to work                                                 449                5
Total emnldoymnt cost                                                 19.499              198
I   Avg  amout paid to both cmud ad peanen labor, and iwlude indirect wag osts as well a piee rate amou.
2    Eah workr is paid 13 months selawy owr a 12 mnth period the ex*a mones wage beig tte as a boom.
3   Each wokr is gBe a fiSewood alowan of 2 3 per month.
4    Income taX is deductd at soumce at 20% of taxble inome.
S   Elesiw  eai  tax is calcated on a theoetcd ermestablised by th Ministy of fince wic duing the fit
qat i    1992, wa Zi 2 291 78S per month. f the ceWd monthly wW  paid by sta ownd o atio  exee  this
amount then tax is paid. If the mony wag is up to 3%  rater than the norm then the tax rawe is 100%; if 3-5% get
the 200%; and if gaer than 5% then 500%. Durin the firat quater of 1992 the actua amounts paid by the State Foes
Board wem neggiblo.
6   Penion coributions ae levied at 45% of taxable incomo.
7   Contns to the sociand housin ds are levied at 25% and 12%, rpeciy, of th averw e wap   givea by the
sttisle office overth previous six months.



ANNEX 10 - APPENDIX                                -126 -
Page 12 of 14
45.    In many of the rural areas where the activities to be financed by the project will take place
alternative employment outlets are few. It is assumed that the main alternative would be smallholder
and subsistence farming where the returns to labor are estimated at two thirds of forestry work, about
ZI 1.3 million per month'4.
Opportunity Cost of Capital
46.    An opportunity cost of capital of 12% has been used. This is considered to be on the high
side for forestry projects - particularly afforestation - given the difficulty in making accurate and
comprehensive estiates of the benefits from such projects.
47.    It should be noted that discounting, essentially the treatment of time, in forestry is
controversial. Time is a particularly important consideration in afforestation due to the long period
of the forest rotation, 70 to 130 years in the afforestation component. The opportunity cost of capital
is the price paid for delaying consumption to some future period. In the context of forestry this often
means shifting forward to another generation decisions concerning consumption preferences. For
long-term investments the opportunity cost of capital may fail to adequately address these
intergenerational time preferences. Future generations may well value forests more highly than this
generation' .
48.    It is often suggested that the discount rate applied to afforestation should be lowered. The
UK government treats forestry as a special case allowing an opportunity cost of capital of 3% for
afforestation, if no non-market benefits are included, compared to 6% for most other public sector
investments.
49.    Many of the arguments for lowering the discount rate for forestry are arguments for valuing
benefits more accurately and comprehensively. In addition to the benefits from the sale of wood,
this analysis estimates benefits from non-wood products, recreation and amenity and carbon
sequestration. Even so, well recognized benefits continue to be "unquantifiable". These include -
to mention a few - intergenerational time preferences, the shadow price of land, the protective role
of forests (particularly on watersheds and against erosion), the landscape value of forests,
conservation of flora and fauna, conservation of rural communities'6 and improvements in micro-
climate.
WI  Th averaW reum to labo f*m subsistence fming is rwekoned to be about ZI 1.3 million. Dividing this by 178
hours gives Zi 7,303 which is about two thirds of the average State Forest Board wage. A onversion faotor for
labor (0.6) is calculated by dividing the hourly agrcultural subsistnce gate (Zl 7,303) by the aveae foretry wage
(ZI 12,270 - cash wage plus benefits and inoome tax).
&1/ See Kula, E. lhe Ecmomis of Foreant: Modern hewy and PuWc. (1988). Kula advocates a modified
discouting method in which discount factors are weighed according to the stcwture of the popuation in teams of
its generaions. The effect is to give a higher weight to fiutre cos and benefit than under conventnal
discounting.
If/ A specific objective of the US Forest Seorvioe is "community stability".



- 127 -                      ANNEX 10 - APPENDIX
Page 13 of 14
Base Year and Period of Analysis
SO.    Tbe project base year is 1993 and all prices are expressed in constant December 1991 terms.
Currency
51.   All costing and estimation of project benefits has been expressed in terms of the Polish zloty
(ZI). Where figures are converted from or to US$ a rate of Zi 11,180 per US$ has been used (the
average for December 1991).
Transfer Payments
52.   Both direct and indirect transfer payments are removed from the analysis where identified.



'-A
Figure C.A1.2 - Effect of Discount Rate
(species/site class stand mouels)                                                     0
700
In          600
0
L
0           500 
: 1~~00    - _
0
E                                                    .00
2  P0ne IV
+   Pine I I       Spruce I I        Blrctl I II  X   Olak I I I   V   Beech I I
I I~~



MAP SECTION



IB1D 2410MR
is.                     i6.                     is-                                             22     1
RUSSIAN
FEDERATIONLTHA A
POLAND
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/                                 A                  .1                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOREST DISTRIBUTION AND TYPES
r4                                                                                                                   NAW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k  NmN&PWSNMPOET
T                                      S     NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DSWRONOFALCA1TKX  PWTOB
BELARUS                             mSuo4
P~~t.do
.4                                                      -dC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'AMPffI    o-4Ti  
01                                                                         to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,
UKRAINE
o  ~~~~~~~~~~~~  0~~~~~~~
~ ~~ 2~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~  4   * ~~~~~~~~~~~.L
~~~.Io k o~~~~~~~.   ~~~~~   ~ ~ ~                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sd
SLOVAK REPUBLIC                                                                  TO *  ~0 
AUSr;M                    W                          2Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iu.1,4.2



IBRO 24300
POLAND
FOREST DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AIR POLLUTION IMPACT ON FORESTS
P ORESTS
SLUGHT DAMAGE
JjMODERAE DAMAGE
HEAVY DAMAGE
L +.  uz 4> 9               >           z            <                                        4                  x  Eoy~  ELARUS|                                                              l
f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*NATIONA. CAPITAL
.CITIES AND TOWNS
x                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
4l  POETS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Z    -'_  /  S.(YVAK REPUBLIC      J9_
$.4. 1.2,760,ODOMESSET195
f<X!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOAKRPBI
,              A        _ _t R'mumt                                                                   2}                                                                                          19



