Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3641 POL
                              Loan Agreement
                   (Forest Development Support Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF POLAND
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated August 31, 1993
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3641 POL
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated August 31, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement whose purposes, are to support the
implementation of the "Program of the Development of Selected
Forestry Branches and Protection of Ecosystems in National
Parks for 1993-1997", has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) to assist in
financing the Project; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
    which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year
beginning January 1 of each year;
    (b)   "GDSF" means the Borrower's General Directorate of
State Forests;
    (c)   "MEPNRF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environmental
Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry;
    (d)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
    (e)   "MOF Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (f)   "GDSF Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
    (g)   "Special Account" means either the MOF Special Account
or the GDSF Special Account as the case may be.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred forty-six million
dollars ($146,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States dollars two special deposit
accounts, the MOF Special Account and the GDSF Special Account,
each in a bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
Page  3
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
Page  4
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
under the supervision of MEPNRF with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
environmental, financial and forestry practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The Borrower shall enter into a Financing Agreement
with GDSF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower
and to the Bank.
    Section 3.02. Procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. Without
limitation on the foregoing, with respect to the technical
assistance for carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) by December 31, 1993, furnish to the Bank terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, for such technical
assistance, and (b) by June 30, 1994, have obtained the funds
for such technical assistance.
    Section 3.03. With respect to the equipment (including
vehicles) to be purchased for carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by
June 30, 1994, a plan for the selling and/or leasing of such
equipment (including vehicles) to private owners (legal and
natural persons), which plan shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower will ensure that forest
management activities within all national parks will follow the
plans of national park protection developed as a result of the
Project.
    Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that all active
ingredients used in any agrochemicals proposed to be used in
implementing the Project will comply with relevant standards as
published by the Food and Agriculture Organization. A list of
such ingredients shall be furnished in sufficient time for the
Bank to review and comment thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
entities or units of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                each Special Account for each fiscal year
                audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
Page  5
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year, the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5,
paragraph 2 of this Agreement, (i) an Office of Project
Implementation shall have been established and the Project
Coordinator shall have been appointed; and (ii) an Employee of
the Board of Polish National Parks shall have been designated
to cooperate with the Project Coordinator; and
    (b)   the Financial Agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement shall have been signed.
    Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Ministry of Environmental Protection,
Natural Resources and Forestry of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
Page  6
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Environmental Protection,
          Natural Resources and Forestry
          52/54 Wawelska Street
          00-922 Warsaw
          Poland
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                WODRO PL 817157                  812816
                                                 817157
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                        248423 (RCA)
                Washington,D.C.                   82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF POLAND
                       By /s/ Boguslaw Mozga
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in         Expenditures
Page  7
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Forest establishment
    and silviculture
    activities:
    (a) Intensification             18,000,000       20%
        of silviculture
    (b) Restoration of              44,000,000       100%
        forests
    (c) Afforestation               20,000,000       100%
(2) Protection of eco-               2,000,000       100%
    systems in national
    parks
(3) Equipment and                                    100% of foreign
    materials:                                       expenditures,
                                                     100% of local
    (a) Harvesting,                 26,000,000       expenditures
        skidding,                                    (ex-factory
        and transport                                cost) and 90%
                                                     of local
    (b) Geographic                   7,000,000       expenditures for
        information                                  other items
        systems/manage-                              procured locally
        ment information
        systems
    (c) Equipment for               10,000,000
        Genetic
        Component of
        the Project
    (d) Equipment for                  500,000
        Institutional
        Development
        component of
        the Project
(4) Civil works                      7,000,000       100%
(5) Technical                        2,000,000       100%
    assistance
    and training
(6) Unallocated                      9,500,000
                                    __________
        TOTAL                      146,000,000
                                   ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000,
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after October 1, 1992.
Page  8
4.  Disbursements under Category (1) of this Schedule would be
made on the basis of unit costs per hectare to be mutually
agreed and to be submitted prior to the planting season or not
later than February 28 of each year.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: to support the Program of
the Development of Selected Forestry Branches and Protection of
Ecosystems in National Parks for 1993-1997; to assist in the
introduction of economically and environmentally sound
management practices in the Borrower's forestry sector; to
reduce environmental damage by increasing the vitality and
productivity of the Borrower's forests; and to improve the
efficiency of forest activities throughout the Borrower's
territory.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Environmental Forest Management
1.  Intensification of silviculture in existing forests:
Pruning (about 38,000 ha), and thinning (about 500,000 ha of
under 20 year old trees, and about 300,000 ha of trees between
20-40 years old) by GDSF.
2.  Restoration of air-pollution damaged forests:
Restoring about 43,000 ha of forests below 800m in the south
and southwest to achieve mixed forest stands using improved
technologies, such as soil preparation, suitable species,
specially prepared seedlings and other methods.
3.  Afforestation:
Afforestation of about 20,000 ha on land owned by the Borrower
with an appropriate mix of conifers and broadleaf species.
4.  Genetic protection conservation and improvement program:
Development of a nation-wide program of seed storage and
extraction and further development of seed orchards.
5.  Ecosystem protection in national parks:
    (a)   Development of comprehensive conservation and land use
management plans for the existing 17 national parks and
possibly 3-4 new parks, which planning will include public
participation and will standardize the policy and institutional
frameworks.
    (b)   Improving infrastructure and management resources, such
as visitor and administrative centers, computerization, buffer
zone protection, communications and public education.
    (c)   Developing and implementing professional development
and training programs.
    (d)   Developing financially sound programs for national
parks operations and improving environmental management of
national parks' buffer zones.
Part B:   Harvesting, Skidding and Transport Equipment
          Modernization
    Support for companies, entities and persons in the forest
sector in establishing and operating commercial activities by
Page  9
the provision of modern, efficient, and environmentally sound
harvesting, skidding and transport equipment.
Part C:   Institutional Development
1.  (a)   Development of a strategy for environmentally sound
forest utilization; (b) completion and implementation of a
forest management information system; and (c) strengthening of
the Borrower's forestry research program.
2.  (a)   Establishing and maintaining an Office of Project
Implementation within the GDSF including a Section for
Privatization of Forestry Services, and (b) strengthening the
Division of Trade and Marketing; including the provision of
vehicles, equipment, technical assistance and training.
3.  Strengthening the financial and forest management
capabilities of GDSF and improving forest worker technical
training by the provision, inter alia, of technical assistance
and training.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
    beginning February 15, 1999
    through   February 15, 2010                6,085,000
And on August 15, 2010                         6,045,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
Page  10
                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable to
                                  the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                  multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price
will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Poland may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items which the Bank agrees are to be
supplied through a limited number of sources up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections
I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,
2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.  Contracts for construction/modernization of seed
estractories and storage estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $8,500,000 may be awarded on the basis of
Page  11
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.  Items or groups of items for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $300,000 per
package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
4.  Items or groups of items such as materials, office equipment
and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.  Forest establishment and silvicultural activities may be
carried out by GDSF through force account.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each package for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and for each contract
awarded in accordance with paragraph C.1 above, and the first
two contracts which exceed $300,000 equivalent and which are
awarded in accordance with paragraph A.1 above, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of such Special Account in respect of such
contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Page  12
Section, the provision of the Consultants Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall establish and maintain throughout the
Project an Office of Project Implementation within the GDSF;
and the Borrower shall designate an Officer from the Board of
Polish National Parks who would cooperate with the Project
Coordinator. The staff of this Office will have the
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and work
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  The Borrower shall establish, by December 31, 1993, and
thereafter maintain, a Section for Privatization of Forestry
Services of the Office of Project Implementation in the GDSF to
promote and facilitate privatization of forestry services.
Initially, in the areas of logging, skidding and transport, and
subsequently in other areas, this Section would promote and
provide information sharing and guidance to superintendencies
carrying out the process, and disseminate experiences learned
from the privatization process. This Section will also prepare
a privatization plan for harvesting, skidding and
transportation operations by September 30, 1994.
3.  The Borrower shall maintain the existing Division of Trade
and Marketing at the GDSF level and at the regional level, such
Division to improve the dissemination of information for timber
marketing and export opportunities; to identify priority areas
for marketing activity; and to develop, by September 30, 1994,
a price calculation modelling system, in consultation with the
Bank.
4.  The Borrower shall cause the Forestry Research Institute to
develop and carry out monitoring and evaluation of the Project,
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
5.  The Borrower shall carry out a review of the Project, and on
the basis of this review, shall prepare a Report containing
future strategic objectives of forestry development in Poland
and proposals for implementation of this strategy, and will
submit this report for discussion with the Bank no later than
June 30, 1995.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                             Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
(b), (1) (c) and (2) in the case of the MOF Special Account,
and Categories (1) (a), (3), (4) and (5) in the case of the
GDSF Special Account, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  13
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $7,500,000 in the case of the MOF Special Account
and an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 in the case of the GDSF
Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the relevant Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
such Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the relevant Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into such Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                relevant Special Account such amount as the
                Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                been shown by said documents and other evidence
                to have been paid out of such Special Account for
                eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the relevant
Page  14
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in such Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into such Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into such Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
