Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4.vA 3/// -
Report No. 7573-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 1, 1989
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a resicted distibudon and may be used by reipients only In the perfonnmace of
their offlci duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed wihout Wodd Bank authodon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit   -   Jamaican, Dollar (JS)
US$1.00   =   J$5.50
US$1 million       J$5.5 million
US$181,800   =   J$l million
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BMS    =   Bureau of Management Support
CAST   -   College of Applied Science and Technology
CGCED  -   Consultative Group for Caribbean Economic Development
GOJ    -   Government of Jamaica
HEART  8   Human Employment and Resource Training Trust
HRDP   -   Human Resources Development Program
LSMS   3   Living Standards Measurement Survey
MOE    =   Ministry of Education
MOH    =   Ministry of Health
MTFP   -   Medium Term Economic Framework Program
NAP    -   National Assessment Program
NGO    -   Non Governmental Organization
NWC    =   National Water Commission
PACE   =   Program for the Advancement of Early Childhood Education
PANCO  =   Project Administration and Management Company
PIOJ   =   Planning Institute of Jamaica
PSIP   =   Public Sector Investment Program
RGD    =   Registrar General's Department
SLC    =   Survey of Living Conditions
SOE    =   Statement of Expenditure
STATIN =   Statistical Institute of Jamaica



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents                        Page No.
BASIC DATA SHEET ............................................ , v
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY              .................... vii
I.   INTRODUCTION ................................................. 1
II.   MACROECONOMIC SETTING AND SECTORAL STRATEGY                 .     .      2
Recent Macroeconomic Developments ............................ 2
Medium-Term Policy Framework and Financing Program ........... 3
Bank Strategy ................................................ 3
III.   f.ATUS OF SOCIAL SERVICES IN JAMAICA ......................... 5
Public Health Services ....................................... 5
Nutrition Services ........................................... 7
Education Services ........................................... 9
Employment Aid ............................................... 13
Housing, Water Supply and Sanitation Services ................ 13
IV.   THE HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (HRDP)               .    .. . 14
Goals ........................................................ 14
Contents ..................................................... 15
HRDP Costs and Financing ..................................... 18
Management and Monitoring .................................... 19
V.   THE PROJECT .................................................. 20
Objectives ................................................... 20
Policy Actions ............................................... 21
Annual HRDP Progress Reviews ................................. 23
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission which
visited Jamaica in July/August 1988 comprising R. Drysdale (mission
leader), R. Moran (economist), H. Calika and K. Gibbons (consultants); and
an appraisal mission which visited Jamaica in November/December 1988
comprising R. Drysdale (mission leader), C. Valdivieso (economist),
B. Carlson (population specialist), H. Calika and J. St. Germain
(consultants). M. Grosh and P. Glewwe (economists) contributed to LSMS
design and analysis.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
Project Components        ......................... 23
Health Sector ...................................... 23
Education Sector ................     ...................... . 26
HRDP Administration and Monitoring    .      ........... 29
Project Implementation and Management ....................... . 30
VI.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ... 31
Costs ........................................................ 31
Financing .................................................... 33
Procurement .................................................. 33
Disbursements            ................................................ 35
Auditing  and  Reporting  .........................  ....... ....... .38
VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS        ........................................... 39
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................ 40
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 3.1:  Social Indicators: Jamaica and Comparator Norms
Table 4.1: Human Resources Development Program: Projected Disbursements
on New Programs
Table 6.1: Summary of Projects Costs by Component
Table 6.2: SummAry of Projects Costs by Category of Expenditure
Table 6.3:  Financing Plan
Table 6.4s  Procurement Arrangements
Table 6.5: Disbursement Forecast
ANNEXES:
1. Social Development Indicators
Table 1: Comparative Education Indicators
Table 2: Jamaica: Population Projections
Table 3: JamAica: Health Status -- Comparative Indices
2.  Public Sector Outlays in Health and Education
3. HRDP - Possible Projects for External Financing
4.  Statement of Sectoral Policies
5.  Policy Matrix
6.  Project Cost Estimates
Table 1: Project Components by Year, Base Costs and Contingencies
Table 2: Project Components by Year, Totals Including Contingencies
Table 3:  Summmary Accounts by Year
Table 4: Summary Accounts by Project Component
7. Implementation Schedule
8. Selected Documents and Data in Project Files



- tit -
Table of Contents (continued)
CHARTS:
Chart It Organizational Structure of the HRDP Secretariat
Chart 2:  Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Education
Chart 3:  Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Health
Chart 4:  Organizational Structure of the Project Implementation
Unit at the Ministry of Health
MAP: IBRD No. 20846
June 1, 1989



JA1AICA
Social Sector D-velopment Prolect
BASIC DATA SHEET
DATA           YEAR
A. 2ENERAL CCUNTRY DATA:
1. Population Estimate (Million)                                  2.8           1987
2. Population Projection (Million)                                2.7           2000
8. Assumed Year of Reaching Net Reproduction Rate of One          --            2005
4. Size of Stationary Population (Million)                        4.4           2155
S. GNP Per Capita (US$)                                           960           1987
6. Average Annual ONP Growth Rate (S)                            -1.8        1981-88
7. Urban Population as X ot Total                                  5t           1986
8. Literacy Rate (U)                                               90           1984
9.  Are  (C000 Sq. Kilometers)                                     11           1989
10.  Pop. Density (Per KU2 of Agricultural Land)                   487           19S7
B. POPULATION DATA:
1. Crude Birth Rate (Per 1000)                                     28           1987
2. Crude Death Rate (Per 1000)                                      6           1987
8. Annual Rate of Population Growth (X)                           1.6        1980-8B
4.  Total Fertility Rate                                          8.0           1986
S. Age Specific Fertility Rate:
15-19                                   122           1988
20-24                                   190           1988
26-29                                   150           1988
80-34                                   110           1908
a5-a9                                    78           1988
40-44                                    40           1088
6.  Infant Mortality Rate (per 1000)                               18           198?
7. Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                                78           198B
8. Population Age Structure (X)
0-14 years                              87           1986
14-84 yar.                              56            1986
65. years                               7           1986
9. Women o5 Child-bearing Age (16-49 as X of
total population)                                            48           1985
10. Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (X)                               62           1088
C. HEALTH DATA:
1. Population Per Physician                                      2800           1986
2. Population per Nurse                                           550           1981
8. Population per Hospital Bed                                    SOO           1986
4. Public Health Expenditures as X of Total Government Budget       7           1987
(Current ar Capital)
D. NUTRITION DATA:
1. Daily Calorie Supply                                          2676           1966
2.  Babies with Low Birth Weight. (X)                              10           1984
8. Calorie Intake as X of Requirement.                            116           1986
4. Per Capita Protein Intako (g/day)                               69           1986



- vi -
DATA         YEAR
E. EDUCATION DATA:
1. Preschool Enrollment Rate (1)                                 68         1987
2. Primary Education Enrollment Rate (X)                         99         198?
S. Secondary Education Enroll ment Rate (X)                      e1         1985
4. Higher Education Enrollment Rate (X)                            8        1985
5. Public EdiucatIon Expenditures as X of Total Government
Budget (Current and Capital)                               14         1987
SOURCE: World Bank, Social Indicetors of Developimnt, 1987
World Bank, World Development Report, 1988
Economic A Social Survey of Jamaica, 1982, 1986
Mission Estimates



- vii -
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT rROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Government of Jamaica
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Education (MOE),
Statistical Institute of Jamaica (STATIN), and the
Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ).
Amounts               US$30.0 million equivalent
Termst               Payable in 17 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Pro2ect Objectives
and Description:   The objectives of the proposed project are to improve
the efficiency, delivery and management of social
services in Jamaica, and in particular, of health and
education. It would support the Government's Human
Resources Development Program (HRDP), which represents
a comprehensive initiative to improve several
important social services in Jamaica. The HRDP will
provide an increase in the flow of funds to the social
sectors, which had been deprived of sufficient
resources in recent years due to economic austerity,
while supporting institutional and policy reforms. The
Bank's leading role in HRDP financing and
implementation will contribute to the adoption of
sound human resource development policies. Based on
the policy reforms and efficiency measures listed in
the Government's Statement of Sectoral Policies and
Policy Matrix, the proposed project will finance
selected health and education activities included in
the HRDP. Outside these areas, other donors will take
the lead in their respective projectslprograms under
the HRDP, in the form of parallel financing. The
proposed project would finance: civil works,
furniture, equipment (including vehicles),
pharmaceuticals, books, training, consultants'
services, and incremental HRDP staff for: health
sector development; education sector development; and
HRDP administration and monitoring.
For health sector development, support would be given
for: (a) construction, furniture and equipment for 12
primary health care centers, including nurses'
quarters in eight of them, and dental clinic equipment



- viii -
for eight centers; (b) acquisition and utilization of
medical, surgical, dental and medical support
equipment for hospitals, including laboratory and
pharmacy equipment; (c) replenishment of depleted
stocks of pharmaceuticals for preventive. curative,
and rehabilitative health care delivery; (d) health
sector institutional strengthening, including the
staffing of a project implementation unit at the NOH,
as well as training for MOH staff; and te) upgrading
the Registrar General's Department at the MOH. For
educaticn sector development, support would be given
for: (a) upgrading the basic schools program for
community-sunDorted, pre-school centers in low-income
neighborhoods by supporting the refurbishing of about
390 pre-primary schools, training of pre-primary
school teachers, and program supervision and
monitoring; (b) renovating about 20 primary and all-
age schools, to alleviate overcrowding; (c) increasing
the availability of primary level textbooks by
supporting the development, production, and
distribution of English, mathematics, science and
social studies textbooks for about 350,000 primary
school children; and (d) education sector
institutional strengthening by supporting the
construction of five and staffing of six Regional
Education Offices, the operation of the National
Assessment Program, teacher training, a pilot program
of school awards, provision of educational materials
for needy children, and support of the HRDP project
implementation unit at the MOE. For HRDP adminis-
tration and monitoring, support would be given for:
Ca) staffing and operation of the HRDP Secretariat
within PIOJ and (b) HkDP implementation and impact
monitoring, including semi-annual household surveys on
living standards, to be carried out by STATIN, in
collaboration with PIOJ.
Benefits:             The Bank's leading role in the HRDP formulation and
execution will help Jamaica to reap increased benefits
from the program, while keeping it within the agreed
macroeconomic framework and overall investment
priorities. Through its policy reforms and other
measures, the program would increase the overall
efficiency of social services, improve targeting of
subsidies and assistance, and promote formulation of
suitable strategies to protect the vulnerable groups
of the population. The proposed project's main focus
on primary health care and pre-primary and primary
education would help rehabilitate, improve and expand
these priority social services, and would give the
poor, especially women and children, better access to
them.



- {x -
Riskss                The main tisk, both for the proposed project and for
the HREP as a whole, is possible administrative delays
in program implementation. An effective role by the
HRDP Secretariat in monitoring, coordinating and expe-
diting the HRDP execution by seve.dl Ministries and
agencies would reduce stuch a risk. Special HRDP
implemenfting staff in major ministries and agencies
will help to expedite the program/project
implementation. Another important risk is that the
Government may find it politically expedient to
overemphasize certain segments of the HRDP (such as
food distribution and public works programs), to the
neglect of other more economically sound HRDP
components. The periodic HRDP monitoring system and
the annual progress reviews with the Government would
focus on program priorities on a continuing basis. The
Bank's involvement in the overall program and its
leading role in the donor aid coordination process
would provide an effective basis for discussion and
close monitoring of the !RDP expenditures.
Estimated  Costs:a/                             Local      Foreign     Total
- USS million ------
Health Sector
Primary Health Care Development               3.1          2.3        5.4
Medical Equipment                              0.1         1.0        1.1
Pharmaceutical Stocks                         3.3          9.8       13.1
MOH Institutional Strengthening                3.8         1.0        4.8
Upgrading Registrar General's Department       0.6         0.7        1.3
Subtotal                               10.9        14.8        25.7
Education Sector
Upgrading Pre-Primary Schools                   2.2         1.3        3.5
Upgrading Primary & All-Age Schools             5.5         3.6        9.1
Primary Textbook Program                       6.9          0.8        7.7
MOE Institutional Strengthening                 5.2         1.7        6.9
Subtotal                               19.8         7.4        27.2
HRDP Administration and Monitoring
HERDP Secretariat                              1.2          0.2        1.4
Impact Monitoring                              0.5          0.4        0.9
Subtotal                                1.7         0.6         2.3
Total Base Costs                            32.4         22.8       55.2
Physical Contingencies                            1.6         1.2        2.8
Price Contingencies                               5.8         3.2        9.0
Total Project josts                             39.8         27.2       67.0
a/ Exclusive of taxes and duties, which are negligible.



Financing Plant
Local       Foreign      Total
---   - US$ million ----
Government of Jamaica                          37.0           0.0        37.0
Proposed IBRD Loan                              2.8          27.2        30.0
Total                                          39.8          27.2        67.0
Estimated IBRD Disbursement:
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
-- US$ million --------------------
Annual                           3.0      4.2     6.3      6.6     7.2      2.7
Cumulative                       3.0      7.2    13.5    20.1    27.3    30.0
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Maps   IBRD No. 20846



JAMLICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Jamaica (GOJ) has asked the Bank to participate
ir. the financing of its Human Resources Development Program (HRDP) and to
take the lead in securing further external finance at favorable terms. The
HRDP represents a comprehensive initiative on the part of the Government to
improve several important social services in Jamaica. It provides a social
dimension fer the major economic adjustment process which Jamaica went
through in recent years. The proposed project supports institutional and
policy reforms, as well as an increase in the flow of funds to the social
sectors, which were deprived of sufficient resources in recent years, due
to economic austerity.
1.02     The GOJ envisages about US$390 million equivalent in new programs
under the HRDP, for health, education, and poverty alleviation (nutrition
and employment aid) during the period 1989/90 - 1993/94. In addition,
about US$400 million equivalent will be spent during the period on ongoing
human resource /.evelopment programs.
1.03     The HRDP is a key component of the Government's medium-term Public
Sector Invev,tment Program (PSIP). The Bank assisted the Government in
preparing the HRDF, and in presenting it to potential donors at a
Consultative Group for Caribbean Economic Development (CGCED) special
Subgroup meeting on Jamaica in June 1988.1 Preliminary responses by
potential funding agencies indicate that additional financing requirements
of the HRDP will be secured from external sources, including the proposed
Bank loan. The Bank would assist the Government in coordinating external
aid flows in support of the HRDP.
1.04     The Bank approach to this lending operation differs from
conventional Bank projects, inasmuch as it is focused on a broad social
sector investment and policy reforms program, while disbursing on the basis
of a fairly small part of the overall program. Under the proposed
approach, program and project implementation will be phased on the basis of
Bank/Government agreerents at yearly HRDP progress reviews; phasing of
social sector policy reforms and efficiency measures will also be
programmed at such review meetings. Annual Bank loan disbursements will
reflect the borrower's satisfactory progress with project implementation.
The Bank would continue to coordinate its actions with those by other donor
and lender agencies.
1/ Jamaica - Summary Review of the Social Well-Being Program. World Bank
Report No. 7227-JH, May 20, 1988.



- 2 -
II. MACROECONOMIC SETTING AND SECTORAL STRATEGY
Recent Macroeconomic Developments
2.01     The GOJ has carried out major stabilization and adjustment
programs to restore macroeconomic balance and economic growth. Various
agreements with the IMF and three structural adjustment and two sector
adjustment loans from the Bank have supported the Government's efforts.
Economic adjustment, aggravated by an unfavorable international
environment, led to deep cuts in social services and in public employment;
many programs for the benefit of the poor were curtailed. These cuts
accelerated a deterioration in Jamaica's social infrastructure;
unemployment increased, and poverty deepened in the lower income segments
of the population. Corrective action in the social sectors--including
increased transfer of resources--is required to reestablish the basis for
long-term human resource development and to assure that essential social
services are available to all Jamaicans on an equitable basis. In view of
resource constraints, it is equally important that theso services be
efficient in the use of resources and effective in attaining their
objectives.
2.02     After a deep and sustained contraction, the economy of Jamaica
moved into a period of stagnation in the early 1980s, with mounting
difficulties in the servicing of external debt. In 1980, the GOJ started a
program to stabilize public finances and gradually restructure the economy
towards its goal of production of internationally competitive goods and
services. With the help of an exceptional infusion of foreign official
credits and a strong recovery in tourism earnings, the contraction of the
economy was arrested. This stabilization effort was seriously set back in
1984/85, however, by the international recession and, in particular, by an
unanticipated collapse of the world market demand for Jamaican bauxite and
alumina. Under the drastic fiscal austerity which became necessary to cope
with the situation, deep cuts were mrAde in public employment and in social
services. Real current expenditures or. social servicts, as well as
investments in public health and education, were greatly reduced. Higher
rates for utilities were introduced, and some subsidies on consumer goods
were discontinued, both with adverse impact on the purchasing power of low
income consumers. The safety net for protection of the poor was weakened
with the decline in social services and subsidies, increased costs, and
other actic s necessitated by the adjustment process.
2.03     In the two and a half years prior to Hurricane Gilbert, which
struck the island on September 12, 1988, Jamaica was enjoying a sustained
period of economic growth. Real economic growth was 5.22 in 1987, compared
with 1.92 in 1986, and this was being sustained at a 5.52 rate in 1988.
All sectors of the economy were contributing to this growth, with particu-
larly strong growth in tourism (the number of stopover visitors grew 16? in
1986 and 112 in 1987) and stabilization and growtb in the bauxite/alumina
sector. A notable achievement of the economy over the period 1986-87 has
been the improvement in domestic and national savings performance. There
was a strong rebound in investment in 1987, and good progress has been made
in restoring viability to the country's external accounts. Undoubtedly,
the hurricane represents a setback to this improving economic performance.
All of the economic sectors have been affected to some degree or another;



-3-
but the agricultural sector has suffered severely, as has the country's
housing stock. Furthermore, there has been considerable damage to the
country's social and economic infrastructure. Overall damage to the
capital stock was estimated at between US$800 million to US$1.2 billion.
In agriculture there were major losses in tree crops and disruptions to
domestic food production. This caused an acceleration in domestic
inflation to about 1OZ to 122 in the latter part of 1988. The hurricane
damaged more than SO of the housing stock, with a large impact on low
income groups due to the less robust nature of the structures.
Furthermore, there was damage to hospitals, clinics and schools, which has
disrupted the provision of social services. The Government has launched an
urgent reconstruction program, providing special grant assistance for
repairs to low income housing, to small farmers for replanting and a rapid
repair program for tne social sector infrastructure. The hurricane has
caused widespread dislocation in employment in all sectors, but this is
expected to be only temporary. Further pressure has been placed on the
country's balance of payments as import demand increases to meet the needs
of the country's reconstruction efforts.
2.04     Donor response to the relief effort has been very positive
(including a Bank-financed Emergency Reconstruction Import Loan for US$30
million), and external financing gaps appear to be closed for the next two
years. The overall damage caused is a serious blow, particularly within
the social sectors, which reinforces the pressing need for the corrective
action and support that would be provided by the proposed project.
Medium-term Policy Framework and Financing Program
2.05     The GOJ, in early December 1987, presented to a special CGCED
donor Subgroup meeting on Jamaica a Medium Term Economic Framework Program
(MTFP) which included provision for the HRDP. In this submission, the
Government set out the policy reform agenda for the next 3-4 years and its
financing needs, including further balance of payments support and
rescheduling of debt.
Bank Strategy
2.06     Jamaica's economic growth performance during the last two years
has been encouraging. During the next few years, leaving aside the
reconstruction work due to hurricane damage (which is being financed by
generous flows of external aid), the need remains for increased investment
in key economic sectors, supported by concessional resource flows and
cofinancing from abroad, to sustain growth of incomes and progressive
rehabilitation of economic and social infrastructure. There is need for
renewed focus on human resource development to sustain long-term economic
growth with equity. Continued structural reforms and adjustment are also
required for growth over the medium term, with healthier balance of
payments and debt management. Future Bank lending operations in Jamaica
will aim at aupporting the Government's investment and adjustment efforts
in priority sectors. The Bank role in the social sectors, particularly in
those services reaching the majority of the population, is justified not
only to help the Government mitigate the social costs of adjustment, but
also to increase Jamaica's long-term economic viability. The Goverment's
MTFP (para. 2.05) supports such an approach.



-4-
2.07     The Bank's sector development strategy in population and health
has been to support the Government's long term demographic and health
objectives, including implementation of effective family planning programs.
So far, the Bank has made three loans to Jamaica in support of population
and health programs. The first two loans, which focused on expanded post-
partum family planning services and integrated family planning, and
mnaternallchild health and nutrition education services in Cornwall County,
have been completed with acceptable results. The third project, approved
in June 1987, has been designed to: strengthen the Government's population
and family planning programs, and build the Ministry of Health (MO-)
capability to plan, finance and operate the health services delivery
system, together with technical assistance to design a new patient referral
system and to study cost recovery and financing measures. Project
implementation has been elow due mainly to problems related to the
preparation of bidding documents for civil works. In addition, the
proposed project would help to mitigate the costs of economic adjustment
for the lower income groups through more efficient targeting of social
programs and improved health services, without undue strain on the
Government's budget.
2.08     In education, the Bank's sector development strategy emphasizes
cost-effective measures for qualitative development of basic (pre-school)
and primary education, rationalization and consolidation of secondary
education, including job training for school leavers, and assistance for
post-secondary education that would be financed by a combination of
increased cost-recovery, student loans, and targeted subsidies for capable
students from poorer families. The Bank has so far supported four
education projects in Jamaica, the first three focusing largely on
secondary and vocational education and teacher training. Despite delays in
execution, they have largely met their objectives. The fourth project,
approved in January 1988, was designed to assist the Government to prepare
and evaluate options for an education rehabiliration and development
program aimed primarily at the first nine grades of schooling. It is also
strengthening Jamaica's student loan program for higher education by
substantially improving its collection performance and overall
administration. Project execution is satisfactory.
2.09     Lessons Learned from Project Implementation Experience.  Three
Bank-financed education projects and two population and health projects
have been completed in Jamaica to date, and OED Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPARs) have been prepared for five of them. The following lessons
learned from past experience have been identified as relevant to the
proposed project: (a) increase Bank involvement, especially during the
initial project implementation phase, for a more efficient utilization of
Government and loan resources;2 (b) pay greater attention to sociological
factors in project design;3 (c) ensure adequate provision of recurrent
2/ Project Performance Audit Report: Jamaica - First Education Project
(Loan 468-JM), Report No. 649, March 4, 1975.
3/ Project Performance Audit Report: Jamaica - First Population Project
(Loan 690-JM), Report No. 2580, June 29, 1979.



-5-
expenditures in schools, especially maintenance of the institutions and
consumable materials;4 (d) establish a clear hierarchy of project
objectives, with room for change built in and monitored carefully during
implementation; and (e) pay greater attention to institutional and
bureaucratic arrangements. The proposed project will build upon past
experience through annual reviews to increase Bank involvement; an
integrated HRDP that takes social factors into account; provision of
primary textbooks and school materials for needy children; and careful
design of the institutional set-up for the HRDP Secretariat as well as the
ministerial project implementation units. Project preparation has also
taken into account the need for competent management, effective planning
and programning capability, and adequate and timely counterpart financing.
III. STATUS OF SOCIAL SERVICES IN JAMAICA
3.01     Social services in Jamaica have benefited from a long tradition of
public support. Among countries of comparable per capita income, Jamaica,
over the decades, has consistently ranked close to the top on conventional
indicators of social development (See Table 3.1 and Annex 1).  In recent
years, however, real public expenditures for education, health and other
social services fell sharply and social well-being was adversely affected.
The GOJ prepared the HRDP in response to these developments, and to
alleviate the current financial and reform needs of various social
services.
Public Health Services
3.02     Thanks to a distinguished history of accomplishments in public
health care since early in the twentieth century, most Jamaicans enjoy
better health than their counterparts in countries of similar income
levels. Life expectancy at birth is 74 years and infant mortality is
estimated at about 27 deaths per thousand live births. Chronic disenses
(stroke, heart disease, cancer, hypertensive disease and diabetes) are
ahead of the so-called diseases of underdevelopment (gastroentritis,
respiratory infections, and communicable and infectious diseases) as causes
of death. Non-respiratory infectious diseases (mostly gastrointestinal),
perinatal conditions, and malnutrition account for slightly over a third of
the years of potential life lost; injury and homicide account for about a
quarter, and chronic diseases for the remainder.
3.03     In the 1980s, the growth in Jamaica's population (now at about 2.3
million) has averaged close to 1.5Z per year, which is considerably lower
than in countries of comparable per capita income. The GOJ intends to keep
total population from growing beyond 3 million by the year 2000, and
sponsors a variety of high quality family planning services to attain this
objective.
4/ Project Performance Audit Report: Jamaica - Second Education Project
(Loan 727-JM), Report No. 4161, November 1, 1982.
5/ Project Performance Audit Report: Jamaica - Second Population Project
(Loan 1284-JM), Report, No. 5589, April 9, 1985.



-6
3.04     The MOH manages 24 public hospitals and 360 health clinics which
employ about 12,000 people, two-thirds of whom work in hospitals, a tenth
in administration and the remaining in primary health care centers.  These
institutions provide equitable access to basic health care for all
Jamaicans.  Each parish has one or more public hospitals and 18 or more
health centers; most Jamaicans live within a half hour's walk of a primary
health care center.
3.05     Not only did public health spending per capita decline by a third
between 1982/83 and 1985/86, but another serious constraint to improved
quality of health services in Jamaica has been the MOH's limited capacity
to manage the health system for maximum benefit to the community at large.
The MOH is handicapped by a shortage of suitably-qualified personnel in
such areas as planning, evaluation and supervision. Over 90Z of the MOH
budget is used to cover recurrent costs (60Z for personnel, see Annex 2);
but lower real salaries in recent years have led many trained MOH
personnel, especially nurses, to seek better paying jobs abroad. Recent
budget cuts fell disproportionately on supplies and maintenance. With the
devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, the costs of imported drugs and medical
supplies increased steeply. There is pressing need for increased budgetary
provisions for health services, with particular emphasis on primary health
care facilities, and adequate incentive measures to recruit/retain managers
and other key personnel for public health care services.
3.06     The private health care market accounts for about 32Z of all
health care expenditures, but for only 5Z of all facilities iu Jamaica.
Between a third and a half of all outpatient health care is provided
through private sources, while only 71 of all inpatients are cared for at
private hospitals. In 1983, two-thirds of the island's 1,200 physicians
and interns worked exclusively in private practice, and about 602 of the
doctors employed by the MOH worked afternoons in their private practices.
While no major changes are foreseen in the near future in this general
pattern, the GOJ recognizes the need to develop a partnership between
public and private health care providers, and to enlarge the role of the
private sector in meeting Jamaica's health care needs. In 1987, the GOJ
contracted out hospital non-medical services such as catering, security,
cleaning, housekeeping, janitorial, portering, laundry and pest control to
private firms that can operate at lower cost. The GOJ is planning to
increase efficiency by giving Boards greater autonomy in the management of
hospitals. Private blocks are being operated in two hospitals, with full
cost recovery mechanisms within them. To reduce the financial burden on
the Government's budget, the MOH will also encourage community
participation in clinic construction and maintenance.
3.07     According to preliminary results of the 1988 Survey of Living
Conditions (SLC) (para. 4.18), about a quarter of Jamaicans seeking medical
care go to nospitals. Contacts with public health clinics have been
reduced since 1984, due to public perceptions of low quality medical care.
Even the poorest groups make significant use of private health care. There
is, therefore, considerable room for policies for increased cost recovery,
provided the quality of public health services is raised to a satisfactory
level. Since 1985, fees are being collected at public hospitals for
purposes of cost recovery and improved bed utilization. The GOJ intends to
review the fee structure, and increase fees as practicable, with a view to



- 7 -
increased revenues, efficiency in delivery of services, and optimum use of
health facilities. The Government will be introducing fees for some
services, such as blood banks and medical laboratory tests, where these are
not being collected at present. At present, hospitals and other health
facilities are routinely reimbursed 50! of their fee collections for
approved expenditures and, in some cases, have received an additional
amount on request. The GOJ also intends to introduce new procedures under
which public hospitals and other health facilities would be reimbursed 75!
of their fee collections from patients for approved expenditures (para.
5.05), and is considering measures to upgrade the fee collection system.
3.08     Budgetary constraints in recent years have caused growing
shortages of medical equipment and supplies. Drug procurement and
distribution need stronger management within the MOH. Shortages of drugs
and medical supplies at the level of health centers arise because of
logistical bottlenecks that cannot be eliminated with additional funding
alone. The GOJ has recently adopted measures to improve the distribution,
storage and inventory control of drugs and medical supplies and to
encourage the use of generic drugs. It also has plans to align hospital
drug charges more closely with the real costs of individual drugs (para.
5.05).
3.09     Since 1985, a program has been under way for rationalization and
restructuring of public health facilities in Jamaica, focusing on hospital
improvements, strengthened referral systems, and improved conditions. To
improve the financial management of public hospitals, the GOJ has recently
introduced performance-based budgeting and computerization of accounts.
Veak information systems adversely affect the effectiveness of MOH
operations. At present, the Ministry of Health is responsible for the
maintenance of a civil registry for, among other items, vital statistics.
There have been serious shortcomings in these vital statistics, including
probable underregistration of infant deaths. The GOJ is introducing
measures to improve the civil registry and upgrade the Registrar General's
Department, under the HRDP.
Nutrition Services
3.10     With the drop in real incomes in Jamaica in recent years, the
nutritional status of certain segments of the population has deteriorated.
Malnutrition is mainly confined to a vulnerable group--young ch'.dren under
five and pregnant and lactating women who live in low income households,
especially those headed by women. In 1985, about 152 of children under
five were classified as moderately to severely malnourished, using the WHO
classification of weight for age. Broadly similar results were found in a
nutrition survey in 1978. While the proportion of stunted children had
increased from 5Z to 7! between the two surveys, the preliminary results of
the 1988 SLC (para. 4.18), showed much lower indices of stunting and wasting
than expected. Statistics at two large metropolitan hospitals show that the
number of children admitted for malnutrition increased slightly between 1980
and 1985. Because malnutrition in Jamaica affects an identifiable group,
nutrition program interventions should concentrate on this group.
3.11     The GOJ currently has three food and nutrition programs that
differ in the extent to which they are targeted:



-8-
(a) General Food Subsidies: In 1986, in an effort to cushion the
effect of the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, the GOJ established gen-
eral food subsidies covering eleven imported items and providing subsidies
of up to 29X. At present, these cover wheatflour, cornmeal, powdered
skimmed milk and a few other items and are channelled through the Jamaica
Commodity Trading Company. In 1987, about 802 of the US$25 million
equivalent budget for this program was spent on the purchase and resale of
imported wheatflour and cornmeal. Benefits of this program are regressive;
it subsidizes rich and poor alike, but the poor spend less on food than the
rich and thus receive a small share of the subsidy. According to the 1968
SLC (para. 4.18), the poorest quintile of the Jamaican population was
receiving about J$20.00 in direct consumption benefits per person per year
(compared with a national average of J$28.50), while the wealthiest
quintile receives about J$36.80 per person per year. In addition, this
program may have been distorting food production and pricing. In April
1989, the GOJ made substantial reductions in the amount of general food
subsidies for staple foods such as flour, rice, cornmeal, chicken, dried
salted codfish and condensed milk. The subsidies for FY89-90 were reduced
by about J$165 million (from an estimated J$293 million to about J$128
million) thus maintaining the total amount at about US$23.5 million, close
to the 1987 level. In addition, the GOJ plans to completely phase out
general food subsidies during the next two years, subject to ':iscal and
macroeconomic conditions and objectives. A cabinet subcommittee, with
technical support from PIOJ, is identifying those households which are
hardest hit by food price increases and is designing measures to alleviate
the effects of these increases, primarily through better targeted programs
such as food stamps and school feeding programs. Since any expansion of
these programs would be coupled with reductions in the general food
subsidies, there will be no deleterious fiscal effect.
(b) Food Stamp Program: Between 1984 and July 1988, the GOJ was
providing bi-monthly allotments of J$20 (US$3.60 equivalent) worth of food
stamps applicable to the purchase of cornmeal, rice, and dried skim milk.
The effectiveness of this aid was considerably eroded in recent years due
to inflation. The amount was raised to J$30 every two months in July 1988,
and will increase again, to J$40 every two months in July 1989. Eligible
beneficiaries include: pregnant and lactating women and children under five
who receive health care at public health clinics; families whose head of
household has income of less than J$50/week equivalent; people on public
assistance; and people who obtain poor relief assistance. Food stamps are,
thus, well targeted, and the distribution of their benefits is progressive.
In practice, however, some who are eligible are left out, and some ineli-
gible persons have benefited under the program. According to the 1988 SLC
(para. 4.18), 23Z of Jamaican households were receiving food stamps. Half
of the households in the poorest quintile were recipients, while 6? of
those in the wealthiest quintile were recipients. There is room for
improvement in program targeting. Improved monitoring should help
determine whether all eligible malnourished persons are reaching health
clinics (a condition for eligibility for food stamp aid) and receiving food
stamps. Because the most needy group receives insufficient health care,
additional outreach efforts may be needed to accommodate them. The GOJ has
reviewed the food stamp eligibility criteria, in relation to nutritional
needs and mortality/morbidity indicators of the target population, to
ensure that food stamps reach the most deserving beneficiaries, and has



- 9 -
adjusted the program by removing ineligible recipients from the rosters.
In this way, the number of recipients has been reduced from 400,000 to
320,000, so the estimated direct cost of food stamps will be close to US$14
million for FY1989-90.
(c) School Feeding Program: A nutribun program" was introduced
in 1986, with support from the World Food Program to improve child
nutrition, school attendance, and performance in pre-primary and primary
schools. The program packages milk centrally and produces fortified buns
for daily distribution. In 1987, about 170,000 lunches were distributed
each school day, consisting of a half pint of milk and one bun. (The
nutribun program complements a very small school lunch of hot meals cooked
on the premises of schools too remote to easily receive daily distribution
of products). Pre-primary schools receive a small cash subsidy for
nutrition, totaling US$275,000 equivalent annually and targeted to 105,000
children (an allowance of less than US$0.02 equivalent per child per school
day). The school feeding program benefits are somewhat progressive, though
less so than food stamps. According to the 1988 SLC (para. 4.18), about
44? of children in the survey sample received school meals, ircluding 54?
of children in the poorest quintile and 322 of children in the wealthiest
quintile. The GOJ plans to progressively improve the targeting of its
school feeding program towards poor children in the earlier years of
schooling and broaden its scope to cover more students at pre-primary and
primary schools (para. 5.05).
3.12     To sum up, the three nutrition programs described above are
functioning without major problems.  As nutrition aid is increased for
carefully targeted beneficiaries, while general food subsidies are being
phased out, the overall cost of the programs will be carefully kept under
control.  This calls for clarification of policies and eligibility criteria
and for improved targeting of benefits.  As in the health sector, the GOJ
needs to maintain a reliable and timely monitoring and evaluation system to
assess the impact of its nutrition interventions on the beneficiary
population (para. 4.18).
Education Services
3.13     Jamaica's reported literacy rate of 922 is one of the highest
among countries with a comparable per capita income (see Table 3.1 and
Annex 1). Achievement of high literacy and primary enrollment rates came
with the rapid expansion of public education, especially between 1940 and
1970. Since then, the country's educational accomplishments have been few,
and there has been an erosion of quality, particularly at the secondary
level. The budgetary constraints of the 1980s aggravated this situation.
3.14     Jamaica possesses a broadly based public education system.
Private institutions figure only marginally (3? at primary levels and 42 at
secondary levels).  The education program serves students between the ages
of 3 and 17, who currently number over 600,000 and who are taught by over
18,000 teachers in 2,400 schools islandwide. Education is free and
compulsory up to age 11. Hale and female enrollments are about equal. The
education system consists of four main levels: pre-primary, primary,
secondary, and tertiary. Pre-primazy education was not traditionally a
formal part of the Government's education responsibilities, but, since the



- 10 -
mid-sixties, a network of 1,490 community-run *basic" (or pre-primary)
schools was established by local demand throughout Jamaica. These are
attended by about 105,000 children under six years old (about 632 of the
age cohort). The Bernard Van Leer Founuation, a Dutch non-governmental
organization, provided funds for the development and dissemination of
curriculum materials to these schools. As of 1970, the Government joined
this effort by recognizing many of the community schools, in effect certi-
fying that they met minimal standards, and offering them small 'Help
Grants" to defray some of their operational costs. As of early 1988, all
but 390 of such schools had been recognized by the Ministry of Education
(MOE). As these schools are recognized by the MOE, they will receive an
initial recognition grant of J$1,500. In 1972, the GOJ introduced a
training program to formally prepare teachers for the pre-primary level.
The GOJ has also helped to establish 14 Resource Centers, one in each
parish, to serve as mini-training centers for basic school teachers.
3.15     The trend in pre-school education has been to bring "basic"
schools progressively under the MOE jurisdiction and budget. In contrast,
the primary education system is fully unified, with an enrollment rate of
about 982 for children in the 6-12 age group. Recent reform efforts con-
cerning the primary level include the passage of a compulsory attendance
law in 1983, curriculum reform for grades 1-4 in 1981 and for grades 5-6 in
1982, return to a-three-year intramural teacher-training program, the
launching in 1984 of a textbook project to provide pupils with language,
arts and mathematics texts, the expansion of school lunch programs, and the
provision of grants for school uniforms. Secondary education in Jamaica
(with an enrollment rate of 81Z) is divided into two phases: first cycle
(Grades 7 to 9) and second cycle (Grades 10 and 11). First cycle secondary
education is offered at All-Age, New Secondary, Comprehensive High and
Secondary High Schools, as well as at Technical High Schools. Second cycle
education is offered at all of these institutions except for the All-Age
Schools. 95Z of children who complete sixth grade progress to lower secon-
dary school. Of those who go on to secondary school, 402 attend the sub-
standard All-Age Schools; of this group, 402 drop out to become members of
the unskilled labor force upon completion of the ninth grade. Higher
education (with an enrollment rate of 82) is offered by the University of
the West Indies (which has a campus in Jamaica), the College of Arts,
Science and Technology (CAST), and a variety of private training academies
for part-time students.
3.16     Quality and efficiency are the key and long standing problems in
Jamaican education. Despite legal provisions to enforce attendance and
high official primary school enrollment rates, about one-quarter to one-
third of the students receive no more than two of the six years of primary
education. Substantial grade repetition and student attrition combine to
increase the duration of schooling, and result in low overall completion
rates and high unit costs per actual graduate of the six year program.
With respect to student achievement, partial but persuasive evidence from
1982 sndicates that a large proportion of students who complete Grade 6,
perhaps as high as 502, may be corsidered functionally illiterate.
3.17     These generally poor achievement levels appear to be a consequence
of: (i) inadequate physical facilities--generalized overcrowding, inade-
quate water and sewerage, lack of maintenance and vandalism; (ii) shortages



- 11 -
Table 8 1: SOCIAL INDICATORS: JAMAICA AND COMPARATOR NORMS
Lower      Middle     Upper       Iudustrial
middle     income     middle        warket
Jamaica     Income    countries    ncome      economls
countries             countries
Total feortlilty rote (births)
1976                                5.4          -         6.1          -           2.8
1985                                2.8         4.8         -          8.7          1.8
Lilfe expectency (years)
1960                                 68          --         48          --           70
1965                                 86          48         --          6o           71
1976                                 70          --         58          --           72
1996                                 78          58         --          6            76
Population per physician (thousands)
1960                                2.8          --        8.0           -          0.9
1965                                2.0          --         --          2.2         0.9
1981                                2.7         8.2         -           1.8         0.6
Daily calorie supply
(thousand calories per person)
1965                                2.2          2.1        --          2.8         8.1
1985                                2.8          2.6        --         8.0          8.4
Primary (number enrolled In school
as percent of age group) /a
1960                                 82           --        79           -          108
1965                                109           75        -            96         107
1975                                111           -         97           --         104
1984                                106          108        --          105         102
Secondary (number enrolled In
school as percent of age group)
1960                                 48           -         12           --          58
1965                                 51           16        -            29          6s
1976                                 64           -         85           --          ea
1984                                 58           40        --           68          90
Higher Education (number enrolled
in school as perceont of age group)
1960                                  2           --         2           --           8
1966                                  8            5        --            7          21
1976                                  7           --         7           --          22
1984                                  8           12       -             15          as
a/     Enrollment of individuals below or above the age limits of the age group of reference
may couse this Ogross enrollment ratio* to exceed 100 percent.
Source: 'World Development Indiectore, In World Bank, World Develooment Report, vorious years.



- 12 -
of textbooks and instructional materials--until 1984 most primary-level
children lacked full-time use of a set of key texts; and (iii) low teacher
salaries--real salaries have declined by 302 in four years; attr4tion and
absenteeism are high, morale is low, and teacher training remains
deficient; (iv) overly diversified curricula at the secondary level; and
(v) inequity in student access to the higher quality programs.
3.18     These shortcomings have been further exacerbated by the reduction
iu Government expenditure on education from about 72 of GDP in 1982/83 to
about 4? in 1985/86 (Annex 2). As in the health sector (para. 3.05), the
MOE capital budget was drastically reduced in an effort to minimize cuts to
the operating budget. In the 1986/87 education budget, recurrent costs
represented 95? of the total, mostly consisting of personnel costs, and
very little was available to finance the purchase of textbooks and other
educational materials. To overcome serious shortcomings in the sector, the
GOJ needs to increase the MOE budget, especially to increase recurrent
budgetary expenditures on pre-primary and primary schools which serve
mainly lower income families (para. 5.05).
3.19     Textbook availability in Jamaica's sciool system is still
inadequate, although considerable progress has been made i1n that respect
since a primary-level textbook supply program was initiated in 1984 (para.
3.15).  The GOJ now plans to provide textbooks on core subjects to all
primary school students by September 1, 1992, and is studying options for
containing the costs of primary level textbooks. At the secondary level,
the GOJ intends to progressively increase the availability of textbooks for
students, and to collect textbook rental fees from all except the very poor
(para. 5.05). These fees currently amount to J$15 per textbook for grades
7-9 and J$20 for grades 10-11.
3.20     Financial constraints in the education sector have accentuated
the need for more efficient management. A study to decentralize school
administration and to create local community committees in support of
community involvement in school maintenance is nearly completed. The GOJ
has recently eliminated boarding grants and introduced enrollment fees in
higher education, while expanding student loan "rograms.
3.21     A serious constraint to efforts to upgrade education services in
Jamaica has been the current limited capability of the MOE to administer
the system, to implement reform programs, and to systematically monitor and
evaluate performance. The MOE suffers from a shortage of suitably-
qualified personnel, particularly in such areas as planning, evaluation,
and supervision. As in the health sector, qualified persons in the key
areas have been steadily leaving for more lucrative positions both at home
and abroad. The HRDP will provide assistance to improve in-service
upgrading and post-graduate training for primary and secondary school
teachers. In addition, the GOJ is designing programs to provide incentives
and training for key managers and teachers (para. 5.05). Monitoring and
evaluation systems within the education sector are deficient. Since 1985,
the GOJ has under implementation a National Assessment Program (NAP),
consisting of a readiness test at grade 1, a diagnostic test at grade 3,
and an achievement test at grade 6. The program, however, is poorly
managed and, as a consequence, the data generated are incomplete or
unreliable and, therefore, cannot be used effectively in assessing the



- 13 -
Impact of the education system or school children. The GOJ plans to
improve the quality of these tests, as well as their administration,
timeliness, and the dissemination of results.
Employment Aid
3.22     Unemuloyment has been a chronic problem in Jamaica, with the 'job
seekel rate' (a measure that is roughly comparable to the 'unemployment
rate' in most countries outside the Caribbean region) varying between liZ
and 182 since 1972. The job-seeker rate was 131 in 1980, peaked at 18? in
1982 and has fallen to around 8? in 1988. Thanks to the recent economic
recovery and the economic adjustment programs which have been shi.tirg
incentives towards labor intensive activities, overall employment grew by
156,000 jobs from 1980 to 1987. Over the 1980-87 period, employment in
manufacturing hae grown by 792, in construction by 722, in services by 492
and in commerce by 392, while mining, agriculture and public adminis-
tration's shares in employment declined. The share of self-employment,
which contains much of the low-income informal sector, rose from 1980 to
1985, but by April 1987 it had declined to the level of 1980. The portion
of employed people with less than full-time jobs also declined. Adjusting
total employee compensation statistics for inflation and employment growth
shows real wages rising from 1980 to 1982, then falling sharply between
1983 and 1985. They are increasing at present, and are probably again
close to their 1980 level. In sum, after substantial deterioration between
1983 and 1985, labor market trends are now generally favorable, suggesting
that the Government's macroeconomic program is having its intended positive
impact.
3.23     Two-thirds of those defined as 'unemployed' are women and one-half
are under 25 years. To address the special needs of unemployed women and
youth and of those working in the agriculture and the informal sectors, the
GOJ has sponsored several programs targeted to those groups. Notable among
these programs are the Human Employment and Resou..ce Training Trust
(HEART), an informal vocational training program for youth which emphasizes
on-the-job instruction; and SOLIDARITY, a small credit scheme assisting
unemployed youth in the informal sector to set up their own businesses. In
addition, the HRDP includes special programs, essentially public works, to
employ the poor (including women and youth) in areas with heavy
unemployment (para. 4.12).
Housing, Water Supply and Sanitation Services
3.24     The continued trend of rural-urban migrttion ever the last decade
has put considerable pressure on the infrastructure in Jamaica's towns and
cities. Government estimates indicate that at least 15,500 new dwellings
must be Luilt annually for the next twenty years and 9,700 existing
dwellings upgraded each year in order to accommodate the growing urban
population.   The formal sector produces only 3,500 niousing units per year
6/  This estimate was made before hurricane Gi-bert hit Jamaica. A large
number of dwellings were destroyed or received serious damage as a
result of the hurricane. The GOJ expects that foreign donors and
external aid agencies, together with insurance payments on insured
properties, will help cover the necessary repair and replacement costs.



- 14 -
and informal arrangements bridge the gap between supply and demand. The
Government's National Shelter Strategy devotes special attention to lower
income households. The GOJ is also reviewing various programs and policy
options to bring housing costs down and to stimulate private sector
participation. Plans for the provision of housing over the medium term
include the construction of new low-cost dwellings, as well as the
upgrading of existing shelter and related residential infrastructure.
3.25     Nationwide, Jamaica has made considerable progress in developing a
comprehensive water distribution system. The Jamaican National Water
Commission (NWC) has an installed capacity adequate to meet national
demand. However, the reliable yield of the water system is only 76.6Z of
total demand, due to faulty water pumps, leaks in the distribution system,
and seasonal variations in rainfall. There is also a need for expanded
sewerage treatment and infrastructure, which is adequate in the resort
areas, but inadequate in the Kingston Metropolitan Region. The GOJ has
identified the main gaps in the water supply and sewerage systems, and
programs are already in place to close these gaps and improve service. The
Bank has an ongoing project in Jamaica to improve and expand the NWC's
facilities and services.
3.26     Public investments in the housing, water supply and sanitation
sectors, which are included in the Government's capital expenditure
program, are not included in the HRDP, although they are complementary to
it. Investments in these sectors were excluded from the GOJ program
submitted to external aid agencies/governments in June 1988 for financial
support, largely because additional external finance is not required.
IV. THE HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (HRDP)
Goals
4.01     The HRDP aims to restore the flow of funds to the social sectors
and to initiate necessary policy reforms. Its main goals are: to reverse
the recent setbacks in human resource development through renewed
investments in education and health; to alleviate the worst effects of
poverty, particularly for the poorest groups of the population, through
better targeted nutrition and employment programs; and to implement
institutional and policy reforms in the social sectors. To improve the
effectiveness and overall efficiency of social services, the HRDP provides
for: (i) redirecting investments in favor of those education and health
services that are most likely to reach the poor; (ii) strengthening basic
education, including rehabilitation and upgrading of pre-primary and primary
schools and providing a more effective and equitable system of secondary
education; (iii) rationalizing social services and increasing cost recovery;
(iv) improving expenditure controls for better cost containment; (v)
improving targeting and monitoring of nutrition and indigent relief
programs; and (vi) establishing an effective information system to monitor
program outputs and the impact on key social indicators. These elements
would be complemented by activities in other sectors (paras. 3.24-3.26).
Table 4.1 summarizes projected HRDP disbursements on new programs.



- 15 -
Table 4.1:     JAMAICA:  HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PROJECTED DISBURSEMENTS ON NEW PROGRAMS
1989190-1993194
(US$ million)
Projected
Disbursements         Percentage
Health                           112.5                   29
Nutrition/poor-relief            132.8                   33
Education                         74.8                   19
Employment                        68.9                   19
Total                       389.0                100.0
Source:  Jamaica - Summary Review of the Social Well-being Program.  World
Bank Report No. 7227-JM, May 20, 1988.
Contents
4.02     In health, HRDP policy objectives include 'ncreased emphasis on
primary health care, greater efficiency of certain public health services,
increased cost recovery, and improved financial management and program
monitoring. Health care would be upgraded by: (i) rehabilitating or
replacing some 60 primary health care centers, including the replacement of
inadequate rented facilities deemed too small (in some cases, small
hospitals would be converted into local clinics with emergency rooms and
temporary in-patient care); (ii) refurbishing 12 hospitals; (iii) fostering
private interest in hospital management contracts; (iv) enlarging and
consolidating training facilities for nurses and medical technicians; (v)
deploying cold chain refrigeration facilities to health centers; (vi)
improving the pharmaceutical supply system; (vii) constructing a central
drug supply depot; and (viii) rebuilding stocks and increasing the supply of
drugs.
4.03     The HDP gives priority to primary health care centers and hospital
rehabilitation and modernization. Specific health service rationalization
programs aim at strengthening the referral system and improving management
and efficiency. A national network of laboratory facilities for improved
medical testing and upgraded training facilities for the nursing school is
to be developed. The RDP also provides for enhanced provision of
pharmaceutical supplies. Recent efforts to improve drug management have
included computerization of monitnring and inventory control, upgrading of
storage facilities, and increased use of generic drugs.
4.04     Given the decline in expenditures in the health sector in recent
years, selective increases in sectoral investment and recurrent expenditures
in this sector are justified. The health care delivery system is sound and



- 16 -
can absorb additional financial resources, although administrative con-
straints in the MOH could slow down program implementation (para. 3.05).
Hospital rationalization deserves support, but this activity should not
distract attention from the priority on primary and preventive care for the
poor. Increased MOH expenditures for drug supplies has to be accompanied by
enhanced cost recovery from all but the poor. The current fee of J$5 per
prescription pays for only a small fraction of the cost. Cost recovery from
beneficiaries of other health services and privatization of service
delivery, where feasible, need to be vigorously pursued. The current civil
registry system, handled by the Ministry of Health, has serious
shortcomings. Coordination of diverse HRDP activities and procurement
challenge the MOH's management capacity, which needs to strengthen its
project administration and policy capabilities.
4.05     In nutrition, the HRDP emphasizes improved targeting and efficient
programming. It proposes the use of three avenues to achieve its
objectives. First, the GOJ has decided to double the value of food stamps
for recipients (with respect to June 1988) while improving targeting
procedures and continuing with the efforts to increase administrative
efficiency. The doubling in value will more than restore the purchasing
power of the food stamp to its original (1985) level. Secend, the HRDP will
progressively improve the targeting of school feeding programs towards poor
children in the early years of schooling and broaden its coverage of primary
and All-Age schools; coverage of secondary schools will gradually be
introduced. (Pre-pr!mary schools will continue to be covered through the
ongoing cash subsidy) (para. 3.11). The southern part of the island, where
malnutrition appears to be most prevalent, will receive first priority in
the expansion of both the food stamp and school feeding programs. Third,
community-based health workers of the MOH will provide outreach services to
homes and childcare centers, to identify, assist, and monitor marginally
malnourished children, as well as to provide health and nuitrition education
to both mothers and others responsible for childcare.
4.06     The food stamp program, together with the outreach services by
community health workers, will strengthen the inter-sectoral
complementarities between the health and nutrition sectors. Similarly, the
school feeding program will provide educational benefits as well as improved
child nutrition. Geographic targeting to the poorest regions and to pre-
primary and primary schools and gradual phasing out of general food
subsidies would limit the fiscal cost of the programs.
4.07     Malnutrition's narrow concentration among young children and
pregnant and lactating women in low-income households and among the very
poor calls for careful targeting of nutrition interventions. General food
subsidies are not adequately targeted to needy groups, and may discourage
local food production and create undue rents for distributors and retailers
of subsidized foodstuffs (para. 3.11). After initial reductions of about
J$165 million for FY1989-90, the GOJ intends to phase out general food
subsidies over the next two years, subject to fiscal and macroeconomic
objectives and conditions (para. 5.05).
4.08     The aggregate benefits of school feeding programs are greatest for
poor children in the early years of schooling. The GOJ is concentrating
school feeding on pre-primary and primary students in the poorest regions of
the island, delaying, for the time being, its extension to the secondary
school level.



- 17 -
4.09     In education, the HRDP policy objectives are to increase public
outlays for pre-primary and primary education, to encourage community
participation in school activities and maintenance, to increase the
availability of instructional mAterials and school textbooks, to provide
incentives for key managers/teachers, and to have better program monitoring.
Under the HRDP, increased financial resources will be provided or the MOE,
to improve the quality of its services and to enable it to implement
institutional reforms.
4.10     More specifically, the HRDP provides for the following
improvements: (a) expanding and upgrading the current system of basic (pre-
primary) schools to provide disadvantaged children with a sounder base
before transition to primary level education (these improvements will be
based essentially on the community-supported Program for the Advancement of
Early Childhood Education--PACE);' (b) improving the quality of primary
education through: refurbishing selected primary schools; increasing
teacher training (both initial and in-service training); broadening the
supply of improved textbooks and availability of an increased range of
learning materials; improving the procedures for assessment of student
performance at various grade levels; and encouraging community participation
in school maintenance and other school activities; (c) increasing the access
of primary school leavers to lower secondary and, subsequently, upper
secondary education by upgrading existing secondary schools and providing
for new secondary schools; (d) progressively establishing a common core
curriculum for lower secondary school students, with associated school
materials and adequate methods of student assessment; and (e) providing
employment incentives to improve the performance of school administrators
and teachers in primary and seconaary schools.
4.11     As a whole, the HRDP contains a sound mix of investments and
educational policy reforms that should have significant impact in addressing
the shortcomings arising from the institutional weaknesses of the
educational system and from the budgetary cuts of recent years. Measures to
upgrade educational quality deserve high priority, particularly those
designed to improve educational management and evaluation. The Government's
efforts to upgrade the educational system have to focus on the pre-primary
and primary levels to enhance the prospects of children in the poorest
segments of the population for normal intellectual and social development.
This emphasis, in turn, implies two major benefits. In the first place,
many of the Jamaican children now entering school are unlikely to go beyond
primary education. By ensuring that primary school leavers achieve at least
the minimum standards of literacy and numeracy, the productive capacity of
the labor force would be greatly increased. Second, those students entering
the secondary system would be better prepared for that level of education.
7/ As part of the HRDP, the Government would expand PACE, under which the
current "Help Grants' to the pre-primary schools will be replaced by a
new subsidy system which would supplement (not replace) community
support for such schools, and provide incentives to increase private
inputs.



- 18 -
Improved community participation in education, which would be actively
pursued under the HRDP, will enable the GOJ to reap considerable benefits
in improved education and in better preservation of school facilities. Cost
recovery measures introduced for higher education in 1986/87 and later
(para. 3.20) should be maintained and improved as needed. As in health, a
stronger professional team will be required in various sections of the MOE
to handle the increased level of expenditures under the HRDP and to ensure
successful integration of the diverse but complementary program components.
The HRDP also seeks to strengthen key institutions to support these efforts.
4.12     To increase employment in depressed areas and assist the rural
poor, who are the most difficult to reach under the various indigent relief
programs, the HRDP includes a targeted short-term public works program,
composed of: (i) rural road maintenance; (ii) flood control; and (iii)
reforestation and related soil conservation. These works would cost close
to US$70 million equivalent over the HRDP implementation period and may
provide, mostly in rural areas, a total of about 12,000 full-time job
equivalents over the five years. Because work organization could include
part-time and temporary jobs, a much larger number of people could be
reached in total. The program would, thus, provide income supplements for
those active in the informal sector and agriculture, particularly women and
youth, which are high priority target groups for poverty alleviation.
4.13     The fact remains that the long-run solution to Jamaica's
unemployment problem, which is both cyclical and structural in nature,
requires sustained economic growth with expanding private sector investment
in labor-intensive activities. It also calls for ensuring that labor
markets are free from institutional rigidities, biasing technological
choices towards capital-intensity. Moreover, it is important to address
sources of structural unemployment through well-focused training programs
(such as HEART--para. 3.23) and possibly through selective public works
projects that would naturally employ urban youth, women, and idle manpower
in depressed areas. It is important that the civil works proposed in the
HRDP to relieve unemployment in depressed areas and to assist the rural poor
be evaluated by the usual standards of economic suitability and be fully
integrated into sectoral priorities. Further analysis of these proposed
labor-intensive civil works projects will include a review, to determine
whether institutional barriers are prejudicing choice of technique in favor
of labor-intensive methods. Alternative approaches for increasing
employment opportunities for the poor, mainly of women and youth, are being
examined.
4.14     Other Social Programs.  In addition to the initiatives described
above, there are a number of other related, on-going programs for which no
incremental external financing is being sought by the GOJ. These include
programs in the areas of vocational training, small business loans, support
for small farmers, and direct income transfers.
HRDP Costs and Financing
4.15     Of the total estimated cost of the HRDP, around US$390 million is
projected as expenditures on new programs until 1993/94. Nutrition and poor
relief accounts for one third (33Z) of this total, followed by health (29?),
education (19?) and employment (182) (Table 4.1).



- 19 -
4.16     Meetings which the GOJ and the Bank had with potential donors in
June, November, and March 1989, indicated continued donor interest in
participating in HRDP financing. Eleven bilateral and multilateral agencies
are committed to contributing to HRDP financing. It is expected that a
large part of these contributions will be in the form of soft loans or
grants. These participations will be confirmed after the donors' agreements
with the Jamaican Government on the programs/projects selected.  Annex 3
contains a tentative list of HRDP projects for external financing.
Management and Monitoring
4.17     The HRDP presents a formidable management challenge for the
GoverAment. Critical to the success of the program will be the existence of
effective central management, to coordinate, oversee and monitor all
activities under the HRDP.8 Institutional strengthening is also needed in
all line agencies/Ministries implementing components of the program.
Incentives to attract and retain essential staff with high qualifications
must be a key ingredient of any strategy for strengthening these agencies.
The Government is preparing programs to provide incentive measures to retain
and recruit MOH and MOE staff, through the provision of salary supplements,
incentives and training. This is part of the on-going Administrative Reform
Program (Loan 2423-JM) which is expected to result in a rationalization and
overhaul of public sector salaries.
4.18     Program implementation will be carefully monitored.  Equally
important. effective monitoring of the impact of the HRDP will be necessary
in order to assess whether the program is having the desired effect on
households and to allow timely refinements and adjustments in program
targeting and phasing. Three elements of monitoring will be crucial during
the HRDP implementationu period. First, financial flows have to be watched
to ensure coordination with the budget and macroeconomic framework. Second,
institution-based statistics on service delivery will serve as preliminary
measures of efficiency and implementation status. Third, household-based
survey data on well-being will serve for impact evaluation and form the
basis for periodic adjustment in the program's focus and design. Financial
monitoring will be carried out through the Ministry of Finance as part of
its overall economic management. The Statistical Institute of Jamaica
(STATIN), with Bank assistance, has set up a living standards measurement
system (LSMS), based on household surveys, designed to monitor key social
indicators and the impact of several HRDP components in collaboration with
PIOJ. The Government is improving the institutional data base to improve
the quality of these evaluations. STATIN has recently issued a preliminary
report concerning its 1988 SLC in Jamaica, based on household consumption
data. The report indicates that the consumption of the poorest 10 of the
Jamaican population amounts to 22 of aggregate national consumption, while
the wealthiest 1OZ consume about 332, which is a ratio of about 16 to 1.
The survey also indicates that because income differences are large within
each geographic area and parish, targeting of aid merely to rural areas or
poorer parishes will not be a sufficient way of reaching the poor.
8/ Details regarding proposed HRDP management arrangements are given in
paras. 5.31-5.35.



- 20 -
V. THE PROJECT
Obiectives
5.01     The objectives of the proposed project are to improve the
efficiency, delivery snd management of social services in Jamaica, and in
particular of health and education . It would support the Government's
Human Resources Development Program (HRDP), which represents a comprehensive
initiative to improve several important social services in Jamaica, and to
provide an increase in the flow of funds to the social sectors (wiich had
been deprived of sufficient resources in recent years, due to economic
austerity) while supporting institutional and policy reforms. The Bank's
support of the HRDP forms an integral part of its overall development
strategy in Jamaica (para. 2.06). It aims tot (i) ensure continued
consistency of the HRDP with the agreed macroeconomic framework (HTFP) and
public sector investment program (PSIP) targets; (ii) encourage donor
financing of the HRDP, as an integral part of the overall financial strategy
to support the MTFP; and (iii) support policies leading to priority
investments, increased efficiency and policy reforms in the social sectors
in an integrated way, in order to provide a framework for improving social
services and long term human resource development in Jamaica. The proposed
project would finance selected HRDP segments.
5.02     The Bank would have a leading role in assisting the GOJ in planning
and executing the HRDP, including implementation of the necessary policy
reforms. While the bulk of HRDP financing would come from the GOJ's own
budget 'including budgetary provisions for programs/projects already
approved for implementation), additional external finance needs to be raised
at concessional terms (para. 4.16). The proposed project's contribution to
total HRDP financing would be relatively small (about 17t of total estimated
cost of new initiatives under the HRDP).  However, as the CGCED Jamsica
Subgroup chairman, the Bank has taken, and will continue to take, a leading
role in support of the HRDP and in securing additional external finance for
it at favorable terms. The HRDP is an integral part of the MTFP, which has
little room over the next few years for additional investments not already
included. The recent hurricane has generated aaditional heavy financing
requirements, large portions of which are being met by generous external
aid. The Government is currently revising the Public Sector Investment
Program (PSIP) in light of these developments. Nevertheless, updated
information regarding the status of donors' financial support of the HRDP,
and revised PSIP figures for the overall HRDP program for 1989/90 were
reviewed during negotiations. The broad macroeconomic base for the HRDP
remains fragile, and it is important that HRDP implementation be carefully
phased and monitored by the GOJ, to keep it within Jamaica's resource
constraints, and to make adjustments as necessary in line with changes in
Jamaica's general macroeconomic situation and investment priorities. The
Bank would also play an important role in this process (para. 5.06).
5.03     In addition to helping Jamaica secure financing for the HRDP, the
Bank would assist in coordination of the use of external finance, and in
effective program management and monitoring through annual HRDP reviews.
These would ascertain the relative size, priority and contents of the annual
HRDP subprograms (para. 5.06). More specifically, at negotiations,
assurances were received that the GOJ will: (a) maintain institutional
structures and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, for effective planning,
program management, coordination of execution, monitoring and progress



- 21 -
reporting; and (b) supervise HERDP implementation to ensure its conformity
with sound program and project implementatien criteria satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 5.06). The Government would, after consultation with the Bank
during the annual HRDP progress reviews, make adjustments to the HRDP
content and implementation pace if significant changes occurred in the broad
macroeconomic base and public sector investment priorities and would
implement institutional reform and efficiency measures on a timely basis.
The Bank, through the CGCED or other arrangements, would inform other
external financing and donor agencies of the progress being achieved with
the HRDP, and take the lead role in any necessary joint action.
Policy Actions
5.04     The main policy actions and improvements in the efficiency of
social services supported under the HRDP includes (i) redirection of
certain health and education expenditures for increased benefits to the poor
(emphasis on primary healtCi care and pre-primary and primary education);
(ii) better targeting of certain nutrition aid programs, to benefit the poor
at a lower cost to the GOJ; (iii) cost savings in the delivery of certain
health and education services, through measures such as cost recovery,
divestiture of some hospital services, community participation in school and
health clinic maintenance, and improved procurement, storage and
distribution of drugs; (iv) rationalization of program management for health
and education services, in particular, strengthening of program implementing
capacity of the MOH and the MOE; and (v) attention to economic viability of
special public works programs designed to alleviate unemployment in poverty
areas and consideration of effective ways to deal with the unemployment
problem. These policy actions are listed in a Statement of Sectoral
Policies (Annex 4), and in a detailed Policy Matrix (Annex 5). Before Board
Presentation, the Government of Jamaica sent a letter to the Bank confirming
the Statement of Sectoral Policies and Policy Matrix agreed at negotiations.
5.05     The Statement of Sectoral Policies includes, among other items, the
following policy and reform actions to be undertaken by the Government
during the HRDP implementation period (their timing and phasing may be
modified if agreed by the Government and the Bank at annual HRDP progress
reviews -- para. 5.06).
(a) Between 1982183 and 1986/87, the relative share of primary
health care out of MOH recurrent expenditures increased from 16Z to 212 and
the functions of some hospitals were turned into primary health care
facilities. The Government will further increase the relative share of
primary health care services in MOH recurrent expenditures (para. 3.05 and
Annex 2) to 23Z by April 1, 1990 and to 252 by April 1, 1991;
(b) the relative share of pre-primary and primary education out of
MOE recurrent expenditures increased from 322 to 35t from FY82/83 to
FY86187. The Government will raise this ratio further to 36X by April 1,
1990 and to 382 by April 1, 1992, with particular emphasis on improved
quality of education in these schools (para. 3.18 and Annex 2);



- 22 -
(c) the Government will: (i) phase out general food subsidies
over the next two Jamaican fiscal years (1990/91 and 1991/92); (ii) improve
the targeting of the current food stamp program; and (iii) progressively
improve the targeting of the current school feeding program towards poorer
children in the early years of schooling and broaden its scope to include
more students at the pre-primary and primary levels (para. 3.11).
Reductions in general food subsidies would be linked to improved and better
targeted nutrition programs to cushion the effect of increased food prices
for the poor. At negotiations, understandings were reached on an Action
Plan satisfactory to the Bank to implement necessary changes to the general
food subsidy, food stamp, and school lunch programs. Before Board
presentation, the Government confirmed its agreement to implement such
Action Plan.
(d) the Government will expand the c"rrent programs for dives-
titure of public hospital non-medical services. It will increase efficiency
by granting Boards greater autonomy in the management of the hospitals, and
is testing the operation of private blocks within hospitals, with full cost
recovery mechanisms within them (para. 3.06);
(e)  the Government will review its current fee structure at public
health facilities, with due regard to prcgress being made in medical
insurance coverage and fee exemptions based on poverty, and will increase
certain fees. In doing so, the Government will pay attention to the goals
of increased revenues, efficiency of the services and the optimum use of
various health facilities. The Government will also improve the efficiency
of the current MOH pharmaceutical program, and will align public hospital
drug charges and prescription fees more closely with real costs (paras.
3.07-3.08);
(f) the Government, by means of advanced budgeting and compu-
terization programs and other rationalization measures, will progressively
improve the efficiency of the MOH.  The MOH will allow public hospitals and
other health facilities to retain 75? of their fee collections from their
patients, and will overhaul the current inefficient Civil Registry and
ancillary vital statistics management systems (paras 3.07 and 3.09);
(g) the Government will progressively increase the availability of
textbooks for primary and secondary level students, including provision of
primary school textbooks on core subjects. It will introduce measures to
contain the costs of primary level textbooks, taking into account the recom-
mendations of an ongoing study, through measures such as bulk procurement
and use of inexpensive materials such as newsprint. For the secondary level
textbooks, the Government will collect a yearly textbook rental fee from all
students except the very poor, currently amounting to JS15 per textbook for
grades 7-9 and JS20 for grades 10-11 (para. 3.19);
(h) in evaluating the public works components of the HRDP, the
Government will use the usual standards of economic viability and sectoral
priority. In addition, it will prepare proposals on effective alternative
methods to increase employment opportunities for the poor (para. 4.13);



- 23 -
(i) the Government will make efforts to increase participaticn of
qualified NGOs in the HRDP (para. 5.36);
(j)  the Government will use the LSMS and other appropriate
monitoring systems to evaluate changes in key social indicators, as a basis
for determining the need for policy changes related to the HRDP (para.
5.30). The institutional data base will be strengthened with assistance
provided by UNICEF; and
(k) the Government will prepare programs to provide salary
supplements, incentives and training for key MOH and MOE personnel (para.
4.17).
Annual HRDP Progress Reviews
5.06     The Government's annual HRDP progress reviews with the Bank will be
an essential instrument in the process of HRDP planning and implementation,
including the execution of tha proposed Bank project, and will constitute
the key monitoring tool for the proposed project. In these reviews, the
HRDP and project targets for each year would be set, in conformity with
priority investment needs of each social sector covered by the HRDP and with
due regard to the agreed policy reform agenda, taking into account current
macroeconomic and budgetary conditions, and the functioning of HRDP
implementation arrangements (paras. 5.29 to 5.34). In subsequent reviews,
the progress achieved with reference to previous subprograms would be
evaluated. At negotiations, assurances were received that the Government
will conduct joint annual reviews with the Bank, covering overall HRDP
policy, program and project implementation for the past year, and schedules
of program/project implementation for the following year, including
budgetary allocations and external financing, following criteria acceptable
to the Bank. The GOJ would prepare and furnish to the Bank, by not later
than February 1 of each year, starting in 1990, annual HRDP subprograms.
Thereafter, the first annual progress review with the Government would be
held by March 1, 1990 and subsequent reviews would be conducted annually.
Annual donor coordination meetings would be conducted in conjunction with
the annual progress reviews, within the CGCED or some other framework (para.
5.03). At negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on specific
progress review criteria which would govern such reviews during the project
implementation period.
Project Components
5.07     The proposed project will finance selected priority activities
included in the HRDP. Outside these areas, other donors will take the lead
in their respective projects/programs in the form of parallel financing.
Described below are the components of the proposed project:
Health Sector:
(i) Primary Health Care Development (US$6.7 million, including contingencies)
5.08     Poor maintenance and low capital butdgets have caused many existing
health centers to fall into disrepair, and have prevented the GOJ from ex-
panding primary health care facilities. This, in turn, has put more pressure



- 24 -
on the secondary and tertiary health care facilities, which provide services
at a much higher cost. The MOB, as part of the HRDP, intends to rehabilitate
its primary health care center system in an effort to reduce the demand for
service at the higher levels, thus increasing efficiency and lowering overall
health care costs. The KIH plans to construct (or reconstruct) and equip
about sixty primary health care clinics. Those to be newly constructed are
currently housed in rented facilities. Those to be reconstructed or expanded
occupy old dispensary-type structures which lack adequate waiting area,
storage space, and casualty rooms.
5.09     The proposed project will finance the construction, furniture and
equipment (including vehicles) for 12 primary health care centers, including
nurses' quarters in eight of them, and dental clinic equipment for eight
centers.  The GOJ brought to negotiations, for Bank review and agreement,
information on the detailed location, site status and updated cost estimates
for health centers to be included under the proposed project, and sketch
drawings for staff quarters for health centers and related accommodations.
The Government has agreed to employ an engineering firm or firms to supervise
the civil works by December 31, 1989.
5.10     Three of the health care centers to be financed under the project are
Type I Centers. which offer ante-natal, post-natal, family planning, child
health and nutrition services to a population of roughly 4,000.  Two of the
clinics to be financed under the project are Type II clinics, which provide
all of the services offered in Type I clinics as well as outpatient curative
and immunization services to a poprlation of about 12,000.  Four Type III and
two Type IV clinics are also inclucied in the proposed project. These clinics
serve a population of approximatel) 20,000 and provide services similar to
those provided in Type II clinics, but they also serve as District MOH
Headquarters. In addition, Type IV centers house the Parish Medical Offices.
Finally, the project will finance the construction of one new Type V clinic,
to provide comprehensive health services, including maternal and child health,
family planning, nutrition, dental, curative, educational, and specialist
services. Type V centers serve as a key point of referral from the primary
health care centers to the tertiary level and provide follow-up care after
hospitalization. Type V clinics also coordinate the administrative and
outreach primary health care program.
(ii) Purchase of Medical Equipment (US$1.2 million, including contingencies)
5.11     Budgetary constraints during the last several years prevented the
MOH from replacing old and obsolete equipment and instrvments. The pro-
posed project will finance the purchase of medical, surgical, dental and
medical support equipment for hospitals, including laboratory and pharmacy
equipment. The medical equipment list prepared by the MOH includes items
such as autoclaves, incinerators, incubators, trolleys, wheelchairs, and
diagnostic, laboratory and physiotherapy equipment. The sargical equipment
list includes instruments for general, gynecological, orthopaedic, ear,
nose, and throat, and neurological surgery. The Government brought to
negotiations, for Bank review and agreement, updated equipment lists and
draft bidding documents for equipment procurement.



- 25 -
(iii) Buildin8 Stocks of Pharmaceutical Supplies (US$15.7 million,
including contingencies)
5.12     As a consequence of the recent economic austerity, the MOH has
been unable to provide adequate amounts of drugs and medical supplies to
its hospitals and clinics, and stocks of these items have dwindled
considerably. Even though the 1988/89 budget allocation of J$34 million
for drugs and related supplies was twice the allocation given in 1980/81,
with reduced purchasing power of the Jamaican dollar and the increase in
manufacturers' prices, this budget will satisfy only 40Z of current needs.
These budgetary constraints, accompanied by cash flow problems, have caused
a serious depletion of inventories held at the MOH Central Medical Stores.
5.13     The pharmaceuticals replenishment program financed under the
proposed project aims at replenishing stocks of pharmaceuticals for
preventive, curative, and rehabilitative health care delivery. The Central
Medical Stores are in the process of computerizing their inventory system.
This will enable them to maintain better control of their stocks and to
more accurately assess usage patterns, required lead-times, and minimum re-
order levels. The GOJ brought to negotiations, for Bank review and
agreement, draft bidding documents for drug procurement, and an updated
list of drugs and pharmaceuticals to be procured under the project.
(iv) Health Sector Institutional Strengthening (US$5.9 million, including
contingencies)
5.14     The proposed project will finance the staffing of a project
implementation unit at the MOH to manage the execution of HRDP projects
under the Ministry of Health. The Unit will comprise 18 new posts and 4
upgraded posts and be eligible for compensation above regular governmental
salary scales, partly financed with UNDP assistance, as an incentive for
more effective HRDP management. The GOJ will absorb some of these posts,
as necessary, after HRDP completion.
5.15     The proposed project will also finance incentives for MOH staff,
including domestic training for pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, and
medical records clerks; foreign and local consultants (for bid preparation
and evaluation, as well as preparing and delivering in-service training and
seminars); construction of about 180 living quarters for health personnel
at selected hospitals; and related equipment, furniture, and operating
costs (utilities for refrigeration chain. office supplies, and maintenance
of buildings and vehicles). Draft terms of reference for proposed
technical assistance to the MOH were reviewed and agreed during
negotiations.
(v)  Upgrading the Registrar General's Department (US$1.6 million including
contingencies)
5.16     The Registrar General's Department (RGD) at the MOH is responsible
for registering births, deaths, and marriages; issuing documents certifying
these events; and producing and publishing statistics concerning these
events. Annually, it receives approximately 60,000 birth registration
forms; 14,000 death registration forms; 600 still-birth registration forms;
10,000 marriage records, and 250,000 requests for certified copies of
registration. The RGD has been plagued with a multiplicity of problems.



- 26 -
Over the years, both its management and administrative systems, as well as
ite physical facilities, have become increasingly deficient. There is
insufficient space to store its current stock of 15 million records, which
are in most cases badly deteriorated, misplaced, or even lost. There are
long delays in the issuing of certificates, which may take as long as two
years. As a result, there is a backlog of approximately 400,000
applications.
5.17     The proposed project would upgrade the RGD in order to improve the
efficiency of collection, use and distribution of vital statistics in
Jamaica. It will finance construction of office buildings and assist in
computerization of the RGD through the provision of computer hardware and
software and related training. The project will also support the
development of a microfilmed system automatically driven by a computerized
index for fast retrieval of information and copies of records.
Education Sector:
(i) UpRrading of Pre-Primary Schools (US$4.2 million, including
contingencies)
5.18     The Government's Program for the Advancement of Childhood
Education (PACE) aims, by 1992, to enhance education and care for about 802
of the children between 3 and 5 years old. It will encourage work at
community and neighborhood levels to establish new schools and upgrade
existing institutions, and provide opportunities for the development of
community self-reliant activity. The PACE program will employ nearly 4,000
people, while providing education to about 100,000 basic school children.
5.19     The proposed project will support the PACE program through the
provision of: (i) construction materials rad furniture needed by the
communities to improve and refurbish about .90 existing pre-primary (basic)
schools in their areas (the necessary skills and labor for such
refurbishing work will be provided by the communities themselves); (ii)
teaching materials, furniture and equipment and other software for training
pre-primary school teachers; (iii) initial recognition grants for new pre-
primary schools; (iv) awarding of 125 scholarships for pre-primary school
teachers and teacher trainers to pursue courses in Early Childhood
Education at Teachers' College, the Cultural Training Center, or the
University of the West Indies; and (v) operational (travel and
transportation) costs for the supervision and monitoring of pre-primary
schools' programs. During negotiations, procedures for upgrading pre-
primary schools included under the proposed project were reviewed, and
assurances were obtained on the use of these procedures, including the
services of a supervisory agency, satisfactory to the Bank, to be appointed
by December 31, 1989. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the GOJ would make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to seek the
cooperation of the communities in the upgrading of pre-primary schools, by
March 1 of each year for works to be undertaken in the following year.



- 27 -
(ii) Upgrading Primary and All-Age Schools (US$11.3 million, including
contingencies)
5.20     There is considerable overcrowding in many primary and all-age
schools throughout Jamaica. This is evidenced by a sample of primary
schools in 13 parishes which had an enrollment of 32,000 students, for a
capacity of 15,000. On average, classrooms in these schools are holding
more than twice the number of children for which they were built, although
the number of teachers is largely adequate. Additional classrooms are
necessary. The proposed project would finance the addition of some 200
classrooms in about 20 primary and all-age scho.ols, through the provision
of civil works, furniture and equipment. Average class size in these
schools will be reduced to about 40 students, as enrollments would remain
relatively stable. During negotiations, information on the detailed
location, site status and updated cost estimates for primary and all-age
schools to be renovated under the proposed project was reviewed. The
Government agreed to employ an engineering firm or firms to supervise the
civil works by December 31, 1989.
(iii) Provision of Textbooks for Primarv Schools (US$9.4 million,
including contingencies)
5.21     Lack of instructional material in primary schools has contributed
significantly to the fact that many school leavers remain less than
adequately prepared (para. 3.17). Provision of textbooks both improves the
learning potential of the students and relieves some of the burden on
teachers, who are often resporsible for teaching as many as 55 students at
one time. The current textbook program is an extension of a 1984 program
which supplied a set of six textbooks in language, arts and mathematics to
350,000 primary school children, and teachers' guides to primary school
teachers (para. 3.19). By 1986, 2.7 million books had been distributed to
children islandwide. An evaluation of this program has confirmed that
students' performance in the areas served with new textbooks has improved.
The new program would extend the areas of coverage to include science and
social studies. Until now, textbooks have been provided by the Government
free of charge. The Government is endeavoring to contain the costs of
primary school textbooks (para. 5.05).
5.22     The proposed project would finance the development, production,
and distribution of English, mathematics, science, and social studies
textbooks for about 350,000 primary school children. Draft bidding
documents for textbooks to be procured under the proposed project were
reviewed during negotiations.
(iv) Education Sector Institutional Strengthening (US$8.5 million,
including contingencies)
5.23     In recent years, the system of Regional Education Offices,
originally set up to ensure that professional standards are maintained in
schools islandwide, has deteriorated, leaving many rural schools without
the supervision and support required to deliver quality education. The
proposed project would provide for construction of five Regional Education
Offices, and for equipment, incremental staff, consumable materials, and
operating costs for six Regional Education Offices. For reliable linkages



- 28 _
betwecn them, the schools and the MOE headquarters, provision would be made
for vehicles and communications equipment. Personnel who will staff the
Regional Offices would receive training in the areas of planning,
evaluation, monitoring and student assessment. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that a plan for additional staffing of six MOE
Regional Offices, satisfactory to the Bank, will be finalized as soon as
the managerial study of the MOE, which is being financed under Loan.
2899-JM, is completed; and that such plan will be effective by not later
than March 31, 1990.
5.24     The National Assessment Program (NAP) is based on the new primary
curriculum, which has just completed its first full cycle for grades 1-6.
The NAP provides for a readiness test at grade 1, a diagnostic test at
grade 3, and a national achievement test at grade 6. It is important that
these tests be professionally and reliably administered, and school support
and participation are critical. An incentive payment will be provided to
enlist the cooperation of schools. Each school is expected to nominate a
member of its staff to serve as examinations" supervisor in a given year,
for which services the individual will be paid a small honorarium.
Additionally, the school would receive an allowance to cover other expenses
associated with administering the examinations. The proposed project will
finance administrative costs for NAP supervision by schools, and honoraria
for NAP supervision.
5.25     Within the last five years, there has been a steady and rapid
decline of teachers in the system -aho are without teacher training.
However, a substantial number of teachers in the primary and all-age
schools still lack academic qualifications. The proposed project will
support short intensive upgrading courses to be given during vacations or
on weekends, for about 2,000 primary and all-age school teachers. It will
also finance training for about 20 MOE staff, and teacher upgrading for
about 200 secondary school teachers, as well as foreign and local experts
to assist MOE in planning for the decentralization process. Before
negotiations, the Government sent to the Bank draft terms of reference for
proposed technical assistance to the MOE. These were agreed upon at
negotiations.
5.26     The proposed project will also provide support for a two-year
pilot program of school awards and its evaluation. Under this component,
the schools would compete for awards to be made on the basis of defined
performance criteria. These criteria will be determined by the MOE in
consultation with the principals of schools and the Jamaican Teachers
Assoeiation, based on the following aspects: (i) the average NAP score of
the schaool compared with a fixed standard; (ii) the degree of improvement
in average NAP scores compared with the previous year (applicable in the
second year of the pilot program); (iii) maintenance of school buildings,
equipment and supplies; and (iv) a school community project selected by the
individual school. These criteria will reward overall performance based on
absolute academic standard, improved academic performance, care of school
facilities, and school involvement in the community. The annual school
awards will be earned competitively at the parish (20 awards per year),
county (10 awards per year), and national levels (3 awards per year).
Evaluation of the awards scheme will be undertaken during the second year
of its implementation, and after its completion. The Government sent to
the Bank, before negotiations, draft performance criteria for school
awards, which are satisfactory to the Bank. These criteria will commence
to apply not later than June 30, 1992.



- 29 -
5.27     Because of low household incomes, probably as many as 302 of
primary and all-age school children attend school without adequate supplies
of such basic items as exercise books, pencils, rulers, etc. The proposed
project attempts to redress the learning disadvantage of these children by
making these basic items available without cost. Provision will be made
for 50,000 children in grades 1-6 (about 14Z of enrollments) to receive
basic school supplies currently worth about J$15 per year. The Government
sent to the Bank, before negotiations, a draft implementation plan for this
component. Criteria for the identification of the beneficiaries and for
the allocation of school supplies were agreed upon at negotiations.
5.28     The proposed project will also finance the creation of six new
posts and the upgrading of 11 posts for HRDP implementation at the MOE.
These staff would be assigned to a project implementation unit to be
established under the Project Construction and Maintenance Division of the
MOE.  The new and upgraded staff will be eligible for compensation above
regular government salary scales, partly financed with UNDP assistance, as
an incentive for more effective HRDP management.  The GOJ will absorb any
of these posts which are still required after HRDP completion.
HRDP Administration and Monitoring:
(i) HRDP Secretariat (US$1.6 million, including contingencies)
5.29     The project would provide funds to meet the costs of the HRDP
Secretariat, which is located within the Social Planning Division of PIOJ,
to assist in the implementation of the multi-sectoral ERDP. The proposed
project includes financing for incremental staff, equipment, travel
expenses and operational costs of the HRDP Secretariat. During
negotiations, the GOJ advised the Bank that the plans for the HRDP
management structure (in particular, additional HRDP staff and units in
MOH, MOE and PIOJ, to be financed in part with UNDP assistance), satis-
factory to the Bank, have been approved. Appointment of key staff to the
HRDP Secretariat and MOM and MOE units would be a condition of
effectiveness.   During negotiations, understandings were reached that the
key staff to be appointed as a condition of effectiveness would be the
following: (a) for the HRDP Secretariat in PIOJ: a Program Manager and a
Financial Manager; (b) for the MOM: a Project Manager, a Technical Manager
and a Financial Manager for the Project Implementation Unit; and (c) for
the MOE: a Project Manager and a Financial Manager for the Project
Implementation Unit. Special provisions are being made within the Ministry
of Finance and the Public Service to expedite the recruitment and
appointment of these professionals. The Government would inform the Bank
in writing when these staff have been appointed.
(ii) ImPact Monitoring (US$0.9 million, including contingencies)
5.30     The project would also cover the costs of HRDP implementation and
impact monitoring. Effective monitoring is critical to the overall
management of the program; it ranks among the most cost-effective elements
in the HRDP, and deserves high priority (para. 4.18). Existing mechanisms
for monitoring institution-based service delivery statistics will receive
reinforcement in all major implementing agencles, with assistance from
UNICEF. For the HRDP, an enhanced system of monitoring social conditions,
based on an approach developed in the World Bank under its Living Standards



-30 -
Measurement Study (LSMSj program, has been activated. This system is built
on the Statistical Institute of Jamaica (STATIN) existing Labor Force
Survey, for data collection, processing and analysis. The scope of the
survey has been broadened to include health, education, employment. income,
consumption, nutritional status, housing conditions and fertility.  To
ensure that the information is most relevant to policy makers, the system
can achieve turn-around from interview to data analysis within two months.
This will provide a major improvement in the Government's ability to assess
and monitor social policy. The proposed project will retroactively finance
the costs of the LSMS pilot run undertaken in Augus.. 1988, as well as the
second survey, which will be fielded in June 1989. The project will
support semi-annual surveys to be conducted and analyzed during the project
period.
Project Implementation and Management
5.31     Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be
implemented over a period of approximately five years, covering Jamaican
fiscal years starting April 1, 1989, and is expected to be completed by
March 31, 1994. The closing date will be December 31, 1994. The cost
schedules prepared for the various components (Annex 6) and detailed
implementation schedule (Annex 7) will serve as a basis for project
implementation planning and will be updated annually by MOH, MOE, and the
HRDP Secretariat, in preparation for the annual reviews. During the annual
progress reviews with the Government (para. 5.06), the Bank would give
particular attention to the effectiveness and efficiency of HRDP
implementation, and changes will be agreed as needed.
5.32     The HRDP will require adequate management capacity in the agencies
concerned, in order tot (i) formulate programs; (ii) carry out
intersectoral planning and inter-agency liaison; (iii) coordinate donor
activities and financing; (iv) execute programs; and (v) undertake program
monitoring, evaluation and adjustments.
5.33     A key agency in this process is the PIOJ.  Working with
corresponding staff in major HRDP implementing Ministries and agencies, the
PIOJ is responsible for: ti) program formulation and expediting of
execution, (ii) cootdination of donor financing, (iii) intersectoral
planning, policy analysis and coordination of the HRDP program and
projects; and (iv) analysis of statistical data and other information for
HRDP monitoring, impact evaluation and adjustments. The HRDP Secretariat,
located in the Social Projects Division of PIOJ, will monitor the physical
and financial progress of individual project/program components, and will
maintain liaison with the Bank and other donor agencies.
5.34     The HRDP activities to be carried out by the Ministries/agencies
include planning and implementation, at the field and headquarter levels,
as well as monitoring and evaluation tasks for each sector. To accomplish
these tasks, the overall institutional capaci:.. of key Ministries will be
improved, including in particular the MOH and MOE. In the case of the MOE
(Chart 2), a project implementation unit under the Project Construction and
Maintenance Division, which is already handling implementation of World
Bank projects, is being created to implement HRDP projects in education.
Several positions in other divisions will also be strengthened. Staff of
the division are knosledgeable of World Bank procurement and project
implementation procedures, but the ministry requires increased capabilities



- 31 -
in planning, policy formulation and statistical analysis, as well as
program monitoring and evaluation. A central project implementation unit
will be newly established in the MO, to handle all foreign-assisted
projects (Charts 3 and 4), including the HRDP. In view of limitations in
existing staffing in these Ministries, additional personnel will be needed
to ^arry out these functions.
5.35     Thus, the education and health components of the project will be
implemented by project implementation units to be set up in the MOE and
MOH. Program impact monitoring will be undertaken by STATIN, in
consuAtation with PIOJ for interpretation of LSMS survey results. The HRDP
Secretariat in PIOJ will have a coordinating role for all components, and
will act as a liaison between the Bank and the diverse ministries and
agencies concerned with HRDP and project iLplementation, as well as with
external financing agencies and donors.
5.36     There is considerable merit in the Government's delegating
suitable HRDP components to Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) for their
support and/or participation in implementation. There are at present
approximately 200 local, regional and international NGOs operating in
Jamaica, primarily in the social sectors. While NGOs have direct contact
with the Government, there have been few special efforts as yet to
coordinate NGO activities with HRDP-related operations. The HRDP
Secretariat, working with the Ministries concerned, and on the basis of
updated information, is in the process of identifying MRDP components that
may be implemented by NGOs.
VI. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Costs
6.01     Total project costs are estimated at about J$368.6 million
(US$67.0 million equivalent), excluding taxes and duties. Tables 6.1 and
6.2 suumarize the estimated costs by project component and category of
expenditure.  Detailed costs are presented in tables in Annex 6.
6.02     Base Costs and Contingencies.  Base costs are expressed in
December 1988 prices, and exclude taxes and duties, which are negligible.
Civil works costs were based on approved building proposals for the various
components. Furniture costs were based on lists of standard locally
available items. Equipment and pharmaceutical costs were based on lists
priced for similar imported or locally available items. Books were based
on current textbook production and distribution costs. Overseas and
domestic training and costs of foreign and local consultants were based on
current standards. Costs of incremental HRDP staff and operating costs
were based on current estimates. Total contingencies of US$11.8 million
represent 21.5Z of base costs. Physical and price contingencies were based
on total project expenditures. Physical contingencies (US$2.8 million)
represent 5.1Z of base costs. Price contingencies (US$9.0 million), about
16.4Z of base costs, were estimated on the basis of the implementation
schedule (Annex 7) and expected annual price increases as follows: local --
82 for 1989, 6? for 1990, and 42 for subsequent years; foreign -- 5.32 for
1989-90 and 4.1Z for subsequent years.



- 32 -
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COPONNENT a/
$Total
lForelgn   Bass
Local Forelon Total  Local ForeIsn Total  Exchanae   Cots
(Js million)        (USB *illion)
HEALTH SECTOR
PRIUARY HEALTH CARE DEVELOPMENT    17.2  12.7  29.9    8.1   2.8   5.4    42.8          9.9
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT                  0.6   5.8   s.9    0.1   1.0   1.1    90.0           2.0
PHARMACEUTICAL STOCKS             18.0  54.0  72.0    8.3   0.8  18.1    75.0          28.6
UOH INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING    21.0   6.6  26.6    8.8   1.0   4.8    21.1          6.8
UPGRADING REGISTRAR GENERAL'S      8.5   8.7   7.2    0.6   0.7   1.8    61.4           2.4
DEPARTMENT
SUB-TOTAL                60.8  81.8 141.6   10.9  14.8  25.7    57.4           46.7
EDUCATION SECTOR
UPGRADING PRE-PRIMARY SCHOOLS     11.9   6.9  18.8    2.2   1.8   8.5    86.7           6.2
UPOR. PRIMARY A ALL AGE SCHOOLS    80.8  20.0  50.8    5.5   8.6   9.1    89.7         18.6
PRIMARY TEXTBOOK PROGRAM          87.8   4.2  42.0    6.9   0.6   7.7    10.0          18.8
MOE INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING    28.4   9.8  89.2    6.2   1.7   6.9    25.7         12.6
SUB-TOTAL                108.4  40.9 149.8   19.8   7.4  27.2    27.4          49.2
HRDP ADMINISTRATION & MONITORING
HRDP SECRETARIAT                   6.5   1.8   7.8    1.2   0.2   1.4    16.8           2.6
IMPACT MONITORING                  2.7   2.0   4.7    0.6   0.4   0.9    42.7           1.6
SUBTOTAL                  9.2   8.8  12.5    1.7   0.6   2.8    26.6            4.1
TOTAL BASE COSTS                   177.9 125.5 808.4   82.4  22.8  56.2    41.4         100.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES           9.1   6.4  15.5    1.6   1.2   2.8    41.4            5.1
PRICE CONTINGENCIES             82.1  17.6  49.7    5.6   8.2   9.0    85.4           16.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS     219.1 140.5  8s6.6   89.8  27.2  67.0    40.6         121.5
/ Net of taxes and duties, which are negligible.



- 33 -
Table 6.2 SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(US Tillion)
UTotal
XForeign   Bse-
Local Forelan Total  Local Foreian Total  Exchanae   Costs
(JS  tilion)       (USS million)
Civil Works                       65.7  87.4 108.1   11.9   6.8  18.7    86.2       38.9
Equipment                          8.8  18.2  21.5    0.6   8.8   8.9    84.8         7.1
Books                             87.9   4.2  42.1    6.8   0.8   7.6    10.0        18.8
Furniture                          5.5   8.7   9.2    1.1   0.7   1.8    40.0         8.0
Foroign Experts                    0.0   2.7   2.7    0.0   0.6   0.6   100.0         0.9
Local Experte                      0.9   0.0   0.9    0.2   0.0   0.2       0.0       0.8
Overseas Training                  0.1   0.9   1.0    0.0   0.2   0.2    96.0         0.8
Domestic Training                  9.2   1.0  10.2    8.8   0.2   1.9    10.0         8.4
Bonus Incentives                   1.2   0.1   1.8    0.2   0.0   0.2    10.0         0.6
Pharmaceuticsls                   18.0  64.0  72.0    8.8   9.7  18.0    75.0        23.7
Incremental HRDP Staff            16.8   1.8  18.1    8.0   0.8   8.8    10.0         6.0
Operation and Mainteannce         16.4   1.1  17.6    8.0   0.2   8.2       8.0       5.8
Educational Materials              8.4   0.4   8.8    0.6   0.1   0.7    10.0         1.8
Total Base Cost            177.9 125.5 808.4   82.4  22.6  55.2    41.4       100.0
Physical Contingencies          9.1   6.4  15.5    1.6   1.2   2.8    41.4        6.1
Price Contingencies            82.1  17.6  49.7    5.8   8.2   9.0    85.4        16.4
Total                  219.1 149.5 868.6   89.8  27.2  67.0    40.6       121.5
6.03      Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs are estimated at about J$149.5 million (US$27.2 million equivalent)
including contingencies. Based on a detailed analysis of expenditures of
similar projects in Jamaica, the foreign exchange component for the major
categories was estimated as follows: (a) civil works 402; (b) equipment
90?; (c) pharmaceuticals 852; (d) furniture 402; (e) foreign consultants
100?; (f) overseas training 952; (g) books, bonus incentives, domestic
training, and HRDP incremental staffing 102.
Financing
6.04      To meet a part of the total estimated project costs of about
US$67.0 million, the Bank would make a loan of US$30.0 million equivalent
(45? of total estimated cost). The financing plan and loan allocations by
category of expenditure are presented in Table 6.3. Jamaican counterpart
funding requirements would be met by the Government.
Procurement
6.05      For the proposed project, the Government will follow Bank
procurement guidelines and procedures. Cost of civil works under the
project (about US$23.0 million, with the biggest single contract not
exceeding US$300,000 equivalent) will involve repairs and additions to



_ 34 -
Table 6.3:  FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Proposed
Government     IBRD Loan   Totala/    IBRD (Z)
Civil Works                      13.3             5.4      18.7          30?
Equipment                         0.6             3.3       3.9          85Z
Books                             6.1             1.5       7.6          20?
Furniture                         1.4             0.4       1.8          20?
Foreign Experts                   0.0             0.5       0.5         100?
Local Experts                     0.0             0.2       0.2         100?
Overseas Training                 0.0             0.2       0.2         100?
Domestic Training                 0.0             1.9       1.9         100Z
Bonus Incentives                  0.2             0.0       0.2           0f
Pharmaceuticals                   2.3            10.7      13.0          82?
Incremental HRDP Staff            2.6             0.7       3.3          20?
Operation and Maintenance         3.2             0.0       3.2           0?
Educational Materials             0.7             0.0       0.7           0?
Total Base Costs       30.4            24.8       55.2         45Z
Unallocated                       6.6             5.2      11.8          44?
TOTAL                  37.0            30.0       67.0         452
a/ Totals represent base costs. Unallocated amount includes physical and
price contingencies.
primary and pre-primary schools as well as health centers, and limited new
construction for nurses and technician housing and for five regional MOE
offices. Contracts for works would be awarded according to local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank and which would
allow foreign biddezx to participate. Because of competitiveness of the
local construction industry, and the dispersed and remote location of
primary schools and health facilities to be upgraded, it is very likely
that all civil works contracts would be awarded to local firms.   The GO.T
will employ engineering firms to supervise civil works for primary and all-
age schools and health facilities under the project. Construction
materials for improvement and reconstruction for about 390 pre-primary
schools will be procured under prudent shopping procedures, on the basis of
competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers eligible under
Bank guidelines for packages not exceeding US$20,000 equivalent and
aggregating to no more than US$2 million. Procurement for larger packages
for building materials for pre-primary schools will be administered
centrally by the MOE, using LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. The
necessary skills and labor will be provided by the community, with
technical expertise and supervision furnished by a Government-owned
construction supervisory company.



- 35 -
6.06     The total cost of equipment (including vehicles) is estimated at
about US$4.6 million, of which about two-thirds will be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with Bank
guidelines, and the remainder through LCB or local ehopping (by inviting at
least three quotations). Contracts in excess of US$100,000 would be
awarded on the basis of ICB. Where 1CB procedures are used, goods manu-
factured locally would be given a preference margin of 152. Contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or less, but more than the
equivalent of US$20,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$1.2
million, may be awarded in accordance with competitive bidding procedures
locally advertised, satisfactory to the Bank. Goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$20,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$200,000, may be procured by procedures of local shopping acceptable to
the Bank.
6.07     Pharmaceuticals (costing about US$15.6 million) would be procured
under international competitive bidding procedires acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement wil; be undertaken, as at present, through the Jamaica
Commodity Trading Corporation (a Government company), and distributed
through the Island Medical Stores. The Corporation imports all drugs for
Government agencies, and requires that all its drug imports conform with
international standards set out by the United States and the British
Pharmacopeia and meet the requirements of the Food and Drug Act of Jamaica
and be registered with the MOH. Packages not exceeding US$20,000 equiva-
lent and aggregating to no more than US$600,000 equivalent may be procured
under locaJ or international shopping procedures with at least three
eligible suppliers.
6.08     Primary school textbooks have been prepared by MOE staff.
Printing of textbooks will be conducted in sev,ral phases; packages will be
small, and therefore t.heir printing and distribution will be awarded under
LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Foreign bidders would participate
if interested. Packages for furniture would be small, and the furniture
will be delivered in small quantities to scattered destinations, and
therefore, furniture will be procured using LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Consultants required for the project would be hired following
the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
6.09     Prior Bank review would be required only for contracts exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent. Other contracts and bid evaluations would be
subject to random ex-post review by Bank staff. All ICB procurement would
be based upon Bank sample bidding documents for goods. These procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table 6.4.
Disbursements
6.10     The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of about
six years (Table 6.5), consistent with the standard IBRD disbursement
profile for Jamaica (all sectors), modified to take into account repayment
of PPF and opening of special account during initial implementation stages.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1994 (Closing
Date) and will be made against the following categories of expenditure
covering the HRDP activities to be financed under the proposed project:



- 36 -
Table 6.4. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Procedure            Total
Category of Expenditure        ICB      LCB     Other      N/A       Costso/
Civil Works                            21.0      2.0                  23.0
(6.3)b/  (0.6)                 (6.9)
Equipment                       3.2    1.2       0.2                   4.6
(2.8)  (1.0)    (0.1)                  (3.9)
Books                                   9.3                            9.3
(1.9)                          (1.9)
Furniture                               2.2                            2.2
(0.4)                          (0.4)
Pharmaceuticals                15.0              0.6                  15.6
(12.4)           (0.4)                (12.8)
Foreign and local                                0.8                   0.8
consultants                                   (0.8)                 (0.8)
Overseas and domestic                            2.5                   2.5
training                                      (2.5)                 (2.5)
Incremental HRDP Staff                                     4.0         4.0
(0.8)       (0.8)
Bonus incentives, opera-                                   5.0         5.0
tion and maintenance and                                  (0.0)       (0.0)
educational materials
TOTAL         18.2    33.7       6.1       9.0        67.0
(15.2)   (9.6)    (4.4)    (0.8)        (30.0)
a/ Totals represent total estimated costs per category including price and
physical contingencies.
b/ Numbers between brackets reflect Bank financing.



- 37 -
(a) Health Sector: (i) civil works--30Z of total expenditures; (ii)
equipment and pharmaceuticals--lOOZ of CIF cost of foreign expenditures;
1002 of ex-factory costs of locally manufactured goods; and 652 of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; (iii) training and
consulting services--1OOZ of total expenditures; (iv) incremental HRDP
staff--20Z of total expenditures; and (v) furniture--20Z ef total
expenditures; (b) Education Sector: (i) civil works--30Z of total
expenditures; (ii) equipment--100Z of CIF cost of foreign expenditures;
1002 of ex-factory costs of locally manufactured goods: and 652 of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; (iii) training and
consulting services--lOOZ of total expenditures; (iv) incremental HRDP
staff--202 of total expenditures; (v) furniture and textbooks--20Z of total
expenditures; (c) HRDP Management and Monitoring:  (i) equipment and
furniture--1002 of CIF cost of foreign expenditures; 1002 of ex-fActory
costs of locally manufactured goods; and 652 of local expenditures for
other items procured locally: (ii) training and consulting services--100X
of total expenditures; and (iii) incremental HRDP staff--20Z of total
expenditures.
6.11     Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for goods
and services with a contract value of US$100,000 or more will be supported
by full documentation. Contracts below US$100,000 and other disbursements
against activities not undertaken by contract vill be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). for which supporting documents would be
maintained by the MOH, MOE, and HRDP Secretariat, and would be made avail-
able for Bank staff review. A Special Account in US dollars would be
opened at the Bank of Jamaica, with an initial deposit of US$1.8 million
equivalent, corresponding to about four months of project expenditures.
Retroactive financing will be permissible for approved expenditures for
payments made after August 1, 1988 (or twelve months prior to loan
signing), up to an amount not exceeding US$2 million.
6.12     Disbursements will be subject to Bank satisfaction with the
Government's progress with project implementation. For this purpose, the
Government has agreed, as a condition of disbursement, that, if during the
annual reviews (para. 5.06), the Bank is not satisfied with project
implementation or with the proposed implementation schedule, expenditures,
and financing thereof, for the following year, the Bank will be authorized
to reallocate, cancel, or both, by notice to the Borrower, any amount of
the proceeds of the loan allocated under a Category or Subcategory. The
Bank would notify the GOJ of its unsatisfaction in the carrying out of the
program or project, based on the annual reviews. In the absence of such
notification, the GOJ may continue to withdraw the amounts allocated to
each category. For an even flow of disbursements during the project
implementation period, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government would prepare annual disbursement profiles that would not
exceed 302 of the loan amount for any particular year.



- 38 -
Table 6.5: DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
IBRD fiscal year                 Disbursements
and semester                Semester Cumulative        Z         Semester
CUSS million)
1990
1st (Jul 89-Dec 89)            1.8         1.8         62           1
2nd (Jan 90.Jun 90)            1.2         3.0        10           2
1991
1st (Jul 90-Dec 90)            1.2         4.2        14Z           3
2nd (Jan 91-Jun 91)            3.0         7.2        24Z           4
1992
1st (Jul 91-Dec 91)            3.0        10.2        34Z           5
2nd (Jan 92-Jun 92)            3.3        13.5        45Z           6
1993
1st (Jul 92-Dec 92)            3.3        16.8        56Z           7
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)            3.3        20.1        672           8
1994
1st (Jul 93-Dec 93)            4.2        24.3        81Z           9
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)            3.0        27.3        912          10
1995
1st (Jul 94-Dec 94)            2.7        30.0       1OOZ          11
Closing Date: December 31, 1994.
Auditing and Reporting
6.13     MOB, MOE and STATIN will keep separate accounts for project
expenditures in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
procedures. The HRDP Secretariat, in collaboration with the ARDP units and
other project implementation staff at various Ministries and implementation
agencies, would maintain separate accounts for the HRDP as a whole and
would consolidate the accounts for the proposed project. The accounts
would show expenditures for each program/project component, subdivided by
expenditures financed by the Bank, the Government and other donor agencies.
All project accounts, the Special Account and all disbursements against
SOEs will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank in accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines. The Government
will submit to the Bank the audit reports of expenditure within six months
of the closure of each fiscal year. The audit reports will certify that
funds were used for the purposes for which they were provided. Assurances
were received at negotiations that the GOJ will comply with these
requirements.



- 39 -
6.14     The HRDP Secretariat in PIOJ will also submit to the Bank, for
both the HRDP program and for the proposed project, semi-annual reports on
the program/project implementation and expenditures, special reports prior
to annual HRDP progress reviews, and a final report on implementation
experience and program/project outcome (Project Completion R port) within
six months of the Closing Date of the proposed project. Assurances were
received at negotiations that the GOJ will comply with these requirements.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01     Unavoidable adjustment measures during the mid-1980s, following
several years of economic decline, resulted in significant economic
hardship to important segments of the Jamaican population. Real public
expenditures for education, health, and other social services fell sharply
during FY82-86, and remain severely depressed. Despite Government efforts
to mitigate the effect of these cuts on the poor, the deterioration in
basic public services has been severe and human capital formation and
social well-being have been adversely affected. The HRDP will address
social sectors' rehabilitation and development needs. The Bank's leading
role in the HRDP formulation and execution, emphasizing economic factors
and policy reforms and efficiency measures, vould help Jamaica to reap
maximum benefits from the program. Through policy reforms, the Bank's
involvement would increase the overall efficiency of social services, ant
improve targeting and formulation of efficient strategies to protect the
vulnerable groups of the population. The focus on primary health centers
and pre-primary and primary education would help rehabilitate and expand
these priority social services, and would improve access for the poor.
Through its financing of HRDP implementation and monitoring costs, the Bank
would acquire an effective vantage point to influence overall program
execution, including continued consistency of the HRDP with macroeconomic
objectives.
Risks
7.02     The main risk--both for the HRDP as a whole and for the proposed
project--is possible administrative delay in program implementation. An
effective role by the HRDP Secretariat within PIOJ in monitoring, coordi-
nating and expediting HRDP execution by several Hinistries and line
agencies would reduce such a risk. Another important risk is that the
Government may find it expedient to over-emphasize certain segments of the
HRDP (such as food distribution and public works programs), to the neglect
of other (and more economically sound) HRDP components. The annual HRDP
progress reviews with the Government and the monitoring system being
established would give the Bank an opportunity to review program priorities
on a continuing basis. The Bank involvement in the program and in donor
coordination would provide an effective basis for discussion and close
monitoring of HRDP expenditures.



- 40 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
8.01     The Government prepared and brought to negotiations the following,
for Bank review and agreement:
Ca) updated information regarding the status of donors' financial
support of the HRDP, and revised PSIP figures for the overall HRDP program
for 1989-90 (para. 5.02);
(b) updated equipment lists and draft bidding documents for
equipment procurement (para. 5.11);
(c) draft bidding documents for textbooks (para. 5.22); and
(d) draft bidding documents for drug and pharmaceutical supplies
procurement and an updated list of drugs and pharmaceutical supplies to be
procured (para. 5.13).
8.02     At negotiations, the Government:
(a) provided assurances that it will maintain institutional
structures and procedures for effective planning, program management,
coordination of execution, monitoring and progress reporting, and supervise
HRDP implementation to ensure its conformity with sound program and project
implementation criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.03);
(b) agreed to prepare and furnish to the Bank by not later than
February 1 of each year, starting in 1990, annual HRDP subprograms; agreed
to conduct, with Bank participation, annual reviews covering overall HRDP
policy, program and project implementation for the past year, and schedules
of program/project implementation for the following year, including
budgetary allocations and external financing, following criteria acceptable
to the Bank, and to conduct annual donor coordination meetings in
conjunction with the annual progress reviews. Thereafter, the first annual
progress review with the Government would be held by March 1, 1990, and
subsequent reviews would be conducted every year during MRDP execution.
Specific progress review criteria satisfactory to the Bank were agreed upon
at negotiations (para. 5.06);
(c) confirmed a plan and pzocedures for upgrading pre-primary
schools satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.19), including the use of a
supervisory agency; and agreed to make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, to seek the cooperation of the communities in the upgrading of pre-
primary schools, by March 1 of each year for works to be undertaken the
following year;
(d) agreed to employ engineering firms to supervise civil works
under the respective components of the project by December 31, 1989 (para.
5.09 and 5.20);



- 41 -
(e) confirmed agreement on criteria for the identification of the
beneficiaries as well as for the allocation of primary school supplies for
needy children (para. 5.,7);
(f) provided assurances that the plan for additional staffing of
six MOE Regional Offices will be finalized shortly after the administrative
study being financed under Loan 2899-JM is completed; and that such plan
will be effective not later than March 31, 1990 (para. 5.23), and confirmed
that it has approved the plans for HRDP management structure (in
particular, HRDP staff in MOH, MOE, and PIOJ, to be financed in part with
UNDP assistance) (para. 5.29);
(g) agreed on loan disbursement, reallocation, and cancellation
conditions (para. 6.12);
(h) agreed to maintain, audit and submit all project accounts
(including the Special Account and all disbursements under SOEs) annually
for Bank review (para. 6.13); and
[i) agreed to prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual progress
reports on the program/project implementatioa' and to prepare and submit to
the Bank a Project Completion Report within six months after the closing
date of the loan (para. 6.14).
8.03     The Government of Jamaica has sent a letter to the Bank confirming
the agreed Statement of Sectoral Pol4cies and Policy Matrix (Annexes 4 and
5), including an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to achieve
necessary changes to the general food subsidy, food stamp and school lunch
programs (para. 5.05).
8.04     As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will appoint key
staff to the HRDP Secretariat in PIOJ, and to the MOE and MOH units (para.
5.29).
Recommendation
8.05     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$30 million equivalent to
the Government of Jamaica, repayable in 17 years, including a five-year
grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



43 -MANEX I
Ta-blIe 1
Page 1 of z
-    S. 830~~~M" MM .    m0
4:110. 11  la                8o "l  IM              I    M             a1C a I  8     su   *cas               $a  aUKUGmk    OAU                 Ws        ia t a
*          a    a      a~~~01  30"     I    aA 30fttft     a     (       S $ M       ($)               I TCIN io1 t  S                   I (* tto             I       a
a= 16      1 a        .0333'695w                      i tn          U     91 U1 I3             ,um,916               69   U    ;96m*6302ClIs4 2:a, 60
CAM              at2MaUiI. .aUsab .00098    asin:34              .933  W., 62    To (6   01104,8  "163         all        Tsi  ,u"ia,            $a*t1       is~   *54)0  a
a   UAM          so        .b6a            S.% a  I  a                 3 as a         i  a"          la"       al          Ill    a    1 a               a         , 
NM P A      n       I~8.4k    sub~   440        86.6        -1  -4  -3    -0          803'    80                                 33                            30*40t  I  .90
011*66        68~a    13.      n 9.90  .?'        6.0'      )0'  34' 339    as4       I0"      n3          3)        (j30                     930 l  i  It     33.40
621MO             as    34.0  30490        1.0        IN          30   31   U.   494         10      499         86        39.          9           36       3)       3a
wurn 56M           9      3.94  490(        .1 1.       4       31 3       36      W . Il   00      so          40         .6,        300          63       39       :A.0'
gum                19     6.1 32,1.0 3sI                9.2       1   0   80    399        931     3*0         3        89.          10           18       301     3.110'
1___NT                            9343                                 to I4I43     40       3        17 so                30.0         40          is       3          .6
LUOM      A:    41so    5.5           I&A         U~~4  36   a7    31        38       31        3         30.2          2          3        is       13.00
UAU6B            94      0.44    341      1.6'       36.0        46 363  4s                 16:      40         so       -.            61          36       36       0.40b
sWA              94t0. 9Ia      ,10       1.          8 1.9     1336.. I           0       43       4s         as       61.0          40o         10       13       .00
hmu"92              I    4.0 53b       va   .    1.49  9.              la   is8    jib       31       34         43        19.2         93          86       46       0.10
6514 A            62    87.40    434    1.0*          20.4-       43 0(8n to                 a         9         34        6.          I           6       3        --
.3611010          I  1  6.9b    nab    6.'       6.      0          166  89 ..       03      St"*    33          ss4        I4          366                  31       3...
N6UL6              6      Ws~   334    3.96           3.           363 3 Is                43        so        U1        11.6          8          U4        t   33   .0
11113014,          la    t.0 S    ,304    4       .1  3           a.0to 16          "lb0    91         a3        33        31.0          lob        1I       3oo       00s
coAm          061   Isl        10 1ab             27.0        to8It31          U1       41%       a         w4        84.0          31          is       3        0.40b
63Win~~~,     19     0.to      1       .           3.'        M300                   lb                     31b        -                                         -0t30
6Wi38             so       .1k    940b    1693         30.4       983431            496 9is0 .                                         9o     6         39   8        1.30
$Ima               ?63.lb    330           (.6         33.        36 8 6            3 3       46s     425        16         ,4          as          (9s      32        0.401
2413               it    89.6k    30      65pa       23.0         --30U            344      416       3123.6                           40          It        36       3.00
2304               90     .1.9     4406    450         88.8       401 a33           44       95       9           6        12.6          89         4        33       8.30
UNION3            46    t          1.3k jgl  .        99           23 6 l                  90         99       is        300531                            Zs        0.10
19  544$. 33 61'                11.0      413   1 2        33        is        35        464       14.            -         88        43       8.400
cam6               el     6.1     335      3.8'         8.1         1 69 St14 S              39        3         3  2l.                  36          I        4         .0
C00066                0.0*is          1.34        "J         33 43             6         9        49                  --31                               3        31
64.4 06                   344   3..04    5.41i         36.41',    6     6 2                   9        4         4101      85            -          (6       4?b       3.40'?
ClIiU              it     1.3      (1      3 .4W       4.9S          398      3?-lo          44b       So9b 40               .16         11          1'u    41?         .0
CIA"               16    89.1     610      9.03       31.101             -         -         lf       -          3449      -             lf          -bo      4.1       *3
6904.0S1           it6    0.4      9o   2.       3.      6         41  oo24..    394         81        80        is        11.310        40         31        8'       -.0
outs" sl0.ow43  lb1                                                                           -        -         4a 64     -.            -          -         (91      26'
1011  1up                 0.4%    330      3.3         494        S  461 93        4         01        0 3314i1i          39.1'        40           WSk   (1          I.11
02434              16    31       400     4.01        19.6 9k3   1--              -0        733       -         314       -0.           -6         34t4     33        --
0A1311*            19     1.1b     "a 3909n 4.n*       -           3136363                   14        3         la        30.0*    1               341       a)       1.800
403666i            9      0.90    350    -.            91.0       4063 -3       91)4         U0        to        39         3.0          -1          -        a4       -.
3101               61    93.14    Iab        4 130 79 4.0          13409 1         304       1s        19        31        39.0          46         as"       30       8.6
$so&               64     i.@4    in0      4.2         140 38.'   3     38   U8 (0            30       a         46        1.7          to          lb       83       0.9041
stem8    10113    II      i.14    4354    1.0b          1.6b      234031           8b        I8        3)        35        3.0b          64          84m      3)       4.60b
910               6M      1.3       0      3.6q        33.03      4031no6          .4 3o14            30         341       43.0          $3         42a       436      I0.10b
=0        'el6 AO        9344       ao     3. 164 .1   8.0A       -1   -d  11    3           91        a1        II        89.           61         2t       3a       11.00
686A61             is1    1.6    2310      $.I         9.  36.0        Ss    I      jO                St         - 3S3T04                9          is'       t2       @.-
1000 $             is     3.      40          ol50     8.1d,    34   33614 28'   l6oop                 no        94        39.10         93         I"~       lot      3.0
CNIIJ              19     0.32.M1          9.1          96        16 4 3           93         4       9          34b       -             9b 1                 3
53. am           9      9.4   910        6*(0        30101      '* v    301                161       -         o 301                               3        St      1.410?
ami                       09    .9         1.20        19.0k      -     -     -             3j944      is         44       -             -          114'?    & 30 198.904
665904        90~~        ~ 30 .4 1030  1.09      N3.e           0    3    9              0        2        3           .                                 0      (.0
team~              90      .2 604    6.O               1.         402U12)90               1  M         1         31        12.9          U          40        3?      84.00
~~lA8IIUS  11  ~~~~ 41.6  a90     3.low13                66    621        42         ib1    33          29        -             48         344my    3141      1.8041
3039393            M6     O.6   8.080        for4      83.        -     -     -     -        694'     -          1s41       -             9          3        i4t"9    1.101
00631              e606l3 **49                         132.4       -94-1--341                                                            -          19'       -         .0oo4
slongo=                   3.6      n       S20  *4     84141       43' a    81   3'   0                30        431       8.6'          46W11                8         .0
JoZ08              90      .3   8.880      6.1        81.1         P4)3  U        0          is       U0         40         2.3          I5         as        a3       6.00
MEMO              I 9 0659.6.                1,        I1.0,      46 93            92        n091                           9.)          41          14       it      30.30
9803304            16     2.4      &l@b    ;,. 14*        o  _6.0k                           esas      24        1         -             -          344A      39 
93359             is      ,.s241  :.900,   1.94'      it.64       434  84  81    62b         "If      -          now1      81.4          no         soot      3141    3.4041
1*6304             M9      .0   (.4         .6'0       36.2      1463166           90        6)       33         U0         1.1          76         32        Is       0.10
mm3               90 6.  48.9               .          86.1       118        o990           a1       U          311        9.6         90          39        Is      34.401
"Una23a  33.1             3.8I.940         6.641        Ms64a 46           060 9                       1         30        10.991        49         64        24
55364              U 16   6."D90      ;,                 4k            - -                                       "'04' -  6  -           -          b649    -         31.604?
1UA     3616.41.960  ~~~~~.If               gg4         ---6 6                   (304*      -          0                                 364'    87        38.301



40 GPM m VW -ft MO 10 PFRM do so ommpmw-po"m '"no It all fmoww
sopm SU so El" qm stoma" snow onotown                            PR =sop= oupoobdop
MP GM p d go go songo- a on"
row ops am -PM at "Mus PM ""No I
so so "W .0 p ano-O GP - Fe sopt gope - ""a C" VW a 4
le",ooft stiqlA.Impo so oned do miamm
to "NW                         on ta"m we de gaim is PM t gosp) -P-0 so comomp MPL
411                 GM  on.,       L 0    low pw Salim do we               11% n PR a"
am =$=mm am el  4" an# ponew INP  go 11106) a"" AWS"
'o        fpmfmwmft   Foome  ,           I.E.*) gm   p sprung" "OgR folp           so 0
onisew   per 40 *gnu   I       Ammunal. PM  MR um  up 0 mm
-tv"*&-cas p- inim  4-   qwmm  go              tv MWM    0"0 4m IC PB"M  a .0"00mvL   ts)
pro  S"  It V~              $101110 VAPOS    go ftm  anso p an
gas in  .4m  vamose" as p almm  MP 1110 dm"mwftm gm                            as gm  so pip oneft" tose-
" "good" "to an Om 4m I I                  -gm so p de   so wow St In"" see" low a .. m
oRupproM el sM IM IM nnpn INNS% 11IWj WM St SUD WW  ANPEP 642 10$Ugft WANNNIMO WSJ
owtwp W" SR i[pen pnow "a W" " O"n 0"0 QP on Posecam OM 'EM ~ "so PWPMBM In "NW
gousam I so wb4ft" low wommo up P 0511101 so Is 'ambeas wwsww owpft "mm anon-0 I
"14"W PM =Dsom E"nnp mw$M  p IW195"efio so Is sol   so MM                 0 obvisomem
,*=PM&              oftne so 8-nm
ss"mw      .1  o I   I          angom   we "am   vio as I nosivio
""WM PIAVI am"= o"sM"  40 onw woo vtsm   et PM 1 ano4o                tesposes;
vin ="team   M71rm   a
Alm &mmumahw INVIS OW NW  A,           Wu gm  am                                                               1110 sout
a-m  (NW) VDUV*M0 do MUSNIN  I                   V"a W" a am
isalawAaas                                                    Brogglij;
tr      a         to          is      St        It     to       n     41Ia   n       Wei          *lo                              sunpow
0-1     I        tr        It          gt      11       IC       49      s     I el  n         all          $11                             plop""
619      ti                n           of       u        a       et      n     soa   0         wit          irt                                now
113      Vt                $31!        919     ri        fIa     0161    Wu   9-0 V& "         lrs          911                   go"s""o ""Am*
S.,      $1                ot          0       a         St      00      a     tia   u         Illot        re                      movs
I't     a        a         so          go      a         to      gm      ts    gi0   to    1191             wo                     twom
wit      a       to        n           et      0        Os       is      to    a 19  Is    &,13             re                      nodde tmswm
twu      to      too      toot       (0140     cu        446    (oil    to    tU  4%   CIO (61"            (clot
two)    -0)      -t)      .01)       .411)    -it)       .11)    -11)    -9)   -4) -9) -a) -ilt)          .411)                               "ON
to     0       to        Sd          go      a         If      n       111   to0   et         IS            n                  'a
0511     or       do        et       Wu         a        09      to       a    0 *1`I on         116        Ws   4m       4"      a       `11-we
Ws       at       6         a         Wu        IS       a        a      019    so   a       a    slil      ds-I   qms       6    "         WV
are       it     It         n         wo        It       IS      oil    qu      eta   a          11,91      t-t         I pit    go
art       K      909        at        rts      Ot        of      SW             0 49  ft          rot       dri    at I  re    a              vomm
Wto    *11    ^It           a                  4st       a      aqn                              glot       wt    69t I  re    of               WM
Spool-ii;   -     &us                                             jovei                           arts        a,t    wo'*  ra    ft               am
"Wal  40   at"                so                 4                wilm                            are    &V    0""  I-SR  9A                    v
we       el       U         a         rot       In                as      as    91   S   as       vto         I           qrot   Is           "S
...    091     oil        n          -        .9       U"     Wu      Sea    - -   -          ces'et       rt           0-1    a               gm
to.,      n       Of                   t'st      It       6       et$      a     et   to   a       rig       wro           go' n    0
opwa  -   III,                           -    of   -   on -  -- _;                                                            rs  a
we       a       lot                                                            et   or     I                             ore    a
arts    O`I       to                                             so"     4:    -                                          49-11   to
ANIS,11    a"     S"fi                                             mm      -     - -   -                     "It,   otell   rot   Go
nool.,    009    M"                                               =201      a    .--   -          401,91     at's    Z.,   $49   et
so"                  wo        plll                            a 0          4  trol       do's            rg    n
w  I    061      stfp                           a                Su       0    so  a"  1111       6-4      molf   gm      et,"    a
400119     St     at        AS        go's        it      Vto     M        9    on  on  S"         gles      airg    Su's   6,61   di
awl  ^tt   9                 go         -    tig    0  44tt  el  0 So p    .4   I.,  awdaw%mn                                                        l
WC       go       is        99        re        a         19      a       a     a a          a              re   4=       41'so   a
aft's     a        ti                            99                        61                                   I                                 mm
&M's                                                                                                          ,,r C  osun  4rog" nu               TM
iris                     r      0
409,                    10,411     tg.  gm,    11:&    M
wt        el                gr        alig               of       Ps      ts    0 0              Vill       re    -       wo    is            waft
0010     et       so       141       st's                         M      4:     el  II  as       $la        Vt   4m       4r"    a           from
ort      of       Oa        Olt       Vol                         el            a 0   or        qrot      awl    M           0    a
we       a        $9                  re        n        a        n             el  so  a        all        rt    an't,  III    0
arts      u       91                  I.,       19       to                                                drt            *-ow   a
WI      sit    "to                    rgl      fig      Su                                                  V11           WC    a           we gum
a       u                   Vol       n        a        so    41141   a a                         r:            441-01             Tap"
to      &S"                   It       21       a      de     4 a              r         0.               S-11   :             on
id        n                   so               a        0     99W   a                    S.,            otla    a
a         Os                  a        to      11      qu     0 "   u          r          1`11
wfp       of      19        0         Ws                                        It  ft   a        P&         I's
(91)I ISO          Its)      1160                                 40)        (6)                             41)
mumme smap   to) S M  (wit) 8  a)  I omalmlmw
W#  so  wow emw   18) a a M   up
smamtwnusnmtuo uo.o
Ammonalut AMMIAMMIMUMM
mme mm:    0 M ung                   gum  AWANM$ dog   up
I0
;0
I _oTgyt



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Tabl- 2
JAMAICA: Population Proj ettons
VARIANT A      VARIANT B      VARIANT C
YEAR         TFR a 8.4      TFR = 8.4      TFR   2
PARAMETERS
Crude Birth Rate                     196S - low0        80.6           80.8           27.6
1990 - 1995        80.4           30.4           26.1
2000 - 2005        26.6           26.6           18.8
Crude Death Rate                     1985 - 1990         5.4            5.6            5.6
g990 - 1995         6.0            6.8            5.8
2000 - 2005         4.4            4.7            5.1
Infant Mortality Rate                195S - 1990        16.9           16.9           16.9
1990 - 1995        16.1           15.1           15.1
2000 - 2005        12.6           12.8           12.8
Now Reproduction Rate                1985 - 1990        1.62           1.02           1.47
1990 - 1996        1.68           1.68            1.8
2000 - 2005        1."8           1.              1.0
Growth Rate                          1985 - 1990        2.52           1.78           1.45
1990 - 1995        2.54           1.93           1.48
2000 - 2005        2.21           1.94           1.06
Net Migration Rate                   1986 - 1990         0.0           -7.4           -7.6
1990 - 1996         0.0           -5.2           -6.4
2000 - 2006         0.0           -2.6           -2.9
RESULTS
Total Population (Million)           1986 - 1990         2.6            2.5            2.5
1990 - 1995         8.1            2.6            2.7
2000 - 2005         8.9            8.4            8.0
Female Population [15-49] ($000)     1986 - 1990         710            660            660
1990 - 1996         804            717            717
2000 - 2005       1,025            698            975
Population (0-14] ('000)             1965 - 1990         981            918            878
1990 - 1995       1,186          1,027            914
2000 - 2005       1,863          1,221            e8e
Population E15-64] ('000)            1965 - 1990       1,816          1,472          1,472
1990 - 1995       1,819          1,609          1,609
2000 - 2006       2,854          2,018          1,978
Dependency Ration (X)                1985 - 1990        78.7           75.4           70.0
1990 - 1995        71.6           74.2           67.1
2000 - 2006        66.9           69.5           52.9
VARLANT A: Constant fertility with no migration.  Mortality constant.
VARIANT 8:  Constant fertility with migration.  Mortality Is constant.
VARIANT Cs Net reproduction rate of 1.0 by Year 2005, with migration. Mortality Is constant.
Source: Policy Unit, PHND8, World Bank
TFR a Total Fertility Rate.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
JAMAICA: Health Status--Comparativo Indices o/
CRUDE         INFANT              MATERNAL
LIFE           DEATH        MORTALITY            MORTALITY
EXPECTANCY        RATE           RATE                 RATE
(Years)       (Years)      (Por 1000)           (Per 100.000)
Industrialized Economien             75              9             10              Different sources
giv- figures
varying from 2-12
LAC Region                           60              10            76                   1oo cS
- Bahamas                         9               6            so                    20 c5
- Cuba                           76               6            20                    40 d/
-Cost Rica                       74               4            20                    20 c/
- Barbados                       72                 b/         17                     0 d/
- Guyana                         69             N/A            48 b/                100 b/
- Haiti                          64              18           107          S20 c/
- Trinidad A Tobago              66               7            28                   N/A
- Jamaica                        70               7            28                    s0
Source: World Bank, World Development Report, 1085; PIOJ; MON; and mission estimates.
a/ All figure are for 1983, except where stated otherwise.
_  1979
1980
1981



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public Sector Outlays on Health and Education
Health
4.01     Since FY79/80, annual real per capita outlays in health, (in
constant 1987 USS), reached a peak of US$44 in FY82/83, and then fell 422
to a low of US$26 in FY86/87. In FY8718, this indicator recovered to
US$32 (see Table 1). If the Jamaican economy continues to grow, restoring
the US$44 level reached in FY82/83 would be a plausible target for FY92/93.
Based on GDP and population projections used in the MTEFP, this target
implies raising the share of public sector outlays in health from 2.7t of
GDP in FY87/88 to 3.2Z of GDP by FY92193. This is not an unreasonable
goal, considering that in FY82/83 this share had reached 3.6X.1 Under the
MTEFP assumptions, this target implies an average annual rate of growth in
real public sector outlays in health of 7.7Z per year over PY87188-92193 --
a rate of increase which the SWP envisages for the growth in social sector
outlays during that period.
4.02     Capital Outlays.  Over the period FY79/80-86/87, capital
expenditures for health ranged from a peak of 10.41 of total public sector
outlays in health in FY81/82 to a low of 3.71 in FY85/86 (Table 2). It is
estimated to have reached 15.11 in FY87/88, 252 in FY88/89 and to be 261 in
FY89/90, largely for expenditures on long-delayed rehabilitation. A
reasonable long-run ratio should be in the order of 152 of public sector
outlays, which is the target set for FY92193.
4.03     Recurrent Outlays by Program Categories.  The composition of
public sector recurrent outlays in health among program categories has
varied significantly between FY80181 and FY86/87 (Table 3). Owing mainly
to changes in accounting categories between FY80/81 and FY84/85, rather
than to substantive changes, the share of administration expenses plunged
from 282 to 72 over this interval. After a significant drop between
FY80/81 and FY82/83, the share of the key primary health care services rose
gradually from 16S in FY82/83 to 212 in FY86/87. The GOJ has a long-term
target of a 251 share for primary health care for April 1, 1991 and an
intermediate proportion of 232 for April 1, 1990. Paramedical services,
which gradually doubled their share from 32 in FY80/81 to 62 in FY86187,
are targeted to reach 7Z by April 1, 1990 and to remain at that percentage
thereafter. Training, whose share has ranged narrowly between 21 and 32 of
recurrent costs, is targeted to reach a 42 share by April 1, 1990 and
maintain that level thereafter.
1/ Compared to other low- and middle-income countries, the 3.62 GDP-share
appears high. In an illustrative sample of such countries for which
this index is reported in a recent Bank publication (Financing Health
Services in Developing Countries, 1987; p. 15), the data ranged from
0.83Z in Ethiopia to 2.8S in Peru. However, in the sample of four
industrialized countries shown in the same dncument, the corresponding
values ranged from 4.3S in Japan to 7.72 in Sweden.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
Table 1: JAMAICA - PU8LIC SECTOR OUTLAYS DN HEALTH AND EDUCATION
FY79/80-8s?/8 (Actual) and FY92/98 (Target)
Real total outlay         Real per capita outlay          Share of CDP
(1987 JO miliIon)           (1987 USS million)                m
Fiscal Year           H"lth      Education        Health     Education      Health   Education
1979/80                489.8       934.0            42.1        60.8           8.8       6.8
1980/61                470.7       969.9            40.0        62.4           8.8       6.0
198182                 504.2     1,011.5            42.2        84.?           8.4       6.9
1982/98                584.7     1,014.6            44.0       68.             8.6       6.8
198s/84                489.2       935.?            39.6        75.6           8.2       6.2
1984/8s                882.6       790.8            80.4        62.9           2.6       5.8
1965/86                85s.9       698.4            27.9        54.4           2.5       4.8
1986/67                880.6       744.9            25.6        67.8           2.2       5.0
1987/86                420.8       829.9            82.2        68.6           2.7       5.4
1992/93 (target)       608.8    1,171.9             44.0        84.7           8.2       6.2
Source: Ministry of Finance and msision estimatee.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
Table 2: JAMAICA--CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDIURES IN HEAL.LN AND
EDUCATION AS SHARES OF TOTAL
SECTORAL OUTLAYS
(Perecntam)
H"lth                          Educatilon
Fiscal Year       Total   Capital   Recurrent       Total   Capital   Recurrent
1979/S0            100       5.6        94.5         100     10.6         89.4
1980/81            100       6.9        91.1         100      8.6         91.4
1981/62            100      10.4        89.6         100      5.6         94.6
1982/83            100       9.2        90.6         100      6.9         98.1
1983/J4            100       4.0        98.0         l00      6.2         91.6
1984J85            100       6.0        95.0         100      7.4         92.6
198S/6             100       8.7        96.8         100     10.6         69.4
1966/87            100       6.9        93.1         100      6.6         9:.2
1967/68            100      16.1        84.9         100     21.8         76.7
1992/98 (target)   100      15.0        86.0         100     16.0        865.0
Sourc: Milaietry of Flnance and mission estimtes.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
Table 8: JAMAICA-COMPOSITION OF RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
ON HEALTH AND EDUCATION, FYGO/81-88/87
(X shares)
80/81     82/83      84/8S      86/87
(A) Ministry of Health: Total     100        100        1G0        100
Administration                 28         15         7           5
Primary health care            20         16        18          21
Sec. and tort. hoelth care     46        e8         69          68
Paramedical services /I         8         4          4           6
Training                        a         2          2           2
(B) Ministry of Education: Total    100      100        100        100
Administration /b               6         8          6           7
Primary education /c           88        32        a8           8S
Secondary education            35        86         86          34
Tertlary and higher oducation  19        22         21          24
Student support services /I     2         8          2
/a Paramedical services: laboratory services, pharmaceutical supplies, and
general maintenance programs.
/b  Administration: general administration, curriculum development, project
administration, libraries.
Is  Includes pre-primary and primry schools.
/I  Student support services: school nutrition program and uniforas.
Source: Ministry of Finance
Education
4.04      Since FY79180, annual real per capita public sector outlays in
education (in 1987 US$) have ranged from about US$85 in FY81/82 to about
US$54 in FY85/86 (see Table 1). By FY86/87, per capita outlays had
recovered to about US$64. Corresponding amounts, stated in relation to the
population aged 5-14 years, were approximately four times greater: US$340
in FY81/82 and US$216 in FY85/86 per school-age child.
4.05      If the Jamaican economy continues to grow, restoring the US$85 per
capita annual public sector outlays in education reached in FY81182 would
be a plausible target for FY92193. Together with projections of population
and GDP in the MTEFP, this target implies raising the share of public



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
sector outlays in education from 5.42 of GDP in FY87/88 to 6.22 in FY92/93
(Table 1). The corresponding GDP-share in FY81/82 was substantially
higher, 6.9Z.2 Under the GDP and population growth assumptions, this target
implies an average annual rate of growth in real public sector outlays in
education of 7.12 per year over FY87/88-FY92/93 -- a rate of increase
which envisages for the growth of social outlays during the period.
4.06     Capital Outlays.  Over the period FY79/80-86/87, the share of
total public sector outlays on education devoted to capital expenditure
ranged from 10.62 in FY79/80 down to 5.52 in FY81/82 (Table 2). It reached
about 21.3Z in FY87/88 which is well in excess of a reasonable long-run
target of about 152 proposed for FY92/93.
4.07     Recurrent Outlays by Program Categories.  The composition of
public sector recurrent outlays in education, among program categories, has
varied over the period FY80181-FY86/87 (Table 3). From a high of 382 in
FY80181, the share of primary education fell sharply to 322 in FY82/83,
then recovered gradually to 352 in FY86/87. Considering that the
overwhelming majority of all beneficiaries of public education are enrolled
in the pre-primary and primary level and that a deficient primary education
is typically a formidable impediment to effective higher-level instruction,
a major Government objective will be to sustain the trend of a growing
share devoted to pre-primary and primary education until, at least, the
FY80/81 share of 382 is restored by FY89/90 and sustained thereafter. The
corresponding share for secondary education has fluctuated narrowly between
342 and 362 over the same period, and is targeted to stabilize at 352 from
FY89/90 onwards. The corresponding share of tertiary and higher education
rose from a low of 192 in FY80/81 to a peak of 242 in FY86/87, and is
targeted to fall moderately to an intermediate level of 212 by FY89/90 and
continue at that level in subsequent years.
Conclusion
4.08     To sum up, public expenditure in Jamaica on health and education
was drastically cut between 1980/81 and 1985/86 (See Table 4). Capital
expenditures in both sectors were more affected than recurrent
expenditures. There was a limited recovery in 1986/87, which is planned to
continue through 1992/93, with average annual increases in the public
health and education outlays at rates of 7.72 and 7.142, respectively (the
HRDP assumptions). Because of their key roles in the delivery of health
and education services (particularly to the poor), the focus of future
growth has to be on primary health centers and pre-primary and primary
education, respectively (paras. 3.05, 3.18 and 6.05).
2/ For a set of 28 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean for which
this index is reported in a recent Bank publication (Financing
Education in Developing Countries, 1986, pp. 47 and 48), the median
value is 4.22, the mean 4.82, and the standard deviation 2.72.



Tabl- 4: JAMAICA - COVERNLENT EXPENDITURES ON HEALTH, EDUCATION AND OTHER SOCIAL SERVICES 3/
FY79/SO - PYs7/8s
79/8O     80/81 2/  81/52     82/63      63/84     64/35     66/66      86/87     87/88     so 6/8s V
A. Heal th
Total                144.6     100.2      186.2     220.6     240.4      254.7     200.8     807.9     420.2      577.4
Recurent             136.7      145.0     166.9     200.8     286.5      241.9     279.7     236.6      256.6     435.6
Capital                7.9      14.8       19.4      20.8       9.9       12.8      10.6      21.1      68.6      141.8
8. Education )/
Total                276.2     880.1      878.7     418.5     471.8      625.8     S65.7     698.6      829.8    1040.2
Recurrent            246.8     801.8      858.0     869.7     482.6      486.7     505.5     682.8      658.2    8s8.3
Capital               29.4      23.3       20.7      23.9      88.5       8.1       60.1      61.1      176.5     201.9
C. Other Social el
Total                215.7      191.8     142.0     243.2     820.4      221.7     209.0     278.2      506.9     587.5
Recur,rnt            121.0     114.4      115.0      99.8     281.9      140.2     181.9     175.0      243.4     264.7
Capital               94.8      77.4      117.7     143.8      62.5       81.5      77.2      98.8      283.6     272.9
D. All Social S/
Total                686.5     692.1      791.9     882.8    )0as.1    1002.2    1066.0    1274.6    1756.9    2155.1
Recurrent            604.5     562.1      684.9     689.6     901.1      866.8     917.1    1094.1    1253.2    1538.8
capital              182.1     120.0      157.8     192.5     180.9      183.4     147.9     1800.      608.7     616.6
A/ Atul expenditure' vanles noted; in millions of current JO
I Includes training and cultural developmnt
S/ Includes: (1) ecial security and general welfare; (11) Iouing; (111) *ater supplies; (iv) other social and community servico
E Entries here are the a of correeponding entries for A, 5, and C
/ 'Approved stimates'
V 'Estimates'
Source: Ministry of Finance, 'Functional Classification of the Sudget' sections In Financial Statement. and Revenue Estimates, v rious  o
years 
0'



- 53 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HRDP - Possible Proiects for External Financing
Project Name                                 Description
A. Health
Hospital Improvement II             Restoration of 12 hospitals and the Bellevue
Psychiatric Hospital over a 5-year period.
Health Care Rehabilitation          Construction and equioment for 55 health centers
Refurbishment/modification          To integrate in one space several MOH
of a training complex             inservice training programs.
Purchase of medical equipment       Purchase of medical and surgical equipment to
replace obsolete component.
Refrigeration facilities            Purchase of 60 refrigerators and 50 vaccine
carriers for immunization program.
Drug supply depot                   Construction of an intrasit depot for drugs for
primary use.
Pharmaceutical supplies             Purchase of drugs for the Government medical
services to dispense (5 years).
1s. Nutrition
School feeding program              To provide a snack for 625,000 schoolchildren
190 days per year (5 years).
Food stamp program                  To double the present value of the program
(5-years).
Public assistance/poor relief       To provide pension benefits to needy elderly or
disabled persons (5-year cost).
Supplementary feeding program       To secure food supplies for feeding of certain
patients at MOH hospitals and malnourished
children in community (5 years).
C. Education
Strengthening of MOE support        Evaluation/monitoring, technical assistance,
services for primary education    training, equipment (4-years)



-54                      ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Quality improvements in primary    Supply of basic school materials to needy
education                         students; incentives for teachers; national
assessment program (4-years).
Upgrading basic schools             Salary supplements for teachers; building
materials for school construction/ improvements
(5 years).
Upgrading primary and All-          Renovation and refurbishing of 39 schools
Age Schools                        (4 years)
Upgrading new secondary             Improvements to physical facilities, support
Schools                            facilities, curriculum and teacher upgrading for
79 schools (5 years).
Textbooks for primary schools       To provide textbooks for all students and
students and teachers' guides for primary
schools (5 years).
D. Employment
Rural Road Maintenance              Labor-intensive maintenance of parish council
and settlement roads, including minor repairs of
bridges, culverts, etc. (5 years).
Drainage/River Control              Digging of di-Lnage channels to prevent flooding
(5 years).
Reforestation/Soil Conservation    Plantation of 54,000 acres (5 years).



-55-                           ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 10
OrFICE OF THU MINISTER OF FINANC4
AND PUSLIC SERVICE
3`0 NrIONAL HEROES CIRCLE.
P.O. Box 512.
JAMAICA
May 11, 1989
Mr. Barber Conable
chaixua
World Bank
1313 H. Street# N.W.
Vashingtonf D.C., 20433
*~~~~-' 3. .A.
Dear Mc. Conables
As you may be &wage the Government of Jmaica has beau
in negotiations with your organisation concerning a loan to
fund a Social sector Deve1opmaent Project. These negotiations
have been completed, and the goal of the project could be
presented to the World Bank Board before the end of June.
This project is net within the wider context of a ,man
ResoUces Develovment Prc oet for which the sank is assistinq
us wvth raising additional undinq.
Please find attac#sd the Goveranent of Jamaica Policy
Statement with regard to the Social Services# and an associated
matrix indicating actions to be taken and the timing of these
actions.
I look forward tq a successful presentation of the
project to your Board.
Sincerely
- -
eymour MuIlLnqg
nMiister of Finance and
Public service    *
Mtt.



5 S6 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 10
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Statement of Sectoral Policies
by the Government of Jamaica
Introduction
1.       Increasingly in recent years, the Government of Jamaica has been
aware of the need to initiate a comprehensive program in support of human
resource development, with particular focus on essential policy reforms in
the social sectors. The Government's objectives include mitigation of
adverse social impact of the economic adjustment measures on families with
limited means of livelihood. The Government has also sought to achieve
better targeting of poverty aid, and increased efficiency in the delivery
of social services. Until early in 1988, however, the Government's
attention to programs of economic recovery prevented it from addressing
these pressing needs in the social sectors.
2.       While policies to consolidate the country's recent gains in econo-
mic recovery still remain prominent in the Government's agenda, we now
consider it feasible to implement a carefully phased 'Human Resource
Development Program (HRDP)'. This 5-year program sets medium term targets,
essentially in public health, education, nutrition and employment aid, to
increase the financial resources available in support of these services,
and to initiate policy reforms and rationalization measures to improve
their overall efficiency. The program also incorporates a new monitoring
system to measure progress, including the impact on personal well-being of
households.
3.       The Bank is well aware of the objectives and the contents of the
HRDP, which was developed in collaboration with it. The Government is
appreciative of the Bank's assistance and its prominent role, in June 1988,
in presenting the program to the donor community for financial support. As
a basis for the Bank's and the donor community's financial support of the
HERDP, listed below are the main policy reform actions and efficiency
measures which the Government of Jamaica undertakes to implement during the
5-year (1989/90-1993194) HRDP implementation period. The actual phasing
of these actions will be discussed with the Bank and confirmed at annual
HRDP progress review/planning sessions which will be held during the HRDP
implementation period. The target dates indicated below for certain pros-
pective reform actions should, therefore, be taken as indicative at this
stage.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 10
Public Health Services
(a) Increases in public hospital user fees
4.       In 1984, the Government of Jamaica revised fees for patients using
public hospitals. Exempt from fees under the present fee schedule are
those on visits for family planning, women with high-risk pregnancies, food
aid recipients, children in school uniform, members of the armed forces and
pensioners. All visits to public health centers are free of charge. The
Government will now review the public hospital fee structure, with due
regard to progress being made in increased efficiency, medical insurance
coverage and fee exemptions based on poverty, and will increase collections
for increased revenue, as well as for optimal use of health facilities
(i.e. to discourage excessive lengths of hospital stay, to encourage more
intensive use of primary and secondary facilities, and to improve the
referral system between different levels of care). The Government is
studying the possibility of introducin& fees in certain areas where these
are not being collected now, such as for blood banks and medical
laboratories. Government proposals will be prepared by March 31, 1990, and
necessary follow-up action will be implemented by July 1, 1990.
(b) Increased Efficiency of Public Hospitals
5.       In 1987, a process of divestiture of major public hospital non-
medical services was launched, extending over: (i) housekeeping, janitorial
and portering; (ii) catering, and (iii) laundry services. In October 1987,
housekeeping services were let to a private contractor in three Kingston
hospitals. The Government, following this practice, will divest, by June
30, 1990, all catering and laundry services in the Kingston region, as well
as in Spanish Town, Cornwall and Bellevue Hospitals, following renovation
and upgrading of their facilities.
6.       In addition, the Government of Jam&ica intends to improve effi-
ciency in hospital operations by improving the management system through
granting greater autonomy to hospital Boards, and give more implementation
responsibilities to local management teams. There are plans to implement
this model in Spanish Town Hospital. Private blocks are now being operated
within two hospitals, introducing cost recovery mechanisms within them.
The Government will pursue these and other initiatives to strengthen the
management and organization of health delivery services and cost recovery
options. A report on which models are most appropriate and cost-effective
to serve as a basis for an improved system of public health services
delivery in Jamaica will be prepared by June 30, 1992; the Government will
implement the findings by December 31, 1992.
(c)   Increased emphasis on primary health care
7.       The Government of Jamaica gives priority to the primary health
care facilities as effective and economic instruments in the delivery of
public health services. Accordingly, the share of MOH recurrent expen-
ditures on primary health care increased from 161 to 211 between 1982183
and 1986187.  in support of this policy, the Government will increase



58                           ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 10
further the primary health care share of total MOH recurrent expenditures
to reach 23? by April 1, 1990 and 252 by April 1, 1991. To ease the burden
on the Government's budget, the Government will make efforts to promote
community involvement in the primary health care clinics' construction and
maintenance.
(d) Rationalization of public health services
8.       Since 1985, the MOH has begun to rationalize its facilities by
applying performance-based budgeting and computerization for its accounts,
and introducing incentives for hospitals to collect fees. Five hospitals
were converted to primary health care facilities, and five general hos-
pitals were reduced in inpatient capacity. The referral system was
strengthened with the development of criteria for referral and the provi-
sion of improved facilities for transportation and communication; more
specialized and costly medical services were centralized. Under the
Administrative Reform Program (ARP), health information systems computer-
ization and program budgeting were introduced.  By April 1, 1990, the KOH
will complete the restructuring and rationalization of its facilities and,
by April 1, 1991, complete computerization and reform of its budgeting
systems.
9.       At present, all receipts from public hospital charges are passed
on to the MOH, except that hospitals may claim 50? of their individual
collections for approved expenditures. The remaining 502 is retained at
MOB headquarters and allocated to expenditures at the discretion of the MOH
Permanent Secretary. (On that basis, individual hospitals could be reim-
bursed for up to 10OZ of their fee collections if their proposals for reim-
bursement qualify within certain acceptance criteria). By April 1, 1990
(and on the basis of proposals given to the Bank by September 30, 1989),
the Government of Jamaica will introduce a new system for reimbursement,
allowing hospitals to retain 75? of revenues collected for expenditures
under budgets approved by the MOB (based on an increase in the fee
structure).
(e) Increased employment incentives for key MOB staff
10.      The Government has been concerned that key MOB personnel,
including hospital administrative staff and nurses, are becoming difficult
to recruit or retain due to low goverrment salaries. To ease this
situation, the Government will prepare (by December 31, 1989) a plan to
provide salary supplements/incentives for key public health personnel, to
improve the MOB staffing situation particularly in areas directly involved
in the implementation of the HRDP and other priority programs. The Govern-
ment will begin to implement the agreed proposals by April 1, 1990.
(f) Improved system of civil registry
11.      Since before independence, Jamaica has had a system of civil
registry (for recording of births and deaths in particular).   This
registry is currently operated by the Ministry of Health. The Government
is concerned that the present civil register's coverage is incomplete, and



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 10
its records collection and storage are outdated. The manpower planning and
population division of PIOJ is currently looking at this issue, in collab-
oration with an inter-ministerial committee, and by December 31, 1989, will
propose a comprehensive plan to overhaul it, for implementation by the
Government by April 1, 1990.
(g) Improved MOH pharmaceutical program
12.      Although measures to improve storage, inventory control and
distribution of drugs and medical supplies and to encourage the use of
generic drugs wvre recently adopted, the MOH pharmaceutical program still
has serious shortcomings. The supply of essential drugs and medical sup-
plies is not adequate. The current fee for prescription drugs in public
hospitals, at J$5, represents only a small fraction of the actual costs.
By December 31, 1989, the Government will prepare proposals on revised
charges. The MOH will introduce, by April 1, 1990, increased drug charges
more aligned with real costs of individual drugs.
NUTRITION AID
Improved targeting and rationalization of food aid to the poor - The
General Food Subsidy, Food Stamp, and School Lunch Programs
13.      The General Food Subsidies on a wide range of items were removed
in May 1984. However, in a period of hardship among the poor, controls and
subsidies on some 11 food items were reintroduced in May 1986 (basically on
wheat, corn and powdered milk). The Government of Jamaica is aware of this
program's short-comings in respect to its targeting, as well as its
disincentive effects on Jamaican agriculture. Accordingly, on April 27
1989, it took measures to reduce general food subsidies channeled through
the Jamaica Commodity Trading Company (GFS) for 1989-90 by about J$165
million, resulting in higher prices of up to 50Z for staple foods such as
bread, flour, rice, cornmeal, chicken, dried salted codfish and condensed
milk. A cabinet subcommittee, with technical support from PIOJ, is (a)
identifying those households which are hardest hit by food price increases,
and (b) developing strategies and measures to alleviate the effects of
these increases.
14.      The Jamaica Food Stamp Program was introduced in 1984 with a value
of J$20 every other month, to provide partial protection to selected groups
of needy persons (such as poor, pregnant and nursing women, their infants
and young children; the elderly, and indigent poor). Food stamps cover
rice, cornmeal and powdered milk. Measures have been adopted to strengthen
management, distribution and targeting of the program (via mail lists and
clinic-based distribution). The Government of Jamaica believes that there
is need to improve further the targeting of the current stamp aid, through
an analysis of coverage, to reach the most vulnerable groups. Accordingly,
steps are being taken to reduce coverage from about 400,000 to
approximately 320,000 recipients, by removing unqualified recipients from
the list of beneficiaries. It also believes that the present nutritional
value of the program, which was seriously eroded by inflation in recent



- 60 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 10
ye.rs, should be restored to its original level. Accordingly, the stamp
allowance was ralsed to J$30 every other month, effective July 1988, and
will be increased to JS40 every other month, as of July 1, 1989. The
School Lunch Program, introduced in 1983, was designed to provide 302 of
protein needs for about 170,000 children daily in pre-schools and primary
schools. Accumulating evidence, in Jamaica and elsewhere, points not only
to enhanced daily dietary intake but also to improved school attendance and
attentiveness as benefits of school lunches for children from poorer
households. The Government aims, initially, at providing (as far a.
possible) 350,000 lunches in 1989/90 and, thereafter. if an impact
evaluation of the program establishes its feasibility, to reach a target of
600,000 lunches by the end of the HRDP period. The Government will
progressively improve the targeting and broaden the school lunch program to
cover more students at pre-primary and primary schools. Data from the
current Living Stand.rds Measurement System (LSMS) surveys will also assist
the Jamaican Government to monitor impact of its nutrition aid programs.
15.      The Government of Jamaica has agreed with the Bank on an action
plan to implement necessary changes to the food stamp, general food subsidy
and school lunch programs, and will implement such plan according to the
agreed timetable. Accordingly, the GFS will become a line item in the
Government's budget, beginning April 1, 1990. The Government has declared
its commitment to phasing out the GFS over the next two years. Using the
studies being conducted by the World Food Program and the Inter-American
Development Bank as the base, the Ministry of Education will undertake a
study to determine the demand for school feeding, its appropriate nature,
and efficient targeting mechanisms. The Government of Jamaica will send to
the Bank proposals to expand the coverage and to improve the targeting and
efficiency of school feeding programs by March 31, 1990. An agreed program
would be implemented by September 1, 1990. A cabinet subcommittee, with
technical support by the PIOJ, is reviewing the Food Stamp Program and
other proposals to target food to the poor, and cushion the effects of
price hikes as general food subsidies are removed. The Government of
Jamaica will send to the Bank specific proposals for changes in the Food
Stamp Program by September 30, 1989, and an agreed program will be
implemented by December 31, 1989. In accordance with the above, the
Government of Jamaica will communicate annually to the Bank the estimated
annual amounts for the GFS program. The overall amount of all subsidized
food programs would be reviewed annually within the context of the HRDP
annual review, in light of macroeconomic development and fiscal objectives.
EDUCATION SERVICES
(a) Increased emphasis on pre-primary and primary education
16.      In its support of the education system, the Government of Jamaica
gives high priority to pre-primary and primary education.   From 1982183 to
1986/87, the share of the Ministry of Education's (MOE) recurrent budget
expenditures devoted to pre-primary and primary education increased from
32Z to 352 of the total. The Government intends to raise this ratio
further. By April 1, 1990, the share of the MOE recurrent expenditures
devoted to pre-primary and primary education will reach 36Z, and 382 by
April 1, 1992.



- 61 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 10
(b)      Improved Government capacity to monitor impact of education
programs and to identify issues in learning achievement
17.      As a result of past and planned investments, access to schooling
in Jamaica at lower levels is largely assured. However, quality (as
measured by an incipient educational assessment program) has not yet
reached an adequate level. In 1985, the Government of Jamaica established
a National Assessment Program (NAP), based on a new primary level
curriculum. The NAP provides for a readiness test at grade 1, a diagnostic
test at grade 3 and an achievement test at grade 6. To develop the system
further, the Government will prepare, by December 31, 1989, proposals,
satisfactory to the Bank, to improve the quality of the NAP tests, their
administration and dissemination of their results. The Government will
implement the agreed action plan by September 1, 1990. The MOE, by
December 31, 1991 (following two administrations of achievement tests),
will evaluate the new primary level curriculum for any necessary
modifications. By September 1, 1992, the Government will provide pupils
with complete sets of textbooks for the core subjects being evaluated.
(c) Increased beneficiary participation in school affairs, including
restoration and maintenance of buildings and equipment
18.      The present low level of community support for maintenance and
frequent vandalism of school properties have been attributed in a large
part to the lack of community involvement and participation in school
affairs. With World Bank support (under Loan 2899-3M), the MOE is
undertaking a study to decentralize school administration and to create
local community committees for support of school activities, and has
established school maintenance committees in about 20 World Bank project
schools. Based on the results of the ongoing study to be completed by
December 31, 1989, and experience with school maintenance committees, the
Government will establish, progressively by parish, school maintenance
committees which will cover all basic primary and all-age schools (interim
targetes 50 schools by December 31, 1990; 200 schools by December 31,
1991).
(d) Increased supply of school textbooks and cost containment and
recovery.
19.      In the past, the MOE has provided instructional materials in
mathematics, reading and English directly to the schools, one set for every
five pupils. Since.1984, in phased implementation across the island, all
primary school children received a set of six textbooks without charge.
The MOE has a study under way regarding cost containment related
to primary textbooks. Depending on its findings (due by September 30,
1990) and if judged feasible, the MOE will introduce, by
September 30, 1991, measures for cost containment for primary level
textbooks. Thereafter, it will evaluate the impact. The Government of
Jamaica agrees that, to the extent practicable, secondary school pupils
(excepting the poor) should contribute to the costs of the school textbooks
they use. Accordingly, the MOE has introduced a textbook rental scheme at
the secondary level. This scheme will, by September 1, 1989, be in effect



- 62 -
- 62 -                ~~~~ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 10
for four core Lubjects in grades 7-11.  By September 1, 1991. it will cover
more subjects. Annual rental fees will be approximately J$15 per textbook
for grades 7-9, and J$20 for grades 10-11.
te) Cost recovery in higher education
20.      Beginning mid 1986/87, the Government eliminated boarding grants
for students attending institutions of higher education. A cess was intro-
duced more recently, and the student loan programs have been expanded. The
Government of Jamaica intends to maintain cost recovery/student aid
measures and it will improve them as necessary.
(f) Increased employment incentives for key MOE staff
21.      It is estimated that real incomes of the MOE personnel, adminis-
trators and teachers have declined by 302 since 1984/85, despite a
Government-approved increased salary subsidy in 1987 for teachers in basic
schools and negotiated increases in salaries for other categories of
teachers and for administrative personnel. Additional incentiven are now
necessary to motivate staff and to reward good performance, so that the MOE
will be able to recruit/retain qualified personnel. The Government of
Jamaica has allocated sufficient funds under the HRDP to enroll about 2,000
primary teachers in in-service training over the 1989190-1992193 period.
About 6,000 teachers will enroll over the same period in an upgrading
program, leading to a diploma and, hence, to eligibility for significant
salary improvement. Approximately 600 secondary school teachers will each
receive a scholarship for degree or post-graduate study. Additional
incentive schemes of a more innovative nature will be tried out and. if
successful. introduced on a permanent basis. By December 31, 1989, the
Government will prepare specific proposals on this matter for review with
the Bank, and will begin to implement an agreed action plan by June 30,
1992.
EMPLOYMENT AID
(a)   Provision of income support for the chronically unemployed
22.      Unsatisfactory employment performance has been a chronic problem
in Jamaica, as the "job-seeker' rate has varied from 8 to 18? from 1972 to
the present. It was 13? in 1980, peaked at 162 in 1982 and fell to 8.62 in
1987, thanks to the Government economic recovery program. Following a
period of decline, real wages have also been rising in 1986-1988. Because
unemployment remains chronically high among youth and women--half the
unemployed are under 25 and two-thirds are women--the Government has
sponsored since 1982 several programs of training and technical assistance
targeted to these groups, including HEART, SOLIDARITY, and the small farmer
income programs.
23.      To further relieve unemployment in depressed areas and assist the
rural poor, the HRDP includes a public works program, about 12,000 full-
tine job equivalents over the next five years (touching a much larger
number in terms of part-time employees). Activities to be supported under



_ 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 10
the program involve drainage, road maintenance, and reforestation/soil
conservation. Prior to full-scale launching of these activities, the
Government will review with the Bank its criteria fo. economic assessment
of project proposals under the scheme. It will also consider alternative
methods (in addition to the public works approach) to be comr;nicated to
the Bank by December 31, 1989, to increase employment of the poor
(including women and youth in particular) and agree with the Bank, by April
1. 1990, on necessary follow-up action.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (HRDP)
(a) Participation of Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) in HRDP
implementation
24.      There are approximately 200 local, regional and international
NGO's operating in Jamaica, primarily in the social sectors. While NGO's
do have direct contacts with the GovernmeuL, so far there have been few
efforts to coordinate NGO activities with HRDP components- The Government
of Jamaica agrees that the HRDP Secretariat, working with the Ministries,
and on the basis of updated information, will seek to identify the HRDP
components that may be implemented with the assistance of NGO's.
(b) HRDP impact monitoring
25.      The Government of Jamaica is fully cognizant of the need to
evaluate the impact of its policies on key social indicators. This impact
monitoring role has been assigned by the Government to the Statistical
institute of Jamaica (STATIN) which will use the Living Standards
Measurement System (LSMS). PIOJ is developing, with UNICEF financing,
other institution-based monitoring systems of the key Ministries, which
will complement this information.  During the HRDP implementation period,
the Government of Jamaica will conduct semi-annual surveys to assess
changes in key social indicators and will take these results into account
in determining the future course of HRDP policy and implementation.
CONCLUSION
26.      The Government of Jamaica attaches high priority to the HRDP as an
overdue development and adjustment program in the social sectors, which
will provide a social dimension for the major economic adjustment and
recovery process in Jamaica which has taken place in recent years. The
various policy reform actions and efficiency measures, listed above and in
the Policy Matrix attached, will constitute an integral part of the HRDP.
The Government is fully aware that the HRDP implementation should be within
the framework of Jamaica's broader macroeconomic policy objectives and
public sector investment priorities. Accordingly, the Government will
implement the HRDP on the basis of yearly subprograms, to be agreed with
the Bank.
27.      The Government of Jamaica declares its commitment to implementing
the HRDP-related reform actions and development policies described above.
The Government appreciates the assistance given to Jamaica by the World



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 10
Bank in preparation of the HRDP and in seeking aid in support of it by the
donor community. The Government hopes that the World Bank will now be able
to make a loan to Jamaica to help finance the HRDP implementation through a
Social Sectors Development Project. The Government also hopes that the
Bank will continue to endorse the HRDP for financial support by other
external donors, and provide continued assistance over the medium term
through follow-up operations as required.
28.      We appreciate the continuous exchange of views with the World Bank
on the HRDP and would be glad to discuss at regular intervals the progress
achieved in its implementation.
ATTACHMENT: Policy Matrix



ANNEX 6
~ 65 -                          Pag  I ot 6
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMEENT PROJECT
POUCf MATRIX
POLICY OSJECTIVSJPRORAMS        RECENT ACTIINS/STATUS          ACTIONS TO BE TAKSG                TIMING  ./
A. Redirecting of Social
Expenditures
1. Increased budgetary       Relative share of primary     A further Increase to 26X In  To reach 23X by April 1,
provisions for primary  health care out of the MOH    primary health care              1990 and 253 by April 1,
health care (health).    recurrent expenditures        services' relative share of    1991.
incresed from 16 to 21X       the MON recurrent
between 1982/83 and           expenditures will be carried
1986/87; functions of aom    out.
hospitals were turned Into
primary care facilities.
2.  Increased budgetary      Relotive shares of pr-        Further ineresoe  will be       To rech  S0  by April 1,
provisions for pre-      primary and primry            offected over time to raise    1990 and 38X by April 1,
primary and primary      education out of the MOE      the total of the Pr-primary   1992.
education (education).   recurrent expenditurec        and primary share of MOE
Increased from 82 to 3SX      recurrent expenditure to
between 1982/83 and           38X.
1910/87.
B. Better Targeting of
Social Services for the
Poor.
1. General food subsldy,   On April 27, 1989, the OGJ    A cabinet subcommittee, with   The overall amount of
food stamp aid, end      cut J918S mtillon In          technical support from PIOJ,  GS,  nd all subsidized
school lunch progrm    general food subsidies           Is Identifying households      food program  will be
(nutrition).             channelled through ths        hardest hit by food price       reviewed with the Bank by
Jamaica Commodity Training    increases and developing       March 1 of each year, In
Company (COFS),               strategies and measures to     light of macroeconomic
alleviate th- otffcte  of      development and fiscal
thes  Increases,               objectives.
!/ Indicetive dates,
subject to review and
confIrmation at annual HROP
Progress Reviews and
plann ng meetings betwen
the Governmnt of Jamaica
and the Bank.



ANNEX 6
- 66  -                             Page 2 of O
(t)  Tho preosent food        (')  -The OFS will become a    (I) - As of
subsWv progras, In  ffset    line- Item In the GOJ budget.      April 1, 1990.
since 1988, covers Wheat,     - The OFS wi I be phoasd out   - By March a1, 1991,
corn and powdered milk,       over the next two years.        subject to macroeconomic
and fiscal objectives.
(II)  Food stamp program In   (I1) - Allowance will be        (II) - As of
operation since 1984.          incerased from J33O to J340     July 1, 1989.
Amount of aid eroded          every two months.
progressively due to          - A cabinet subcommittee is    - Proposals by
Inflation.  Unqualified       preparing proposals to           September 80, 1999,
recipients were removed       Improve targoting and widen    Implement agreed program
from the rosters In April    coverage of food stamp           by December S1, 1989.
1989, reducing the number    program.
of recipients from 400,000
to 820,000.
(iiI)  Introdueed In 1993,    (III) The school lunch          (III) COJ proposals by
the school lunch progrse is   Drogram will be progres-        March 81, 1990; Implement
now serving about 170,000     sively targeted towards the    agreed program by
pro-primary and primary       poorer children In the early   September 1, 1990.
school students, while the    years of schooling, and
traditional program * rves    broadened to cover more
130,000 students.             studente at pre-primary and
primary schools.
2. Employment aid            Program has not yet been       The Government will consider  Government proposals by
(employment)             launched. The Government       alternative methods (in         December 81, 1989; 'gree
has an ongoing program         ddition to the public works  with the Bank by April 1,
(SOL1DARITY) which provides   approach) to Inereas            1990 on necessery follow-
credit to unemployed youth    employment of the poor          up action, after review-
to set up businesse; also    (including women and youth).   Ing with the bank pro-
there Is an expanding                                         posed criteria for
training program                                              economic assessment of
(H.EA.IR.T.).                                                 project proposals under
the scheme.
C. Increased
Efficiency.Coit Savinas
and Beneficiary Cost-
Sharina In the Delivery
of Social Services
1.  User foes/cost recovery  Since 1995, fee  are           The Government will review      Government proposals for
(health).                collected at public            the current tfo structur.       incresing fees due March
hospitals for cost recovery   with due regard to progr to   S1, 1990; Increase fees
and Improved bed               ode In increosed               by July 1, 1990.
utilization,                  efficiency, medical
Insurance coverage, and fee
exemptions based on poverty,
and ralos fes as necessary,
for Increased revenue and
optimal use of health
facilitles (to discourage



A4NEX S
- 67-                              Page a of 6
excoselve lengthe of
hospital stay, to encourage
more lntensivo use of
primary and secondary
facilities and to Improve
the referral system between
different levolo of cars).
2.  Increased Efficiency     Some divestiture of            The Government will pursuo      By Jung a0, 1990, divest
(health)                 hospital non-edical            initiatives to strengthen       catering and laundry
services (housekeeping,       management and organization    services in all Kingston
janitorial, portering,        of health delivery services    Region Hospitals, Spanish
catering, laundry) took       and cost recovery options,      Town, Cornwall and
place In 198?.                 including granting greater    Bollevue hospituls,
autonomy to hospital Boards,.  follosing renovation and
Private blocks have been      and giving more                 upgrading of their
Introduced in two             implemntation                   facilities. Experiment
hospitals, with cost          reponsibilties to local         with various approaches
recovery mechanims within    management team.                 for, end formulate
them.                                                         recommendations for
changes in publi- health
services delivery by June
30, 1992 and implment
findings by December 31,
1992.
S.  Increased cost-          Mesure, to Improve             The Government will prepare    Proposals on revised
effectiveness of the     distribution, storage, and    a plan to align the public       charges by December 31,
MON pharmacutical         inventory control of drugs    hospital drug charges more      1989; revised cherges to
program  (health).       and mdical supplies end to   closely with rel costs of         be effective by April 1,
encourage the use of           Individual drugs.               1990.
generic drugs were recently
adopted.
4. Community Involvement   A study to underway to           Depending on the study          Study completion by
In school activitios     decntrallt  school            outcome and the experience      December 31, 1989; set up
(education).             administration and to          with 20 pilot schools, the      committees in no fewer
create locol comunity         Government will progres-        than 50 schools by
comittes In aupport of        sively establish community      December 31, 190 and in
school maintenance such as    comittes for all primary        at least 200 schools by
those sitablished under       and all-ag schools.            December 31, 1991.
World Bank loan No.                                           Thereafter, extend to all
2899-JM.                                                      primary and all-age
school.



- 68-                              ANNEX 6
S.  Community Involvemnt                                    The Governmnt wSill promote
In primary health care                                  comunity assistance In
clinics* construction                                   construction and mintenance
and maintenance                                         of primry health Caro
(health),                                               clinics.
6.  Improved availability    Textbook availability not      (i) The Government will         (1)  By September 1,
of textbooks and con-    adequate, *lthough             progressively increose          1992, provide to all
tainment of primary      considerable progress has      availability of textbooks to   primary students
lev-l textbook costs     been made since a textbook    all primary school students.   textbooks on core
and rocovery of secon-   program began In 1984.  The                                    subJects.
d:ry level textbook      govornmnt has a study
costs (education).       underway to assess the
feasibility of cost
containmnt for primary
textbooks.
(ii)  At the  secondary        (Ii) Introduce secondary
level, It will collect a       level textbook rental
rental fee from all students   scheme for four core
except the poor.  Annual        subjects (grads 7-11) by
rental fee: approximately      September 1, 1989; cover
J316 per textbook for grades   more subjects by
7-9 and JS20 for grades         September 1. 1991.
10-11.
(iii) Depending on the         (iII) Complete the
ongoing study rosults, it      ongoing study by
will also Introduce measurs   September a0, 1990 and,
to contain costs of primary    if judged feasible,
textbooks.  It sill             introduce by September
thereafter analyzo the         30, 1991, measures for
impact,                        cost containment of
primary textbooks.
0. Rationalzation of
Government Operations/
Program Management In
Heath and Education
1. Improved MON financial   (i) Performace-based            (T) Tha Govornment will         (i)  By April 1, 1991,
management (health)      budgeting and                  implemnt advanced budgeting   the W(IN will complote
computerization in            and computerization program.   computerization and
effect;                                                       reform of Its budgeting
system.
(tS) Hospitals and other      (ii) Hosp!tale and other        (ii)  Prepar  specific
health facilittos are         health facilities will be       proposals by December 31,
routinely reimbursed          reimbursed 763 of their fee    1989 on achievement of
SOX r,f their fee             collections from patients       76X fee reimbursement,
collections for               for approved expenditures.      *nd implement new
approved expenditures,                                        procedures by April 1,
and, in selected                                              1990.
cases, have received
an additional amount
on request.



- 69 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
2.  Improved Civil Registry  At pm sent, tho Ministry of   Th- HROP Secretorlat will be   Now proposals, Including
and ancillary vital      Health operates o civil         responsible for exomining       cost estimates, by
statistics mangement    registry for, among other        current shortcomings ef the    December 31, 1989; the
systems (health).         Items, vital statistics,       vital statistics collection    Government will Introduce
Thie system has serious        and analys e system             new scheme by April 1,
shortcomings %nd is not        (Including death                1990.
fully responsive to the        registration) and will
HRDP requirements.             propose a plan to overhaul
It.
3.  Rationalization and       Under a MON   rationa-         Program implementation is       By April 1, 1990, the MON
restructuring of public  lization 2nd rostructuring    quite advanced, tho MON           will complete the
health faclittes         program underway since         attention at preent ts          restructuring and
(health).                1986, 6 small hospitals are   focused on strengthening of    rationalization of Its
being converted Into           primary health centers          facilitles.
primary health care            organization and management.
e nters; the referral
system Is belng Improved
and edical services are
being strngthend.
4. Incentive measures to    Some key personnel ar*           The Government will prepare    Covernment proposals by
retain/recrult MOH and   leaving the MOH and the MOE   programs to provide *sery         December 31, 1989. Begin
MOE key personnel         services due to Inadequate    supplementa/incentives and       to Implement agreed pro-
(health and eduetion).  remuneration,                   training for key MON and MOE   posels by April 1, 1990.
personnel.
5. Better monitoring of       The Covernment'e new           (1)  The Government will        (t)  Prepare by December
impact of educatlon      National Assessment Program   establish procedures for          81, 1989 proposals *attu-
program  (education).    (NAP) In being lmplemented;   timely processing, reporting   factory to the Bank, to
It Includes a rediness         and dissemination of            Improve the quality of
test at grade 1, a             assessment results.  It will   the NAP tasts, their
diagnostic test at grade 3    Improve the quality of thes    administration and
and an achievement test at    tests, their administration,   dissemination of their
grade S.                       and the timeliness and          results.  Implement
dissemination of results        agreed action plan by
*valuated.                      September 1, 1990.
(it) The curricula on whieh    (ii)  Following two
the testa are based will be    administration, of
evaluated.                      achievement tests,
conduct curriculum
*valuation review by
December 31, 1991.



ANNEX 6
70                                  Page 6 of O
E. HROP ImDlementation/
Monitoring
1. Us. of Living Standards  Th. impaet monitoring role    The Government will conduct    Semiannually.  Second
Measurement System        has been assigned by the       semiannual surveys to           survey scheduled for
(LSMS) and oti~r         Government to STATIN.           evaluate changes In key         June/July 1989.
institution-basod                                        social sector indicatoro.
monitoring systems, as
relevant, to *valuate
changes in key social
Indicators.
2.  Non-Governmental          There are approximately 200   The HROP Secretariat,            Continuing process.
OrganizatiTon  (NGOs) to  local, regional and            working with the ministries,
participate in the NROP  international NGO's             and on the basts of updated
implementation, where    operating in Jamaica,           information, will seek to
appropriate,              primarily in social            identify the HRDP components
sectors.  While NCO$s do       that may be implemented with
have direct contacts with      assistance of NCO'*.
the Government, there has
been no effort yet to
coordinate NGO activities
with HROP Implementation.



71 -                    ~~~~~ANNEX 6
_-71  -Table 1
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year
Base Costs (JI milion)
Tot* I
89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  Total  US$ millon
*       HEALTH SECTOR
*         PRIMARY HEALTH CARE DEVELOPMENT     1.2    7.4    7.9    7.6    5.9    29.9          6.4
;         MEDICAL EqUIPMENT                   0.0    2.1    2.0    1.9    0.0         6.0      1.1
*         PHARMACEUTICAL STOCKS               14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4    72.0        18.1
MOH INSTITUTIONAL STRENCTHENING     8.4    6.2    6.2    5.6    5.2    26.6          4.8
UPGRADING REGISTRAR GENERAL'S       0.0    2.3    2.8    1.8    1.8        7.2       1.8
DEPARTMENT
Sub-total              19.0   82.4   82.8   80.7   26.0   141.7         25.s
EDUCATION SECTOR
UPGRADING PRE-PRIMARY SCHOOLS       0.6    5.7    5.7    5.6    1.0    18.8          a.4
UPGRADING PRIMARY & ALL AGE SCHOOLS  1.0   12.4   12.5   12.6   11.7    50.2         9.1
PRIMARY TEXTBOOK PROGRAM            7.5    7.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    42.0          7.6
MOE INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENINC     1.2   10.6   10.0    9.8    7.2    88.2          7.0
Sub-total              10.5   86.1   87.2  a8.5   28.9   149.2         27.1
HRDP ADMINISTRATION A MONITORING
HROP SECRXTARIAT                    2.2    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4        7.8       1.4
IMPACT MONITORVNG                   2.8    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6        4.7       0.9
Sub-total               4.5    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    12.6         2.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                 84.0   70.5   72.0   69.2   67.7   808.4         55.2
Physical Contingencies              1.7    8.6    8.7    8.5    2.9    15.4          2.6
Price Contingncte-                  1.2    7.4   11.6   14.5   15.1    49.8          9.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                  38.9   81.6   87.8   87.2   76.7   388.6         67.0
Taxes                               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                   16.4   85.2   84.7   34.2   29.0   149.5         27.2



JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proj.ct Coepoonts by tI.r
Total. Including Contingmncles                  Total. Including Contingencies
(J atillIon)                                    (US$ Sillion)
89/90 90191  91/92 92193 93194 Tot l          89180 90/91 91192 92193 93/94 Tot l
HEALTN SECTOR
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE DEVELOPMENT       1.S   8.7   9.6   9.6   7.7   30.6            0.2   1.6   1.7   1.7   1.6   6.7
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT                     0.0   2.3   2.4   2.3   0.0    7.0            0.0   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.0   1.2
PHARMACEUTICAL STOCKS                16.6  16.5  17.2  17.9  18.7   85.9            2.8   3.0   3.2   3.3   3.4  16.7
MON DINSTITUTIONAL STRENBTHENING      8.8   7.2   7.6   7.1   6.8   32.6            0.7   1.3   1.4   1.3   1.2   6.9
UPGWADING RECISTRAR GENERAL"S         0.0   2.7   2.7   1.6   1.7    8.7            0.0   0.6   0.6   0.3   0.3    1.6
DEPARDIENT                -                                          n--
Sub-total               20.7  37.4  89.6  38.4  84.9  170.9            3.7   6.8   7.2   7.0   6.4  31.1
EDUCATION SECTOR
UPGRAOtNC PRE-PRIMARY SCHOOLS         0.9   6.6   7.0   7.0   1.3   22.8            0.2   1.2   1.3   1.8   0.2   4.2
UPORADING PRIMARY A ALL AGE SCHOOLS   1.1  14.3  15.8  15.9  15.3   61.9            0.2   2.6   2.8   2.9   2.8  11.3
PRIYMRY TEXTBOOK PROGRAM              8.1   6.7  11.0  11.6  11.9   61.2            1.6   1.6   2.0   2.1   2.2   9.4
MOE INSTITUTIONAL STRENTHENING       1.4  12.2  12.1  11.6   9.6   47.0            0.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   1.7   8.5
Sub-total               11.5  41.8  46.4  46.2  38.0  182.9            2.1   7.6   8.8   8.6   6.9  83.4
HROP ADMINISTRATION A MONITORING
NW  SECRETARIAT                       2.8   1.6   1.7   1.8   1.9    9.3            0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   1.6
IWACT MONITORINt                      2.6   0.7   0.7   0.8   0.8    5.5            0.6   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.9
_~~ee                                    _-                                    - -! 
Sub-total                4.8   2.3   2.4   2.6   2.7   14.8            0.9   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   2.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                    37.0  81.5  87.8  87.2  75.6  368.6            6.7  14.8  16.9  16.9  13.7  67.0



73 -                                  ANNEX 6
Table 3
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(J8 million)
Summary Accounts by Year
ease Costs                     Foreign Exchange
89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 Total          _         Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
CONSTRUCTION              0.0    21.8  24.5  24.2  18.4  86.7           40.0    38.5
SITE WORK                 0.0      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   4.0          20.0       0.8
PROFESSIONAL FEES         2.4      2.6   2.6   2.6   0.2  10.3          10.0       1.0
Sub-total            2.4    26.1  28.1  27.8  17.6  103.0          36.2      37.8
EQUIPMENT                 0.8      9.8   5.S   8.9   1.6  21.6          84.6      18.2
BOOKS                     7.6      7.6   9.0   9.0   9.0  42.0          10.0       4.2
FURNITURE                 0.4      1.9   2.8   2.3   2.8   9.2          40.0       8.7
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOREIGN EXPERTS         1.8      0.8   0.8   0.8   0.0   2.7         100.0       2.7
LOCAL EXPERTS           0.0      0.1   0.2   0.8   0.8   0.9           0.0       0.0
Sub-total            1.8      0.4   0.5   0.6   0.8   8.8          75.0       2.7
STAFF TRAINING
OVERSEAS TRAININC       0.2      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.0          95.0       1.0
DOMESTIC TRAINING       0.9      2.6   2.6   2.2   2.0  10.8          10.0       1.0
Sub-total            1.1      2.8   2.8   2.4   2.2  11.8          17.5       2.0
BONUS INCENTIVES          0.0      0.8   0.7   0.1   0.0   1.4          10.0       0.1
PHARMACEUTICALS          14.4    14.4  14.4  14.4  14.4  72.0           75.0      C4.0
INCREMENTAL HRDP STAFF    3.7      8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6  18.1          10.0       1.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS         82.1    68.1  68.9  64.1  52.9 SP2.1           44.0    124.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
INCREMENTAL SALARIES      0.0      1.0   1.7   1.7   1.7   8.1           0.0       0.0
OPERATION A MAINTENANCE   1.4      2.5   2.6   2.5   2.5  11.4          10.0       1.1
EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS     0.6      0.9   0.9   0.9   0.6   8.8          10.0       0.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS           1.9      4.4   5.1   5.1   4.8  21.8           7.1       1.5
Total BASELINE COSTS           84.0    70.5  72.0  69.2  57.7 808.4           41.4    125.5
Physical Contingencies    1.8      8.6   8.7   8.5   2.9  15.5          41.4       6.4
Price Contingencies       1.1      7.4  11.6  14.6  15.1  49.7          86.4      17.6
Total PROJECT COSTS            86.9    81.5  87.8  87.2  75.7 868.6           40.6    149.6
Foreign Exchange         16.4    86.2  84.7  84.2  29.0  149.6         100.0    149.5



JAMAICA.
SOCIAL SECTORS  TCLOP       PROJECT
Su mary Accounts by Project Comonent
(4i million)
HEALTh                            UPFm.                   ESUCA.
PR!.                                  SECTOR      LFOR.     UPR.         PRI.       PFRI.       SECTOR
HEALH                   PHARA-        INSTM.      REO.      PRE-         A ALL      TEXT-       INSTIT.      tIRP         DIPACT
CARE       EWICAL       CSJTICAL     STRENOlH     DEPT      PRIMW        AO        am          STREH       S.OTA-        MONTTOR-
DEw.       EUIP,        STOOC         -BdNOM      Oep.      SOILS.       S0ALS.     PROC.       -EMINO        RIAT         IOTTl
I. SNENT   COSTS
CSVIL nF C
CaNSTRUCTION          20.1        0.0          0.0           6.6         5.2       1S.6        56.0       0.0          7.2          0.0          0.0         88.7
SITE Wm                0.0        0.0          0.0           1.5         0.0        0.0         2.5       0.0          0.0          0.0          o.o          4.0
PRSFiSIOAL fES         4.7        0.0          0.0           1.1         0.0        0.0         4.0       0.0          0.5          0.0          0.0         -O.S
___  __  __  __  __  __   ___  __  __ ---_   ---                             -- ---  -  - - ---    ;------ -_-_ _-- _________________________- io ;-.
Sub-totul          24.6        0.0          0.0           9.2         5.2       1S.6        42.5        0.0         7.7          0.0          0.0         108.0
E4UIP"E4T                4.2        6.0          0.0          0.0          1.9        0.3         3.8       0.0          4.5          0.8          0.0         21.5
OmCKS                    0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0      42.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         42.0
RRFLTURE                 0.9        0.0          0.0          2.1         0.0         2.S         5.9       0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          9.2
TECHICAL A3SISTANCE
FllSN EXPERTS          0.0        0.0          0.0          0.8          0.1        0.0         0.0       0.0          0.6          0.0          1.7          2.7
LOCAL EXPORTS          0.0        0.0          0.0          0.6          0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0          0.8          0.0          0.0          0.9
Sub-totsl           0.0        0.0          0.0           0.9         0.1        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.9          0.0          1.7           8.6
STAPr TRAINDV
OVERS  TRAINII         0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         c.G       0.0          1.0          0.0          0.0          1.0
DOMESTIC RIND42NO      0.0        0.0          0.0          1.9         0.0         1.4           4     0.0            7.0          0.0          0.0          10.8            _
_________________________________----------                                              -----------  -__-____-___________. J--
Sub-totAl           0.0        0.0          0.0           1.9         0.0        1.4         0.0       0.0          8.0          0.0          0.0          11.8
Dams  cisves             0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0          1.4          0.0          0.0          1.4
PHTAICrICALS,            0.0        0.0         n.0           0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0       0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0          72.0
tWTAL IHDP STAFF    0.0             0.0          0.0          7.4         0.0        0.0          0.0       0.0         2.7          5.0          3.0          18.1
Tau~~                 __________________________---- --- i;----_--_-- -__ -                                                                         ___________202-
Tot.al DlSnaT  coSTS         29.9        6.0         72.0         21.5         7.2       17.6        80.2       42.0        26.2          5.8          4.728.
II. FtMR  5FCS1
IN r OBTAL SALARIES      0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0       0.0         6.1          0.0          0.0           6.1
OPERATION & MAD1ETN*EE   0.0        0.0          0.0          5.1         0.0        0.8          0.0       0.0         3.9          2.0           0.0         11.4
eXJATIW4AL MATERIALS     0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        0.9          0.0       0.0         S.0           0.0          0.0          3.6
Totnl   R lG  COSTS          0.0         0.0          0.0          8.1         0.0        1.2         0.0        0.0        13.0          2.0          0.0          21.8
______________________--  __-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  -- -------__---___________ __________-
Total BASELINE              29.9         6.0         72.0         26.6         7.2       1.8         60.2       42.0        88.2          7.8          4.7         808.4
Physical Continencies    1.6        0.3          3.6          1.8         0.4         1.0         2.5       2.1         2.1           0.4          0.2         IS.6
Price Contingencie       5.3        0.7         10.8          4.6         1.1         8.0         9.2       7.1         6.7           1.1          0.6         49.7
Totl PROJECT COSTS           iS.8        7.0         6.           8 2.5        6.7        i.6         61.9      51.2        47.0          9.3           S5         S868.
Foruign Eahehnge        15.4        6.i         64.0          6.6         ;.         6.2         24.2       S.O        11.8           1.4          2.2         4.          g  



ANNEX 7
-75 -
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
(Cumulative Progress in Z)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__--
Project Component               89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94
-----------------------------------------------------------------__--------
HEALTH SECTOR
Civil Works                     2      27     54      79      100
Equipment                       0      25     69      100
Furniture                       0       0     33      67      100
Technical Assistance            0      33     67      100
Staff Training                 33      67     100
Pharmaceuticals                20      40     60      80      100
Incremental HRDP Staff         20      40     60      80     100
Operation and Maintenance      20      40     60      80      100
EDUCATION SECTOR
Civil Works                     2      24     52      79      100
Equipment                       0      50     100
Books                          20      40     60      80      100
Furniture                      13      34     57      78      100
Technical Assistance           13      13     50      88      100
Staff TraininRg                20      40     60      80     100
Bonus Incantives                0      43     93      100
Incremental HRDP Staff         20      40     60      80     100
Incremental Salaries            0       0     33      67      100
Operation and Maintenance       0      25     50      75      100
Educational Materials          13      40     67      93      100
HRDP ADMINISTRATION & MONITORING
Equipment                      100
Incremental HRDP Staff         20      40     60      80     100
Operation and Maintenance      20      40     60      80      100



-77-
ANNEX 8
Page I of 2
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in Proiect Files
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Subsector
A.1   "Financing Health Care in Jamaica," Maureen A. Lewis, The URban
Institute, June 1988.
A.2   "The Social Well-Being Programme - A Programme for Social
Development,' Government of Jamaica, April 1988.
A.3   'The Programme of Social Adjustment," Government of Jamaica, May
1988.
A.4   'Impact of Macroeconomic Adjustment on the Poor and on Social
Sectors in Jamaica," Jere R. Behrman and Anil B. Deolalikar, July
7, 1988.
A.5   'Preliminary Report - Living Conditions Survey - Jamaica,"
Statistical Institute of Jamaica and The World Bank. October
1988.
A.5   'Jamaica - Summary Review of the Social Well-Being Program,'
World Bank, May 20, 1988.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   'Programme for the Advancement of Childhood Education - PACE -
Rationale for Early Childhood Education", MOE, 1988.
B.2   'SWP Education Projects,' MOE, 1988.
B.3 'Project Summary, Background and History," MOH, November 1988.
B.4 'Health Centers for the Social Well-Being Programme,' MOH,
December 1988.
B.5   'Report on Health Centers Redevelopment Project," Estate
Development Co. Ltd., December 1988.
B.6   'Essential Preparations for the Private Sector January 1988-June
1989,' Jamaica Commodity Training Company Limited, 1988.
B.7   'SWP Financing Gap and Proposed Financing by Sector/Agency,"
PIOJ, May 1989.



ANNEX 8
-78-                     Page 2 of 2
c. Working Papers
C.A   "Monitoring the Jamaica Social Well-Being Programme", Sistemas
Integrales, July 1988.
C.2   "The Recruitment and Retention of Key Personnel/Teachers in the
Education Sector: A Preliminary Examination," MOE, Kingston,
December 1988.
C.3   "Plan for Incorporating NGOs into Implementation of SWP," 1988.
C.3   Project Costs.
C.4   Importation of Pharmaceuticals by Jamaica Commodity Trading
Company Limited.
C.l   "1989/90 and 1990191 Subprograms and Criteria for First Yearly
Progress Review", December 1988.
C.2   "The Recruitment and Retention of Key Personnel/Teachers in the
Education Sector: A Preliminary Examination," MOE, Kingston,
December 1988.



-79-                                  CHART 1
CaIRT 1
ORGANIZATIONAL STRNCTURE OF THE HROP SECRETARIAT
DIRECTOR GENERAL
| DIRECT--- -- Intormation Flow
Line of Command
DIVISIONAL DTRECTOR/
[ PROGRAM DIRECTOR
PROGRAM AWMINISTRATOR                      STATISTICIAN/PRORAERALYSTS
| (Now Pos                                 (New Poet)         - (Appro. 12 week_  p..)
Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
It~
|           N              DIVISIONAL SUPPORT
!.   "    Staff . 1 New Post _                        4.
DESK          DESK            DESK              STATTSlTCAL   RECISTRAR       SECTOt
OFFICER       OFFICERt        OFFICERS          INSTITUTE      GENERAL        VWNTSTRIES
(HEAL"H       (EDUCATION)     (Other            OF JAMAICA    DEPARTMENT      (Social
R4  Iwant         (Survey of     (Vital         Indicators)
S eor )          Living         Statistics)
Conditttons)
I                4.                  *~~~~L-- - -- -              4........



v-   ii_ 
[    'U_ ..- -
[--iR @}    a!                               *1
[]=        _}           --
F--|f-_5 - -} -E. ::
'  -B-      - -                                   {.II-{I1i
[ K;     1 } -1 ill                          I    -114
r=[  ==   -~ _ _I
[  ii0 }1 18I1R
[ si''   }  .   .                           .I
[ -     -}   I - -                           I
-08-



QatRT 3
lROANI2ATIOtAL          OF I'   M4STRY OF 
|   1S    F EWWALTH
IC                                       I
I                            I
INOMWVI  RG$8011- IIR   MWL  I F   I~~PMX I  I SIX         I I PDS. ARI MC     I                      I   FM ADOETM
I   ~~~~~    AMM              I  I
IMWVCRI- I I MMMI   I IWMTION Al IVOMUPW  I JUBU OF I  I LT H
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~PMM    IIPA = I IMVMe-  KXBCIIW M
I ~ Nm                                                     ITAA  CNPIcMI I  I       I I OO T      I I
FHO - Pr'oncipel hadioan Office
r                       !
L. L J  ~ J  L~ J   I...   *. .                                          .
r   ,         ,              ,             ,              ,                g      I        --    ,                    _I                                  I
I   I         I             ~      ~      ~       ~     ~~~~I  I       I              I                          
*    '    *S~~M .    '"' .                                                                                             I-' .. ' .                                        
I   ^E IIDR RI     I     NLT      II    u        I II DDSII I                 I      I      lISTRTIWd |         It;IID^6A       PeOd
~~~~ .                                                                                                   I
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TSI |                                                                  I N~VIWQ- IN1r4NE  D4TI4A j1IE    @   FIIU             
I          I I           I ITAJ CaNTRot |           |I   AflO         
PHD - PrincipaI hdXcaI tOffXemr 
PS- PIinmIpmI Dnt SIII9@a



CHART 4
82- I2
|~  ~L - -  - -  - - II    - -I {J  }-
g  |    ,i1-1  01-  i{]~~~~~~~~~~~L 



2   S'  UA                                  I A   _
BAHAMPM
Grow  Fet         Mtem                JAMAICA                                    a.,
wExico       CeUBA             Das                          uao          -   t8iain AJtla Road          0   Sectad Towns
/          2964 B2OO                     Main Seooondry Rotads           Parimh Capitals
ueauzE    JAMAICA                            14??77 ;   . 460              Main Prts 
-  bC8mtenl                           ISO          .    bwnatonal Afports        ....-  Pariah_
IpmsBaaleo   .                              7     0;     0                 -  Raln Bwas-                   Coumty B_dale
Is      NARAQUA  *    7     7R0m  onwloCout  ow-'
7fev
CORNWALL
: -~~--1
I'_Xe$ asrw  I     001TG
i~~~~UE OO  AM    00                                                                                                    l   -
Z    .     .    .    .    . Sg                                              
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 I              II                                                     .                   _y
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S~~WSH



