Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16726
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 311 I-JM)
June 18, 1997
Jamaica Resident Mission
Human and Social Development Group
Country Department IIH
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =      Jamaican Dollar (J$)
(April 1987)
J$1.00             =      J$5.50
US$0.1818          =      J$1.00
(December 1996)
J$1.00             =      J$35.00
US$0.029           =      J$1.00
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGCED           Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
GOJ             Government of Jamaica
HRDP            Human Resources Development Program
LSMS            Living Standards Measurement Study
MOEC            Ministry of Education and Culture
MOH             Ministry of Health
PIOJ            Planning Institure of Jamaica
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
REO             Regional Education Office
RGD             Registrar General Department
SLC             Survey of Living Conditions
SWP             Social Well-being Program
SSDP            Social Sectors Development Project
STATIN          Statistical Institute of Jamaica
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
Vice President:         Shavid javed Burki, LAC
Director:               Paul Isenman, LA3
Manager:                Julian Schweitzer, LASHD
Task Manager:            Sarah Adam, LA3JM



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATIONSUMMARY                                                        i
PART] - PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONASSESSMENT                                  I
A. Project Objectives                                                    1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                                     3
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation                          7
D. Project Sustainability                                                9
E. Bank Performance                                                     10
F. Borrower Performance                                                 12
G. Assessment of Project Outcome                                        12
H. Future Operations                                                    13
I. Key Lessons Learned                                                  13
PART H - STATISTICAL TABLES                                             15
PART III - EVALUATION OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES                   25
APPENDIX
A: Final Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire
B: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ulsed by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln. 3111 - JM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Sectors
Development Project in Jamaica, for which Loan 3111 - JM in the amount of US$30
million equivalent was approved on August 8, 1989 and the Loan Agreement was made
effective on November 21, 1989.
The closing date was December 31, 1996, two years after the original closing date
of December 31, 1994. The loan was fully disbursed and the last disbursement took place
on May 23, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Sarah Adam of the Jamaica Resident Mission and the
Human and Social Development Group of the Latin America and Caribbean Region and
reviewed by Raj Nallari, Acting Resident Representative and Country Economist, Julian
Schweitzer, LASHD Manager and Country Sector Leader, and Robert Crown, Project
Advisor.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision, January
13-17, 1997. It is based on material in the project file and interviews in Washington, DC
and Jamaica. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by contributing
views reflected in the final supervision mission aide-memoire (Appendix A) and
preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation (Appendix
B).






SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3111 - JM)
JAMAICA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Social development in Jamaica has benefited from a long tradition of public support. Jamaica's
social indicators are relatively favorable compared with other middle-income countries in the region.
Unavoidable adjustment measures during the mid-1980s, however, compounded by the cumulative
effects of economic declines since the early 1970s, resulted in significant economic hardship to
important segments of the population. By 1986, real outlays in education were 25 percent lower than in
1981 and 35 percent lower in health. Despite government efforts to mitigate the social costs of
adjustment, basic public services deteriorated and human capital formation and social well-being were
adversely affected.
2.    The Bank has supported social sector projects in Jamaica since 1966. Prior to the Social Sectors
Development Project (SSDP), the Bank financed two projects in the population, health and nutrition
sectors totaling US$8.8 million: the Family Planning Project (Ln. 690-JM) and the Second Population
Project (Ln. 1284-JM); and three projects in the education sector totaling US$29.9 million: the First (Ln.
468-JM), Second (Ln. 727-JM) and Third (Ln. 2070-JM) Education Projects. The projects in population,
health and nutrition provided assistance for the expansion of postpartum family planning services in
support of Government's single purpose family planning program and successfully instituted and
operated integrated family planning, nutrition and primary health care services in 58 new health centers
and introduced the use of Community Health Aides. The education projects provided assistance for the
development of secondary education and tertiary education institutions and supported the expansion and
qualitative improvements of selected technical and vocational education and training systems to meet
changing labor market requirements. All three projects made important contributions to the expansion
and development of Jamaica's educational system. The Administrative Reform Program (Technical
Assistance Project Ln. 2507-JM) was expected to contribute to reforms in the personnel systems of the
Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education.
3.    Concurrent with the Social Sectors Development Project, the Bank financed two additional
social sector projects. The Population and Health Project (Ln. 2851-JM) supported fertility reduction
and the integration of population concerns in development projects and development of a cost-effective
health delivery system. The Education Program Preparation and Student Loan Project (Ln. 2899-JM)
supported the preparation, piloting and evaluation of options for cost-effective measures for qualitative
improvement of basic education and more efficient administration of the Students Loan Program (Table
2).
Project Objectives
4.    The Social Sectors Development Project (Ln. 3111 -JM) was designed as an integral component
of Government's Human Resources Development Program, a comprehensive, multi-sectoral effort which
sought to restore the flow of funds to the social sectors, alleviate poverty and initiate necessary
institutional and policy reforms. The main objective of SSDP was to improve the efficiency, delivery
and management of social services in Jamaica, and in particular of health and education. In achieving



ii
this objective, the project sought to further develop primary health care; replace medical equipment and
replenish pharmaceutical stocks; improve the efficiency of vital statistics; enhance pre-primary
education; reduce overcrowding in primary and all-age schools; distribute textbooks; strengthen the
capacities of the Ministry of Health and Education and the HRDP Secretariat; and improve the
monitoring and evaluation of social indicators. It combined civil works, procurement of medical
equipment, pharmaceuticals, supplies and textbooks, and training and technical assistance for a total
project cost of US$67 million.
5.    The project objectives, though consistent with Government's sector policies, were broad and the
strategies to achieve them resulted in a complex and demanding project comprised of multiple
components across two sectors involving many diverse activities implemented by four separate agencies
with limited capacities. Under HRDP, Government was to undertake a number of complementary policy
actions including: redirecting social expenditures to benefit the poor; better targeting of social services
for the poor; increasing efficiency, cost savings and cost-sharing in the delivery of social services;
rationalizing program management; and improving the evaluation of changes in key social indicators
(Part I, paras. 1-7).
6.    The most important loan covenant expected to promote the achievement of project objectives
was the annual exchanges of views to be held between Government and the Bank on the progress of the
Human Resources Development Program. Five annual reviews were held which were instrumental in
evaluating program status and identifying and addressing implementation obstacles (Part I, para. 20).
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    Although technically sound, because of implementation constraints described below, project
objectives were only partially achieved. The project did improve health care through the construction
and equipping of 7 primary health centers; replacing old and obsolete medical, surgical, dental and
medical support equipment and procuring pharmaceuticals; upgrading the Registrar General's
Department; and strengthening the capacity of the health sector through training and the construction and
furnishing of 96 residential units at hospitals. In education, the project upgraded 23 pre-primary schools;
provided 226 scholarships to pre-primary school teachers and teacher trainers; trained parents and
sponsors in early childhood development; provided recognition subsidies to 285 pre-primary schools;
constructed, furnished and equipped 13 primary and all-age schools; provided textbooks in four subjects
to 350,000 students annually; completed the construction of one Regional Education Office; trained
2,046 primary and all-age school teachers, 246 secondary school teachers and 20 Ministry of Education
staff; and furthered the decentralization of the education system through technical assistance. It
enhanced Government's ability to implement a multi-sectoral program and assess and monitor social
policy through the Survey of Living Conditions (Part I, para. 8-19). The project has a high probability of
maintaining achievements attained under the education and HRDP components. The sustainability of
health investments is dependent on the implementation of the health reform program (Part 1, para. 31-
33).
8.    The project was implemented over a seven-year period, including two one-year extensions.
Project activities in the first several years were significantly delayed. Three years into implementation,
only I 1 percent of funds had been disbursed compared to an appraisal estimate of 56 percent. Two main
factors affected implementation: (i) the lack of adequate and timely counterpart funds compounded by
inefficient financing procedures; and (ii) the limited institutional capacities of the implementing agencies
and deficiencies of the firms contracted to manage civil works (Part I, para. 23-30).



9.     Bank Performance. Overall, Bank performance was marginally satisfactory. The Bank
responded quickly and effectively to Government's request for assistance in refining program and project
components. In appraising the project, the Bank did not address sufficiently four areas. First,
Government's counterpart contribution was an unusually high 55 percent of total project cost despite the
difficult macroeconomic experience and experience with existing Bank social sector projects. Second,
the design did not conclusively resolve the relationship between SSDP and the implementation of policy
reforms included under HRDP. Third, inadequate attention was paid to building institutional capacity.
Finally, the Bank may have inadvertently undermined ownership of the HRDP policy matrix by drafting
it itself. Bank supervision was consistent and effective in diagnosing underlying constraints.
Implementation of civil works, however, remained deficient throughout the project. Project inputs were
closely monitored, but project impact and policy targets were unevenly evaluated. Similar weaknesses in
institutional capacities evident in concurrent social sector projects were not creatively addressed (Part I,
para. 34-37).
10.   Borrower Performance. Performance of the Borrower during preparation, which spanned two
administrations, was highly satisfactory. High-level Government commitment led to an innovative and
well-conceived proposal to alleviate poverty and develop Jamaica's human resource capacity.
Equipment lists and bidding documents were prepared and schools and health centers to be upgraded
were identified prior to negotiations. During implementation, however, poor management of civil works
resulted in numerous uncompleted facilities despite a two-year extension of the project closing date. The
Ministries of Health and Education performed best in those areas where they exercised greatest control
over project activities. Inter-institutional coordination improved through HRDP activities (Part 1, paras.
38-39).
11.   Project Outcome. The overall project results were marginally satisfactory, particularly given the
difficult macroeconomic environment. Project inputs contributed to: increased community participation
and reduced overcrowding in schools; additional trained teachers; improved efficiency in the collection,
use and distribution of vital statistics; better health care in upgraded facilities; improved monitoring of
social conditions through the SLC; increased social policy analysis as the basis for making policy
decisions; and strengthened capacity of Government to manage multi-sectoral initiatives (Part I, para.
40).
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.    Government has retained project implementation unit staff to oversee the completion of civil
works activities and is financing all outstanding works. The Bank continues to support the Survey of
Living Conditions under the Reform of Secondary Education Project and the upgrading of the Registrar
General's Department under the Public Sector Modernization Project. The Resident Mission, through
quarterly country implementation reviews and donor/lender working groups, will continue to monitor the
completion of project components and the operation of activities supported by the project (Part I, para.
41).
13.    Seven key lessons emerge from the project: First, project design must reflect the institutional
capacity of the implementing agency and incorporate adequate strengthening measures beyond the hiring
of additional staff. Second, the better integrated project implementation units and their activities are
within the implementing agency the greater the probability is of objectives being achieved and sustained.
Third, given the poor performance of the ministries and firms in tendering and supervising civil works,
new options for the procurement and management of works must be seriously considered and piloted.
Fourth, an assessment of the capacity of the private sector construction industry might have revealed



iv
post-qualification to better evaluate the contractor's financial and technical resources at the time the
works are to be undertaken. Fifth, consideration should be given to limiting the number of different
activities in a single project given the specific expertise required to manage each type of activity. Sixth,
specific project outcome and impact measures in addition to input and output indicators should be
established during design, evaluated as part of the project and consistently monitored to determine
project achievement and impact. Finally, it is unreasonable to expect an investment project which
disburses on the basis of narrowly-defined outputs and contributes a marginal amount to overall sector
spending to effect wide-reaching policy reform (Part 1, para. 43).



1                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
PART 1- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
1.    To help reverse the deterioration of basic social services and address the negative effects on
human capital formation and social well-being resulting from the economic decline of the 1970s and
compounded by necessary adjustment measures introduced in the mid-1980s, the Government of Jamaica
(GOJ) in 1988 launched the comprehensive Human Resources Development Program (HRDP). I The
HRDP sought to restore the flow of funds to the social sectors, alleviate poverty particularly for the
poorest, and initiate necessary institutional and policy reforms. Designed as an integral component of
the HRDP, the Social Sectors Development Project (SSDP) had a succinct though broad objective: to
improve the efficiency, delivery and management of social services in Jamaica, and in particular of
health and education. The HRDP, including SSDP, was incorporated in the Government's Medium-
Term Economic Framework Program and the Public Sector Investment Program. The objectives and
strategies of HRDP and SSDP were consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy which focused
on: (i) continued support for the ongoing program of economic adjustment; (ii) selected investments in
key economic and social sectors, combined with policies to improve the efficiency of resource use and
combat the worst effects of poverty; and (iii) assistance to the Government in securing the external
financing needed for its development program. The Bank's role in the social sectors was justified not
only to help GOJ mitigate the social costs of adjustment, but also to increase Jamaica's long-term
economic viability.
2.     The scope of SSDP, combined with its relationship to the extensive multi-sectoral policy reforms
under HRDP, resulted in a complex and demanding project. SSDP comprised multiple components
across two main sectors and involved diverse activities (i.e., civil works, procurement of medical
equipment, pharmaceuticals, supplies and textbooks, and technical assistance and training) implemented
by four separate agencies with limited institutional capacities.
3.    In the health sector, the project sought to: (a) reduce demand for higher levels of care, thereby
increasing efficiency and lowering costs, by contributing to the development of primary health care
through the construction, furnishing and equipment of 12 primary health care centers, including nurses
quarters and dental equipment at eight of the centers; (b)replacing old and obsolete equipment and
instruments by financing the purchase of medical, surgical, dental and medical support equipment for
hospitals, including laboratory and pharmacy equipment; (c) replenishing depleted stocks of medical
supplies and drugs by financing pharmaceuticals for preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care
delivery; (d) strengthening the institutional capacity of the health sector by financing: (i) the staffing of
a project implementation unit (PIU) to manage the implementation of HRDP projects under the Ministry
of Health (MOH), (ii) training for pharmacists, pharmacy technicians and medical records clerks, (iii)
technical assistance in management, computerization and epidemiology, and (iv) construction of about
180 living quarters for health personnel at selected hospitals and related equipment, furniture and
operating costs; and (e) improve the efficiency of the collection, use and distribution of vital statistics by
upgrading the Registrar General's Department (RGD) through the construction of a new office building
and the computerization of RGD operations.
'The program when originally launched was entitled the Social Well-being Program. Following the elections in
early 1989, it became known as the Human Resources Development Program.



2
4.    In the education sector, the project sought to: (a) enhance education and care for three to five
year-olds by providing: (i) construction materials to refurbish about 290 pre-primary schools; (ii)
teaching materials, furniture and equipment for training pre-primary school teachers; (iii) initial
recognition grants for new pre-primary schools; (iv) 125 scholarships for pre-primary school teachers
and teacher trainers, and (v) operational costs for supervision and monitoring of pre-primary school
programs; (b) reduce overcrowding by upgrading about 20 primary and all-age schools; (c) improve
students learning potential, relieve teachers' burdens and contain costs by financing the development,
production and distribution of English, mathematics, science and social studies textbooks for about
350,000 primary school students; and (d) strengthen the institutional capacity of the education sector
through: (i) improving professional standards maintained in schools by financing the construction of
five Regional Education Offices (REO) and equipment, staff and operating costs for six REOs; (ii)
financing administrative costs for the supervision of the National Assessment Program (NAP); (iii)
training about 2,000 primary and all-age school teachers, 200 secondary school teachers and 20 Ministry
of Education and Culture (MOEC) staff; (iv) financing consultants to assist in the planning for
decentralization; (v) piloting a program of school awards; and (v) staffing the project implementation
unit to manage HRDP projects under MOEC.
5.     To support the administration and monitoring of HRDP, the project provided financing for:
(i) the costs of the HRDP Secretariat in the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) to assist in the
implementation of the multi-sectoral HRDP, including salaries, equipment, travel and operating
expenses; and (ii) the monitoring of HRDP using the Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS)
program implemented by the Statistical Institute of Jamaica (STATIN).
6.     Under HRDP, the Government of Jamaica was to undertake a number of complementary policy
and reform actions detailed in a Statement of Sectoral Policies and accompanying policy matrix.
Policies included: (i) redirecting social expenditures in health and education to benefit the poor; (ii)
better targeting of social services for the poor; (iii) increasing efficiency, cost savings and beneficiary
cost-sharing in the delivery of social services; (iv) rationalizing program management for health and
education; and (v) improving the evaluation of changes in key social indicators. HRDP was to be
reviewed annually by Government, the Bank and other external agencies and policy objectives and
targets adjusted to reflect changes in circumstances and development priorities.
7.     The total project cost of SSDP (US$67 million) represented a relatively modest 17 percent of the
total cost of new projects and programs to be implemented under the Human Resources Development
Program (US$390 million). The remaining HRDP costs were to be financed in parallel by other external
financing agencies which the Bank was to play a key role in mobilizing. Government's appraised
contribution to SSDP was US$ 37 million or 55 percent of total project cost: relatively high compared to
GOJ's share of the Education IV Project approved in 1988 (25 percent) and of the Population and Health
Project approved in 1987 (15 percent) and particularly given the recognized fragility of HRDP's broad
macroeconomic base and the difficult fiscal environment. At appraisal, the total SSDP project cost was
distributed as follows: civil works, US$18.7 million; pharmaceuticals, US$13 million; textbooks,
US$7.6 million; incremental recurrent costs, US$6.7 million; equipment, furniture and materials, US$6.4
million, training, US$2.1 million; and technical assistance, US$0.7 million; and unallocated, US$11.8
million. The unallocated portion of the budget was to cover physical and price contingencies and
provide some flexibility for the project to respond to changes in circumstances and priorities during
implementation.



3
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.     The project partially achieved its broad objective of improving the efficiency, delivery and
management of social services in Jamaica, particularly of health and education. After a two-year project
extension, most physical targets, which were revised downward during project implementation, were
achieved. Implementation performance, however, varied by sector and type of activity with civil works
in both sectors experiencing significant delays and associated cost overruns. As a result of project inputs
and Bank involvement in the HRDP review process, the institutional capacities of the Ministries of
Health and Education and the Planning Institute of Jamaica were strengthened, though not to the extent
envisioned and needed. An assessment of the achievement of sector objectives is complicated by two
factors. First, in most cases, specific outcome/impact indicators for the project, as distinct from HRDP,
were not described in project documents nor measured during implementation. Second, the achievement
of SSDP sector objectives was affected by policy actions included under HRDP which were not
introduced, delayed or only partially implemented. Policy measures were not consistently monitored or
updated as planned. With the above caveats, available information reveals that most sector objectives
were partially attained.
Health Sector (Original Base Cost: US$25.7 million; Actual Total Cost: US$22.3 million)
9.     Primary Health Care Development. The original project documents envisioned upgrading 12
primary health care centers. Delays during the first years of implementation resulted in a lack of
progress on civil works, significant cost escalations and the need to scale back activities. Delays in civil
works were also due to a chronic lack of counterpart funds because the government prefinanced all
expenditures and did not assign enough funds for the civil works component. As a result, the number of
health centers was reduced to nine. Further delays preparing designs and awarding contracts necessitated
two one-year extensions to the project. By the final project closing date, seven of the nine health centers
were completed and works on the remaining two were 75-85 percent complete. Government has
continued to finance the outstanding contracts. By value, 75 percent of furniture and equipment was
procured and delivered. The rehabilitation of the primary health care center system was intended to
reduce the demand for service at higher levels of care, thereby increasing efficiency and lowering overall
costs. An impact assessment being implemented by the MOH confirms a significant level of patient and
staff satisfaction with the upgraded facilities, likely resulting in increased staffing and usage of the
centers. The delay in implementing a new referral system to govern the movement of patients between
primary, secondary and tertiary care levels (funded under the Bank-supported Population and Health
Project) and lack of policy decisions regarding the decentralization of health care to which the referral
system was designed to respond, however, mitigated against the potential efficiency impact of the
upgraded health centers.
10.   Purchase of Medical Equipment and Pharmaceuticals. The project successfully procured and
delivered medical, surgical, dental and medical support equipment for hospitals and other health facilities
and pharmaceuticals for preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care delivery costing US$10.1
million. This total, however, was 60 percent less than the appraised cost of US$16.9 million, due
primarily to the lack of available financing. Although an important contribution, the amount of medical
equipment financed by the project was relatively small compared to the overall stock of old and obsolete
equipment needing replacing. Sustained replenishment of the stock of pharmaceuticals was dependent
on Government aligning the public hospital drug charges more closely with the real costs of individual



4
drugs. Because of the erosion of fee increases by the depreciating exchange rate coupled with the lack of
incentives to collect fees, the stocks of pharmaceuticals were not maintained.
11.   Institutional Strengthening. A Central Projects Unit was established in 1991 to manage the
execution of HRDP projects under the Ministry of Health. A majority of the 18 new and four upgraded
posts, partially funded by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), however, were not filled
until half way through the original implementation period. Furthermore, the posts were never formally
established, raising serious sustainability issues and significantly compromising institutional
development objectives. A project manager dedicated to SSDP was not employed until 20 months after
project effectiveness. The project financed the in-service training of pharmacists, pharmacy technicians,
operating theater technicians, enrolled assistant nurses, public health inspectors, community-based health
aides and medical records clerks. Funds for technical assistance in management, computing and
epidemiology were not utilized. The project reformulation reduced the number of living quarters for
lhealth personnel to be constructed and equipped from 180 units to about 148 units. By the project
closing date, 96 units had been constructed, 20 units were 90 percent complete and 34 units were 60
percent complete. Fumiture for all units was procured. Given the serious constraints to adequately
staffing health facilities and that the adequacy of housing facilities is an important factor influencing
liealth workers choosing to stay in the public sector, the residential units likely contribute modestly but
significantly to the retention of nurses and other staff. The management of the units at some of the
hospitals, however, is considered weak and the allocation systems unclear. Furthermore, the high
stanidard of the units and associated maintenance fees has made some of the facilities unaffordable to
srndent nurses.
12.    Upgrading the Regis.rar General's Department. Construction of the new office building for the
Registrar General's Department (RGD) was completed in January 1996 and officially opened by the
Prime Minister in October 1996. Computerization is still on-going. The new building has sparked a
more than 300 percent increase in the number of requests per day to be processed. Given the increased
demand and improved ability to respond, the RGD predicts revenues will increase from J$5 million in
1996/97 to J$20 million in 1997/98. The massive backlog of data and the incomplete computerization
has delayed the attainment of further efficiency objectives. Due to the importance of the services
performed for the public and the need to improve their quality, the RGD was selected for conversion to
an Executive Agency under the Bank-supported Public Sector Modernization Project.
Education Sector (Original Base Cost: US$27.2 million; Actual Total Cost: US$29 million)
13.    Upgrading Pre-Primary Schools. The project originally envisioned procuring construction
materials and furniture to communities to refurbish about 390 pre-primary schools. The necessary skills
and labor for the works were to be provided by the communities themselves. Government procurement
regulations, however, did not permit such procurement and contractual arrangements and the project
implementation unit assumed responsibility for the upgrading. Because of the new arrangements,
extensive damage caused by Hurricane Gilbert, associated cost increases and land tenure issues, the
number of schools included under the project was decreased dramatically to 66 and finally to 23. By the
end of the project, 22 schools serving 1,3 11 students were completed and the remaining school was 95
percent complete. All furniture, equipment and training materials was procured and delivered. The
original target of 125 scholarships for pre-primary school teachers and teacher trainers was increased to
225 and 226 scholarships were awarded. All recipients successfully completed their programs and
returned to their positions. Supervision and monitoring of the basic school program was carried out
during regular school visits and workshops conducted by staff from the Ministry's Early Childhood
Education Unit. A total of 9,106 parents and sponsors were trained in the stages of early child



5
development and the role of the school and home in the growth of the child. Recognition subsidies, used
primarily for learning materials, were awarded to 285 schools, making them eligible for nutrition,
teaching and other subsidies from the MOEC.
14.    Upgrading Primary and All-Age Schools. Of the approximately 20 primary and all-age schools
to be upgraded under the project, 13 were completed; 3 schools were 85-95 percent complete at the end
of the project; and 3 schools were dropped from the project as construction had not begun before the
final year of the project. Government has assumed responsibility for the unfinished schools as well as
the three schools not eligible for Bank financing. Overcrowding in the upgraded schools was reduced,
with class size averaging 39 students compared to target of 40. Furniture and equipment for all schools
was procured and delivered or stored.
15.   Provision of Primary School Textbooks. The project financed the development, production and
distribution of English, math, science and social studies textbooks to approximately 350,000 students
annually for four years. No impact evaluation of the textbook component was included in the project,
but anecdotal evidence confirms the positive benefits on student achievement and teaching. Competitive
bidding, which saw an increase in the number of tenders during the project, likely resulted in some
containment of costs.
16.   Institutional Strengthening. Only one of five regional education offices to be built was
completed under the project despite the two-year extension. At the project closing date, three were over
80 percent complete and the Montego Bay office was only 30 percent finished. GOJ continues to finance
1 00 percent of the remaining works. Equipment, furniture and vehicles were supplied to the leased
offices and will be transferred to the new buildings once construction is complete. Consultants produced
four manuals which guide the decentralization of ministry activities. The Financial Management System
for MOEC Regional Offices and Guide to Bursars and Accounting Staff in Education Institutions defines
responsibilities, establishes uniform procedures, and serves as a training guide for ministry and school
accounting staff. The Handbook of Operations details the policies and roles, organizational structure,
management information system and position descriptions for the REOs. The Procedures Manual for
Schools Personnel and Administrative Services Division covers the registration and appointment of
teachers and principals, payment of salaries and other administrative systems. The study entitled
Management Information Technology Choices in the MOEC assesses the ministry's existing systems and
recommends options for future developments. The impact on educational standards of the
decentralization program is too early to assess given delays in its implementation. However, easier
access to decentralized functions has improved service delivery. The collection of data closer to the
source has improved its accuracy and timeliness. Community relations have been strengthened with the
appointment of a community relations officer in each REO. The maintenance of buildings has been
negatively affected by staff shortages.
17.   A fifth consultancy produced a draft Blueprint and Management Plan for the National
Assessment Program. Its impact was negligible, primarily because the consultant did not work
effectively with local counterparts. Targets for the training of teachers were exceeded: 1,685 primary
and all-age school teachers were trained in the Grades 1-3 curriculum; 321 teachers completed a diploma
course offered via distance learning; and 246 secondary school teachers completed post and under-
graduate degree programs, thus increasing the number of trained teachers in the system. All participants
were bonded and returned to their posts. Fellowships were awarded to 20 Ministry of Education staff as
designed. Evaluations of the School Incentive Award Program reveal that it was highly successful in
enhancing community participation in schools and schools involvement with their communities, as well
as producing positive effects on students and teachers. The program was institutionalized in 1995 and



6
now forms an important part of the school-year calendar. Positions in the project implementation unit
was established early and all were filled within nine months of project effectiveness.
HRDP Administration and Monitoring (Original Base Cost: US$2.3 million; Actual: US$1.2 million)
18.   HRDP Secretariat. The main risk - both for SSDP and HRDP - identified at appraisal was
possible administrative delays in project implementation. Located in the Social and Manpower Planning
Division of PIOJ, the HRDP Secretariat was designed to mitigate this risk by monitoring, coordinating
and expediting project implementation by relevant ministries and agencies. The Secretariat was
complemented by a Steering Committee chaired by the Director General of PIOJ and comprised of high-
level officials of the Ministries of Education, Health, Public Service, Labour, Social Security and
Welfare; Ministry of Finance; Project Analysis and Monitoring Company Limited; and project managers.
The Steering Committee met twice a year to review program performance and identify and address
implementation obstacles. Annual reviews of HRDP organized by the Secretariat were carried out
during each year of the program with the participation of the Bank and other external financing agencies.
The Secretariat fostered stronger inter-ministerial coordination. It improved program implementation
through monthly review meetings; quarterly progress reports; project site visits and centralized financial
management.
19.   Impact Monitoring. To enhance Government's ability to assess and monitor social policy, the
project was to finance Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS) surveys during the project period.
Household survey data on well-being was to form the basis for periodic adjustment in the program's
focus and design. Originally designed to be administered semi-annually, the Survey of Living
Conditions - as the LSMS survey is known in Jamaica - was carried out annually after the first year as it
became clear that this frequency was sufficient. SSDP funded three full-time positions within STATIN
to manage the SLC and a coordinator and programmer in the HRDP Secretariat. Despite some
weaknesses, the Survey of Living Conditions is one of the most substantial achievements of SSDP. The
SLC provides a rich data source on households' health, education, nutrition, housing and consumption.
Useful abstracts were and continue to be produced on a reasonably timely basis. Almost 60 policy
studies based on SLC data were written by government personnel, university researchers, Bank staff and
international consultants, covering a range of topics and using a variety of analytic techniques during the
project period. This amount of analysis exceeds that done using data sets from other surveys in Jamaica
or from LSMS surveys in other countries.. The impact of this analysis on policy, while limited, is greater
than in many other cases.2 SSDP did not include any analytic capacity building nor did it provide for
any major policy analysis to be produced with the data. Once the limited capacity to integrate, analyze
and interpret data was identified, a component was included in the Bank-supported Reform of Secondary
Education Project to enhance the capacity within Jamaica to undertake social policy analysis and
increase its impact on decision-making.
20.   Special Loan Covenants. The most important Loan Agreement covenant (Table 10) expected to
promote the achievement of project objectives was the annual exchange of views to be held between the
Government and the Bank on the progress and the proposals for the Human Resources Development
Program. Five annual reviews were held and were instrumental in evaluating program status and
identifying and addressing implementation obstacles.
2Blank, Grosh and Knight, 1996. "Building Analytic Capacity in Conjunction with LSMS Surveys: The Jamaica
Story". Poverty and Human Resources Division, Policy Research Department, World Bank.



7
Human Resources Development Program
21.   The extent to which the success of SSDP objectives should be measured against the
achievements of the Human Resources Development Program is debatable. While the project was
originally conceived as an adjustment loan given its heavy policy content, SSDP was approved as an
investment loan with disbursements based on a project-specific activities, but with much emphasis in the
project documents on the policy reforms. The only policy-related conditionality was the holding of joint
annual reviews as described above. Beyond its financing of SSDP, the Bank's role in HRDP was that of
policy advisor.
22.   Nevertheless, because of the Bank's strong interest in the program and the importance of some
policy reforms included under HRDP to the achievement of SSDP's overall objective, a brief assessment
of the status of HRDP policy reforms is revealing. Although some policy actions were significantly
delayed and others not implemented, progress was attained on many of them. In line with HRDP
objectives, education and health received the largest share of non-debt government expenditures. Efforts
to increase the budget allocations to these sectors, however, was severely affected by the growing debt
burden. Furthermore, inflation eroded the value of health and education expenditures: in real terms GOJ
expenditure on education in 1994/95 barely exceeded 1981/82 expenditures. In the redirecting of social
expenditures to pre-primary and primary education, the Ministry of Education met and then exceeded the
target of 38 percent. However, in recent years the percentage of the recurrent budget allocated to this
level has declined from 33.4 percent in 1994/95 to 30.3 percent in 1995/96. The health target of 25
percent was never attained, as the percentage of the MOH's recurrent budget allocated to primary health
fluctuated between 15 and 20 percent. General food subsidies were eliminated in 1991, combined with
widened coverage and better targeting of the food stamp and school feeding programs. The objective of
increased efficiency, cost savings and beneficiary cost-sharing in the delivery of social services was
partially achieved. Hospital fees were revised although their overall contribution remains relatively
marginal. Ancillary services at seven hospitals were privatized. In education, cost-sharing at the
secondary level was officially introduced in 1993/94. Fees at the University of the West Indies were
increased from 10 to 15 percent of economic cost in 1995/96. Community involvement in education
increased significantly, although not in health. The availability of textbooks improved. The cost of
primary school books was contained through competitive bidding and a rental scheme was introduced at
the secondary level. The rationalization of government operations/program management in health and
education saw only modest gains given significantly delays in implementing decentralization programs
in both sectors. The goal of involving non-governmental organizations in the implementation of HRDP
components was not achieved.
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation
23.   Project implementation and, relatedly, the achievement of project objectives were negatively
affected by two main factors: (i) the lack of adequate and timely counterpart funds compounded by
inefficient financing procedures; and (ii) the limited institutional capacities of the implementing agencies
and deficiencies of the firms contracted to manage civil works activities. Three years into the original
five-year implementation period only 1 1 percent of loan funds had been disbursed compared to an
appraisal estimate of 56 percent. Implementation delays, particularly of civil works, resulted in
increased commitment charges and significant costs overruns which necessitated a scaling down of
project activities and 100 percent government financing of works unfinished at the close of the project



8
after a two-year extension. Implementation of the Human Resources Development Program, given its
ambitious scale and scope, suffered even more from the same constraints.
24.    Factors Not Subject to Government Control. Hurricane Gilbert struck the island in September
1988, between project preparation and appraisal, causing significant damage to social and economic
infrastructure, placing heavy demands on the local loan construction industry and producing adverse
fiscal effects. Events surrounding the elections held in early 1989 temporarily dampened HRDP
activities. Despite the resultant change in administration, however, minimal delays were experienced in
the approval of SSDP, confirming strong consensus on the priority of the social sectors and the project's
objectives.
25.    Factors Subject to Government Control. A difficult macroeconomic and fiscal environment
combined with cumbersome budgetary and other administrative procedures disrupted the pace of project
implementation. With the liberalization of the exchange rate in 1991, the Jamaican dollar depreciated
rapidly and inflation soared. Insufficient and delayed budgetary allocations, resulting from
Government's stabilization program, plagued the project throughout implementation. Project activities
to be undertaken during the first year were reduced significantly by lack of counterpart funds: only 13 of
41 pre-primary schools and three often primary and all-age schools to be upgraded were allocated funds;
only one-third of the amount requested for the purchase of pharmaceuticals was approved; and teacher
training activities and the distribution of textbooks were delayed. While limited counterpart funds
impeded implementation of most HRDP components, and thus the expenditure of external financing that
had been successfully secured, the effect on SSDP was particularly acute given the high proportion of
government financing (55 percent), particularly for civil works (70 percent). In response to
Government's request, the Bank - a year and a half before the project closing date - agreed to increase its
share of total project costs from 45 percent to approximately 64 percent (and civil works to 55 percent)
by reducing the scope of the project. The unavailability of counterpart funds was further compounded by
Government's practice of prefinancing all project expenditures, regardless of source of funding.
26.    The uneven flow of funds from the Ministry of Finance to implementing agencies, also due to
inadequate and untimely planning by the implementing agencies, resulted in delays in signing of civil
works contracts and the paying of contractors which limited Government's ability to see recourse in
cases of contractor non-performance. Bureaucratic delays resulting from Government's requirement that
all contracts above relatively low thresholds be submitted to Cabinet for approval and World Bank no
objection procedures, combined with uncertainty regarding the availability of funds, also contributed to
significant delays in contract signings.
27.    Project and program implementation was hindered substantially by difficulties in recruiting and
retaining qualified staff. The requirement that all appointments be subject to classification and grading
by the Ministry of Public Service caused some delays in appointments and often resulted in remuneration
packages insufficient to attract and retain required personnel. In the Ministry of Health, a dedicated
project manager was not appointed until August 1991, more than twenty months after loan agreement
effectiveness. Posts within the Central Projects Unit to manage HRDP components were never placed on
the establishment, in part because uncompetitive compensation packages would constrain hiring
qualified technical staff.
28.    Factors Subject to Implementing Agencies Control. Responsibility for project implementation
and management was vested in project implementation units at the MOH and MOEC which were
established to manage the execution of HRDP projects under those ministries. In the Ministry of
Education, the PIU was originally created under the Project Construction and Maintenance Division and



9
subsequently transferred to the newly established Projects Division. In the Ministry of Health, a central
projects unit was created to handle all foreign-assisted projects. Program monitoring was carried out
with the assistance of STATIN which conducted the LSMS surveys. The HRDP Secretariat, located in
the Social and Manpower Planning Division of PIOJ, was responsible for monitoring the physical and
financial progress of individual project/program components. The HRDP Steering Committee,
comprised of high level officials from participating entities, met twice yearly to review program
performance and address implementation constraints. Day-to-day management of the education civil
works activities were contracted out to the National Housing Corporation and Sugar Industry Housing.
The MOH subcontracted the management of its civil works to a private sector firm. Procurement of
reagents was done through the Pan-American Health Organization. Procurement of pharmaceuticals,
medical and dental equipment and supplies was initally performed by the Jamaica Commidity Trading
Company (JCTC). Mid-way through the project, JCTC was dissolved and procurement activities were
taken over by Health Cooperation Limited (HCL).
29.   Insufficient institutional capacity of the Ministries of Education and Health and of the HRDP
Secretariat to implement the project as designed negatively affected project implementation. Neither the
MOH nor MOEC had access to adequate technical staff to oversee the planning, tendering, execution and
supervision of civil works. Despite an agreement reached at negotiations to employ engineering firms to
supervise civil works by December 31, 1989, contracts under the MOEC were not signed until December
1990 and the contract to manage the health component was not signed until November 1992, resulting in
delays in construction activities which were never overcome. Compounding the deficiencies of ministry
personnel was the poor performance of the construction management firms and some contractors. Under
the health component, the period between tender opening and contract signing averaged an exceptionally
long 41 weeks. Difficulties acquiring suitable building sites and poor soil conditions in certain locations
delayed the start of construction of several of the REOs such that four of five were only partially
completed at the close of the project. Contractors also had limited carrying capacities and frequently
could not finance materials and works. Despite the HRDP's emphasis on civil works the HRDP
Secretariat was not staffed by technical persons, such as engineers, who could have assisted the
implementation of civil works. Insufficient financial record-keeping contributed to delayed
disbursements. Implementing agencies were often slow in requesting reimbursements from the Bank and
other agencies, reducing foreign exchange inflows. Early in the project, because of the lack of effective
communication between PIUs and the HRDP Secretariat, some expenditures eligible for reimbursement
by the Bank were paid from GOJ funds.
30.   Project and program implementation were also affected by the lack of timely policy decisions as
noted above. As the issues became increasingly sophisticated, the ministries lacked the capacity to
evaluate the impact of policy decisions or to respond flexibly to policy issues as they evolved. In part
because of this, the policy matrix was not as dynamic as conceived: only one comprehensive evaluation
and revision was made during the implementation period. A lack of "ownership" of HRDP targets may
also have impeded implementation of HRDP policy reforms. Although Government endorsed the
Statement of Policy Objectives and related policy matrix, both were prepared by Bank staff and the
initial targets were perceived to be arbitrary with insufficient consideration given to existing and
developing circumstances.
D. Project Sustainability
31.   The probability of the project sustaining its achievements varies by sector and activity. In
general, gains in the education sector are more likely to be maintained than in the health sector due to the



10
more extensive integration of project activities in the ministry's operations. Given the high priority
attached to early childhood education and Government's recent commitment to modernize and integrate
the program, the achievements of this component are likely to be sustained. At the primary level,
demographics will determine the sustainability of the reductions in overcrowding achieved through
upgrading schools. The more than 2,200 primary, secondary and all-age school teachers trained under
the project were bonded and returned to teach. The recognized importance of textbooks to student
achievement combined with the reduction in costs resulting from competitive bidding will contribute to
the continuation of the primary textbook program. PIU staff managing HRDP activities were absorbed
during the project, helping increasing the Ministry's capacity. The School Incentive Award program
now forms an important part of the school calendar and enjoys strong support and participation from
schools and communities that is highly likely to ensure its sustainability. Recognition grants allowed
almost 300 pre-preprimary schools to be eligible for ministry assistance. Despite its slow progress, the
Ministry of Education appears committed to continued decentralization of education services.
Government is financing the completion of the remaining four regional education offices. Delegation of
authority to these offices, provided adequate staff is employed, combined with community outreach
efforts already yielding positive results should help ensure the maintenance of upgraded facilities.
Maintenance budgets, however, remain insufficient.
32.   In health, prospects for sustaining achievements are less certain. The absence of adequate cost-
recovery measures undermines the sustained replenishment of pharmaceutical stocks. The maintenance
of medical equipment is of concern given the acute shortage of skilled technicians. The current and
future capacity of the Central Projects Unit remains a concern given the lack of some technical staff and
the inability to establish all posts at salary levels sufficient to attract requisite expertise. The Registrar
General's Department will continue to receive support under the Bank-supported Public Sector
Modernization Project. Conversion to an Executive Agency should increase the successes achieved
under SSDP. The ministry's decentralization goals have not yet been realized. Implementation of health
reform policies recently announced, including the decentralization responsibility for maintenance to local
management, should improve the likelihood of the health centers being maintained. The lack of a
uniform maintenance policy for residential units threatens their sustainability.
33.   The HRDP formally ended in December 1994 despite the urging of the then Director General of
PIOJ for its continuance. Many of its features, both policy and administrative, however, can be
recognized in Government's recently launched Social Agenda and National Poverty Eradication Program
which retain human resource development as the central component. The sustainability of the Survey of
Living Conditions, fundamental to monitoring poverty projects and influencing social policy, is ensured
in the short-term by the Reform of Secondary Education Project under which SLC-related activities are
being continued and expanded.
E. Bank Performance
34.   Overall, the Bank's performance in all stages of the project cycle was marginally satisfactory. In
January 1988, within one month of receiving a request from the Prime Minister, the Bank fielded an
identification mission to review Government's innovative proposal for a comprehensive social sector
program. The Bank was thus placed in a uniquely influential role in shaping social programs, a role that
continued with the election of a new administration and during project implementation through the
HRDP annual review process. In preparation for a June 1988 meeting of the Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED), the Bank prepared a Summary Review of the Social
Well-being Program which assessed government health, nutrition, education, employment and other



11
social development programs with a view to facilitating their consideration for funding by external
agencies. The CGCED meeting resulted in tentative financing commitments by 12 donors. Four
preparation missions visited Jamaica during a seven month period and members enjoyed close working
relationships with counterparts. Technical preparation of procurement activities, primarily the
Borrower's responsibility, was thorough with draft bidding documents for medical equipment,
pharmaceuticals and textbooks submitted at negotiations. Planning for civil works, however, was not as
detailed and resulted in significant delays in these activities.
35.   In appraising the project, there were four areas which the Bank did not address sufficiently.
First, despite the difficult macroeconomic situation and experience with past and concurrent social sector
projects, the Bank's proportion of total project cost was only 45 percent. Unavailability of counterpart
funds was not identified as a risk. Second, the Bank did not adequately reconcile the decision on
whether the project should be an adjustment or investment loan. Originally designed as an adjustment
operation given the high policy content of the HRDP, the team then envisioned a hybrid
adjustment/sector investment loan with the loan to be disbursed in tranches based on satisfactory
progress towards specified program, policy and project targets determined during annual reviews.
During appraisal and on the advice of management, it was agreed that while the loan conditionality
would relate to HRDP as a whole, Bank disbursements would be made on the basis of narrowly-defined
project outputs. Other than disbursement conditions, the design of the project was not altered to reflect
this change. It was likely unrealistic to expect that project which contributed less than 2 percent of
overall social sector expenditures could substantively affect policy reforms. Third, while sufficient
institutional capacity was recognized as central to the success of SSDP and HRDP, adequate attention
was not placed on how to build the required capacity. Conditions of effective emphasized the
importance of key HRDP posts, but not SSDP-dedicated positions. The lack of a dedicated project
manager for the health component until 20 months after effectiveness adversely affected early
implementation. Finally, the Bank may have inadvertently undermined ownership of the HRDP policy
matrix by drafting it itself. As a result, seemingly arbitrary targets were often questioned by Government
and may have contributed to the lack of progress in some areas.
36.    The Bank continued its high level of attention to the project after appraisal with four missions
visiting Jamaica in the eight months between negotiations and effectiveness. Supervision missions were
consistently conducted twice a year for the first five years and on an ongoing basis when the Resident
Mission assumed responsibility during the two-year extension period. The transfer of responsibility to
the Resident Mission significantly improved response times. During supervision, the teams not only
identified obstacles to implementation, but diagnosed underlying constraints and offered detailed
recommendations on how to overcome them. The quarterly implementation reviews instituted by the
Resident Mission, as well as a country portfolio performance review, sought to address implementation
obstacles common to all Bank projects such as cumbersome procurement and financing procedures. The
Bank's advise during HRDP annual reviews was considered valuable. The transfer of knowledge by
Bank staff to SLC counterparts is particularly noteworthy. The Bank exercised prudent flexibility in
adjusting project targets in response to implementation perfonnance, decreasing GOJ's counterpart
requirement and revising aggregate procurement thresholds when justified.
37.    There were deficiencies, however, in the Bank's performance. Despite the Bank's
recommendations, implementation of civil works showed little improvement throughout the project.
Some delays are attributable to delays in receiving Bank comments and approvals due to the limited
availability of the Bank's consultant architect and the high, perhaps excessive, level of involvement,
particularly in reviewing designs. As the PIUs gained some experience and designed could be replicated,
the intensity of management lessened. While the project launch included courses on procurement,



12
disbursement, accounting and auditing, many staff were not hired until later in the implementation period
and would have benefited from additional training. Further efforts to compensate for institutional
capacity weaknesses, such as the inclusion of a drug procurement specialist on the Bank's team, were not
an effective substitute for building local capacity. Although project inputs were closely monitored,
project impact and policy targets were unevenly evaluated - perhaps due in part to confusion about the
relationship between SSDP activities and HRDP policies. Finally, during much of the SSDP
implementation period, the Bank was financing two additional social sector projects under supervision
and preparing a third. All included procurement, civil works, training and technical assistance activities
and all suffered from some degree to the same implementation constraints. Common weaknesses in
institutional capacity possibly could have been addressed by consolidating similar activities.
F. Borrower Performance
38.    The performance of the two administrations that spanned the preparation period was highly
satisfactory. The Jamaica Labour Party submitted an innovative and well-conceived proposal aimed at
enhancing public sector efforts to alleviate poverty and develop Jamaica's human resource capacity. The
fact that the project was ambitious in scope and size was probably justified given the need to reverse the
extensive deterioration of the social sectors. The original program coordination unit was under the Prime
Minister's personal direction and included officials from the Office of the Prime Minister, the Ministry
of Finance and the Planning Institute of Jamaica as well as consultants. Strong Government commitment
to the project continued with the new administration elected in February 1989 and project processing
experienced minimal delay. Lists of equipment, pharmaceuticals and textbooks as well as bidding
documents were prepared prior to negotiations. Schools and health centers to be upgraded were
identified, although sites for the regional education offices were not acquired resulting in significant
delays.
39.    Management of civil works activities remained deficient throughout implementation. Despite
two one-year extensions of the project closing date, four regional education offices, four primary and all-
age schools, one basic school, two health centers and 54 residential units were not completed.
Government, however, is fulfilling its commitment to financing 100 percent of the remaining works, all
of which are scheduled to be completed by December 1997. As stated above, implementation was
negatively affected by the constrained fiscal environment and cumbersome administrative, procurement
and financing arrangements. Government commitment to addressing these systemic issues is evident in
its support for the Public Sector Modernization Project and other reform initiatives. Implementing
agencies performed best in those areas where they exercised the most control over the activities such as
training and technical assistance. Inter-institutional coordination, spearheaded by the HRDP Secretariat
and key to the multi-sectoral project, strengthened throughout implementation. Annual reviews of
HRDP were held, although they focused more on identifying and addressing common obstacles to the
implementation of HRDP components and less on the linkages between the projects and policies and
achieving policy targets. Government commissioned a comprehensive mid-term evaluation of the
project which presented a revised policy matrix more accurately reflective of the GOJ's financial and
institutional capacity. The Borrower complied with all loan covenants, other than audits which were
consistently overdue (Table 10).
G. Assessment of Project Outcome
40.    The overall project results were marginally satisfactory, particularly given the difficult
macroeconomic environment which limited the availability of counterpart funds throughout the



13
implementation period. Most physical objectives were met. Although specific outcome/impact
indicators were not built into the project design, there is evidence of increased community participation
and reduced overcrowding in schools; additional trained teachers; improved efficiency in the collection,
use and distribution of vital statistics; better health care in upgraded facilities; improved monitoring of
social conditions through the SLC; increased social policy analysis as the basis for making policy
decisions; and strengthened capacity of Government to manage multi-sectoral initiatives.
H. Future Operation
41.   Government has retained necessary project implementation unit staff in the Ministries of Health
and Education to oversee the completion of civil works activities and is financing fully all outstanding
works. Once reforms in both ministries are implemented, maintenance of upgraded facilities will be the
responsibility of the regional education offices and local health authorities. The Bank continues to
support the reform of secondary education, including expansion of Survey of Living Conditions-related
activities, and upgrading of the Registrar General's Department. The Resident Mission, through its
quarterly country implementation reviews, monitors the completion of project components. As the
convener of the donor/lender working group on education and training and a member of the working
group on health, the Resident Mission stays abreast of developments in the education and health sectors,
including the operation of activities supported under the project.
42.   After the Bank conducted a comprehensive review of the health sector in 1994, it was agreed that
the Inter-American Development Bank would prepare a health sector reform project and the Bank would
focus on education. The Social Investment Fund Project, approved in 1996, pilots a new approach to the
execution of small works, including the rehabilitation and construction of pre-primary, primary and all-
age schools and primary health care centers. The Public Sector Modernization Project includes a
component to strengthen procurement and contract management practices throughout Government.
1. Key Lessons Learned
43.   The key lessons learned from the implementation experience of this project follow:
(a) Although technically sound, SSDP did not achieve all of its objectives largely because of the lack of
capacity to implement a project made complex by the multiplicity of components, diversity of
activities and number of implementing agencies. Project design must reflect the institutional
capacities of agencies to execute the activities and incorporate adequate strengthening measures
beyond the hiring of additional staff. Capacity building is a slow and incremental process.
Compensating for lack of local capacity with external assistance is not a viable substitute.
(b) While projects typically require staff dedicated to the management of specific project outputs, the
better integrated project implementation units and their activities are within the implementing agency
the greater the probability is of objectives being achieved and sustained.
(c) While the Ministries of Health and Education performed satisfactorily in implementing training,
technical assistance and procurement activities, they were not effective in contracting or managing
civil works. Contracting out the tendering and supervision of works to semi-government or private
firms did not result in improved performance. Given the number of Bank-financed and other social



14
sector projects over a significant period of time that have suffered from the same constraint, new
options for the management of civil works must be seriously considered and piloted.
(d) An assessment of the capacity of the private sector construction industry, particularly after Hurricane
Gilbert, might have revealed limitations and affected project design. Given the extensive delays
between tendering and contract signing experienced in this and other Bank-supported projects,
contractor non-performance may be reduced by introducing post-qualification to better evaluate the
contractor's financial and technical resources at the time the works are to be undertaken.
(e) Particularly when the Bank is supporting several projects in the same sector concurrently,
consideration should be given to limiting the number of different activities in a single project given
the specific expertise required to manage each type of activity. Such a division would prevent the
need to build the capacities of several PIUs in the same ministry to manage procurement of goods,
civil works, and technical assistance and training.
(f) Specific project outcome and impact measures in addition to input and output indicators should be
established during design, evaluated as part of the project and consistently monitored to determine
project achievement and development impact.
(g) It is unreasonable to expect an investment project which disburses on the basis of narrowly-defined
outputs and contributes a marginal amount to overall sector spending to effect wide-reaching policy
reform.



15
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessment
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions



16
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial    Partial     Negligible   N/Applicable
Macro policies                                    0            El L
Sector policies                     O             0            [1            l
Financial objectives                E             El                         El
Institutional development           E       l    0El
Physical objectives                 0             E            E             E
Poverty reduction                                              E] 0  E       E
Gender issues                       El            E            E             0
Other social objectives             E             0            E             E
Environmental objectives              l           E            El 
Public sector management            El            0                   El 
Private sector development            l           E            El            0
B. Project Sustainability                LLkdIy            Unlikely         Unceain
Health                                 E                  E                 0
Education                              0                                   E
Survey of Living Conditions            0                  E                 E
C. Bank Performance                Highly Satisfactory    Marginally        Defiient
Satisfactory
Identification and Preparation           l                0                 E
Appraisal                              E                  E                 0
Supervision                            E                  0                 E
D. Borrower Performance            Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficien
Preparation                            0                  E                 E
Implementation
Training, TA and                    E                  0                 E
Procurement
Civil Works                         E                  E                 0
Covenant compliance                    E                  0                 E
Highly      Marginally                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome     SatisfactQry    Satisfactor  Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
o             0               El                 E



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title                       Purpose                  Approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. Family Planning      Supporting Government's single purpose     1970    Completed. Loan
Project (Ln. 690-JM)     family planning program through the               fully disbursed in
expansion of postpartum family planning            1977 after three-
services.                                         year extension.
2. Second Population     Supporting provision of integrated family  1976    Completed. Loan
Project (Ln. 1284-JM)    planning, maternal/child health and nutrition      closed in 1983 after
education services in Cornwall County.             two-year extension -
12% undisbursed.
3. Population and Health   Supporting fertility reduction and the  1987    Completed. Loan
Project (Ln. 2851 -JM)   integration of population concerns in             closed in 1995 after
development projects and development of a          one-year extension -
cost-effective health delivery system.             38% undisbursed.
ICR date: 02/21/97.
4. First Education Project  Supporting development and rehabilitation  1966    Completed. PCR
(Ln. 468-JM)             of secondary and tertiary education.              date: 03/04/75.
5. Second Education     Supporting development and rehabilitation  1971    Completed. PCR
Project (Ln. 727-JM)     of secondary education.                            date: 06/30/81.
6. Third Education Project Supporting expansion and qualitative    1981    Completed. Loan
(Ln. 2070-JM)            improvements of selective technical and            closed in June 1988
vocational education and training systems to       after one-year
meet changing labor market requirements.           extension.
7. Education Program     Supporting preparation, piloting and      1988    Completed. Loan
Preparation and Student    evaluation of options for cost-effective         closed in December,
Loan Project             measures for qualitative improvement of            1994 after a 3T year
(Ln. 2899-JM)            basic education and more efficient                 exten .on - 16%
administration of Students Loan Program.           undisbursed. ICR
date: 09/22/95.
Following operations
1. Reform of Secondary    Supporting a program of national reform of  1993    Ongoing.
Education Project        secondary education to improve efficiency in
(Ln. 3580-JM)           the delivery and management of education
services.
2. Student Loan Project    Supporting efforts to improve the       1996    Ongoing.
(Ln. 4070-JM)           effectiveness and efficiency of the Student
Loan Program for tertiary education.
3. Social Investment Fund  Supporting poverty reduction by increasing  1996    Ongoing.
Project (Ln. 4088-JM)    resources to basic social and economic
infrastructure and social services through a
new delivery mechanism.
4. Public Sector Modern-   Supporting the continued rationalization and  1996    Ongoing.
ization Project         reform of the public sector and strengthening
(Ln. 4083-JM)            GOJ procurement policies and procedures.



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned                 Actual Date
Identification                            n/a                  January 19-28, 1988
Preparation                               n/a                   March 15-19, 1988
Appraisal                            October 1988Z            Nov. 28- Dec. 9, 1988
Negotiations                              n/a                     May 2-5, 1989
Board Presentation                     early 1989                 July 11, 1989
Signing                                   n/a                    August 8, 1989
Effectiveness                             n/a                  November 21, 1989
Project Completion                   March 31, 1994               June 30, 1996
Loan Closing                       December 31, 1994            December 31, 1996
1 Date of first preparation mission.
2Dates proposed during preparation/pre-appraisal mission.
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY              90     91    92      93      94    95    96      97
Appraisal Estimate        3.0    7.2   13.5  20.1   27.3  30.0
Actual                    2.0    2.5    2.8    5.6   13.4  18.5  27.6   30.0
|Actual as % of Estimate    67%    35%   21%    28%    49%   62%   92%   100%
I~ .                                      -.   -_  .           _      -



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in           Estimated at Appraisal           Modifled               Actual
SAR/MOP                                                                    (as of 8/93)       (at project closing)
I. Health Component
a) Upgrade primary health care centers  12 health centers              9 health centers    7 completed; 2 centers 75-
85% complete
b) Procure medical equipment          amount not specified                                 delivered
c) Procure pharmaceutical supplies    amount not specified                                 delivered
d) Establish and staff project unit   18 new posts; 4 upgraded posts                       most filled by 3/92; posts
not established
e) Train pharmacists and others       numbers not specified                                training conducted
f) Provide technical assistance in mgmt,   amount not specified                            none
computing, epidemiology
g) Construct and equip health staff   180 units                        148 units           96 units completed; 20
accommodations                                                                             units 90% and 34 units
60% complete; furniture
procured
h) Upgrade Registrar General's Dept   construct new bldg; computerize                      construction complete;
operations                                          computerization in-
complete
H. Education Component
a) Upgrade basic schools              390 basic schools                23 basic schools    22 completed; I school
95% complete
b) Provide materials and furniture for  amount not specified                               procured and delivered
training basic school teachers
c) Provide recognition grants to basic  number not specified                               285 schools received
schools                                                                                    grants
d) Provide scholarships for basic school    125 scholarships           225 scholarships    226 scholarships awarded
teachers and teacher trainers
e) Upgrade primary and all-age schools    20 schools                                       13 completed; 3 dropped
from project; remaining 3
schools 85-95% complete
f) Provide textbooks for primary schools   350,000 primary students                        350,000 annually for four
years
g) Construct and equip Regional       construct 5; equip 6                                 1 completed; 3 offices
Education Offices                                                                          over 80% complete; I
office 30% complete;
equipment supplied
h) Train regional office staff        numbers not specified                                training conducted
i) Train primary and all-age school   2000 teachers                                        2,006 teachers trained
teachers
j) Train MOE staff                    20 staff                                             20 fellowships awarded
k) Train secondary school teachers    200 secondary teachers                               246 completed programs
I) Pilot program of school awards     number of schools not specified                      program completed and
evaluated
m) Establish and staff project unit   6 new posts; 11 upgraded posts                       posts established; PIU
staffed by 8/90
n) Provide technical assistance       amount not specified                                 22 man-months completed
IILI HRDP Management and
Administration
a) Strengthen HRDP Secretariat        establish and fund secretariat                       secretariat established
b) Monitor HRDP using SLC             conduct semi-annual surveys                          surveys conducted
I annually after 1989



20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
| 1. No indicators for project operations were defined in the SAR. They were
not required as standard procedure at the time of appraisal.
2. Description of future operation is provided in Part I, Section H.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project3
Study                             Status             Impact of study
1. Draft Blue Print and Management Plan    Not dated.               Negligible
for the National Assessment Program
2. Management Information Technology    Completed: June 4, 1991.     Substantial
Choices in the MOE of Jamaica: A Review
of Current Choices and a Proposal for Future
Development
3. Financial Management System for MOE   Completed: June 1995.       Substantial
Regional Offices and A Guide to Bursars and
Accounting Staff in Educational Institutions
4. Handbook of Operations for Regional  Completed: 1995.             Substantial
Education Offices
5. Procedures Manual: Schools Personnel    Completed: July 1995.     Substantial
and Administrative Services
Purpose of studies not defined at appraisal.



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate               Actual
Item                     (US$ million)                (US$ million)
Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign       Total
(1) Health Sector                      n/a      n/a   25.7      n/a      n/a         22.3
(a) Works                           n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a          9.7
(b) Goods and pharmaceuticals       n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a         10.1
(c) Furniture                       n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a           .3
(d) Consultants' services and       n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a          2.1
training
(e) Incremental salaries            n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a           .1
(2) Education                          n/a      n/a   27.2      n/a      n/a         29.0
(a) Works                           n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a         23.4
(b) Goods                           n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a           .8
(c) Consultants' services and       n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a           1.2
training
(d) Incremental salaries            n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a           .4
(e) Printing and distribution of    n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a          3.3
textbooks and furniture
(3) HRDP Admin and Monitoring          n/a      n/a    2.3     n/a       n/a          1.2
(a) Goods and funiture              n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a           .5
(b) Consultants' services and       n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a           .5
training
(c) Incremental salaries            n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a           .1
(4) Refunding of PPF                   n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a      n/a           .2
(5) Unallocated                        n/a      n/a   11.8      n/a      n/a            0
TOTAL PROJECT COST               { 39.8        27.2 j67.0      n/a       n/a         52.7
Unable to determine breakdown of appraised costs given difference in categories used in staff appraisal report
and loan agreement.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)             Actual (US$M)
Local    Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Source             Costs      Costs      Total      Costs       Costs     Total
IBRDII                          2.8       27.2        30.0        n/a        n/a      30.0
Government                     37.0        0.0        37.0        n/a        n/a      22.7
TOTAL                 j      39.81      27.2)       67.0        n/a        n/a      52.7
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return was calculated at appraisal. Project benefits were expressed in terms of
increased efficiency of social services, improved targeting of subsidies and assistance and
formulation of strategies to protect vulnerable groups.



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original       Revised
Covenant            Fulfillment    Fulfilment
Section     type     Status      date            date          Description of covenant        Comments
Loan Agreement
2.01(b)    I          C                                      Borrower shall open a Special
Account at the Central Bank
satisfactory to the Bank in
accordance with Schedule 6
3.02(a)    12         C        annually     2/90             At least once each year, not  Did not take place
2/91            later than March 1, the       during two-year
2/92            Borrower shall exchange views   project extension
5/93            with the Bank on the progress    period.
3/94            and proposals for HRDP for the
l______  ____________  _______________   follow ing   year.
3.30      10          C                                      Procurement to be carried out
under the provisions of
Schedule 4 of the Loan
Agreement
4.01 (a)   I          CD       annually     1990: 11/26/90   Maintain separate accounts in
(b) (c)                                     1991: 03/02/92   accordance with appropriate
1992: 11/24/92   accounting standards and
1993: 12/28/93   submit to the Bank the required
1994: 07/11/95   audit reports, no later than
1995: 12/07/95   Sept. 30 each year.
1996: 12/06/96
Key
Convent Types:
I Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance
3 Flow and utilization of project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the project
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Project implementation not covered by categories 1-5
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
Status
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
NC = not complied with
CP = complied with partially



23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was compliance with all pertinent Bank Operational
Manual statements throughout the project cycle.   j
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of            Planned              Revised               Actual
project cycle    Weeks   US$(OOO)    Weeks   US$(000)  Weeks  US$(000)
Through appraisal n/a             n/a         n/a       n/a    72.2       147.9
Appraisal-Board         n/a         n/a        n/a       n/a      8.0       20.5
Board-effectiveness     n/a        n/a         n/a       n/a      n/a        n/a
Supervision             n/a        n/a         n/a       n/a   146.7       359.6
Completion              6.0       11.6          .                 6.0       11.6
TOTAL                   n/a        n/a         n/a       n/a   232.9       539.6



24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Rating4
Days in    Specialized Staff
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/    No. of    Field          Skills         Impl.      Devt.       Types of
Year    Persons    (total)      Represented*      Status     Objs.       Problems5
Identification             1/88        4         40         EC; ED; PH
Preparation                3/88        3         15           EC; PH-
6/88       2          14           EC; PH
Preappraisal               7/88        4         40       EC; ED; F; PH          -
10/88       1          3             EC
Appraisal                 11/88        5         60        EC; EG; F; PP
Pre-Negotiations           3/89        2         10             EC
Pre-Board                  6/89        2         10             EC
Pre-Effectiveness          8/89        4         40             EC
10/89       1          5             EC
Supervision: I PLW**       2/90        4         40         AR; EC; L
11              6/90        4         20         AR; EC; PM          I         I           M; F
III             11/90       2          10          AR; EC            I          I           M; F
IV              2/91        6         84        AR; EC; D; P;        2          1           M; F
V               8/91        2         14           AR; EC            2                   M; F; PR
VI              2/92        3         36           AR; EC            2          1        M; F; PR; D
VII             11/92        4         20         AR; EC; OP          2         2           F; D
Vill             7/93        4         36         AR; EC; OP          2         2            F; D
IX              1/94        2         24           AR; OP            2          2          D; PR
X               7/94        2         10           AR; OP            S         S           D; PR
Xl              2/95        3       ongoing        EG; OP            U          S         PR; D; L
Xii              3/96        1      ongoing           EG              S         S          PR; D; F
Completion                 1/97        2  _      10           EG; OP           U          S         PR; F; M
* AR = architect; D  Disbursement Officer, EC = economist; ED  education specialist; EG  engineer; F  financial analyst; L
legal; MG = management specialist; OP = Operations Assistant/Specialist; P = procurement specialist; PH = public health
specialist; PM = pharmaceutical procurement specialist; PP = population specialist.
** PLW = Project Launch Workshop
4Ratings: I/HS = no problem; 2/S = moderate problems, 3/U = significant problems.
Types of Problems: L = legal; M = management performance; F = availability of funds; D = disbursement;
PR = procurement.



25
PART III - EVALUATION OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
Social and Poverty Alleviation Objectives.
The project sought to alleviate poverty through improved efficiency, management and delivery
of primary health care and basic education. As primary health care and pre-primary and primary
education as accessed equally by all income groups, improvements in these services achieved by the
project benefited the poor. The overall Human Resources Development Program which had as an
explicit objective the alleviation of poverty succeeded in redirecting expenditures to pre-primary and
primary education; improving the targeting and widening the coverage of the food stamp and school
feeding programs; and increasing cost-sharing in health and secondary and tertiary education combined
with safety nets for the poor.
The level of poverty, using a consumption-based poverty line, however, increased since 1988,
becoming particularly acute in 1991 following the rapid depreciation of the Jamaican dollar. An
estimated 28 percent of the population remains below the poverty line and the social fabric of the country
is understress. In response, Government recently launched a National Poverty Eradication Program
which extends many of the objectives and activities initiated under HRDP.



26
APPENDIX A: AIDE MEMOIRE
JAMAICA SOCIAL SECTORS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3111-JM)
FINAL SUPERVISION MISSION, January 1997
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    The final supervision mission of the Social Sectors Development Project was conducted by
Robin Hughes and Sarah Adam of the World Bank's Resident Mission. Meetings were held during the
week of January 13, 1997 with representatives from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture
(MOEYC), the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) and the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). The mission wishes to thank these organizations for their cooperation and assistance.
Attachment I lists the persons met by the mission.
OVERVIEW OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.    At the request of Government, the project completion date was extended for an additional one
year until December 31, 1996 to complete the remaining civil works and procurement activities. The
implementation of all components, with the exception of some civil works, is complete. It was agreed
that Government will finance all expenditures required to complete outstanding civil works. It is
expected that by April 30, 1997 the loan will be fully disbursed.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Civil Works
3.    Of the nine primary health centers included under the project, seven have been completed:
Balaclava (nurses residences only), Bunker's Hill, Maxfield Park, Ewarton, Porus, Islington, and Mount
Peto. Maxfield Park and Islington Health Centers, however, will not be occupied until adequate security
is in place at Maxfield Park and an issue of substandard wall sockets at Islington is addressed.
Occupation of both facilities is scheduled for January 27 and mid February, 1997 respectively. Over 75
percent of the construction at Mandeville Health Center has been completed. Practical completion
should be achieved by February, 1997 as scheduled in the workplan submitted in late 1995. Although
construction at Mocho Health Center is approximately 85 percent complete, the contractor has all but
abandoned the site and no further progress is being made. It was agreed that the Director of Projects
would arrange for an independent quantity surveyor to review progress to date and provide a cost
estimate, by February 1997, for completion of the works. While the scope of the outstanding work
and the associated costs are being determined the Ministry will investigate sources of finance to
complete the health center, including the Jamaica Social Investment Fund.
4.     Under the project as reformulated, 150 units of living quarters for health personnel were to be
constructed under the project. By the project closing date, 96 units had been completed. The contracts
for construction of the staff residences at National Chest Hospital Phase 1 (26 units), Phase 11 (20 units)
and Spanish Town Hospital (34 units) were awarded to the same contractor. The units at National Chest
Phase I were completed but those of Phase II require painting and the installation of fixtures and will be
completed by the end of January 1997. The units at Spanish Town Hospital were about 60 percent



27
complete at the end of the project. Because of limited financial and staff resources, the contractor is
unlikely to be able to resume works at Spanish Town Hospital until the residences at National Chest
Hospital have been completed. Thus, the Spanish Town units are projected to be ready for occupation in
July, 1997. Occupation of residences at St. Ann's Bay has been delayed due to the need for the
installation of security grills on the windows of the ground floor units. Occupation is scheduled to take
place by February 28, 1997.
5.    Construction of the new office building for the Registrar General's Department (RGD)
commenced in October, 1994, and was completed in early 1996 as scheduled. The Registrar General's
Department took possession and transferred operations from Spanish Town to Twickenham Park at the
end of June 1996. The building was officially opened by the Prime Minister in October 1996.
Purchase of Goods and Pharmaceuticals
6.    Furniture for completed staff residences and health centers was procured. Some furniture
remains in storage waiting completion of outstanding civil works. Any additional furniture needed will
be financed with Government resources. With the exception of one small contract, all pharmaceuticals
and medical equipment were procured and delivered. After a delay, the shipment of reagents procured
through the Pan-American Health Organization was received.
7.    All computer equipment for the RGD was procured, installed in the original building and
transferred to Twickenham Park in June 1996. Computerization of the RGD operations, however, is not
complete. A comprehensive review of software systems developed to date has been undertaken and
recommendations to make the system fully operational were detailed. The Public Sector Modernization
Project is considering a request to finance additional computer terminals and printing equipment.
Training
8.    No new training activities were financed during the final year of the project.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Upgrading of Basic Schools.
9.    Civil Works. Of the 23 basic schools to be upgraded under the project, the following 22 schools
were completed by the project closing date: Baccaswood, Nutfield, Sherwood Content, Joe Hut,
Whitehall, Bartons, Wrights, Bethel, Smoke Hole, Flemmings, Johnstown, Thornton, Stonehenge,
Danvers Pen, Jericho, Chigwell, Haddington, Duhaney Pen, Bastard Cedar, Rose Hill, Fern Grove and
Bull Savannah. Construction of Cartegena Basic School began in May 1995 and was scheduled for
completion in September 1995. Problems relating to the quality of the contractor's work, however,
eventually resulted in termination of the original contract. The school is approximately ninety seven
percent complete and has been occupied since May 1996. Quotations have been received and
arrangements are in place to award a small contract for the correction of the defective work. Remaining
works are to be completed by the end of March 1997.
10.   Furniture and Equipment. Procurement of furniture and equipment for the basic schools was
completed.



28
II.   Training and Recognition Subsidies. The target of 226 scholarships for basic school teachers
were all awarded. Over 300 schools received recognition subsidies under the project. No further
training activities were undertaken or recognition subsidies granted during the final year of the project.
Upgrading of Primary/All-Age Schools
12.   Civil Works. At the time of the second project extension, it was agreed that three of the 18
primary and all-age schools to be upgraded would not be financed by the Bank loan, but by the
Government. Of the 15 schools, three - Sudbury, Rousseau and Thompson Town - were not completed
before the project closing date. These schools ranged from eighty seven to ninety five percent complete
and it is estimated that practical completion for all schools will be achieved by February 1997. The
financial obligations for the remaining works at these schools is the responsibility of the Government.
Of the three schools not financed by the Bank Loan, Lawrence Tavern and Mandeville are well-
advanced. The contract for Wait-a-Bit, however, was annulled and eventually retendered. The contract
has not yet been awarded.
13.   Training. By August 1996, 2,046 teachers island-wide had completed trianing programs on the
delivery of Grades 1-3 curriculum, exceeding the target of 2,000. No further training activities were
conducted in the final year of the project. A manual documenting the training component was to be
prepared.
14.   Textbooks. Approximately 336,000 of the 350,000 primary school textbooks were printed and
delivered. It was agreed that, using the original no objection which recommended the award of the
contract to the Gleaner Company, the Bank would disburse on the 290,000 books printed by the
Gleaner Company.
School Award Incentive Program
15.   The School Award Incentive Program was piloted for two years and institutionalized in 1995.
An evaluation report on the component was completed and should be forwarded to the Bank.
Institutional Strengthening
16.   Civil Works. The Succaba Pen Regional Education Office was completed in October 1996 and is
occupied. Construction of the remaining four Regional Education Offices was not completed before the
project closing date due to poor performance of contractors and lack of timely payments by the Ministry.
The construction of the Montego Bay office was complicated first by geotechnical problems and later by
delays in obtaining approval of the Urban Development Corporation to resume work. At the close of the
project, Browns Town was 82 percent complete, Mandeville 82 percent, Port Antonio 80 percent and
Montego Bay 33 percent. Current estimated project completion dates range from April to June 1997.
17.   Furniture and Equipment. All of the furniture and equipment for the regional offices was
supplied and in the case of unfinished buildings is being stored. After undertaking an unsuccessful
National Competitive Bidding exercise, the remaining equipment was procured, with the Bank's
agreement, using local shopping.
18.   Fellowships. Twenty fellowships were targeted and awarded to Ministry of Education staff who
completed their training.



29
19.    TechnicalAssistance. Technical assistance in the following five areas was provided: education
administration, accounting practices, administrative systems design, management information systems,
and testing and measurement. Consultant reports were prepared and copies have been received by the
Bank.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
20.   Staffing. The Ministry of Health requested the Bank's no objection to the extension of contracts
for the project manager, accountant and secretary for 1996 on January 10, 1997. The Bank agreed to
grant its no objection. The Ministry indicated its intent to employ all project staff through September
1997 to complete project activities. Rivi Gardner & Associates, the consulting architects, are contracted
by MOH until completion of the remaining civil works. The funding of salaries of Central Projects Unit
staff in non-established posts, which had been done on a declining basis, ended in December 1994. The
Ministry of Health absorbed all staff.
21.    Contracts of the Ministry of Education Project Management Unit (PMU) staff expired on
December 3 1, 1995. The Ministry has not yet requested the Bank's no objection to the extension of
contracts until the project closing date. The Ministry of Education should submit this request as soon
as possible in order to be reimbursed for related expenditures. An allocation for PMU staff is
included in Government's current Estimates of Expenditure.
22.   During the final year of the project, activities implemented by the two ministries continued to be
coordinated by the Planning Institute of Jamaica. The contract of the Financial Manager at PIOJ was
extended until the project closing date. Government will continue to fund her contract through the
current fiscal year to enable the processing of remaining withdrawal applications.
23.   Audit. The project audit report covering the period April 1, 1995 through March 3 1, 1996 was
due on September 30, 1996. The audit was submitted November 28, 1996 but without the Management
Letter. The Financial Manager agreed to submit the Management Letter by January 31, 1997. It
was further agreed that the final project audit would cover the period April 1, 1996 through April
30, 1997 and would be submitted by September 30, 1997.
24.   Disbursements. Disbursements for the Social Sectors Development Project as of January 7, 1997
totaled US$28.57 million out of US$30 million, approximately 95 percent of the loan. A withdrawal
application for an additional US$827,000 is being processed and will be applied to the Special Account
balance. It was agreed that Project Managers would submit all paid invoices for goods, works and
services delivered prior to the project closing date, to the Financial Manager as soon as possible.
The Bank will be notified of any outstanding balance after these invoices have been processed. If
Government fails to provide sufficient resources to pay any outstanding invoices for works
completed up to December 31, 1996, the Bank will be unable to reimburse for such eligible
expenditures. Provided withdrawal applications are processed promptly it is expected that the
loan will be fully disbursed and Special Account balance recovered by April 30, 1997.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
25.    The Bank discussed with the Project Managers and the PlOJ the content and timing of the
Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report. Copies of the Bank's reporting
guidelines were provided to the Project Managers and the PIOJ for their information. It was agreed that
the Project Managers would submit to the PIOJ by February 28, 1997 draft versions of their



30
submissions. PIOJ will both write the sections of the report covering activities under the Human
Resources Development Project component and compile all contributions. The final report,
including a summary not to exceed 10 pages, will be submitted to the Bank by April 1, 1997
Dated: January 21, 1997
Revised based on GOJ comments dated February 28, 1997



31
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
JAMAICA SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 311 1-JM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INTRODUCTION
I .    The Social Sector Development Project (SSDP) was part of the Human Resources Development
Programme (HRDP) which included nineteen (19) new and ongoing projects in education, health and social
welfare. The Programme was intended to address some of the negative impacts of the structural adjustment
process on the social sector through increased financial support, while at the same time supporting policy
reforms that would improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the sector. Under the SSDP, support was
given to the health and education sub-sectors and to the administration of the HIRDP Secretariat. The major
areas receiving support were civil works and the procurement of goods (pharmaceuticals, equipment and
furniture).
2.     This report provides an evaluation of the implementation of the SSDP with particular emphasis on
lessons learnt from the experience. The report was prepared by the Project Development and Economic
Cooperation Division, Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) with the support of the implementing entities,
the ministries of Health and Education and the Social and Manpower Planning Division (SMPD), PIOJ,
which provided summarized reports of their respective operations.
3.    It should be pointed out that Bank's guidelines on the preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report are predicated on the assumption that implementation of the project being evaluated is
complete and the operational phase has commenced. In the case of the SSDP, this is not so, there being
significant civil works activities, such as the construction of regional education offices and accommodation
for health personnel, that were not completed at the formal closure of the project on December 31, 1996.
Accordingly, this report, though providing a substantial assessment of the implementation of the project, is
not conclusive. The unfinished activities will be financed exclusively by the Government of Jamaica.
4.     The summary finding of the report is that, given the pre-implementation delays experienced
during the first two years of the SSDP which partly contributed to the project having to be
reformulated and later extended for two years, the implementation of the SSDP has been fairly
successful. The main area of under-achievement has been civil works which encountered
institutional, technical/managerial and resource constraints. The implementation of the "soft areas"
of the project (e.g. training, procurement) was quite successful, the main contributing factor being the
low level of external constraints impacting on the activities and the high level of internal control
which the implementing agencies had over these activities.
5.     Future interventions must ensure that adequate pre-implementation preparations are made
to avoid a prolonged start-up phase and make a vigorous attempt to identify and address potential
constraints or try to accommodate them in the design of the project while at the same time identifying
and exploiting areas of strengths, internal control and minimum constraints.
6.    In the discussion which follows, the HRDP Secretariat, in view of its central and umbrella role
under the project, shall be assessed first, followed by the health and education sub-sectors.



32
HRDP SECRETARIAT
7.    In order to ensure the efficient and effective implementation of the HRDP, a Secretariat was
established within the SMPD of the PIOJ to coordinate the activities of the various implementing agencies,
undertake Programme monitoring and evaluation and conduct policy analysis. The coordination of the
HRDP was facilitated through a Steering Committee comprising high level officers of relevant Government
entities and chaired by the Director General of the PIOJ. Additionally, the built-in annual reviews and a
centralized financial management system were pivotal in the coordination of the Programme. The
Programme also benefitted from the Secretariat being located within the SMPD which had overall
responsibility for social planning. Accordingly, there was a steady flow of infonnation between the
Programme and the Division. These organizational and locational features of the Secretariat greatly assisted
in the implementation of the Programme.
8.     The Secretariat had a positive impact on the implementation of projects, including the SSDP, under
the Programme through constant monitoring and a number of other initiatives such as assisting in contract
review, procurement of goods and services and assisting to ensure adequate flow of resources to projects.
Though the concept of HRDP management was experimental and had some weaknesses and despite the
difficulties experienced in carrying out its mandate, the Secretariat Lacilitated a coordinated approach to the
implementation of social projects and achieved certain efficiencies from established management systems.
As an "outside agency", it gave implementing agencies a sense of being answerable to someone who was
constantly monitoring their performance through routine and periodic reviews. On the other hand, the
Secretariat was a body to which the implementing agencies could appeal for assistance in the form of
mediating between themselves and the ministries of Finance and the then Public Service which were not
always considered to be adequately supportive of the implementing agencies.
9.     The greatest challenge for the Secretariat, and the Programme in general, was to improve the rate of
implementation of the civil works component of the projects. It soon became evident that the Secretariat
was incapable of successfully meeting this challenge and projects under the Programme came to experience
significant cost and time over-run, the SSDP being a prime example. Several factors, internal but largely
external to the Secretariat, contributed to this failure. The external factors will be examined under the
discussion of the civil works sub-component of the evaluation of the Health and Education components.
10.    The main internal constraint to the performance of the Secretariat was its inadequate technical
capacity. The Secretariat had no technical personnel such as engineers who could assist in addressing the
some of the deficiencies of line ministries. The performance of the Secretariat would have been more
effective if its staff structure had made allowance for at least one technical officer and other staff members
trained in project management.
I1.   It is suggested that the design of the Programme did not adequately take into consideration the
institutional capacity of the Secretariat or the wider institutional constraints that the project would face.
Though, according to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of the SSDP, cognizance was taken of
"administrative delays in program implementation" as "the main risk, both for the proposed project and for
the HRDP as a whole", inadequate treatment was given to this risk. The SAR noted that this risk would be
reduced by "an effective role by the HRDP Secretariat in monitoring, coordinating and expediting the
HRDP execution by several ministries and agencies". As it turned out, the institutional capacity of the
Secretariat was not adequately strengthened under the project while there were many systemic constraints
outside the control of the Secretariat.



33
12.   Given the inadequate institutional capacity of the Secretariat and other implementing agencies
under the HRDP, it is suggested also that the Programme in general, and some projects under the
Programme, were too ambitious and targets unrealistic. This relates not only to physical aspects of the
Programme but also to the demand for counterpart funds and the ability of the external agencies to
effectively supervise/monitor the projects.
13.    Lesson Learnt. A high level of assessment of the institutional factors that are likely to impact
negatively on project implementation must be conducted and adequate mitigating measures put in
place before or during project implementation.
14.    Policy reformns and impact monitoring. Under the HRDP, a number of policy and reform actions
were implemented in order to improve the efficiency of the social services supported under the Programme.
Among these were: the phasing out of general food subsidies and improving the targeting of the Food
Stamp Programme; increasing budgetary support for primary health care and pre-primary and primary
education; and instituting user charges in hospitals and cost sharing schemes in secondary and tertiary
educational institutions. As regard impact monitoring, although the turn-around time (two months) from
interview to data analysis under the Survey of Living Conditions was not achieved, the Survey, and its
potential for use in policy formulation, remains one of the enduring achievements of the HRDP. Through
the use of this tool, policy makers can benefit from ex-post evaluation of policies which hitherto was
impossible owing to the lack of empirical data. The impact monitoring system, however, could have been
enhanced by a more direct link with the related Institutional-Based Monitoring System funded by UNICEF.
15.   Financial management: The financial management of the project encountered minor difficulties
which were duly resolved through collaboration with key players such as the Ministry of Finance and the
World Bank. With the assistance of the Bank, a financial management system was developed for the SSDP.
The system proved quite satisfactory, the only area of deficiency being its inability to generate relevant data
to meet certain reporting requirements, e.g. foreign and local costs and expenditures per sub-component.
The Bank could consider an initiative to address the need for a special accounting package to meet Bank
and GOJ reporting requirements.
HEALTH and EDUCATION
16.   The implementation of the various sub-components under the Health and Education components of
the project was fairly successful, the areas of greater success being the "soft areas" (procurement of various
goods and services and training) while the area of lesser success was civil works.
Health
17.   Under the Health component, the procurement of medical equipment, pharmaceutical supplies,
medical and dental supplies, motor vehicles and furniture and equipment was executed with few minor
problems and the provision of these goods has contributed significantly to improving the delivery of health
service. Consequent upon the policy decision that the Central Bank would no longer be involved in
commercial activities and the subsequent efforts by Project Management to utilize Letters of Credit,
difficulties and delays were experienced in the procurement of pharmaceuticals. However, the World Bank
and the Ministry of Finance were quite accommodating and assisted in mitigating the difficulties.
18.   The question of sustainability in terms of the maintenance of medical equipment arises, however.
There is an acute shortage of highly skilled personnel in this area, e.g. there is only one bio-medical



34
engineer in the country. The project could have attempted to address this issue by supporting relevant
training for personnel within the Health Facilities Maintenance Unit, Ministry of Health.
19.    Training programmes for various categories of health personnel were conducted under the project
to March 1995. Despite the absence of a training officer, this sub-component was implemented quite
successfully. This can be attributed to the strong project management and the enthusiasm of beneficiaries
considering that training had great potential for upward.
20.    The institutional strengthening of the Central Projects Unit (CPU) was not as successful as
expected. To date, the CPU does not have the technical expertise as initially envisaged and is not on the
establishment within the Ministry. This has been largely due to the fact that placing the Unit on the
establishment would have militated against attracting and retaining qualified staff because of
uncompetitive compensation within the public sector. In light of the current public sector reform, it is
expected that the Unit will be on the establishment in the near future.
Education
21.    The implementation of the non-civil works activities (training and supervision, procurement of
furniture and equipment; provision of textbooks) was quite satisfactory. The success achieved with these
activities was indicative of the application of administrative and managerial capabilities. It was due to such
strategies that the original training programme designed for non-trained university graduates was broadened
to include training college certificate and diploma teachers who formed the larger population of teachers
with a need to be university trained. Likewise the programme for the upgrading teachers of primary and all-
age schools was re-designed.
22.    The procurement of fourteen motor vehicles without the assistance of an external agent was an
indication of the effective management of project. Excellent performances were recorded under the Barnett
Metals contract for the supply of furniture to Primary/All-Age schools and regional education offices and
though difficulty was encountered with the contract for the provision of textbooks, this was eventually
resolved.
Civil Works - Health and Education
23.    Performance under this component was less than satisfactory with the completion dates and final
costs varying, in some cases quite significantly, from the original completion dates and contract amount.
The underachievement under civil works is evidenced primarily under the Education component of the
project and contributes to the delay in the decentralization of administration. This has adversely affected the
achievement of project objectives. Project implementation encountered delays at the pre-construction and
construction stages.
24.    Delays in pre-construction activities were experienced in areas such as the appointment of a
Consulting Architect (in the case of Health); the acquisition of sites; preparation of tender documents; and
the award of contracts. Delays in the award of contracts resulted from government's policy and
cumbersome procedures relating to procurement and the institutional weakness of the Government
Contracts Committee. The main lesson learnt from the experience is that project design must pay more
attention to pre-construction activities and the constraints that could be encountered.
25.    Delays during construction were caused by a number of interrelated factors including, in order of
significance: poor performance of contractors; inadequate and untimely budgetary support; inadequate



35
management and supervision both from the Consulting Architects and the implementing agencies; World
Bank's procurement policy; labour problems on sites; social problems(some sites were located in volatile
areas); poor soil testing; and inclement weather.
26.    The poor performance of contractors was the result of many interrelated factors. The inability of
contractors to finance materials and works was aggravated by the Bank's policy to award contracts to
lowest tender. This contributed to a situation wherein contractors with limited carrying capacity were
awarded contracts. A prime example in this regard was the contracts for the National Chest and Spanish
Town hosng Architects (especially under the Education component) and the implementing agencies also
contributed to the poor performance of contractors. The ability of the Ministry to enforce legal measures to
improve performance was compromised by the fact that the Ministry itself had defaulted on contractual
agreements to provide adequate and timely payment to contractors.
27.   Inadequate and untimely budgetary support had a significant adverse effect on the execution of civil
works. The situation, however, cannot be divorced from wider macro-economic constraints. Additionally,
the legal requirement that all expenditures must pass through the Consolidated Fund had a constraining
impact on project financing The Government and external lending and donor agencies are quite aware of
this issue and efforts are underway to have it addressed.
28.    Poor soil testing was evidenced in two instances - the Montego Bay and the Brown's Town regional
offices and is attributable to the unsatisfactory performance of the Consulting Architect.
29.   In spite of the abovementioned factors, highly satisfactory performance was obtained under the
contract to construct the Registrar General's Department. The ability of the contractor to continue
operations in spite of inadequate and untimely payments contributed significantly to the success. Also,
though the site was located in a potentially volatile area, the political support given to the construction of
the facility contributed to the efficient completion of the contract.
30.    Given the experience under the civil works component, what are some of the key lessons learnt in
this regard? The main ones are:
31.    A high level of assessment of the institutional factors that are likely to impact negatively on
project implementation must be conducted and adequate mitigating measures put in place before or
during project implementation or the design of the project should accommodate these constraints.
32.   It is important to have a database on contractors which would document their performance
thereby facilitating a more effective contract awarding process.
33.   The management of civil works by an external management/consulting firm is not necessarily
the solution to efficient and effective management of civil works programmes. Implementation of
these programmes by a qualified technical unit within the implementing agency, which has a direct
interest in timely implementation, can improve efficiency and reduce time and cost over-runs. What
obtains presently is that cost and time over-runs serve the interest of the external management firm.
Project funds should be given to strengthen the technical capacity of the implementing agencies from
project preparation to commissioning of facilities.
34.    Post-qualification should be introduced to ensure that contractors are not overstretched in
terms of their financial and human resources.



36
BANK'S AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Bank
35.    The performance of the World Bank in assisting the Government during the implementation of the
project was satisfactory in most areas but deficient in others. The establishment of the Resident Mission in
1994 greatly improved its performance. The Bank was generally supportive and exercised a fair degree of
flexibility in its supervision of the implementation of the project. Through its periodic supervision missions,
monitoring of quarterly reports and participation in HRDP annual reviews up to 1993, the Bank played a
significant role in the satisfactory implementation of the project.
36.   Under the HRDP Secretariat component, one of the strongest areas of cooperation between the
Bank and the Secretariat relates to the transfer of knowledge in the development of the impact monitoring
tool, the Survey of Living Conditions. Bank staff were frequently on hand to give assistance and guidance
in the adaption of the Living Standard Measurement Study and the implementation of the SLC.
37.   The Bank's input in the design of the financial management system and its training of local staff in
disbursement and procurement guidelines contributed significantly to the success achieved under these
areas.
Borrower
38.   The performnance of the Borrower must be evaluated within two main contexts, namely:
*  the presence of institutional structures which, although impacting negatively on project
implementation, can only be addressed through wider institutional reforms over the medium term;
*  the dynamic and uncertain environment in which a developing country undergoing structural
transformation operates.
e  the inadequate technical capacity of implementing agencies related to uncompetitive remuneration in
the public sector. This could only be addressed through a reform of the sector, an intervention which is
presently underway.
39.   Untimely and inadequate budgetary support, which compromised implementing agencies' ability to
improve contractors' performance, was linked to the wider macro-economic conditions. The project was
implemented at the height of the structural adjustment process when resource flows to the Government were
unpredictable and it faced the daunting task of allocating its limited resources to programmes and projects
that were all deemed "priority" by the respective implementing agencies.
40.   In the contexts articulated above, the performance of the Borrower was quite satisfactory.
41.   The implementing agencies committed themselves to the project, giving as much as they could.
The success experienced under the areas over which the agencies had significant control is evidence of this
commitment. The commitment of the Borrower to resolving the wider institutional constraints is evidenced
in the Public Sector Modernization Project and other sector-specific reforms being implemented.
Planning Institute of Jamaica
1997, June



37
Attachment LI
List of Persons Met
Ministry of Health                 Mr. George Briggs, Permanent Secretary
Mr. Whiliston Taylor, Director of Projects
Ms. Anna Marie Thompson, Project Manager
Ministry of Education              Mrs. Marguerite Bowie, Permanent Secretary
Youth and Culture                  Mrs. Beverley Lawrence, Director of Projects
Ms. Bernice Fearon, Project Manager
Mr. Laurie Wilson, Director of Technical Services
Planning Institute of Jamaica      Mr. Orville Simmonds, World Bank Desk Officer
Mrs. Dorothy Gordon, Financial Manager
Ministry of Finance                Mr. Raymond Brooks, Deputy Financial Secretary
Barbara Diallo
L:\WORD\DOC\SGAICR.DOC
May 27, 1997 12:50 PM















IMAGING
Report No.:          16726
Type:     ICR



