Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3111 JM
               (Social Sectors Development Project)
                              between
                              JAMAICA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 8, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3111 JM
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August  8,   1989,  between  JAMAICA  (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Bank  has  received  a  letter dated May 11,
1989, from the Borrower  describing  a  program of actions, objec-
tives and policies  designed  to  improve the efficiency, delivery
and management of social services in the Borrower's territory and,
in particular, of  health  and  education  (hereinafter called the
Human  Resources  Development  Program   or  HRDP)  declaring  the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the HRDP, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of such program; and
     WHEREAS (B) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to  in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (b)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the  Bank  to  the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated August  19,  1988, September 9, 1988 and
September 28, 1988 between the Borrower and the Bank;
    (c)  "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
    (d)  "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
    (e)  "Regional Education Offices" means  the offices of MOE in
Montego Bay, Mandeville, Browns  Town,  Port Antonio, Spanish Town
and Kingston;
    (f)  "HRDP  Secretariat"  means  the  secretariat  established
within the Borrower's Planning  Institute  of Jamaica for purposes
of implementing the HRDP Program; and
    (g)  "Central Bank" means the Borrower's Bank of Jamaica.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to  lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent to the amount  of thirty million dollars ($30,000,000),
being the sum of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal  valued  by  the  Bank  as  of  the  date  of such
withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made  (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a  special  account in the Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to  the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)  Promptly after the  Effective  Date,  the  Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required  to  repay  the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn  and  outstanding as of such
Page  3
date and  to  pay  all  unpaid  charges  thereon.  The unwithdrawn
balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the  Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall  pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
cipal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding from time to
time at a rate per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
    (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the  end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
    (c)  For purposes of this Section:
       (i)    "Interest Period"  means  the  six-month period com-
              mencing on each  date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
              this Agreement,  including  the  Interest  Period in
              which this Agreement is signed.
      (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
              outstanding borrowings of the  Bank drawn down after
              June 30, 1982, expressed  as a percentage per annum,
              as reasonably determined by the Bank.
     (iii)    "Semester" means the first  six months or the second
              six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
health,  education,   nutrition,   administrative,  financial  and
engineering practices, and shall  provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:  (i) carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement; and (ii) appoint  and maintain key staff in the
HRDP Secretariat and the  project  implementation units within MOH
and MOE with  qualifications  and  experience  satisfactory to the
Bank.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either  party, and at least once a year
not later than  March  1  each  year,  exchange  views on: (i) the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the HRDP and the Project;
Page  4
and  (ii)  the  proposed  HRDP  and  Project  implementation plan,
including the financing thereof, for the following year.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and comment: (i) a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the HRDP and the Project, in
such detail as the Bank  shall  reasonably request and prepared on
the basis of criteria satisfactory to  the Bank; and (ii) a report
on the proposed  HRDP  and  Project implementation plan, including
the financing thereof, for the following year.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section and that the  report of such audit con-
              tains a  separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
Page  5
              during such fiscal  year,  together  with the proce-
              dures  and  internal   controls  involved  in  their
              preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
              related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a substantial change shall have  been made by the Borrower in
the HRDP which materially and adversely affects the implementation
of the HRDP.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that the Borrower  shall  have  appointed key staff for the
HRDP Secretariat and for  the  project implementation units in MOH
and MOE, with  qualifications  and  experience satisfactory to the
Bank.
     Section 6.02. The date  November  8, 1989 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01.  The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          30 National Heroes Circle
          Kingston
          Jamaica
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              Ministry of Finance               2447 MINFAN
              Kingston
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  6
                          JAMAICA
                          By /s/ Keith Johnson
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                          By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                         (Expressed in           Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Health Sector
     (a)  Works                  1,900,000      30%
     (b)  Goods                 12,800,000      100% of foreign
          and phar-                             expenditures,
          maceuticals                           100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
     (c)  Furniture                100,000      20%
     (d)  Consultants'             500,000      100%
          services and
          training
     (e)  Incremental              200,000      20%
          Salaries of the
          HRDP staff
          for Health
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category           Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(2)  Education Sector
Page  7
     (a)  Works                  3,500,000      30%
     (b)  Goods                  1,400,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
     (c)  Consultants'           1,900,000      100%
          services and
          training
     (d)  Incremental              100,000      20%
          Salaries of the
          HRDP staff
          for Educa-
          tion
     (e)  Printing and           1,800,000      20%
          distribution
          of textbooks,
          and furniture
(3)  HRDP Administration and Monitoring
     (a)  Goods and                100,000      100% of foreign
          furniture                             expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category           Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
     (b)  Consultants'             300,000      100%
          services and
          training
     (c)  Incremental              200,000      20%
          Salaries of the
          HRDP staff
          for the
          Secretariat
(4)  Refunding of                  510,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(5)  Unallocated                 4,690,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 30,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
Page  8
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Incremental Salaries  of  the  HRDP  staff  for Health"
means the salaries of staff to be employed by, or assigned to, the
project implementation unit  referred  to  in  Part  4  (a) of the
Project to carry out responsibilities  in the health components of
the HRDP and not otherwise financed by other donors;
     (d)  "Incremental Salaries of  the  HRDP staff for Education"
means the salaries of  staff  in  the Regional Offices employed or
assigned after April 1, 1990  for  purposes of the HRDP Program to
carry out  responsibilities  in  the  education  component of such
program; and
     (e)  "Incremental  Salaries  of   the   HRDP  staff  for  the
Secretariat" means the salaries of  staff employed by, or assigned
to,  the  HRDP  Secretariat  after  June  1,  1989  to  carry  out
responsibilities  in  the  HRDP   Secretariat  and  not  otherwise
financed by other donors.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000,  may be made on account of
payments  made  for  expenditures   before  that  date  but  after
August 1, 1988; and
     (b)  payments made in  respect  of  expenditures  made by the
Borrower under  Categories  (1),  (2)  or  (3)  or any subcategory
thereof in the event that  the  Bank  shall have notified the Bor-
rower, based on the reviews  referred  to  in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement that it is not satisfied with: (i) the implementation of
the Project  during  the  preceding  year,  or  (ii)  the proposed
Project implementation plan,  including  the financing thereof for
the following year;  provided,  however,  that,  in such event the
Bank may reallocate  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan allocated to any
Category or Subcategory  to  another  Category  or Subcategory, or
cancel such portion of the Loan.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to improve the efficiency,
delivery and  management  of  social  services  in  the Borrower's
territory and in particular of health and education.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Health Sector
1.   Primary Health Care Development
     Construction, furniture and  equipment  for  about 12 primary
health care centers, including  nurses  quarters in about eight of
them, and dental clinic equipment in about eight of them.
2.   Medical Equipment
     Acquisition and utilization of  medical, surgical, dental and
medical support equipment for  hospitals, including laboratory and
pharmacy equipment.
3.   Pharmaceutical Supplies
Page  9
     Acquisition   and   utilization    of   pharmaceuticals   for
preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care delivery.
4.   Institutional Strengthening
     (a)  Establishment and staffing  of  a  health sector project
implementation unit in MOH.
     (b)  Training  of   selected   health   personnel   in  their
respective fields.
     (c)  Provision  of  management,  computing  and  epidemiology
consultants' services to MOH.
     (d)  Construction and equipment of  about 180 living quarters
for health personnel.
5.   Upgrading of MOH's Registrar General Department
     Construction of office  buildings  and  provision of computer
hardware and software and training related thereto.
Part B:   Education Sector
1.   Upgrading of Basic Education Schools
     (a)  Refurbishing of about 390 basic schools.
     (b)  Provision of teaching materials, furniture and equipment
and other software for training basic schools teachers.
     (c)  Provision  of  about  125  scholarships  for pre-primary
school  teachers,  and   teacher   trainers,  in  early  childhood
education.
     (d)  Supervision  and  monitoring  of  the  Borrower's  basic
school program.
2.   Upgrading of Primary and All-age Schools
     Upgrading of about 20 primary and all-age schools.
3.   Provision of Textbooks for Primary Schools
     Development, production and  distribution  of English, mathe-
matics, science and  social  studies  textbooks  for about 350,000
primary school children.
4.   Institutional Strengthening
     (a)  Construction of  five,  and  equipping  of six, Regional
Education Offices, including provision  of vehicles and communica-
tions equipment thereof.
     (b)  Training of staff in  the  Regional Education Offices in
educational management and computer use.
     (c)  Training  of  about  2,000  primary  and  all-age school
teachers, about 20 MOE staff, about 200 secondary teachers as well
as strengthening  MOE  expertise  in  carrying  out the Borrower's
education decentralization process.
     (d)  Carrying out of a  pilot  program of school awards based
on performance.
     (e)  Establishment  and  staffing   of  an  education  sector
project implementation unit at MOE.
     (f)  Provision   of   consultants'   services   for   MOE  in
educational  management,  testing   and   measurement  of  student
achievement and management information systems.
Page  10
Part C:   HRDP Management and Administration
     (a)  Strengthening of the HRDP Secretariat.
     (b)  Monitoring  of  standard  of  living  conditions  in the
Borrower's territory including semi-annual surveys thereof.
                             *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
     beginning January 15, 1995
     through July 15, 2006                     1,250,000
______________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums and Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                        The  interest   rate  (ex-
                                        pressed  as  a  percentage
                                        per  annum)  applicable to
                                        the  Loan  on  the  day of
                                        prepayment, multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
Page  11
     Except as provided in  Part  C hereof, goods (including phar-
maceuticals) shall be procured  under contracts awarded in accord-
ance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods  manufactured in Jamaica may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Local competitive bidding:
     (a)  Works, building materials,  printing and distribution of
textbooks, and furniture shall be procured under contracts awarded
on  the  basis  of  competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  Goods estimated  to  cost  less  than  the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,200,000 may  be  procured under contracts awarded
on  the  basis  of  competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Shopping
     Building materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $20,000 per contract, up  to  an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $2,000,000;  goods  estimated  to cost less than
the equivalent of $20,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $200,000;  and pharmaceuticals estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $20,000  per contract, up to an aggre-
gate amount not to exceed  the  equivalent of $600,000 may be pro-
cured under contracts awarded on  the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited  from  a  list  of  at  least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
Page  12
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall  employ  or  cause  to  be employed consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by The World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
         Action                                Date   (by)
1.   Maintain, during the Project
     implementation period, insti-
     tutional structures and
     procedures, satisfactory
     to the Bank, for the plan-
     ning, management, coordi-
     nation of execution,
     monitoring and progress
     reporting of the HRDP and
     the Project
2.   Prepare, and furnish to the Bank,
     the HRDP components proposed
     to be carried out the fol-
     lowing year, including those              March 1
     for the Project                           each year
3.   Supervise the HRDP and the
     Project at all times, following
     criteria satisfactory to the
     Bank
4.   Furnish to the Bank for its
     approval, the proposed detailed
     location, site status and
     cost estimates for the
     health centers to be in-
     cluded in the following                   March 1
     year                                      each year
5.   Appoint an agency or agencies
     to supervise the upgrading
     of schools included in
     Part B.1 of the Project                   December 31, 1989
6.   Employ an engineering
     firm or firms to supervise
     the works to be carried out
     under Parts A.1 and B.2 of
     the Project                               December 31, 1989
     Action                                    Date   (by)
7.   Make arrangements satis-
     factory to the Bank with the              by March 1 each
     communities where the basic               year as may
     schools to be upgraded under              apply to the com-
     Part B of the Project are located         munities where
     in order to secure their support          the basic schools
Page  13
     in the upgrading effort                   will be upgraded
                                               the following year
8.   Furnish to the Bank for its
     approval the proposed detailed
     location, site status and cost
     estimates for primary and all-
     age schools to be included under
     Part B.2 of the Project the               March 1
     following year                            each year
9.   Commence implementation of
     a plan, satisfactory to the
     Bank, for staffing the
     Regional Education Offices
     referred to in Part B.4 (b)
     of the Project                            March 31, 1990
10.  Furnish to the Bank for
     its approval the train-
     ing program proposed to be
     carried out under Part B.4                March 1
     (b) and (c) of the Project                each year
     during the following years
11.  Commence to apply criteria
     satisfactory to the Bank for
     distribution of school awards             June 30, 1992
12.  Follow, during the Project
     implementation period,
     criteria satisfactory to
     the Bank in the alloca-
     tion of school supplies
     Action                                    Date   (by)
13.  Furnish to the Bank for its
     approval the Project
     implementation program
     proposed to be carried out
     during the following year
     and the corresponding esti-
     mates of withdrawals of
     Loan proceeds, such estimates
     to be made in a manner
     that no more than 30% of the
     proceeds of the Loan are dis-
     bursed per year of Project                March 1
     implementation                            each year
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) as set forth in the  table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $1,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
Page  14
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  made  out  of  the Special
               Account  for   eligible   expenditures.   All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan Account under  the respective eligible Catego-
               ries, and in the  respective equivalent amounts, as
               shall have  been  justified  by  said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Alloca-
tion. Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the remain-
ing unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  15
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
