ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                           AWorld F,ce oe Poverty  e
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/03/2002                                24264
Section I - Basic Information                                       June 3, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CHINA                                  Project ID: P070441
Project: Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project  Task Team Leader: Michel Bellier
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 11, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m): 250.00
Bank Approval: October 8, 2002                  IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: EASTR                            Sector: TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: TRANSPORT
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project aims to provide a more effective, safe and efficiently managed transport infrastructure
supporting social and economic: development and trade in Hubei province and improving transport links
to western lagging regions.
To meet those development objectives, the project will produce the following outputs:
* Increased transport capacity and relieved traffic congestion in the Xiaogan - Xiangfan corridor,
and reinforced regional integration of the lower developed westem areas of Hubei province with
the construction of Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway, a section of the Yinchuan (Ningxia) -
Wuhan itinerary aiming to unlock western provinces;
*   Improved accessibility in low income areas in Hubei province through a program of
rehabilitation and upgrading of local roads in poor counties; and
*   Improved efficiency and sustainability of road management and better road safety conditions
through the provision cf training technical assistance and equipment to Hubei Provincial
Communication Department (HPCD) and related provincial road agencies.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project is comprised of three components to address the above mentioned sector issues. All
components will be implemented by the Hubei Provincial Communication Department.
*   Increased Highway Capacity and Regional Integration
The main capital investment component of the project is the 243.5 km long Xiaogan - Xiangfan
Expressway (XXE). The new infrastructure will provide more efficient, safe and effective



2
ISDS
highway infrastructure in a corridor servicing about a quarter of Hubei province including the
developing auto industry belt. XXE will: (i) directly serve about 6.8 million inhabitants and link
several major industrial and hub cities: Wuhan (Provincial capital), Yunmeng (250,000 pop),
Anlu (40,000 pop), Suizhou (340,000 pop), Zaoyang (210,000 pop), and Xiangfan (789,000 pop),
and (ii) reach the less developed western and mountainous part of Hubei where most poor
counties are located. Thus, it will help stimulate social and economic development and decrease
disparities in the province.
XXE is a stand-alone expressway section and the achivement of this component objectives is not
dependent upon other road investments. In addition, XXE will complete the provincial
expressway triangle which is an integral part of the Hubei road network. At its eastern end, it
connects with NH3, a Bank-financed section of the arterial Beijing - Zhuhai expressway corridor
that opened to traffic in December 2001; at its western end, XXE will connect wvith on the one
hand the existing North-South NR207 and the parallel Xiangfan - Jinzhou Expressway, and at the
same time the existing NR316 and the parallel Xiangfan - Shiyan expressway that run towards
the North-East of Hubei and Shaanxi province. Both expressways are under construction by
Hubei province and planned to open to traffic in 2004, before the completion of XXE.
XXE will be a 2x2 lanes expressway connecting with 14 interchanges. In addition 3 class 2
connecting highways (31 km) will link up important urban poles. Expressway operations will be
supported by management centers, four service and rest areas and necessary traffic management
and O&M equipment.
* Improved Accessibility in Poor Counties (RRIP)
The project includes a Rural Road Improvement Program in Poor Counties (RRIP) to improve
road access in low income areas. Various subprojects under this component will rehabilitate and
upgrade existing roads lo Class 4, 3 or 2 levels. The road selection criteria include county level
income, expected impacts on population served, consistency with the provincial priorities and
economic rate of return. The intent of this component is to ensure all weather road access to
townships and provincial highway system, thereby improving access to product markets, and
social services and facilities.
The first phase of the RRIP has been defined. It consists of three projects covering 259 km
(US$34.8 million), all located in nationally classified poor mountainous Western counties (Ensh'i
county in Ensh'i Autonomous Region, Zhuxi and Zushani counties in Shiyan prefecture). The
second phase will bring the component size to about US$60 million; additional road sections will
identified during the project implementation on the basis of the above mentioned (social and
poverty) criteria and in full compliance with all safeguard policies.
i Institutional Development and Road Sector Management
This component will strengthen the capacity of the highway sector in the province and the
sustainability of highway management in the following areas:
*   Building Sector Institutions and Transition to Market Role. HPCD has to acquire new skills
and practices through a multiyear institutional development plan promoted under NH3 and
NH4. The project will build on the past achievements and further the transition of HPCD to
the needs of a market economy through a training program for government entities on
highway planning, design, supervision, management and operation and on road safety. It will
also assist in the dissemination of skills across the road sector with the strengthening of the



3
ISDS
provincial Highway Training Center.
*   Sustainabilitv of Road Management. Under the previous projects HPCD recognized the need
to address maintenance management and established a road information syslem, a
maintenance planning and programming process and evaluated the merits of introducing a
competitive maintenance contracting practice. These tools will be critical for maintenance
needs assessment and budget allocation, particularly after the introduction of the fuel tax in
China. The new pro ject will support the application of road maintenance systems and
introduce the maintenance by contract practice in the sector. Assistance will focus on
developing road maintenance procurement through alternative contractual schemes -
including performance based approaches. In addition an approach to tackling vehicle
overloading will be developed and tested on a pilot basis. Options for the consolidation of
commercialized toll roads will also be examined.
* Road Traffic Safety. The road traffic safety remains a serious concern in Hubei province. The
previous projects (NH3 and NH4) have raised H-PCD's awareness about roadl safety issues
and created a Road Safety Unit, developed safety guidelines for the design, construction and
operation of roads. The project will institutionalize the above tested methods, scale up black
spot treatment practice across the province, and assist HPCD in strengthening cooperation
among other entities under the Provincial Safety Council.
*   Provision of equipment. HPCD will acquire equipment to monitor project construction
quality along XXE, compliance with safeguard requirements during construction, and to
ensure satisfactory iraffic operations.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project area is located in the north, semi-tropical region with a continental monsoon climate. The
average annual temperature ranges from 15-16C, and precipitation, frost-free days and sunlight range
from 845-1200 mm, 220-250 days and 1940-2100 hours respectively. The terrain slopes from northwest
to southeast crossing plains, hills and undulate ridges with elevations from 50 to 165 m.
A major part of the preparation of the design of the XXE was devoted to the selection of an
environmentally benign alignment. Three major and six sub alignments were evaluated taking into
consideration environment, cultural, social and resettlement issues and technical, economic and political
considerations. The selected alignmnent avoids the Anlu ancient ginkgo trees by 6 km and the
Baizhaoshan Natural Forest (a theme park in honor of poets) by about 1.2 km, impacts only two low
level, local, cultural heritage sites, and avoids a number of villages and minimizes the usage of farm
lands.
B. Chleck Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments.
The project is a "green field" project requiring land for the construction of a major Expressway. As such, it
is classified as a Category A project.



4
ISDS
C Safeguard Policies TriggeredI
PDIiCy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes C No       TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       3 Yes * No       TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                  Yes * No    .A TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                   Yes * No       TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   *Yes C No      . TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          Yes *No     . TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                * Yes     No  . TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                   Yes    No     TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories l(OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          C Yes * No     ' TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         3 Yes * No      . TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obiain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environment
A major part of the preparation of the design of the XXE was devoted to the selection of an
environmentally benign alignment. Three major and six sub alignments were evaluated taking into
consideration environment, cultural, social and resettlement issues and technical, economic and political
considerations. The selected alignmnent avoids the Anlu ancient ginkgo trees by 6 km and the
Baizhaoshan Natural Forest (a theme park in honor of poets) by about 1.2 km, impacts only two low
level, local, cultural heritage sites, and avoids a number of villages and minimizes the usage of farm
lands. The major environmental impacts during the construction of the proposed XXE and other roads
include increases in noise, soil erosion, and the generation of dust. Lesser impacts include the alteration
of hydrological regimes; interference with local people and traffic; and impacts on local ecology and
irrigation systems. The impact of haul traffic of construction materials (noise, dust, congestion, traffic
safety, etc.) using existing roads and access roads is of potential concern. Safe disposal of excess
excavated material from cuts will also require close attention during construction. Traffic noise, air
pollution from vehicle exhaust e mission, soil erosion, pollution from service areas and impacts from
induced development are identi-fied as potential adverse impacts during the operation period. Except for
the loss of land for the construction of the highways and loss of cultural relics in their natural burial
places, none of the impacts are considered irreversible.
Resettlement and Social
The major social impacts of the project stem from land acquisition and residential demolition associated
with XXE construction. A resea:tlement action plan (RAP) has been prepared to mitigate these impacts.
It is based on an inventory of affected assets, census of the affected people, social assessment and
consultations with local government agencies and potentially affected people.



5
ISDS
On XXE, land acquisition will affect 178 villages in 32 townships of seven counties. The project will
acquire 25,805 mu (or 1,720 hectares) of collective land, including 19,471 mu ( or 1298 hectares) of
cultivated land and 6,335 mu (or 422 hectares) of non-cultivated land. Expressway construction also will
require temporary use of an additional 10,000 mu (667 hectares). In all, land acquisition will affect
17,800 people (4,096 households). Residential demolition will require relocation of 6,942 people (1,592
households). The project also will affect some public facilities, such as power and comrnunication lines,
wells and irrigation canals.
The RAP prepared by the project office provides details regarding resettlement policy principles and
regulations to be followed, compensation rates and budget, measures to restore incomes where necessary,
and institutional and monitoring arrangements. In general, it follows a land-for-land approach to assist
farmers in restoring productivity and incomes.
The separate rural road rehabililation component is expected to be implemented within existing
right-of-way, and so is not expected to cause any land acquisition or house demolition. A resettlement
policy framework nonetheless has been prepared in case design changes during implementation make
land acquisition necessary.
Some of the rural road improvements will occur within the Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous
Prefecture. Because a significant proportion of the population residing within this area are members of
officially designated minority nationalities, a social assessment was conducted to determine whcther any
such groups may be vulnerable to particular hardship. The social assessment found that the people
within the project area are highly acculturated and economically integrated, and do not exhibit the
characteristics used in OD 4.20 to describe "indigenous peoples." The social assessment has concluded
that: (a) there are no significant differences between Han, Tujia and Miao minority people in Enshi
Prefecture region in terms of social, economic and political life as well as beliefs and customs; (2) they
would suffer no ethnic-specific differential impacts from the Han PAPs. Based on these findings, it was
determined that no separate development plan for minority nationalities is necessary.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Only three Safeguard policies - OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OPN 11.03 (Cultural Property) and
OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) have been ivoked in preparing the project. No cumulative impact is
expected from the application of the policies. The highway is a linear development and the other
components e.g. rural roads, are away from the main Expressway and are unlikely to influence it.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The present level of road network in the area is congested and the opening up of the new expressway is
expected to relieve congestion on the local and Provincial roads. The communication in the area is
expected to improve and as a result, new development and more through traffic will increase pressure on
farmlands. The increased traffic is expected to result in potential increase in air pollution in the vicinity
of the Expressway.
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
None required.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues



6
ISDS
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Environment
Two rounds of public consultation were carried out during the EA: the first round at the preparation stage
of EA terms of reference (TOR) between August to September 2000 and the second round during
preparation of the draft EA reports between March to May 2001. Various techniques were used in public
consultation, including public opinion surveys through questionnaires, public meetings at villages and
with local people's representati/es, and interviews with affected groups and individuals. The people
consulted included mainly those who will be affected directly by the project. Relevant government and
nongovernment organizations and experts on various environmental and socio economic issues were also
consulted.
In total, 3990 copies of a public opinion questionnaire were distributed and 3923 were returned. Most
people surveyed were well aware of the Project (69.2%) or had some knowledge of it (28.9%). The vast
majority of the people (95.5%) felt that the expressway, as well as the connecting roads and rural roads,
were necessary and wished to see the construction start as soon as possible. Of the environmental issues,
77% of surveyed people cited noise and 49.2% cited dust during construction as major issues. Most of
the affected people (87.6%) wanted landscaping and tree planting as a measure to mitigate adverse
impacts of the project.
In total, 116 villages, nine schools, one hospital, seven local government agencies and seven related
groups were visited in both rounds of the public consultation. These visits involved 22 public meetings
and 11 7 group interviews. The agencies and groups consulted include local EPBs, conservation water
supply and irrigation, agricultural, forestry, transportation, people's congress and people's political
consultative groups. The public concerns included appropriate compensation for land acquisition and
resettlement and relocation, disturbance to irrigation systems, noise and student safety at the schiools,
community severance, and links and access to the expressway. Similar concerns were also raised for the
connecting roads and rural roads components.
Resettlement and Social Impaci.s
Information dissemination: All the affected households and villages have been identified through the
census survey. Relevant project information has been provided to the affected villages and local
governments through newspaper reports, posters and public meetings. A resettlement information
booklet providing details regarding compensation rates, other entitlement policies and grievance
procedures will be distributed to the affected people prior the resettlement implementation.
Participation strategy: Focus group discussions and key information interviews have been used to
consult with potentially affected persons. The primary focus of consultations has been on obtaining
views and preferences regarding resettlement impacts and mitigation measures, including rehabilitation
measures. These views and preferences have been taken into account during RAP revision, and the
majority of potentially affected persons agree that the resettlement and rehabilitation measures planned
under the RAP would be adequate to address and mitigate any adverse impacts.
The affected communities are to play a key role in determining and implementing their livelihood
restoration programs. After land compensation amounts are calculated, for example, each village
committee will determine how land compensation can best be used to improve, or at least restore, local
income-earning potential. Any approach in using the land compensation must be consulted by villagers
and later on, local banks are to disburse land compensation according to villagers' decision.
HPCD will set up procedures to supervise land compensation use, and local constructioni banks in each



7
ISDS
county will participate in resett!lement fund monitoring. Both internal and independent monitoring of the
resettlement program would be conducted regularly during project implementation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                11/30/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          12/30/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop                            4/26/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  4/26/2002
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                11/30/2001    11/30/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          11/30/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop                            4/26/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.



8
ISDS
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Michel Bellier                                04/12/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Anil H. Somani/Person/World Bank         05/29/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Zhefu Liu/Person/World Bank              05/15/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:  Chaohua Zhang/Person/World Bank          04/24/02
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Glenn S. Morgan                            05/29/02
Sector Manager/Director:       Jitendra N. Bajpai                           04/23/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH                         i uFEEHACK  S MAi  SHOW5E.CASE



