Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23909-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CH1NA
FOR
HUBEI XIAOGAN-XIANGFAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
August 19, 2002
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2002)
Currency Unit = RMB
RMB 1.00 = US$0.12
US$1.00 = RMB 8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAS       Accident Analysis System                   NTHS      National Trunk Highway System
BMS       Bridge Management System                   OED       Operations Evaluation Depatnent
BOT       Build-Operate-Transfer                     PAP       Project Affected Persons
CAS       Country Assistance Stragety                PCD       Provincial Communication Department
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment  PIP     Project Implementation Plan
CNAO      China National Audit Office                PLG       Project Leading Group
EA        Environmental Assessment                   PMO       Project Management Office
EIA       Environmental Impact Assesment             PMR       Project Management Report
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Retun            PPCA      Project Procurement Capacity Assessment
EMP       Environmental Management Plan              PRA       Participation Rural Assessment
ES        Executive Summary                          PRC       People's Republic of China
FIRR      Financial Internal Rate of Return          QCBS      Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
FYP       Five Year Plan                             RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
GPN       General Procurement Notice                 RRIP      Rural Road Improvement Program
GOC       Government of China                        RTC       Road Training Center
HHAB      Hubei Highway Administration Bureau        SA        Social Assessment
HPAB      Hubei Provincial Audit Bureau              SA        Special Account
HPCD      Hubei Provincial Communications Department  SDPC     State Development and Planning Commission
HPFB      Hubei Provincial Finance Bureau            SOE       State-Owned Enterprise
ICB       International Competitive Bidding          SPN       Specific Procurement Notice
MBD       Model Bidding Document                     TOR       Terms of Reference
MOC       Ministry of Communications                 VOC       Vehicle Operating Cost
MOF       Ministry of Finance                        WBFO      World Bank Financed Project Office
NCB       National Competitive Bidding               XXE       Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway
NH3       Third National Highway Project             XXEC      Hubei Provincial Xiao Xiang Expressway
NH4       Fourth National Highway Project                      Company Limited
NMDP      National Minority Development Plan         XXEH      Hubei Provincial Xiao Xiang Expressway
NPV       Net Present Value                                    Construction Headquarters
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassurn, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:     Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:    Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Michel Bellier, EASTR



CHINA
HUBEI XIAOGAN-XIANGFAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    11
3. Benefits and target population                                                   12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         19
2. Financial                                                                        20
3. Technical                                                                        20
4. Institutional                                                                    21
5. Environmental                                                                    22
6. Social                                                                           25
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               27



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    27
2. Critical risks                                                                    28
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    29
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           29
2. Other                                                                             29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        32
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Surnmary                                                        33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        52
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  53
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              65
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      76
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    85
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  86
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 87
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           91
Annex 11: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary                              93
Annex 12: Resettlement Action Plan Summary                                             103
Annex 13: Financial Management Assessment                                               109
Annex 14: Summary of Social Assessment of Rural Roads                                   117
MAP(S)
IBRD 31822
MBRD 31823



CHINA
Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASTR
Date: August 19, 2002                            Team Leader: Michel Bellier
Sector Manager/Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai      Sector(s): Sub-national government admninistration (20%),
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang            Roads & highways (80%)
Project ID: P070441                              Theme(s): Other public sector governance (P), Regional
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan (SIL)  integration (P), Rural services and infrastructure (P)
Project'Financing. Data
[X] Loan     1 Credit    [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): $250
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 1 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Currency Loan (VSL)
Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                    440.88           0.00       440.88
1BRD                                                          0.00         250.00       250.00
Total:                                                      440.88         250.00       690.88
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: HUBEI PROVINCIAL COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (HPCD)
Address: No. 428, JianShe Ave. Hankou, Wuhan, Hubei, 430030 China
Contact Person: ir. Ren Binian, Director
Tel: (027) 8383-2933          Fax: (027) 8386-9260          Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYf/US$m):
;  FY         2003       2004      2005      2006       2007
Annual     38.00     52.00 l   60.00      80.00     20.00
Cumulative    38.00     90.00 |   150.00    230.00    250.00
ProJect implementation period: July 2002 to June 20 07
. Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
os PAF- R. M.1,2U=



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project aims to provide a more effective, safe and efficiently
managed transport infrastructure to sustain and support socio-economic development, trade, and regional
integration in Hubei province and improve transport links to lagging western region.
The project, when completed, will offer the following socio-economic benefits to Hubei province and
other areas influenced by the project:
*   increased transportation capacity and the consequent decrease in traffic congestion in the
Xiaogan - Xiangfan corridor and regional and economic integration with the less developed
western areas of Hubei province through the construction of Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway;
*   improved accessibility in low  income areas in Hubei province through a program    of
rehabilitation and upgrading of rural roads in poor counties; and
*   improved management and maintenance of roads and better road safety conditions through the
provision of training, technical assistance and equipment to Hubei Provincial Communication
Department (HPCD) and related provincial road agencies.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The principal outputs and impact indicators selected for monitoring progress towards the above
development objectives are as follows:
Output                                         Indicators
Reduction of traffic congestion and travel time and  Average daily traffic and accident rate on new
lower accident rates in Xiaogan - Xiangfan corridor.  expressway and existing roads.
Improved accessibility in the low-income areas served  Average daily traffic on upgraded roads.
by the Rural Road Irnprovement Program in Poor  Number of days the roads are closed to traffic.
Counties.                                     Benefits to population in served areas (incorne,
enrollment in high schools).
Strengthened role of HPCD and its related agencies  Number of staff trained.
and improved efficiency of highway management.  Percentage of pavement maintenance works
procured by contract with independent
companies.
Test of performance-based maintenance of road
pavement.
Improved traffic safety.                      Number of treated black spots.
-2-



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16321-CHA dated 1997/02/25 and Progress Report (R-98-107 dated 05/06/98)
Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
A new CAS, under preparation, is to be presented to the Board in November 2002. The objectives of the
strategy proposed by the Bank are to:
*   improve the investment climate;
*   accelerate the transition to a market economy;
*   address the needs of disadvantaged groups and underdeveloped regions; and
*   facilitate a more sustainable development process.
Within the transportation sector, the key areas of this agenda to be supported by the Bank include:
*   financing economic infrastructure through projects in key traffic corridors, aimed at (i) the
development of western provinces, and (ii) the reduction of interregional and intraregional
disparities;
*   financing infrastructure to serve the poorer communities, thereby improving productivity in rural
areas; and
*   facilitating the development of institutions necessary to manage the infrastructure network in an
emerging market economy.
Accordingly, the sector specific goals supported by the Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway project are as
follows:
*   promoting economic growth, improving regional and market integration, and facilitating trade;
*   reducing poverty in low income western region and other remote areas of Hubei province by
improving their accessibility; and
*   strengthening provincial road institutions, supporting their transition toward market based road
activities and improving the efficiency of highway management, especially road maintenance,
traffic safety, and the environmental and social impacts of highway construction and operations.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Bank has carried out several transportation studies in the last five years: Strategy for the Transport
Sector (Forward with One Spirit, 1997/98), Operations Evaluation Department (OED) Report on China
Transport (1999), Review of Highway Technical Assistance (1999) and China Highway Strategy Review
(October 2001). These, together with high-level highway policy seminars, especially the workshop with
Chinese government on November 14, 2001, have identified four key issues for the road sector:
-3 -



(i) meeting investment needs to sustain economic development, trade and integration;
(ii) improving accessibility to remote/low income areas;
(iii) fostering sustainable road sector management; and
(iv) addressing road traffic safety issues.
(i) Meeting investment needs to sustain economic and social development, trade and integration
The macroeconomic growth and structural transformation of China's economy, now moving towards
light and agro-industry and increased inter-provincial trade, demand a more efficient transportation
network. In the past decade, China has embarked on major highway investment programs to expand
the existing road network and to remove transport bottlenecks that constrain socio-economic activity,
and cause regional disparities.
China's investment of US$13 billion in highways in 1997 more than doubled in 1998, 1999 and
2000. At the core of the program is the construction of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS),
a network of approximately 35,000 km of high-grade highways (10,000 km of which was completed
by 1999) connecting China's 100 major cities at an estimated cost of US$150 billion.
The percentage share of funds allocated by Ministry of Communication (MOC) to different grades of
projects in the transportation sector during the last three years has been: NTHS - 30%, other
high-grade highways - 30%, improvement of existing roads - 25%, and rural roads - 15%.
China's total highway network, at about 1.7 million km, is still relatively low in comparison with its
area and population. This has been partly responsible for the existing intraprovincial and
interprovincial economic disparities, which can be addressed and resolved by the construction of a
road network that links and connects the economically weak western areas with the rest of the
country. Accordingly, the balance of expenditure in the road sector has to be carefully considered in
the coming years, to ensure that funds are efficiently allocated not only to investments supporting
overall economic development and trade, but also to the specific needs of western provinces and their
integration in the provincial economy.
The financing of these transportation programs through traditional resources is inadequate to meet
their scope and demand. Historically, road expenditures have been funded through public resources,
often a combination of central government, local budgets, road user charges, and multi and bilateral
loans channeled through the public sector. The main road user charge is the road maintenance fee
(around RMB 30 billion a year); other charges, including the vehicle tax, contribute only half as
much. The road user charge generates less than 40 percent of its potential. The limitations of these
charges led the National Congress to replace them with a fuel tax in November 1999, which has not
been implemented so far.
During 1998 - 2000, almost 50 percent of road development was financed through domestic bank
loans to or guaranteed.by local government, and through proceeds of bonds issued by central
govemment and lent to local governments. This mode of financing is not sustainable in the long run
as it increases government debts and banks have to limit their exposure in any given single sector.
Several provinces have also raised private financing from investors through two models: Joint
Venture agreements that have mobilized RMB 75 billion (US$9 billion) equity through 80
-4 -



transactions in 14 provinces by end 2000, essentially from Hong Kong based private sources; and the
securitization of toll roads with share issues on stock exchanges and private placements amounting to
RMB 16 billion (US$2 billion). Although private financing is significant relative to other countries,
it has contributed less than 10% of China's total commitment to new road construction since the early
80s. It is limited by two constraints: the few road projects that can attract full private sector financing
are most likely to be in the Eastern/Coastal region on corridors where traffic levels are high, and the
need for further development of the legal and regulatory framework. The latter issue is addressed in a
report on "Private Participation in Infrastructure in China" prepared by the Bank Group at the request
of the State Development and Planning Commission (SDPC). It was also discussed during a
conference in Beijing attended by government and private sector representatives on November 15 -
16, 2001.
Given the financial constraints, there is an urgent need for the government to build a reliable and
stable financing scheme of road activities based on user fees. In addition, reforms are needed in
several areas of the overall environment for private participation to contribute more widely to
highway financing. This can be enabled by: (i) developing the domestic bond market and its opening
to corporate issuers, which would open additional long term funding sources to strengthened and
consolidated commercialized toll road entities; experience in developed countries shows that bond
instruments are also comparatively less expensive than equity and are the main financing source
taped by established utilities that operate infrastructures generating steady income; (ii) widening of
the range of public-private partnerships models; (iii) improved governance and effective competition
in the procurement of private investors; and (iv) more efficient risk allocation. Improvements in the
legal and regulatory framework and in procurement practices of private investment are needed to
address the above issues.
(ii) Improving accessibility to remote, low-income areas
The geography of China imposes complexities on the provision of basic road access particularly in
the inner low-income provinces. The highest incidence of poverty occurs in inland provinces and in
remote mountainous areas, as in western Hubei. Central and local governments have emphasized the
role and potential of transportation in the integration of national economy, and in its ability to
stimulate growth in remote areas. Improving the infrastructure lowers transport costs of goods and
services in addition to providing people with access to social services and economic opportunities.
Investment in county and township roads increased from RMB 1.7 billion in 1992 to over RIMB 17.6
billion (US$2 billion) in 1996. During the Ninth Five Year Plan, 188,000 km of local class III and
higher class roads were constructed and 5,000 villages made accessible. However, the task in China
is still huge and requires significant public resources. The Bank's highway projects in China aim to
address poverty issues arising from poor accessibility through targeted interventions in low-income
areas.
(iii) Sustainable road sector management
The sustainability of the highway sector greatly depends on how provincial and local highway
institutions address the growing challenges of their transition to a market-supporting role, especially
in areas of network expansion, standards and control of construction quality, and preserving road
assets.
- Transition to market role. Traditionally, the role of government within the transportation sector
was one of owner and provider of services for highway financing, construction and operation.
- 5 -



However, this role is now evolving towards one of policy maker, planner, and regulator. This
strategic readjustment is required to ensure efficient market based activities whose development
is at the core of government strategy. The management of the expressway network is being
reformed, with the commercialization and corporatization of newly built high-grade highways
generating stable toll-based revenue and their operation by independent but government owned
shareholding companies. However, this has led to the proliferation of highway corporations,
each managing a relatively short section of roads. Hence, the creation of a China model for
Provincial Toll Road Authority remains a challenge. More importantly, the government needs to
refocus on its new market support role and to encourage the development of independent
enterprises (including entities not owned by the state) that can provide cost-effective services for.
road construction and operation.
- Highway construction quality. Incidences of bridge and road failings or premature wear and
tear of highway pavements have raised awareness of quality related issues. The problem has both
technical and administrative roots. Contractors, mostly domestic, may be poorly managed, face
irregular payments and come under pressure to shorten the construction period. In some cases,
quality control suffers because of the lack of authority assigned to the supervision agency to
oversee contractors. There is a definite need to strictly apply quality standards and control their
enforcement in future Bank highway loans.
- Sustainabilitv of road maintenance. In most provinces, proper road maintenance is constrained
by insufficient funds. Funds allocated to the road sector have to be shared between road
maintenance and construction of new roads. The ongoing rise in vehicle-kilometers emphasizes
the need to focus on road maintenance. Accordingly, provincial Communication Departments not
only need to develop sustainable funding mechanisms, but also be encouraged to: (i) implement a
comprehensive road maintenance policy, (ii) refine their road information systems and
effectively use it for road maintenance, planning and operations, (iii) adjust their organizational
structures and training programs to maintenance challenges, and (iv) increase competitive and
market based procurement of maintenance services through contractual schemes drawing on
private sector capacity.
(iv) Improving Road Traffic Safety
Road traffic safety remains a major issue in China - the country has one of the world's highest road
accident rate, which is increasing at a faster pace than the volume of traffic. In 1999, 83,500 people
were killed and 286,000 injured in over 400,000 accidents. These numbers are higher than the 1998
figures. Estimates for 2000 indicate an even greater rise in the number of road fatalities, an increase
of almost 15% to 95,000.
Poor road safety results from several causes: low awareness and poor driving of road users, new and
inexperienced drivers, poor vehicle condition, inadequate road design and maintenance, insufficient
law enforcement and traffic surveillance, lack of rescue services, and ineffective Accident
Information System. Diffused institutional responsibilities in these areas make it difficult to address
the problem of road safety in a comprehensive manner.
Improvement of road safety requires coordinated actions on "Engineering, Education and
Enforcement", usually referred as "the 3 Es". Responsible government agencies should develop an
agenda on areas that fall within the realm of their responsibility. Hubei and several other provinces
have developed and implemented processes for road safety under Bank financed projects. MOC is
planning to make such processes mandatory for all project designs. Bank projects have been
- 6-



supported by other agencies, mainly provincial traffic police departments, on specific activities like
Accident Infornation Systems and Black Spot Treatment programs. However, provincial
Communication Department (PCDs) and other government agencies must strengthen their
coordination on road and traffic safety enforcement issues and extend it to include public awareness
and education.
Government Strategy
The transportation strategy of central and provincial govermments aims to ensure that the highway system
contributes to the overall economic growth and social integration by facilitating the mobility of people,
goods and services. In the Ninth Five Year Plan, investment priorities for the highway sector were
firstly, to rapidly develop the NTHS and the provincial and rural roads that feed into it, and secondly, to
implement financial reform policies and regulations to ensure efficient use of funds. The strategy
succeeded to a large extent with the construction of 240,000 km of highways, including 13,000 km of
expressways. However, crucial policy reforms, such as the implementation of the fuel tax, have lagged
behind.
In the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005) the goals of the transportation sector are primarily to support
economic growth and spread its benefits to low-income populations, with special attention to the
development of economically weaker western provinces. In the road sector, priority is given to the
expansion and improvement of the existing infrastructure network, mainly through capacity increases,
and to further develop transport services using these infrastructures. The plan targets a 200,000 km
extension of roads of various classes (around US$84 billion) and entails the following agenda:
*   continuation of the construction of the NTHS, bringing the length of this backbone network to
26,000 km with the objective to complete it by 2010; and
* improvement of highway infrastructure to and within western areas in order to reduce their
geographic and economic isolation. A multipronged plan encompasses the following
investments:
-  the development of 8 East-West and North-South corridors totaling about 15,000 km to link
the interior regions to the coastal areas by 2020. This includes both NTHS projects and
additional key routes;
- the rehabilitation and upgrading of about 180,000 km of road network in the western areas;
- the development of about 150,000 km of local roads to improve accessibility to rural areas
and alleviate poverty in rural towns and villages; and
-  improved accessibility to low-income populations in all regions of China with a goal to
ensure road accessibility to 95% of townships and 93% of villages.
Policy and institutional reforms and the development of market regulations will intensify with the
country's move toward a market-based economy. Reforms will aim to achieve the following objectives:
-7 -



*   incite a market role for government agencies in the construction and operation of infrastructure
and in the provision of transport services. The role of the government will shift from that of a
highway builder and operator to one of regulator, by increasingly relying on competitively
contracted works and services, to let the market play its role. Thus, resource allocation will rely
more on the market than on government. As infrastructure is a "public good", the contracting of
future road construction, and in certain cases road operation, will be through competitive
bidding. However, there will be three types of projects: projects which can be fully financed by
the market, projects requiring some government contribution to complement private
participation, and projects implemented by government, albeit through competitively awarded
contracts;
*   strengthen the efficiency of road sector management and reorganize it to maximize the use of
scarce resources through planning, programming, institutional optimization and the introduction
of modern methods and technologies;
*   widen highway financing methods and improve the legal and regulatory framework to mobilize
new sources of user charge-based revenues and promote public/private financing mechanisms.
The latter includes the securitization of mature assets by strengthened toll road operators, the
mobilization of bond savings, the extension of domestic bank funding to privately developed
projects, the establishment of a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework, and the
development of contract models; and
*   improve traffic safety.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address issues mentioned above, while taking into account results achieved in the two
ongoing highway projects funded by the Bank in Hubei province, namely: Third National Highway
Project (NH3) effective November 1998, and Fourth National Highway Project (NH4) effective
December 1999. The new project will specifically address the following objectives:
Meeting Investment Needs to Sustain Economic and Social Development, Trade and Integration
Hubei, a province with a population of 59 million (1998), is situated in central China, surrounded by
Henan, Anhui, Hunan, Sichuan and Shaanxi provinces. It has experienced sustained economic
development in the last ten years, and its GDP per capita is on par with the average for China, at RIMB
6,500 (1999). However, there remain, within the Hubei province, significant differences between the
developed eastern area around Wuhan, the provincial capital, and the western area where GDP per capita
is still under RMB 2,000, dropping as low as RMB 1,000 in some of the westem counties. Hubei is a
communication node for North-South and East-West traffic, and a gateway to the less developed western
provinces. Passenger traffic in Hubei has increased by about 5 percent per year during the last five years,
and freight by approximately 3 percent. Road transportation accounts for 90 percent of passenger traffic
and 75 percent of freight volume.
The investments in ongoing NH3 and NH4 projects aim to expand highway capacity along China's
interprovincial North-South traffic artery that passes through the densely populated and rapidly
developing eastern parts of Hubei province and also serves Wuhan. The new project, however, will
address the East-West infrastructure needs and reduce intraregional disparities in the province, with the
construction of Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway (XXE). This XXE project aims to increase highway
-8 -



capacity and improve transport services in an east to northwest corridor crucial for the econornic
development of Hubei, by providing access to the auto industry in the area and by completing the
expressway triangle running within the province. The project will also link the less developed western
areas of the province to the Wuhan area, thereby becoming Hubei's major outlet to the west of China.
The Ministry of Communications considers this corridor critical to the development of the western
provinces.
Improving Accessibility to Remote/Low Income Areas
Among the 67 counties in Hubei, 38 were classified as poor on the provincial scale in 1995; of these, 25
were also classified as poor on the national scale. All but one of these counties are located in the western
mountainous part of the province. The lack of proper infrastructure has been identified as one of the main
constraints to their development. 2,500 villages in these counties were without highway access in 1995.
There is a strong demand for improvements in communication infrastructure to ensure all weather access,
which is quite a challenge in many places given the dominant mountainous terrain. Accordingly, the
project includes a Rural Road Improvement Program in Poor Counties (RRIP) located in western Hubei
to ensure improved access to social services and markets, while connecting the area to the provincial
highways.
Institonal Development and Sustainability of Road Sector Management
NH3 and NH4 have begun to address key institutional and policy issues for the road sector in Hubei by
initiating the preparation of a multi-year institutional development plan; strengthening the role and
capacity of HPCD; establishing Road Traffic Safety, Quality Control and Quality Management units;
improving the management of the road network; and developing expertise, tools and processes to address
road traffic safety issues. The project will support:
*   a further strengthening of the capacity of Hubei road agencies and their adaptation to market
based road activities;
*   improvements in the sustainability of road management and better road safety conditions,
through the provision of training, technical assistance and equipment to HPCD and related
agencies; and
*   initiatives for a closer cooperation among provincial agencies involved in road safety.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The three components of the Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project address the main sector issues as
follows:.
Component 1: Increased Highway Capacity and Regional Integration
The main capital investment component of the project is the 243.5 km long Xiaogan - Xiangfan
Expressway (XXE). This will provide a more efficient, safe and effective means of transportation in a
corridor that already serves about a quarter of Hubei province including the developing auto industry
belt.
-9-



XXE will: (i) directly serve about 6.8 million inhabitants and link several major industrial and hub cities,
among them: Wuhan (Provincial capital), Yunmeng (250,000 pop), Anlu (40,000 pop), Suizhou (340,000
pop), Zaoyang (210,000 pop), and Xiangfan (789,000 pop), and (ii) reach the less developed counties in
the western and mountainous part of Hubei. Thus, it will help stimulate social and economic
development and decrease disparities within the province.
In addition, XXE will complete the provincial expressway triangle, which is an integral part of the Hubei
road network. At its eastern end, it connects with NH3, a Bank-financed section of the Beijing - Zhuhai
expressway corridor that opened to traffic in December 2001. At its western end in Xiangfan, XXE will
connect with the existing North-South NR207 and the parallel Xiangfan - Jinzhou Expressway, and also
with the existing NR316 and the parallel Xiangfan - Shiyan expressway that run towards the North-East
of Hubei and Shaanxi province. Both expressways are under construction by Hubei province and are
planned to open to traffic in 2004, before the completion of XXE. However, the success of XXE
objectives is not really dependent upon those expressway investments.
XXE will be a 2x2 lanes expressway linked to the highway network with 14 interchanges. In addition,
three Class II connecting highways (31 km) will link the XXE interchanges to important urban centers.
Expressway operations will be supported by three management centers and three maintenafice centers,
four pairs of service areas and four pair of parking areas, and necessary traffic management and O&M
equipment.
Component 2: Improved Accessibility in Poor Counties (RRIP)
The project includes a Rural Road Improvement Program in Poor Counties (RRIP) to improve
accessibility in low-income areas. Various subprojects are comprised in this component to rehabilitate
and upgrade existing road sections to Class IV, m or HI levels. The road selection criteria include county
level income, expected impacts on population served, consistency with provincial priorities and
economic rate of return. The objective of this component is to ensure all weather road access in affected
areas, and linking them to townships and provincial highway system, thereby improving population
access to markets, social services and facilities.
The first phase of the RRIP has been defined and comprises three subprojects located in nationally
classified poor mountainous Western counties (Ensh'i county in Ensh'i Autonomous Region, Zhuxi and
Zushan counties in Shiyan prefecture). They cover 259 km and rehabilitation costs are estimated at
US$18 million. A second phase will complete the component. The RRIP will have a total estimated cost
of US$60 million. Additional road sections will be identified during the project implementation on the
basis of the above mentioned socio-economic and network criteria, and the selected roads will be
processed in full compliance with all safeguard policies.
Component 3: Institutional Development and Road Sector Management
This component will strengthen the capacity and the sustainability of highway management in Hubei
province in the following areas:
Building Sector Institutions and Transition to Market Role. HPCD needs to acquire advanced skills
and practices through a multiyear institutional development plan promoted under NH13 and NH14. The
project will facilitate the transition of HPCD to the needs of a market economy through a training
program for government agencies on highway planning, design, supervision, management and
operation, and road safety. The project will also assist HPCD to disseminate knowledge and technical
skills on road administration through the development of the provincial Road Training Center.
-1 0 -



Sustainability of Road Management. HPCD has embarked on a program of improved road
maintenance management and has also evaluated the merits of competitive contracting of pavement
maintenance. Tools developed so far will be critical to assess maintenance needs and allocate
budgets, particularly after the introduction of the fuel tax in China. In order to strengthen the
sustainability of road management, the new project will support the application of road maintenance
systems, further develop the contracting out of maintenance works and test the performance based
maintenance model as an alternative contractual scheme. In addition HPCD will develop a policy to
tackle vehicle overloading and test it on a pilot basis. Finally, HPCD will follow up on NH3 and NH4
initiatives regarding the commercialization of toll generating expressways with the establishment of a
shareholding expressway company.
Road Traffic Safety. Road traffic safety remains a serious concern in Hubei province. Under the
previous projects (NH3 and NH4) HPCD has established a Road Safety Unit, prepared and tested
safety guidelines for the design, construction and operation of roads. Under the new project, HPCD
will further develop and implement a multipronged road safety agenda, based on an Accident
Analysis System, a scale up of black spot treatment practices across the province, and the
identification and testing of a road safety village program. A comprehensive road safety plan
coordinated with other provincial departments involved in road traffic safety will be prepared by
HPCD under the guidance of the Provincial Safety Council.
Provision of Equipment. HPCD will acquire equipment to monitor the construction quality and the
environmental safety during construction along XXE, and to ensure satisfactory traffic operations.
lndlicative           Bank-      %.of
,- ,;4 ,,, b ,  Component                   Costs     %oft     financing   Bank-.
l(USSM)    Total.    (USSM)   financing
1. Increased highway capacity and regional integration with  611.31  88.5  230.29  92.1
the construction of Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway (XXE)
and connecting roads.
2. Improved accessibility in poor counties with the rural  66.23  9.6   10.82       4.3
road improvement program (RRIP).
3. Institutional development and road sector management,  10.84  1.6     6.39       2.6
with capacity building, highway maintenance and
expressway management initiatives, road safety agenda and
provision of equipment.
Total Prolect Costs  688.38   99.6    247.50      99.0
Front-end fee   2.50       0.4      2.50       1.0
Total Financing Required  690.88     100.0    250.00     100.0
Costs include taxes and contingencies
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
In line with OED's recommendations, as outlined in its 1999 China highway sector evaluation, and in
accordance with the objectives of the Bank's China Highway Strategy discussed with government during
the November 14, 2001 highway policy semninar, the project would focus on key policy and institutional
reforms as follows:



*   strengthening and adaptation of institutions, to meet provincial needs and to tacilitate the move
of government organizations in the transportation sector towards a more market based economy;
*   sustainability of road maintenance. In the absence of a stable and comprehensive funding of road
activities expected from the fuel tax, yet to be implemented by the government, the project will
assist Hubei province to improve the efficiency of road maintenance, preserve the road network
and optimize the use of available resources, while preparing it to reap the full benefits of the
improved resource mobilization that would result from the fuel tax enactment; and
*   road traffic safety. The goal of the project is to support the institutionalization of a proactive
approach to traffic safety issues in all HPCD activities and the development of institutional
coordination at provincial level.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project aims to accelerate economic growth and foster trade in Hubei province through capacity
increase and quality improvements in the road network in the Wuhan-Xiangfan corridor. An estimated 36
million people (1998) living in cities and counties will benefit to some extent from the expressway.
Lower transport costs should reinforce economic growth, making it possible for new activities to develop
in the served areas. It is expected that the bulk of the road corridor traffic will be diverted to XXE. The
major quantifiable impacts are: (i) reduction in travel time and vehicle operating costs for provincial road
users through the shorter length of itineraries, (ii) improved road geometry and comfort, (iii) reduced
traffic interference, and (iv) safer traffic conditions on existing roads. In addition, users of the existing
NR107 and NR316 will benefit from reduced travel time as a consequence of reduced congestion levels.
In the long term, the development of tourism in the province to historical relics and natural scenic spots
will benefit from XXE. Several historical cities and important tourism zones in the corridor will have
substantially improved access to and from the North-South road arterial spine of the Beijing-Zuhai
corridor and Wuhan airport. Once the whole Yinchuan - Wuhan itinerary is complete, long distance users
and interregional trade will also benefit from a more cost effective route between western and coastal
provinces.
The RRIP component will benefit residents of the low-income counties with improved local roads.
Population access to markets, health, education, and other social services will also improve.
The institutional strengthening and road sector management component is expected to benefit highway
users in the province, through better maintained roads and a reduction in accident rates. Other outcomes,
althougil they are difficult to quantify, will include (i) strengthened policy, (ii) improved institutional and
technical capabilities of the implementing agency - HPCD - and other related institutions responsible for
highway planning, design, supervision, construction, operation and maintenance, and (iii) optimized
management of Hubei road network. Furthermore, the project will foster improvements in practices on
environment protection, land acquisition and resettlement of project affected people, and participatory
approaches to project preparation and implementation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Hubei Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) is the project executing Agency at all stages of
its preparation and implementation. Specific responsibilities are allocated as follows:
- 12 -



*   the World Bank Financed Project Office (WBFO) in HPCD is responsible for the overall
coordination of project activities and relationship with the Bank. It already plays that role under
NH3 and NH4 projects;
*   a preparation group managed by a Vice Director of HPCD has been established to coordinate
preparation tasks of Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway and supervise design works carried out by
the Hubei Design Institute;
*   the Project Headquarter (Hubei Provincial Xiaoxiang Expressway Construction Headquarter)
established within HPCD and a shareholding company owned by HPCD (Hubei Provincial Xiao
Xiang Expressway Company Ltd - XXEC) will implement XXE and interconnecting roads (Most
of the staff in both agencies remains the same);
*   a joint team of domestic firms and an international engineering consultant will undertake
supervision of XXE works;
*   upon its completion, XXE, will be operated by Hubei Provincial Xiaoxiang Expressway
Company Ltd.;
*   the RRIP component is being prepared by the Hubei Highway Administration Bureau - HHAB, a
department of HPCD - and will be implemented by Construction Headquarters organized by
HHAB at th& county level; and
*   the World Bank Financed Project Office is directly responsible for the preparation and
implementation of the institutional and road safety component.
The Financial Management Assessment undertaken by the Bank during preparation (Annex 13)
concludes that the project will have in place an adequate project financial management system. Hubei
Provincial Finance Bureau (BPFB) will carry out all financial aspects of project implementation,
including financing arrangements, financial management and overall financial monitoring. HPFB will
also be responsible for maintaining, monitoring and reconciling special accounts to be established for the
project, and for submitting withdrawal applications to the Bank. HPFB has had extensive prior
experience with Bank projects and is familiar with Bank disbursement procedures.
Procurement will be managed by Hubei Provincial Xiao Xiang Expressway Company Ltd. The capacity
assessment carried out by the Bank during project preparation (Annex 6) confirms that arrangements
made and the staff-training programs are satisfactory.
By and large, project institutional and implementation arrangements are similar to those made by Hubei
province on the ongoing NH3 and NH4 projects. Thus, experience gained by HPCD will be fully
available, through both the direct involvement of units, like WBFO or HPFB that have already assumed
similar tasks and are familiar with Bank procedures, and the transfer of staff from existing Project
Offices.
-13 -



At the central level, MOC in central Government will ensure the overall direction of the project, assume
an oversight role and provide technical support to the implementing agency. The Bank borrower will be
the People's Republic of China, which in turn will on-lend the loan proceeds to Hubei Province through
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on the same conditions.
The project will be implemented during 2002 - 2007.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway
Public/Private provision
Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway will be a toll-generating expressway. In 1998/1999, Hubei Province
considered private financing for the Xiaogan-Suizhou section, where traffic is the highest, and undertook
the feasibility study of a BOT scheme. However, the preliminary financial assessment concluded that
even this section could not be financed without government contribution of 25 to 30% of investment
costs. In addition, private investors are generally reluctant to invest in Greenfield road operations - their
reservations are reinforced in China by risks involved in the insufficient development of the legal and
regulatory framework. The shortcomings have been highlighted in a recent Bank Group report on Private
Participation in Infrastructure in China and discussed at a conference jointly organized by the State
Development and Planning Commission and World Bank during November 15 - 16, 2001. The Chinese
government has confirmed its commitment to mobilize private financing in road investments; but
investors would have to wait for effective changes in government policies before undertaking any
Greenfield road project. Finally, the complexity and time required for competitive procurement of private
investment would have made it difficult to meet the 2005 construction completion date planned by
HPCD. Consequently, HPCD has made a strategic choice to implement XXE by itself and finance its
construction with public and borrowed funds, and to transfer the infrastructure, once completed, to a
commercialized entity (Hubei Provincial Xiao Xiang Expressway Company) for its operation. HPCD
might also apply to this project the conclusions of a study on "Expressway Commercialization and
Corporatization" undertaken for NH3 and NH4 projects. This study will assess ways to capture efficiency
gains with the commercialization of toll road sections and strengthen the financial capacity of
commercialized entities. HPCD options are consistent with the securitization model of road assets
implemented by other provinces, with Bank financed expressways in several cases.
Route alternatives and design standards
The primary objective of XXE is to serve the economic corridor between Wuhan and Xiangfan - in the
basin of Fuhe river. The major urban centers within this corridor are Xiaogang, Yunmeng, Yundian,
Suizhou, Zaoyang, and Xiangfan. Two national highways currently serve this corridor: NR107 from
Wuhan to Anlu, and NR316 (two lanes) further west. The corridor is also served by the Hanjiang river
(Grade IV), and the Hankou - Daijianghou railway. The latter is not a real competitor of the road
infrastructure. Detailed traffic studies undertaken by HPCD and reviewed by the Bank show that the
traffic patterns of both modes are very different. The much higher cost of highway use, given the toll
level, does not encourage the diversion of passenger traffic from railway. Also, railway mainly carries
long distance bulk freight while highways carry more of local transport.
HPCD considered two main design alternatives prior to its decision to construct a new expressway.
These were:
- 14 -



*   the upgrading of NR316 from its connection with NR107, with the construction of 2 additional
lanes and bypasses of urbanized areas; and
*   the construction of a four-lane expressway.
Feasibility studies have concluded that a new expressway was preferable to other alternatives for the
following reasons: (i) traffic mix, (ii) congestion and safety issues in the crossing of urban areas, (iii)
lower cost and ease of mitigating or compensating environment and resettlement impacts on housing,
commercial, and industrial activities, and (iv) shorter road length. NR3 16, in particular, remains heavily
travelled, crosses all the main cities located in the corridor and is congested in urban and suburban
sections along which houses and shops/activities have been set up. In addition, NR316 is rather unsafe
for road users as the prevailing mix of slow-moving cyclists and motorcyclists, farm and transport
vehicles, faster moving cars, buses, and trucks leads to many traffic hazards. Finally, NR316 needs to
remain accessible to all local traffic besides long-distance traffic. Thus, its upgrading could not be a
satisfactory substitute for a new expressway.
BPCD also considered three major alternatives for the alignment of XXE: a northern alignment close to
NR316 and the urban areas; a southern and more direct itinerary crossing mountainous areas; and a
central scheme. They were compared across a series of criteria, including local and national economics,
social and environmental impacts, preferences of local governments, costs and technical feasibility.
HPCD selected the central scheme as being the best compromise, offering the highest economic return
and getting the most support from local governments. The southern alignment would have crossed more
environmentally sensitive areas, poorly served the main cities in the central section and attracted less
traffic; the northern scheme would have adversely affected more people, been much longer and more
expensive.
In a second stage, rminor variants were compared in various locations of the preferred scheme to better
integrate environmental and resettlement considerations, and to reduce design and construction risks.
Rural Road Improvement Program in Poor Counties (RRIP)
The objective of the RRIP is to improve the socio-economic conditions in low-income areas of Hubei
province. Hence, all identified subprojects are located in poor counties. They have been selected
essentially for their potential to benefit the local development in these areas. The criteria for their
selection were based on the poverty level of the area, the consistency of the project with the provincial
poverty plan, accessibility level, existing alternative infrastructure and role of the road section in the
regional highway network, and cost effectiveness of the investment. The second phase road sections will
be selected along the same process.



2. Major related projects rmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.           Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                   Project                (PSR) Ratings
.__________________________  .  .____________ . (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementatlon  Development
Bank-financed                                               Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
- Remove Highway Capacity       Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway       S            S
Bottlenecks (1)                 (ongoing) 1-3, 5
- Institutional Strengthening/  Second Shaanxi Provincial       S            S
Training (2)                    Highway (ongoing) 1-4, 6
- Rural Roads and Poverty       Second Henan Provincial         S            S
Alleviation (3)                 Highway (ongoing) 1-6
- Highway Safety (4)            Second Xinjiang Highway         S            S
(ongoing) 1-5
- Operation and Maintenance of  Second National Hwy:            S            S
High-Grade Highways (5)         Guangdong/Hunan (ongoing) 1,
2,4-6
- Cost Recovery (6)             Third National Hwy: Hubei       S            S
(ongoing) 1, 2, 4-6
Tri-Provincial Highway          S            S
(ongoing) 1-6
Anhui Provincial Highway        S            S
(ongoing) 1,2, 4-6
Fourth National Highway:        S            S
Hubei/Hunan (ongoing) 1, 2,
4-6
Second Fujian Highway           S            S
(ongoing) 1, 2, 4-6
Third Henan Provincial          S            S
Highway (ongoing) 1-6
Guangxi Provincial Highway      S            S
(ongoing) 1-6
Second Jiangxi Highway          S            S
(ongoing) 1-6
Fujian Highway (ongoing) 1-6    S            S
Inner Mongolia Highway
(ongoing) 1-6
Xinjiang m Highway (planned)
1-6
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank          ONGOING PROJECTS
Hebei and Liaoning
Expressways
Liaoning and Jilin Expressways
Hebei Roads Development
- 16 -



Chengdu-Nanchong
Expressway
Changchun-Harbin Expressway
Shanxi Roads Development
Southern Yunnan Road
Development
Chongqing-Guizhou Roads
Development
Shaanxi Roads
PLANNED PROJECTS
Shanxi Expressway
Chongqing-Guizhou
Expressway
Guangxi Highway
Development
Shanxi Roads
Western Yunnan Road
Development
Southern Sichuan Roads
Development
Japan Bank for International     ONGOING PROJECTS
Cooperation                      Hainan Development
Qingdao Development
Guiyang-Xinzhai Highway
Hangzhou-Quzhou Expressway
Wanxian-Liangping Highway
Liangping-Changshou
Highway
Hainan East Expressway
Xinxiang-Zhengzhou Highway
IP/OO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Wbile the overall performance of the Bank Highway Portfolio in China is by and large satisfactory, a
number of problems occurred during the implementation of earlier projects, which have been taken into
consideration in the design of the proposed project. Past issues on capital investment components
primarily include: insufficient soil investigations during feasibility studies; underestimation of the
technical complexity of expressway construction leading to inadequate engineering designs; insufficient
bid documents, that all too often lead to significant cost variations of civil works; delays in resettlement
operations that have affected works schedule; insufficient attention at design stage to restoring local
accesses resulting in costly changes during construction; insufficient quality control of construction; late
tendering of electrical and mechanical facilities components, which has delayed the completion of some
projects or restrained the quality and efficiency of operations during several months.
To avoid the occurrence of similar problems in the proposed projcct, HPCD has paid specific attention to
a series of risk factors when designing the project and preparing its implementation. Accordingly, it took
the following initiatives:
-17-



* HPCD has established the resettlement organization at the very early stages of project
preparation and has taken into consideration the outcome of surveys to design local crossings;
*   an international engineering consultant has also reviewed the design of XXE, at the detailed
stage on the most complex sections, and advised HPCD on the preparation of the technical
elements of the bid documentation;
* tendering of E&M works is scheduled early enough to ensure that facilities are completed prior
to the opening to traffic of the expressway; and
* finally, the quality control of construction, specifically of XXE civil works will be undertaken
according to FIDIC rule by a supervisory team, comprised of domestic engineering firms assisted
by an international consultant. There will be one Resident Engineer for all contracts and more
than one supervisor per km. of the proposed highway. Special attention will be given to the
proper organization and management of the supervisory team. Training of domestic supervisors
is planned at the beginning of the project.
Past experience in Rural Roads Improvement Programs, as in the Second Shaanxi Highway Project and
the Second Henan project, has shown the significance of benefits derived from such projects. The
provision of basic all-weather roads has effectively contributed to reducing poverty in rural areas,
especially when combined with programs for socio-economic development.
The 1999 OED assessment of the China portfolio has clearly determined the need to further strengthen
the policy dialogue, between China and the Bank, on the highway sector. The institutional component
takes stock of policy and reform activities under the ongoing NH3 and NH4 projects. More than three
years after the initiation of NH3, results indicate that HPCD is showing strengthening of institutional
activities developed under those projects. In order for the institutional component to rank on an equal
level with road construction and network capacity expansion, a pro-active approach is being taken. The
institutional component builds on NH3 and NH4 outcomes and has been prepared by HPCD in close
dialogue with the Bank, assisted by an experienced institutional and policy expert who has been working
on previous projects since their inception.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There is a strong support for the project from relevant government bodies at both central and provincial
levels - SDPC, MOF and MOC at the central level, and Hubei Provincial Government.
XXE is a part of a priority corridor planned by MOC to foster the development of western provinces.
Hubei province has also retained this investment in its provincial Tenth Five-Year Plan. HPCD is
showing further commitment with the ongoing construction of the continuation of XXE as far as the
eastern boundary of the province.
SDPC and the State Council approved the pre-feasibility study for the project in July 2001. The project
feasibility report and financing plan was approved on March 14, 2002, and the preliminary design of
XXE was accepted on May 17, 2002.
Government contributions have also been approved - US$108 million by MOC, US$133 million by
Hubei province and an additional US$200 million borrowed from domestic banks - thereby ensuring
sufficient funds for the continuity of the project.
- 18 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has financed about 20 percent (3,500 km) of the first phase of the high priority NTHS in
China, and facilitated the acceleration of institutional reforms and strengthening of the highway sector in
many provinces. The Bank is heavily involved in Hubei with the financing of arterial highways and
institutional reform through the Third and Fourth National Highway projects.
Through its further involvement in Hubei with the new project, the Bank would contribute financial
resources needed to help remove bottlenecks and increase traffic capacity in a corridor crucial for the
province's economic development that will consequently also reduce the physical and economic isolation
of western provinces. With the experience gained in over 15 years of work in China's highway sector and
in highway reform in other countries, the Bank would continue to play a catalytic role in Hubei's road
sector. It would facilitate the challenges of sustainable road management, the move towards market based
activities, and the development of institutional and manpower capacity in highway planning, design,
supervision, construction, operation, maintenance and finance. Similarly, Bank support would assist
BPCD in improving provincial practices in environment protection, land acquisition and resettlement,
and social and participatory aspects of highway projects. Furthermore, the design and quality of
construction of the new roads would benefit from the Bank's involvement in the project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$557.5 million; ERR = 20.7 % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The economic evaluation covers the two project components that entail capital costs:
(a) the construction of the 243.5 km Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway (XXE); and
(b) the RRIP, limited to its first phase including the upgrading of three identified rural roads (total
259 km) in low-income areas of Hubei province.
The principal measured benefits of the project are savings in vehicle operating costs, reduction in travel
time, and enhanced road safety. The overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the project is
estimated at 20.7 percent, 20.7 percent for XXE and 23.0 percent for the RRIP phase. The overall
economic Net Present Value (NPV), based on a 12% discount rate, is estimated at RMB 4,627.3 million,
consisting of a RM[B 4,499.7 million contribution from XXE and RMB 127.6 million from the RRIP
first phase. A description of the economic evaluation method and an analysis of the results are provided
in Annex 4, the latter being summarized below:
Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
EIRR (in %)  NPV (Yuan million, 12%)
Xiaoran - Xiangfan Expresswav (XXE):
Section 1: Xiaogan - Anlu        26.0           1,395.6
Section 2: Anlu - Suizhou        18.4            715.3
Section 3: Suizhou-Zaoyang       18.4            880.8
Section 4: Zaoyang - Xiangfan    20.9            980.3
Subtotal               20.7           4.499.7
Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP)  23.0        127.6
Total                 20.7           4,6273
- 19-



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ -68.3 million; FRR = 4.6 % (see Annex 4)
XXE is the main project component and constitutes about 88.5 percent of the total project investment.
XXE is also the only component that would generate revenue, as all rural roads to be upgraded under the
RRIP are toll free. HPCD is planning to use the toll revenue from XXE to cover the loan amortization
charges. On the basis of toll levels, currently set in the low range, XXE will generate enough revenue
every year and throughout the Bank loan period to finance debt service with a standard amortization
schedule, due to the large sum of depreciation reserves. Therefore, it should not need any external cash.
injection over the life of the project. The profit margin is expected to be low, which will affect the rate of
return on capital investment (the project FIRR is estimated at about 4.6 percent at a 5.5 percent discount
rate).
For the non-revenue earning project entities - rural roads under the RRIP - the financial evaluation
focuses on the availability of sufficient counterpart funds and on operating expenses given the nature of
financial risks on those investments. All the indicators show that financial risks are modest. A detailed
assessment is provided in Annex 5.
Fiscal Impact:
Hubei's road budgets during project implementation years have been discussed with the Hubei provincial
government during preparation and are shown in Annex 5. Revenue and expenditure forecasts during the
Tenth Five Year Plan (Annex 5) take full account of project funding and show that BPCD would have
sufficient budget resources available for its contribution to project capital investments, while increasing
maintenance funding at a higher rate than the extension of the road network. This means that road
maintenance will be as integral to the new project as the new highway construction. In addition,
investment costs of the RRIP road improvements constitute only a small fraction of HPCD's planned
investment expenditures, at 0.4 - 0.8 percent per year over the implementation period; and the required
maintenance expenditure of the RRIP is at about 0.4 percent of total road maintenance budgets.
Therefore, the fiscal impact of the RRIP would be minimal and the overall financial risk on availability
of counterpart funding for construction and maintenance of the project is low.
3. Technical:
The technical parameters retained for XXE design and construction cost estimates were established by
feasibility, design and engineering studies carried out in two stages by the provincial Hubei Design
Institute. Before its preparation, HPCD took into account lessons learned from the ongoing N113 and
NH4 projects to ensure the relevance of design and reduce risks of cost overruns with a special attention
to the following:
*   design standards consistent with forecasted volume of traffic; interchanges were designed on the
basis of directional traffics and reviewed by the engineering consultant assisting the Bank
preparation team;
*   great consideration given to local development plans and opinions in the location of expressway
crossings;
-20 -



*   strengthening of geological reconnaissance with strict application of MOC's specifications, and
thorough design of bridges and slope cuts/protection taking into account the experience gained in
Hubei and other provinces; and
*   substantial hydrological surveys and studies with the participation of hydrological authorities.
The feasibility study of XXE was approved by MOC, SDPC and the State Council in March 2002, and
the preliminary design was accepted by MOC on May 17, 2002. The design has been reviewed by an
international engineering consultant under grant funding (France) and found relevant.
The cost estimates of the project reflect May 2002 prices and are based on the latest available
engineering studies, prevailing unit rates for civil works checked against effective rates in similar works
under Bank financed projects, recent costs of foreign experts from other highway projects in Hubei, and
recent price quotations for equipment. Total project costs also include physical and price contingencies:
physical contingencies are calculated at 6.5 percent of the baseline costs of civil works, and price
contingencies at 4 percent of all baseline costs - excluding land acquisition - on the basis of forecasts on
domestic and foreign inflation rates during project implementation.
4. Institutional:
Hubei PCD has demonstrated project management capabilities through the implementation of NH3 and
NH4 projects. The success of the project will require a strong ownership and continued commitment by
HPCD. Institutional issues related to capacity building will also require special attention, in particular
institutional strengthening, policy development, and road safety activities. The implementing agency will
receive continued assistance from Bank supervision missions.
4.1 Executing agencies:
HPCD will be the executing Agency. HPCD is also responsible for NH3 and NH4 and its staff has
extensive experience in working with the Bank and is familiar with its requirements on procurement and
safeguard policies.
4.2 Project management:
HPCD will be responsible for the overall project management. The World Bank Financed Project Office
under HP~CD is responsible for the overall coordination of project preparation and implementation; it will
also be in charge of the institutional strengthening and road safety components. In addition, the Project
Headquarter and XXEC have been established to manage the construction of XXE and interconnecting
roads. The Project Headquarter is a temporary organization within HPCD during construction, whereas
the XXEC will operate and maintain the infrastructure upon its completion. Most staff of both entities
are the same. Finally, the local roads improvement program will be undertaken by county level
Construction Headquarters set up by the provincial Highway Administration Bureau under HPCD.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The assessment of the procurement capacity of the implementing agency, Hubei Provincial
Communication Department (HPCD), and of the procurement agent it has selected (China International
Tendering Company) confirms that both have adequate experience working with the Bank and are
conversant with Bank Procedures and Guidelines. HPCD is satisfactorily implementing the ongoing NH3
& NH4 projects and the procurement agent has 16 years experience in ICB under Bank financed projects.
-21 -



All procurement activities under the project will be undertaken in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Bidding documents for the various procurement packages will be based on the detailed engineering
design. The design institute selected by HPCD will prepare the technical elements and the procurement
agent will prepare the commercial part of the bidding documents. HPCD will review documents once
completed and ensure that commercial and technical aspects are well integrated.
The XXEC will implement the procurement of XXE works. The levels of responsibility and ethics code
of this entity and its staff are spelled out in the job descriptions of the proposed project. Most of the staff
have worked on World Bank financed projects and their experience will help to fulfill procurement
functions and efficiently manage procurement activities. HPCD has given assurance of its commitment to
follow the Bank's procurement rules, policy and guidelines. All works and goods will be sourced through
competitive bidding. There will be no force account.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management assessment conducted during project appraisal, based on guidelines issued by
the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, has concluded that the project meets
minimum Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in BP/OP 10.02. In the team's opinion,
the project will have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project in a reporting format
agreed to by the Bank and meeting its requirements. The Financial Management Assessment Report is
available in project files and summarized in Annex 13.
Funding sources for the project include Bank loan and counterpart funds. The Bank loan will be signed
between the Bank and the People's Republic of China (PRC) through MOF, and on-lending arrangements
for the Bank loan will be signed between MOF and the Hubei province through its Hubei Provincial
Finance Bureau (HPFB), and between HPFB and the HPCD. The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the
Bank into a special account maintained by HPFB for the project in respect of reimbursable expenditures
incurred, or to contractors or suppliers via bank accounts with major conmnercial banks acceptable to the
Bank. In terms of disbursement methods, the project will disburse based on the traditional disbursement
techniques and will not be using PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between
the Bank and MOF. The counterpart funds to be contributed directly to the project will come from three
sources: appropriations by MOC, appropriations by HPFB and domestic commercial banks.
No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the implementing agencies involved in the
proposed project. The task team will however continue to be attentive to financial management matters
and audit covenants during project supervision.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The main environmental issues associated with the Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project are the
following:
*   the selection of an optimal alignment for the projected expressway and new roads, to avoid and
minimize impacts on villages and communities, agricultural lands, cultural relic sites, and
sensitive and adverse terrain;
- 22 -



*   adequate public consultation during the preparation and implementation of the project; and
*   integration of environmental mitigation measures in the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP).
A major part of the preparation of the design of the XXE was devoted to the selection of an
environmentally benign alignment. Three major and six sub alignments were evaluated taking into
consideration environment, cultural, social and resettlement issues and technical, economic and political
considerations. The selected alignment avoids the Anlu ancient ginkgo trees by 6 km and the
Baizhaoshan Natural Forest (a theme park in honor of poets) by about 1.2 km, impacts only two low
level, local, cultural heritage sites, avoids a number of villages and minimizes the usage of farm lands.
The major environmental impacts during the construction of the proposed XXE and other roads include
increases in noise, soil erosion, and the generation of dust. Lesser impacts include the alteration of
hydrological regimes, interference with local people and traffic, and impacts on local ecology and
irrigation systems. The impact of haul traffic of construction materials (noise, dust, congestion, traffic
safety, etc.) using existing roads and access roads is of potential concern. Safe disposal of excess
excavated material from cuts will also require close attention during construction. Traffic noise, air
pollution from vehicle exhaust emission, soil erosion, pollution from service areas and impacts from
induced development are identified as potential adverse impacts during the operation period.
The EA Summary report states that there is little forestation in the areas South of Yandian along the XXE
alignment. Vegetation in the area is primarily crops including rice, wheat, cotton, etc. The project passes
no state-owned tree farms, natural reservation areas, forest park, breed forest of endangered animals or
national defense fornation. The closest tree farm, Baizhaoshan Tree Farm, is about 1.2 km away from
the alignment. As regards the Natural Habitat, there are no protected or other habitats or reserves because
of low forest cover in the province (about 17%). The EA Summary also states that "there are not many
wild animals and plants in the area close to the sections Xiaonan, and Xiangyang", and that "..there are
no wild animals within the alignment corridor."
The key stakeholders are HPCD, farmers and villagers who may lose land, villagers who may be
displaced or impacted because of the alignment passing through or near their villages, communities
which may become divided by the alignment, and hospitals, schools, libraries, and individual households
which may be affected by the construction and operation of the proposed Expressway and
interconnecting roads, and by the improvements of rural roads. A total of 3,923 persons were consulted
to seek their view in relation to the Expressway and other roads. Their views and general findings are
incorporated in the design and the construction implementation and supervision of the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Hubei has retained the Shanghai Ship and Shipping Research Institute to undertake the preparation of the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and the EMP. The EMP includes feasible and cost-effective
measures necessary to mitigate the project related impacts by incorporating them in the design, and
implementing them during construction and operational phases. The EMP also includes relevant clauses
for inclusion in the contract documents and appropriate links to the bidding documents. It identifies
institutional responsibilities and arrangements, training needs, environmental monitoring plans,
equipment requirements, implementation schedules and budget needed to implement the proposed
mitigation and monitoring measures. The compliance of the contractors in carrying out the environmental
provisions of contract documents will be supervised by the Project Office and Supervision Consultants
during construction, and monitored by the Bank during the supervision missions.
-23 -



The EMP addresses measures to (i) prevent or minimize soil erosion, construction noise, borrow pits and
excess disposal materials reclamation; (ii) manage construction camps; (iii) provide construction safety;
(iv) operate and manage temporary access roads during the construction phase; and (v) mitigate increased
noise, motor vehicle emissions and community severance during the operation phase. The EMP has
developed a series of measures to avoid, minimize, mitigate or otherwise compensate the adverse impact
from the project.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 2002
The initial Terms of Reference for preparing the EIA/EMP were compiled in December 1998 and were
reviewed, revised and approved by SEPA in August 2000. The first draft EIA report was prepared in
October 2000 and during the following year, a number of draft EIAEMP reports were reviewed with
comments by the Bank. The draft final EA reports were submitted to SEPA in October 2001 and to the
Bank in December 2001. Taking into account the Bank's comments, the final drafts of the EA documents
were submitted to the Bank on April 8, 2002 and found to be satisfactory. HPCD has informed the Bank
that SEPA had approved the Chinese version of the EIA/EMP in February 2002.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
In developing the EIA and EMP, the Environmental Consultant has carried out public consultation and
participation meetings, in two rounds between August and September 2000 and from March to May
2001, in cooperation with the Resettlement unit. The people consulted included rnainly those who will be
affected directly by the project: farmers, villagers, rural residents, and so on along the proposed
alignment. Relevant local government units in the Hubei province, and non-government organizations
and experts on various environmental and socio-economic issues were also consulted. A total of 3,923
people were consulted during the preparation of the Environmental Assessment (EA). The input was
reflected in developing first, the Terms of Reference for preparing the Expressway EIA and EMP, and
then in preparing the EA reports. In compliance with EIA process requirements in China and the World
Bank safeguard policies, the completed draft EIA and EMP reports as well as part of the public
consultation records were distributed in public places along the expressway. The concerned public has
access to the reports at these places since November 2001. In addition, the project information and the
availability of the reports were advertised in the Hubei Daily, a province wide newspaper and two of the
most popular internet web sites in the province, in December 2001. The availability of the final EA
reports was advertised in the Hubei Daily newspaper on April 26, 2002 and the reports were
displayed/disclosed in the Provincial and city libraries along the alignment.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EMP includes environmental monitoring programs for both construction and operation phases. The
parameters to be monitored include relocation and resettlement, soil erosion, noise, dust, degradation of
water quality, stream sedimentation, solid waste disposal, and so on. Monitoring will be conducted as
follows:
*   during the construction phase, in two approaches: daily and routine monitoring mainly consisting
of visual observations and limnited equipment measurements such as hand-held noise meters; and
periodic monitoring by professionals using standard methods recognized by regulatory
-24 -



authorities. Monitoring reports will be compiled once every three months, summarizing the
findings of the monitoring. The reports will be submitted to project owner as well as relevant
agencies and the World Bank; and
*   during the operation phase, noise levels will be monitored once a month during the first six
months and once every six months thereafter. Soil erosion will be monitored once every six
months, while air and water quality will be monitored once a year.
In addition, the construction will be supervised by trained environmental staff from the contractors and
the Project Office. During loan negotiation, assurances will be sought from the Hubei Province
Communication Department and the Project Headquarter that: (a) the environmental protection measures
stipulated in the EMP with regard to the main expressway and its interconnecting roads will be
implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) HPCD shall furnish to the Bank quarterly and
annual environmental monitoring reports for the Expressway and their interconnecting roads during
construction phase and semi annual reports during the first three years of operation following the
completion of the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The major social impacts of the project stem from land acquisition and residential demolition associated
with XXE construction. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) has been prepared to mitigate these impacts.
It is based on an inventory of affected assets, census of the affected people, social assessment and
consultations with local government agencies and potentially affected people. Land acquisition will
affect 178 villages in 32 townships of seven counties. The project will acquire 25,805 mu (or 1,720
hectares) of collective land, including 19,471 mu (or 1298 hectares) of cultivated land and 6,335 mu (or
422 hectares) of non-cultivated land. Expressway construction will also require temporary use of an
additional 10,000 mu (667 hectares). In all, land acquisition will affect 17,800 people (4,096
households). Residential demolition will require relocation of 6,942 people (1,592 households). The
project will also affect some public facilities, such as power and communication lines, wells and
irrigation canals. The RAP prepared by the project office provides details regarding Resettlement Policy
Principles and Regulations to be followed, compensation rates and budget, measures to restore incomes
where necessary, and institutional and monitoring arrangements. In general, it follows a land-for-land
approach to assist farmers in restoring productivity and incomes. Finally, no other activities have been
found to be related to the construction of XXE, as per the provisions of OP 4.12, # 4 regarding the scope
of application of the Bank policy on involuntary resettlement. XXE is a stand-alone project and no other
road section planned contemporaneously or under construction is needed to achieve its objectives.
The first phase of the separate rural road improvement program is expected to be implemented within
existing right-of-way, and so should not cause any land acquisition or house demolition. A Resettlement
Policy Framework nonetheless has been prepared in case design changes during implementation make
land acquisition necessary. Some of the rural road improvements will occur within the Enshi Tujia and
Miao Autonomous Prefecture. Because a significant proportion of the population residing within this
area are members of officially designated national minorities, a social assessment was conducted. Its
findings show that the project-affected people along the road sections do not meet the definition of
Indigenous People as described in the Bank policy. The selection of Phase 2 rural roads will be based on
the socio-economic and poverty criteria already established and the roads will be processed in the same
manner as the previous three rural roads already identified.
- 25 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Information dissemination: All the affected households and villages have been identified through the
census survey. Relevant project information has been provided to the affected villages and local
governments through newspaper reports, posters and public meetings. A resettlement information
booklet providing, details regarding compensation rates, other entitlement policies and grievance
procedures will be distributed to the affected people prior to the resettlement implementation.
Participation strategy: Focus group discussions and key information interviews have been used to
consult with potentially affected persons. The primary focus of consultations has been on obtaining
views and preferences regarding resettlement impacts and mitigation measures, including rehabilitation
measures. These views and preferences have been taken into account during RAP revision, and the
majority of potentially affected persons agree that the resettlement and rehabilitation measures planned
under the RAP would be adequate to address and mitigate any adverse impacts.
The affected communities are to play a key role in determining and implementing their livelihood
restoration programs. After land compensation amounts are calculated, for example, each village
committee will determine how land compensation can best be used to improve, or at least restore, local
income-earning potential. Any approach in using the land compensation must be in consultation with the
villagers, and later on local banks are to disburse land compensation according to the villagers' decision.
HPCD will set up procedures to supervise land compensation use, and local construction banks in each
county will participate in resettlement fund monitoring. Both internal and independent monitoring of the
resettlement program would be conducted regularly during project implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Wuhan University, independent from the Hubei Government and the XXEC, has been contracted to head
the census and inventory survey exercise. This has contributed significantly to the preparation of the
RAP. Village committees and farmer groups have also been consulted and provided opportunities to
participate in resettlement planning.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional arrangements for resettlement implementation are detailed in the RAP. Wuhan
University will be contracted to serve as the independent monitoring agency of the resettlement program.
The project will be monitored and the living standards of the PAPs will be evaluated over the course of
the project implementation. The monitoring results will be regularly reported and, if needed, remedial
actions will be designed. Local construction banks will be involved to supervise the land compensation
use.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terrns of social development outcomes?
The Borrower, the Bank, and an independent monitoring institution will supervise. and monitor
resettlement during project implementation and the realization of the stated objectives.
- 26 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy ...          -                  - A>plicabilIty-
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         S Yes U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 ( Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  (9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                * Yes C No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 (9 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPJBP 4.12)                        * Yes ( No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            U Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  U Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      (9Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
For OP 4.01 - Environmental Assessment, see Section E.5 above. In addition, all Construction Contracts
will contain clauses that define the environrental requirements to be met during the construction of the
Expressway and the Interconnecting Roads, and require the contractors to meet performance standards.
Compliance will be closely monitored.
For OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement, see Section E.6 above.
For OD 4.20 - Indigenous People, see Section E.6 above.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Experience from completed and ongoing highway projects financed by the Bank in China shows a great
commitment of implementing agencies to project physical components, that account for the majority of
project costs. This is confirmed in Hubei with ongoing NH3 and NH4 projects and the same ownership is
expected with the new project. Firstly, the expressway component is a key element of Hubei structuring
highway network and is included in its provincial Tenth Five Year Plan; the province financing
contribution to the project is also taken into account in budget forecasts. Furthermore, the project
financial evaluation shows that XXE totl income should be sufficient opon the infrastructure completion
and opening to traffic to both ensure the province's ability to repay the Bank loan on time and to fund
timely and relevant maintenance. The level of tolls and their regular review and increase are important
for the financial viability of the project. Secondly, the local road improvement program addresses road
network deficiencies in low-income counties and accessibility improvements are considered by Hubei to
be a key component of its provincial poverty alleviation plan. Finally, the institutional strengthening and
road safety components build upon objectives of NH3 and NH4, and HPCD is highly committed to
improve the sustainability of road management and has identified proposed activities.
-27 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Rik;              -,  'RiskRating   -        RiskMitgatonMeasure
From Outputs to Objective
Traffic does not grow as projected in    M         - Critical review of traffic studies by the Bank.
Xiaogan - Xiangfan corridor.                       - Proper setting of toll rates.
Inappropriate design standards for XXE.   N        - Review by the Bank of technical standards
during project design.
Selection of rural road projects that do  M        - Effective implementation of selection criteria.
not improve accessibility in low income
areas.
Lack of ownership by HPCD of the         M         - Design of institutional and road safety
institutional and road safety objectives.          components contributing to policy and reform
objectives endorsed by HPCD.
- Continuous dialogue between the Bank and
HPCD.
- The Bank will conduct workshops to review
progress.
Training program irrelevant to HPCD       M        - Dialogue between HPCD and the Bank on the
needs and objectives.                              scope of training programs.
Road maintenance budgets insufficient to
fund black spot treatment programs.
From Components to Outputs
Insufficient counterparts funds,          M        - Strong commitment of MOF, MOC and Hubei
unavailability of material and human               province to the project.
resources on time.                                 - Analysis of projected Hubei highway
revenues and expenditures during project
preparation.
- Dialogue with Hubei province and MOC
during project implementation, to include
monitoring of resource utilization practices
through supervision and audits.
Poor quality of XXE design and            M        - Experience gained by Hubei agencies
unrealistic cost estimates.                        with NH3 and NH4.
- Review of XXE design by international
experts.
Unachievable implementation plan,         M        -Dialogue with HPCD during preparation
delays in preparation.                              - Project launch workshop after board approval
and before implementation start-up.
Delays in land acquisition and            M        - Experience gained by HPCD with NH3 and
resettlement.                                      NH4, timely setting up of the resettlement
-28 -



management organization and training.
- Frequent Bank supervision missions,
especially in the first years of implementation.
Poor quality of construction resulting,  M         - Attention to the quality of tender documents
among others of weak supervision or                and the prequalification of strong contractors.
insufficient capacity of contractors.              - Procurement experience gained by HPCD
with NH3 and NH4.
- Supervision team reinforced by international
consultants.
Irrelevant training program and trained   M        - Proper selection of trainees.
staff does not make use of new skills.             - English language training for overseas
trainees.
- Monitoring of component by Bank
supervision.
- Attention given by BPCD to provide trainees
with the opportunity to apply for suitable jobs.
Lack of HPCD ownership on study           M        - Dialogu}e with HPCD during project
recommendations.                                   preparation and implementation.
Irrelevant selection of black spots.               - Utilization of black spot programming and
selection tools developed and tested under NH3
and NH4.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Issuance of acceptable legal opinions.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
2.1 Agreement Reached with the Government
The borrower will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are on-lent to the Beneficiary, Hubei province, on
the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the Beneficiary bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Xaogan - Xiangfan Expressway:
BPCD shall prepare and furnish to the Bank an analysis and recommendations on the structure of toll
rates on the Xiaogan Xiangfan Expressway by June 30, 2005, taling into account the findings of other
studies on toll-rate structures under Bank-financed highway projects in China and the experience with
toll rates on major roads in China.
- 29 -



Rural Road Improvement Program in Poor Counties:
On any rural road section under the RRIP, Hubei Province shall: (i) prior to commencing works prepare
an ELA and EMP in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) furnish the same to the Bank for
its approval, and (iii) carry out such environmental action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. In
case land acquisition is required, Hubei province shall also prepare a resettlement action plan satisfactory
to the Bank, in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the Resettlement Policy
Framrework and furnish the same to the Bank for its approval. Finally, Hubei Province shall on any rural
road section: (i) conduct a social assessment, satisfactory to the Bank to determine, inter alia, the
necessity of a National Minority Development Plan (NMDP), and (ii) if necessary prepare and carry out
such NMDP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Institutional Strengthening and Road Sector Management:
Hubei Province shall, by March 31 of each year commencing in 2003 and continuing through the
completion of the project, furnish an annual highway expenditure report -for the Bank's review and
comments for the prior year, which shows:
(i) the length of each class or highway by condition (excellent, good, fair, and bad) as of December
31 of the previous year;
(ii) the completed physical works and actual expenditures of the previous year against the planned
physical targets and budgeted funds of that year, for new construction, upgrading/improvement,
rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and routine maintenance; and
(iii) the targets of the highway program for the current year, including new construction,
upgrading/improvement, rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and routine maintenance, in terms
of planned physical works and planned expenditures.
Hubei Province shall, by November 15 of each year, beginning in 2003 and continuing through the
completion of the project, prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual institutional strengthening and
training report in form and content satisfactory to the Bank, covering progress in implementing its
training program, including a training schedule for the future year and a description of the training
carried out during the year of the report.
Hubei Province shall strengthen the Road Training Center established in 2001 in Hubei, and to this end
shall: (i) establish an advisory group with representatives from relevant agencies and entities both within
and without the highway sector, to support the leading group in charge of said Center; (ii) develop
appropriate courses and training material, including programs for the training of trainers, and establish
e-learning facilities; and (iii) from time to time review with the Bank the progress of said center in the
delivery of its training programs.
Hubei Province shall, by December 31, 2005, complete a study on the development of road maintenance
activities by contract in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, furnish such study to the Bank
for its review and comments, and thereafter implement its recommendations taking-into consideration the
Bank's views thereon.
Hubei Province shall, by June 30, 2005, complete a study to assess and make policy recommendations in
respect of the management of overloaded highway vehicles, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, furnish such study to the Bank for its review and comments, and thereafter implement the policy.
taking into consideration the Bank's views thereon.
-30 -



HPCD shall by December 31, 2003, complete a study on the establishment of an expressway
shareholding company, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, furnish such study to the
Bank for its review and comments, and thereafter implement the recommendations of the study taking
into consideration the Bank's views thereon.
Highway Safety:
Hubei Province shall, by December 31, 2005, complete the development of the accident analysis system
designed under NH4, and thereafter put such system into effect taking into consideration the Bank's
views thereon.
Hubei Province shall, by December 31, 2004, prepare a comprehensive road safety action plan for the
HPCD road safety unit under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, provide said plan to the Bank for
its review and commnents, and thereafter implement said plan taking into consideration the Bank's views
thereon.
Hubei Province shall, by December 31, 2003, prepare a blackspots identification and improvement plan
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, provide said plan to the Bank for its review and
comments, and thereafter implement said plan taking into consideration the Bank's views thereon.
Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement:
Hubei Province shall carry out the EMP and RAP on XXE and interconnecting roads in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank and furnish any proposed revision of these plans to the Bank for its prior
approval. HPCD shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, on
an ongoing basis and in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the
EMP and RAP.
Hubei Province shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank:
(i) by January 31, starting in 2003 through the period of implementation, a quarterly environment report
and a summary annual environmental monitoring report; and (ii) by January 31, 2003, July 31, 2003 and
thereafter on January 31 of each year through the period of implementation, an internal resettlement
report prepared by the appropriate agencies of Hubei Province, and an external resettlement report
prepared by an independent entity acceptable to the Bank, on the implementation and impact of
resettlement activities -and the NMDP during the preceding six-months or one year period, as the case
may be.
2.2 Reporting and Monitoring
Hubei Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
Hubei Province shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank
the following reports:
*   monthly progress reports on the civil works on XXE, commencing January 31, 2003 and
continuing through the period of project implementation;
*   quarterly progress reports on the implementation of all project components, no later than January
- 31 -



31, April 31, July 31, October 31 of each year starting in 2003 through the period of
implementation;
*   an annual report by January 31 of each year conmmencing in 2003 through 2007, which integrates
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in the carrying
out of the project during the preceding year, and sets out any measures recormnended to ensure
the efficient carrying out of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
immediately succeeding year;
*   an implementation report, in a format acceptable to the Bank, within six months of the closing
date of the project loan;
*   a financial monitoring report, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for the project in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on a semi-annual basis no later than 45 days after each
calendar semester; and
*   the report of the audit by independent auditors, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable
to the Bank, of the project records and account statements no later than 6 months after the end of
each year, with a separate opinion by auditors on Statements of Expenditures and special
account.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
G 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Dg 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[01 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
O 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Michel Bellier                   Jitend     ajpai                     n Huang
Team Leader                      SectorManager/Director          Country ManageriDirector
- 32 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project
i. Key PeRorrarce                           ~ DatCoIl         t-oroStr teg,
Hierarchy,,p(bjebtites          . Inldldators    .               - .      -     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhance China's economic  Investrnent allocated to roads  CAS and country economic  Increased econornic activity
growth and improve regional  and contributing to economic  reports.            and accessibility in the
integration through       growth and regional                                  province enhance
infrastructure investrnents.  integration.                                     opportunities in all sectors and
contribute to sustainable and
equitable development.
Reduce poverty in low income Improved access to services  Country reports on poverty  Governfment is committed to
areas by improving their  (school, health center,    assessment.               tackle disparity of income and
accessibility.            employment opportunities).                           development.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Provide a more effective, safe Reduction in transport costs in Project performance  Economic conditions in the
and efficiently managed   the Xiaogan-Xiangfan       monitoring reports on outcome country and provinces remain
transport infrastructure to  corridor.              indicators.                robust.
sustain and support
socio-economic developrnent, Improved accessibility of low  Annual report on highway  Central and provincial
trade, and regional integration income areas.        expenditures.             governments are comrmritted to
in Hubei province and                                                          implement the project.
improve transport links to  Strengthening of HPCD.
western lagging regions.
Development of market based                          Hubei province carries out its
road management.                                     poverty elimination plan
Improved road traffic safety.                        HPCD is committed to adapt
to new roles with the road
sector move towards market
based activities.
-33 -



-  - -          - .l   ~~~~Key .Perf6rM_-a fibe-. -  'Data _Collectio 'Strategy 1- --
Hierarchy'of Objectives          Ind:cators,       -      ... Critical Asisuornlon]s
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Reduction of traffic    - Average daily traffic on new  Project performance   Traffic grows as projected.
congestion and travel time and expressway and existing roads. monitoring reports on output
lower accident rates in                              indicators.                 Design standards are relevant.
Xiaogan - Xiangfan corridor.  - Average accident rate on
new expressway and existing
roads.
2. Improved accessibility in  - Average daily traffic on                         Selected projects effectively
the low-income areas served  upgraded road sections.                             improve accessibility to low
by the Rural Road                                                                income areas.
Improvement Program in Poor - Number of days the roads
Counties.                  are closed to traffic.
- Benefits to population in
served areas (income,
enrolnent in high schools).
3. Strengthened role of HPCD  - Number of staff trained.  Trainees reports.      HPCD shows strong
and its related agencies and                                                     ownership of the institutional
irnproved efficiency of     - Percentage of pavement  Progress reports on social and and road safety objectives.
highway management.        maintenance works procured  environment monitoring.
by contract with independent
companies.
- Test of performance-based  Reports on implementation of The training program is
pavement maintenance.      studies recommendations.   relevant to HPCD needs and
objectives
4. Improved traffic safety.  Number of treated black spots. Program of road safety unit  Road maintenance budgets
and annual program of black  include black spot treatment
spot treatment.            programs.
-34 -



Key Performance-     1 Data Collection Strategy |
Hierarchy of Objeciives j        Indicators       j        .*    .  .           Critical Assumptions
Project Components        Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Construction of Xiaogan - (US$611.31 million)     Reports of Bank supervision  Sufficient counterpart funds
Xiangfan Expressway and                              missions.                 material and human resources
Connecting Roads                                                               are available on time.
1.1 XXE                   US$505.63 million          Project progress reports:  Quality of design and
relevance of cost estimates.
1.2 Interconnecting Roads  US$15.60 million          Disbursement reports.     Realistic implementation plan
and no delays in preparation
and imnplementation.
1.3 Supervision           US$16.08 million                                     Selection of competent
supervision engineers.
Selection of comipetent
contractors
Quality of construction.
1.4 Land Acquisition and  US$74.00 million                                     No delays in land acquisition
Resettlement                                                                   and resettlement
2. Rural Road Improvement US$66.23 million                                     Sufficient counterpart funds
Program in Poor Counties
3. Institutional Development (US$10.84 million)
and Road Sector
Management
3.1. Capacity Strengthening  US$1.23 million                                   Assignment of trained staff to
responsibilities making use of
new skills.
Ownership by HPCD of study
recommendations.
3.2 Highway Maintenance   US$0.28 million
Management
3.3. Policy for Expressway  US$0.18 million
Company
3.4 Road Traffic Safety   US$0.42 million                                      Effective programming of
black spot treatments.
3.5. Provision of Equipment  US$8.73 million
4. Front End Fee          US$2.5 million
* Budgets for each component
include contingencies
- 35 -



Annex 1-1
Key Performance and Development Indicators
A. Development Indicators
Project Development        Outcome/Impact           2000         2004          2006          2010
Objective               Indicators           Baseline    Benchmark     (1st year of  Benchmark
operation)
Provide a more efficient,  Average daily traffic on NR316
safe and effective transport (vehlday):
ifrhastructure.       A-B Xiaogan -Yunmeng           10,120       12,680        3,867        4,822
B-C Yunreng -Anlu              9,756        12,085       4,013         4,150
C-D Anlu-Fushui                7,668        9,359        4,581         5,508
D-E Fuishui - Suizhou          7,159        8,851        4,342         5,167
E-F Suizhou - Xinlong          7,186        7,940         2,657        4,758
F-G Xingnong - Zaoyang         6,975        7,889         3,736        4,619
G-H Zaoyang - Shuanggou        7,943        8,975         4,882        5,546
H-l Shuanggou - Zhangwan       8,657        9,423         4,217        5,882
I-J Zzangwan - Xiangfan        10,040       12,287        8,385        10,814
Average daily traffic on XXE
(veh/day)
Xiaogan - Anlu                                            8,287        12,586
AnIu - Suizhou                                            9,360        13,162
Suizhou - Zaoyang                                         9,220        12,899
Zaoyang - Xiangfan                                        9,072        12,296
Accident rates on
NR316/NR316 and XXE             65/          67/          /45           /45
(Accidents per 100 million
vehicles)
Average daily traffic on RRIP
road sections.
Dunbao - Banqiao                447          597           630          790
Changwan - Shiyao               339          491           528          702
Quanxi - Xinmatou               362          511           547          719
Number of days RRIP road
sections are closed to traffic:
Dunbao - Banqiao                 65           6             6            6
Changwan - Shiyao               75            4             4            4
Quanxi - Xinmnatou              60            0             0            0
Average household income in
areas served by RRIP road
sections (RMB)
Dunbao - Banqiao               5,810        8,350         8,970         11,968
Changwan - Shiyao              5,052        7,322         7,900         10,641
Quanxi - Xinmatou              6,158        8,884         9,560         12,817
High school enrollment in areas
served by RRIP road sections
(% of teenagers).
Dunbao - Banqiao                2.3                        2.9           3.1
Changwan - Shiyao               3.5                        4.3           4.5
Quanxi - Xinrnatou              3.9                        4.4           4.6
Number of treated black spots
in the selected prefectures                   70           165          225
(cumulative).
- 36 -



B. Implementation Indicators
Y2002    Y2003     Y2004    Y2005     Y2006     Y2007
% of civil works completed on XXE            10       40       80       100
% of works completed under the RRIP                   20       35        70       80        100
% of completed training (personlmonths)
- Domestic                                  70       90       100
- Overseas                                  40       65       100
% of equipment procured                      30       60       80        100
% of road pavement maintenance procured
by contract:
- Expressways                               70       80       90        100
- Class I and 2                             50       55       60       70-80
- Other classes                            10-15     15       20        30
Treated black spots (annual program)                  30       40        45        50       60
- 37 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: Hubei Xlaogan-Xlangfan Highway Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$611.31 million
Increased Highway Capacity and Regional Integration
Sub-component 1.1: Construction of Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway - US$505.63 million
1.    The main investment component of the project is the 243.5 km long Xiaogan-Xiangfan
Expressway (XXE), linking Wuhan, the provincial capital, to Xiangfan in the north-western part of
Hubei province. The XXE will serve an area inhabited by 36 percent of Hubei's population and also the
auto industry belt located within the province. It will link the cities of Wuhan, Xiaogan, Yunmeng,
Suizhou, Zaoyang and Xiangfan. At its eastern end in Xiaogan, the XXE connects with the Third
National Highway (Bank financed project, Ln 43270 - CHA) opened to traffic in 2001; at its western end
in Xiangfan it will link with (i) the existing NR316 and the parallel Xiangfan-Shiyan Expressway that
runs west towards the border with Shaanxi province, and (ii) the existing North-South NR207 and
Xiangfan-Jinzhou Expressway running towards the South of Hubei. Both expressways are under
construction by HPCD and will open to traffic in 2004, before XXE becomes operational. Thus, XXE
will complete the provincial expressway triangle, the construction of which is a high priority for Hubei. It
will also improve the accessibility of the western and lesser-developed areas of the province.
2.     XXE will be a 2x2 lanes expressway designed in accordance with MOC's expressway standards
for a speed of 120 km per hour. XXE will be operated as a closed toll highway. Construction will also
include:
(i) 14 interchanges to connect with the local highway network;
(ii) four couples of service areas providing facilities for refueling and vehicle repair, restaurants,
parking and resting;
(iii) four additional couples of rest areas for parking and resting;
(iv) adrministration and maintenance facilities located in two centers, three management branches and
three maintenance working areas; and
(v) the installation of electrical and mechanical equipment for tolling, traffic monitoring,
telecommunications and lighting of all interchanges and annex areas.
Works will be packaged in 16 ICB and 11 NCB contracts.
Sub-component 1.2: Construction of Connecting Roads - US$15.6 million
3.    The project includes the improvement or construction of three Class II interconnecting roads
with a total length of 31 kn. They will link XXE interchanges to Yunmeng, Suizhou, and Zaoyang,
thereby ensuring a good connection to those urban centers, and accommodating the increase in traffic on
the existing roads.
- 38 -



Sub-component 1.3: Construction Supervision - US$16.08 million
4.     A joint Supervision team of local firms and international consultants, headed by a Chief
Supervision Engineer will carry out the supervision of XXE in accordance with FIDIC provisions. The
team will be organized into several divisions (supervision office, engineering contract, technical
management, material and machine management, core laboratory, administrative office, finance and
resettlement):
*   15 resident offices will be established along the alignment of XXE. These offices will be
responsible for field supervision of ICB contracts - civil works and Electrical and Mechanical
facilities - and NCB contracts on interconnecting roads and annex areas;
*   the Central Office will be manned with an estimated 56 local staff and 244 domestic supervisors
corresponding to one person per km (input estimated to about 10,736 man-months);
*   five foreign engineers - full time and part time - will be integrated in the core supervision team to
provide services estimated at 71 person-months on project/contract management, earth and
pavement works, bridge construction, E&M works and training of local supervision staff (about
300 person-months) prior to the mobilization of contractors; and
*   the foreign consultants will be selected through international competitive bidding, whose terms
of reference and schedule have been agreed to by the Bank, whereas the local supervisors will be
hired according to MOC regulations.
5.     Supervision of works on local roads will be organized by local construction headquarters
established by the Hubei Highway Administration Bureau under HPCD, and the domestic supervisors
will be selected according to MOC regulations. Supervision efforts are estimated at 1,920 man-months
(80 staff).
Sub-component 1.4 - Land Acquisition and Resettlement - US$74 million
6.     The construction of XXE will affect 4,096 families (17,800 persons), require the acquisition of
about 1,720 ha of land and the relocation of 1,592 households. In addition, an estimated 667 ha of land
would be temporarily occupied during construction, generally at sites of major bridges. Population living
on these sites will not be directly affected and areas will be returned to farmers once the project is
comnpleted. The project will also affect some public facilities, such as power and telecomrmunication
lines, wells and irrigation canals. During project preparation, detailed investigations and surveys were
undertaken by HPCD and Hubei Design Institute to assess project impacts and prepare the resettlement
action plan in accordance with Bank safeguards. Surveys have determ-ined baseline data on income levels
and standards of living, and compensation rates have been fixed after consulting local governments and
affected people to ensure that living standards of the affected population are at least restored and affected
assets are compensated at replacement cost. Land acquisition and resettlement costs include
compensations to PAPs and reconstruction of affected public facilities (see Annex 12).
- 39 -



Project Component 2 - US$66.23 mililon
Improved Accessibility in Poor Counties (RRIP)
7.     The Rural Road Improvement Program in Poor Counties (RRIP) will address accessibility issues
in low-income areas, with the upgrading and improvement of various rural road sections at a cost
estimated at US$60 million. HPCD has identified and prepared a first phase of three sections totaling 259
km. A second phase will complete the program and additional roads will be selected during the project
implementation period.
8.     A large area of Hubei province is still considered poverty-inflicted, as defined by national and
provincial poverty criteria. In 19995, 38 of the 67 counties/cities in the province were classified as
"Poverty County". Of these, 25 were also nationally classified as poor areas. Most are located in the
mountainous areas of the province, especially in its remote western part, about 450 to 780 km away from
Wuhan. This area lags behind significantly with GDP per capita lower.than RMB 2,000 (1999), as
compared to an average RMB 6,500 for the entire province. The lack of infrastructure is one of the main
concerns. In 1995, 2,500 villages in Hubei were yet to be accessible by highways. This was a major
detriment to economic development, depriving the population of ready access to social services, markets
and employment opportunities. During the last decade, Hubei province has carried out a comprehensive
action plan, specifically an "Annual Poverty Elimination Plan in Poverty Regions of Hubei Province
(1996)", that has addressed absolute poverty issues in most of the territory. However there are still areas,
county wide and at sub-county level, where development is still significantly lower than the rest of the
province and impeded by the lack of satisfactory road accessibility.
9.     The RRIP objective is to address the insufficiencies in some of the poorest areas in the province.
The project will upgrade/rehabilitate various road sections selected by HPCD in low-income counties
according to the following process:
*   in the first stage, poor counties or inner county areas will be identified on the basis of national
and regional classification and development levels; and
*   in the second stage, local road network in these areas will be screened according to various
criteria:
- current road condition;
- lack of alternative transport infrastructure;
- expected impact of project on population access to education, health and other social
activities, and on economic development, including facilitation of production and
commercialization of local products;
- contribution to Hubei province plan to improve the functional responsiveness of the highway
network;
- strong support by local government and residents; and
- expected EIRR higher than 15%.
-40 -



Based on these criteria, HPCD has pre-identified 14 road sections of a total length of 1,310 km.
A first phase of three sub-projects has been fully identified prior to project appraisal: Tunbao - Banqiao
(63.9 km) and Changwan - Shiyao (94.1 km) in the Ens'i Autonomous Region, and Quanxin - Xinmatou
(101 km) in Shiyan prefecture.
10.    All three sub-projects are located in counties with a GDP per capita ranging between RMB1,700
and 3,300 (Y1999), about or less than half the average in Hubei province (RMB 6,630); in the directly
served areas, figures are even lower and range between RMB 1,000 and 1,500. The current classification
of selected roads is Class IV or unclassified - the roads are in a poor condition and closed to traffic
around 70 days per year, making it difficult to access villages and townships where social services and
markets are located, and also therefore, limiting the accessibility to the provincial road network. The
rehabilitation and upgrading costs of these Class IV roads are estimated at about US$18 million, and
include US$15 million of civil works financed by the Bank, which will be procured through 18 NCB
contracts. The project economic evaluation shows that the expected EIRR is between 18 percent and 27
percent.
11.    Feasibility studies included an Environmental Assessment and the preparation of an
Environmental Management Plan for each project. No resettlement is expected; however, a Resettlement
Policy Framework has been prepared by HPCD and would be applied if detail design studies identify
locations where some land acquisition is needed. Finally, a detailed social assessment has been carried
out for projects located in the Ensh'i Tujia & Miaojia Minority Autonomous prefecture since national
minorities live in the served areas. It shows that the project-affected people do not meet the definition of
Indigenous People, as per the Bank policy.
KU hway charateristic  l      cost         Population  county
prefctuse  CiMoty  Highway  7  ngth  C   Cass  Constmurcton  Total  Bank loan  in directly  GDPcaplita
(km)         Klo      smicioD)  (smi iOD  nfluenced amas   (itMB IYYY)
Ensh'i Tujia &  EBhi  Tbnhno-Banqiwo  63.9  IV  2003 - 2005  5.01  0.83  44,60D  3306
Mi_ijia   Cty
Minorky
AutomDCus  l
nihi   Changw-  Si,iyoo  94.1  IV  2003 -2005  6.64  1.11   37.800     3306
Shiyn     Zu'xhi/   Quanxi- Xnmaou 101  IV  2003 - 2005  6.35  1.06   32,600    Zuxhi: 1708
zuDbDD                                                               Zushan 1736
Total                         18               127,400  Averae Hubei
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6630
12.    The second phase of the RRIP will bring its total estimated cost to US$60 million, with civil
works financed by the Bank amounting to US$50 million. Additional road sections to be rehabilitated
will be selected by HPCD according to the same criteria as for the first phase during project
implementation. They will be processed independently and in full compliance with Bank's safeguards.
HPCD will carry out an Environmental Assessment and prepare an Environment Management Plan for
each road section, consistent with the Terms of reference used for the first phase projects. Similarly, the
standing Resettlement Policy Framework will apply to road sections that would result in involuntary
resettlement. Finally, a social assessment would be carried out by the implementing agency if national
minorities live in project areas, in accordance with a Terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and an
National Minority Development Plan will be developed if project affected people meet the definition of
Indigenous People.
- 41 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 10.84 million
Instftutional Development and Road Sector Magement
13.     The objectives of this component are to:
*   improve the efficiency and sustainability of the highway sector management in Hubei province,
through the strengthening of HPCD and related agencies;
*   assist policy and institutional reforms on highway management;
*   support road traffic safety agenda; and
*   provide relevant equipment.
Countrywide economic and policy changes are necessitating a market-oriented role for Hubei road
agencies, a role of a policy maker, planner and regulator. There is, therefore, a need for additional
training and education, and for policy and institutional development. Activities under the new project
have to be well coordinated with those under the ongoing NH3 and NH4 to ensure a strong ongoing
policy and institutional reforms. This component includes the following:
Sub-component 3.1 - Capacity Strengthening - US$1.23 million
14.     Training programs under NH3 and NH4 have started to strengthen the capacity of HPCD, Hubei
Design Institutes and Research Institutes to implement highway projects and manage road activities.
Under the new project, the training program will also assist in the dissemination of skills across the entire
provincial road sector through the establishment of the provincial Road Training Center.
Training program
The training program aims to enhance professional skills of staff from HPCD (World Bank Financed
Project Office, Project Headquarter, Expressway and Highway Bureaus), Design Institutes, Training
Institutes and the XXEC, that are specifically responsible for the management of the highway network, in
the following areas:
-  project preparation and management (project management, technical design, construction
management, E&M works, supervision, quality management, resettlement, environment
protection);
-  highway sector management (highway maintenance, operation management, system management
and road traffic safety); and
-  institutional activities (financial management, contract management, human resources and
training management).
Output:   - Number of people trained under the program.
Outcome: - Improved know-how laying the foundation for a sustainable and lasting
performance in new areas such as road safety, environment protection and market
economy.
-42 -



Indicators: - Percentage of trained personnel able to use the new know-how in their daily work;
focus on teachers' training.
- Yearly progress reports.
Training activities are estimated at US$985,000 and would include overseas study tours (17 man/month),
training courses abroad (53 man/month) and domestic courses (445.5 man/month). The training program
is summarized in Annex 2.2 and will be up-dated periodically during project implementation.
Road Training Center
The project will support the strengthening of the Road Training Center (RTC) established by Hubei
province in 2001. The Center aims to provide proper training and education to road professionals in the
province. The current lack of skilled professionals in the highway sector is an issue of concern, especially
with the move towards market based activities and the corresponding increase in the role of independent
companies. The Center would address this issue through training courses coordinated by state agencies,
construction enterprises and inspection companies. An advisory group with representatives from various
organizations, both within and outside the highway sector, would support the leading group responsible
for the running of the Center. This arrangement would make domestic training much more efficient than
it is today. However, teachers are yet to be trained and suitable courses and supporting educational
material yet to be developed. Given the lack of trained teachers in some districts and towns of Hubei
province, equipment tools will be needed to deliver e-learning courses in the sub-centers. The training
program of teachers is estimated at US$240,000.
Outputs:  - Establishment of an operational Road Training Center.
Outcome: - Increased domestic training capability, increased efficiency and quality.
Indicators: - Timely establishment of the center.
- Teachers trained in accordance with the training program.
- Sufficient training facilities.
- E-learning facilities in place and tested.
Sub-Component 3.2 - Highway Maintenance Management - US$284,000
15.    The project will support HPCD initiatives to improve the efficiency of highway maintenance
and move it towards market-based activities. A Road Data Bank, integrating a Pavement Management
System (PMS) and a Bridge Management System (BMS), has been developed and a maintenance cost
and fund allocation model designed under NH3 and NH4. In addition, a Highway Maintenance
Management study has identified a long-term activity plan for the maintenance of the provincial network.
HPCD has also initiated competitive procurement of pavement maintenance works in order to increase
the efficiency of the highway sector and reduce costs in an acceptable and feasible way. (HPCD has
established internal maintenance companies in about 80% of all prefecture and counties.) However, the
preliminary report of the NH4 study on competition in the highway maintenance sector identifies major
shortcomings such as the lack of incitements and know-how, high costs due to overstaffing and mixed
responsibilities. Under the new project, a significant increase in competitive maintenance by contract of
the highway network will be achieved, alternative contractual schemes for the procurement of works will
be developed and tested with a view to further improve the efficiency and quality of maintenance and to
foster market based road maintenance. Recommendations and practical measures to tackle truck
overloading will also be identified and tested.
- 43 -



Maintenance by Contracts
As of November 2001, 30 independent road maintenance companies from provincial, and in a few'cases,
municipal, road departments, have been established throughout the province. They are registered as
juridical entities, directly responsible for their income and spending, and are not limited to road
maintenance works. In addition, maintenance works on expressways are to be procured by contracts.
During project preparation, HPCD and the Bank discussed ways to further progress towards a
competitive and market based road maintenance. Firstly, HPCD confirmed its intention to increase the
share of pavement maintenance works competitively procured through independent companies during the
project implementation period and to consider the same for routine maintenance. Secondly, the project
will support the development and testing of performance based contracts for the procurement of
maintenance works on an area with a significant length of road network, taking into account the existing
situation and in accordance with the requirements of the Hubei road maintenance market. The objective
is to improve the quality and durability of works, reduce costs and strengthen the capacity of independent
maintenance companies. The test will assess the conditions for the successful implementation of
performance based contracts in the current development stage of the road sector in Hubei with a view to
generalize a satisfactory scheme throughout the province. Experience of other countries illustrates the
benefits of such contracts in terms of the quality of the road network and cost savings. To that purpose
the project will finance a study on Maintenance by Contract, estimated at US$144,000.
Outputs:  - Increased market based and competitive maintenance by contracts (objectives are
summarized in the table below).
- Development and testing of performance based contracts and evaluation of their
benefits.
Outcome: - Increased know-how  in the implementation of competitive market based
contracting.
- Increased efficiency of road maintenance and improved quality of roads.
Indicators: - Increased contracting of road and pavement maintenance in accordance with the
objectives below.
- Contractual scheme for performance-based maintenance developed and tested.
- Evaluation and recommendation made, among others on a procurement policy
fostering the capacity of the road sector.
Road Class       Pavement Works Competitively Procured    Planned objective
(May 2002)                       2005
Expressways                           70 %                           100 %
Class 1 and 2 roads                    50%                        70% - 80 %
Roads < Class 2                     10% -15 %                        30 %
Study on Overloaded Vehicles
Overloaded trucks heavily damage roads and pose traffic safety hazards. A national plan has been
launched by Ministry of Communications (MOC) to address this issue and HPCD intends to develop a
provincial action plan to tackle the problem in Hubei. The project .will support the preparation and
evaluation of pilot tests on control practicalities and applicable measures, with a view to develop a
comprehensive provincial policy and regulation framework. The study is estimated at US$140,000 and
will be organized as follows:
* identification of possible policy alternatives and definition of criteria for assessing damages
caused by overloaded vehicles;
-44 -



*   preparation of pilot tests on three different road classes in three different locations in the
Province. The objectives are to define and test relevant control practicalities, with the assistance
of the Traffic Police Department and representatives of the transport industry, and to assess the
efficiency of measures to apply when an overloaded truck is identified. The test would last six
months. A movable weight bridge and the operation costs of weight checking would be financed
from HPCD's own resources; and
*   evaluation of the test results and development of a comprehensive policy and provincial
regulation on overloaded vehicles applicable to the whole province.
Outputs:  - A report addressing tests carried out, results achieved, and recommendations on a
policy.
Outcome: - Policy options to manage truck overloading in the Province.
Indicators: - Test carried out in three different locations in the Province and on three different
road classes for six months.
- Qualified evaluation of results.
- Recommendations on a policy.
Sub-component 3.3 - Establishment of an Expressway Shareholding Company and Province-wide
Management of Expressway Network - US$180,000
16.   The project will assist HPCD to improve the management of the toll expressway network. In
China, central and provincial government look for wider sources of maintenance funding and
improvements in the efficiency of road management. Under NH3 and NH4, HPCD has undertaken a
study on expressway commnercialization and corporatization the recommendations of which should be
implemented along the "one company to manage one expressway" principle. The new project will
support the establishment of a shareholding expressway company and the identification of benefits it
might bring to the efficiency of the toll road network management. Recommendations will also be made
on ways to improve the financial strength of expressway operating entities, thereby facilitating the
mobilization of market financing for future road developments.
Outputs:  - A report on the process for establishing an Expressway shareholding company
based on the conclusions of the Expressway commercialization and corporatization
study and experiences in Hunan.
- Assessment of improvements the expressway sharebolding company would bring
to the efficiency of the toll road network and proposals on their implementation.
- Recommendations to Hubei government on responsibilities to assign to the
expressway shareholding company to that purpose.
Outcome: - Policy regarding the Expressway shareholding company and plan for its
development.
Indicators: - Development of a model and time schedule for the establishment of the company.
- Shares issued on the market.
- Evaluation and recommendations.
Sub-component 3.4 - Road Traffic Safety - US$420,000
17.   The project will support an extensive and coordinated approach of road traffic safety. The road
traffic accident situation is already serious in Hubei province, and traffic growth makes safety a problem
-45 -



of increasing importance to tackle in a systematic way. NH3 and NH4 projects have concentrated on
building foundations. They support a multi-pronged program focusing on institutional improvements,
training and development of guidelines and methods to better incorporate safety concerns in the design of
project and the management of roads, as follows:
*   creation in HPCD of a specialized Road Traffic Safety Unit in order to ensure that safety
concerns are fully taken into account in all stages of highway development and management;
* development and testing of manual and checklists on low cost safety measures in
maintenance works, road safety at work sites and safety audit procedures in road design and
planning;
*   development and testing of a model for a pilot road safety program (identification and
remedy of black spots), documentation of good examples and introduction of proved
principles for organizations in charge;
*   organization of annual seminars on road safety with the support of the Hubei Province
Highway Academy. Three have been organized since 1999, and were largely attended by
both provincial Communication Bureaus and Public Security Bureaus at all levels; and
*   development and testing of an Accident Analysis System on NR107, on the basis of a model
designed by Hunan province under the bi-provincial NH4 project.
18.   One of the major concerns of HPCD is to institutionalize road safety practices and operations.
Accordingly, the new project will support (i) a more comprehensive and better coordinated approach of
road safety issues, mobilizing provincial and local institutions around road safety activities, and (ii) the
generalization of black spot treatment province wide, with the following components:
Institutionalization of a road safety agenda (Road Safely Unit)
Under the new project, the Road Safety Unit will move from the phase of development and testing of
procedures/manuals on safety audits at design and construction stage to their implementation, on the new
project as well as on existing roads. HPCD considers road safety is at the heart of its activities. It will
assist the Hubei Provincial Safety Council, responsible for the overall coordination on safety issues in
Hubei province, to develop a long-term road safety action plan. During project preparation, meetings
with the Council showed that the development of a comprehensive road safety agenda for HPCD
activities under the guidance of the Council would create a good opportunity for an increased
cooperation on common safety objectives with other provincial departments. In addition, a model for
road safety village programs will be developed under the Road Safety Unit coordination and tested in
three locations, in order to spread the benefits of traffic safety programs in the countryside and not limit
them to the main cities and people close to highways. The project will finance a study to prepare the
action plan, estimated at US$160,000.
1. Action plan and intraprovincial coordination
Outputs:  - A long Term (2002-2006) road safety action plan within the field of road traffic
safety, covering the entire province and involving various province level entities
through coordinated actions.
Outcome: - Increased efficiency in road traffic safety initiatives and understanding among
concemed organizations, reduced number of accidents.
Indicators: - Joint meetings led and coordinated by the Provincial Safety Council.
- 46 -



- Proposed activities under the responsibility of provincial main actors e.g.
HPCD-HPHAB, the Police Traffic Department, or other province departments.
- Agreed long term road safety action plan with coordinated activities.
- Activities carried out in accordance with the plan.
2. Establishment of three Traffic Safety Villages
Outputs:  - Report on the establishment of three Traffic Safety Villages.
Outcome: - Increased road safety in the Villages through higher awareness of adequate
behavior in traffic.
Indicators: - Selection of villages.
- Planned activities.
- People, schools and factories informed and trained and an agreement reached on
the concept.
- Progress reports.
Accident Analysis System (AAS)
Under the new project, the AAS developed and tested during NH4 would be applied on various classes of
roads, and eventually all over the province. It is a very useful tool on road safety work for both HPCD
and the Traffic Police, providing information for the preparation and management of the black spot
treatment program. The action plan supported by the project will entail the following:
*   additional tests on several roads and road classes;
*   evaluation of results and proposal for generalization;
*   training and distribution of hardware and software; and
*   stepwise implementation of the system with the testing of three roads in each prefecture by 2006,
followed by the extension to at least 50% of all national and provincial roads within six years.
Under the project, HPCD would finance the preparation and evaluation of the generalization estimated at
US$130,000.
Outputs:  - Operational Accident Analysis System jointly used by the Traffic Police and
HPCD.
Outcome: - A useful tool to locate and analyze the most accident-prone spots on the road
network in the Province.
Indicators: - Initial test carried out on the Shaogan section of NH 107.
- AAS used and evaluated on three roads in each prefecture, and policy proposed.
- Distribution of software and data input, and training of people concerned in the
province.
- By the end of 2006, the tests and evaluation would be carried out and six years
thereafter 50% of all national and provincial roads covered by the AAS.
- Evaluation report
Generalization of a black spot treatment program.
The new project intends to support the generalization of the black spot treatment model developed under
NH3 and the inclusion of road safety programs in annual highway maintenance programs. A stepwise
implementation has been agreed with HPCD, with the collection and analysis of accident data on national
- 47 -



and provincial roads in all prefecture in the first phase, including the prioritization of black spot
treatments across the province and a comprehensive action plan in three selected prefectures where a
black spot treatment program will be identified, planned and implemented by using the model developed
under NH3. In the second phase, a province wide policy on black spot planning, financing and treatment
and on training of HHAB staff will be developed from lessons learned with the first phase. The project
will finance the prioritization of black spots and the preparation of the comprehensive plan with a study
estimated at US$130,000.
Outputs:  Phase 1
- Accident data on all national and provincial roads in all prefectures.
- Prioritizing of black spots.
- A comprehensive black spot treatment program on the national and provincial
highways in the three selected prefectures.
- Implementation.
Phase 2
- Training of staff concerned within HHAB throughout the Province.
- Recommendations and decision on black spot planning, financing, implementation
and evaluation of effects.
Outcome: - Reduced number of accidents.
- Inproved know how on how to integrate road safety in Highway Maintenance work
to make it a routine and a standard component of the highway maintenance plan.
Indicators: Phase I
- Progress reports on accident data collection.
- Report on the prioritization model and results.
- Implementation of a black spot treatment in the three selected prefectures.
Phase 2
- Training of concerned people.
- Decision on a comprehensive Policy.
Sub-component 3.5 - Equipment - US$8.73 million
19.   The equipment program takes into account the equipment procured under the previous Bank
financed highway projects or by HPCD over the past few years for the strengthening of the road agency
capability and the operation of new expressways. NH3 and NH4 projects, for example, include
equipment for the operation and maintenance of Dawu-Shenshan-Baoxie, Quanli-Yongan and
Zhengdian-Tucheng Expressways. However, they cannot be moved to XXE and specific equipment is
needed in order to ensure proper operations and good quality services to users. Accordingly the new
project includes the procurement of equipment for: (i) the control of construction quality and monitoring
of the environment; (ii) operation and maintenance of XXE after its opening to traffic; and (iii) the
institutional strengthening of HPCD and provincial road agencies. The list of equipment has been agreed
upon with the Bank and is available in the Project files.
-48 -



i                       firlt |tX 5 ffi | }'' a | }tt X ~E 
530             t  f03  p  jit ;XtEl[ MM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
}4 i0?k At thtEgE                                                               It
s   i ] 11 |  } Xr lil i  1t [1{} |  i  13 {1  1  Q   13Efl 11  1 lXiX 0 i'  !l! lI  g ; 



Annex 2.2: Summary of the Training Program
Domestic Training        Overseas Training              Overses Tour          Total Cost
Scope                                                                                                USS
Person-  Cost (USS)  No. of   Person-  Cost (USS)  No. of  Person   Cost (USS)
month                 e       month Dcnnp__        erson   month
Project preparation and
management
Construction Management         8        7,200                                    6        3        32,700     39,900
Engineering supervision         168     151,200                                                       ,        151,200
Environment Protection         59.5     55,000       6        6       45,000                                   100,000
Resettlement                    100     90,000       6        6       45,000      5        2.5      27,100     162,100
Project Management                                   6        6       45,000          _                        45,000
Quality Management              16      14,400       6        6       45,000                                   59,400
E&M works                       16       14,400                                   6        3        32,700     47,100
Highway sector management                                                     _
Road Traffic Safety             16      14,400       4        4       30,000      5        2 5      27,100     71,500
Highway Maintenance             16      14,400       6        6       45,000                                   59,400
Operation Management            20      18,000                                                                 18 ODO
Institutional Activities
Managcment System               20       18,000                                                                18,000
Contract Management                                  7        7       52,500                                   52,500
Training Management                                                                6        3       32,700     32,700
Financial Management                                 6        6       45,000       6        3       32,700     77,700
Human Resources Management                           6        6       45,000                                   45,000
Teacher's training               6       5,500                                                         _        5,500
Total                          445.5    402,500      53       53      397,500     34       17    1 185,000     985,000
-50 -



Annex 23: Overall Implementation Schedule
2 200 1 2002 2003 2004 2005 200                                2007
Civil Works
Expressway section
Interconnecting Roads
Buildings of monagenenmt and maintne.
s5rvice ama and toll station
Rural Road improvement (14 stage)
E&M works                                                                                  -
Construction supervision                                                                   -
Equipment
Equipment procurement for center
lab, environment
Equipment procurement for
maintenance & operation                                    -
Equipment for institutional
strengthening
Training                                           i_l__                 _
Nomial training
Supervision training
Institutional development
Action plan for road safety unit 
Maintenance competition study          _        _                          .
Expressway shareholding corp.          _____
Study on overloading vehicles
Remedy plan for black spots
Establishing road training center     _____
Applicant for AIS _
Pre-qualification/ preparation of bidding documentsl TOR
Bidding processlemployment
Constructionlsupervision/disbursement
Defects liability period
Training/ technical assistance/road safety
-51 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Hubel Xlaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project
Local         Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                      US$ million    US$ million   US$ million
L Xiaogan Xiangfan Expressway
- XXE civil works                                                238.65        190.96         429.61
- Buildings and annex areas                                       13.62           3.41          17.03
- O&M equipment works                                              2.33          9.31          11.64
- Connecting roads                                                 9.89          4.24          14.13
- Construction supervision                                        14.10           1.90         16.00
- Land Acquisition                                                74.00          0.00          74.00
IL Rural Road Improvement Program                                  50.00          10.00          60.00
mI. Institutfonal Development and Road Sector Management
- Training                                                         0.40          0.58           0.98
- Training Center and Highway management                           0.70          0.00           0.70
- Road traffic safety  ,                                           0.42           0.00          0.42
- Equipment                                                        4.06           4.33          8.39
Total Baseline Cost                                               408.17         224.73         632.90
Physical Contingencles                                            19.93          13.87          33.80
Price Contingencies                                               12.78           8.90          21.68
Total Project Costs'    440.88         247.50        688.38
Front-end fee                     2.50          2.50
Total Financing Required     440.88         250.00         690.88
Note 1: Identifiable taxes and duties are 13.85 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 677.06 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost
sharing ratio is 36.92 % of total project cost net of taxes.
Local         Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Category                      US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                               4.18           4.55           8.73
Works                                                              346.41        240.39         586.80
Services                                                            15.89           1.98         17.87
Training                                                             0.40          0.58           0.98
Resettlement                                                       74.00           0.00          74.00
Total Project Costs'    440.88         247.50         688.38
Front-end fee                     2.50          2.50
Total Financing Required     440.88         250.00         690.88
Note 2: Costs include contingencies.
- 52 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: Hubei Xlaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured In monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows    -           -       FIscal Impact
Economic       Financial-Analysis   .
,______,,_.             Analysis                               Taxes           Subsidies
Benef Its:                  40,599.3          24,648.1            6,472.9
Yuan millon
Costs:                       5,855.3            8,017.5
Yuan million                                                _
Net Benefits:               34,744.0           16,630.6           6,472.9
Yuan millon
iRR:                            20.7                4.6
In %               __________________                        _______
I_1: The value of financial benefits is less than that of econormic benefits because of controls on the toll charges (for the
expressway) and non revenue entities (for the roads under RRIP).
/_2: Present value of flows are not discounted.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Suummary of Benefits and Costs:
The overall EIRR of the project (including XXE and the three identified rural roads) estimated
by using HDM-IlI model is at 20.7 percent and the NPV (12%) is 4,627.3 Yuan million. The breakdown
by components and sections is as follows:
Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
EIRR (in %)   NPV (Yuan million, 12%)
Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expresswav (XXE):
Section 1: Xiaogan - Anlu              26.0              1,395.6
Section 2: Anlu - Suizhou              18.4               715.3
Section 3: Suizhou - Zaoyang           18.4               880.8
Section 4: Zaoyang - Xiangfan          20.9               980.3
Subtotal                   20.7             4.499.7
Rural Road Improvement Program (RREP)    23.0               127.6
Total                     20.7             4,627.3
Main Assumptions:
Preface
1.      The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two project components:
0   construction of the 243.5 km long Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway (XXE); and
-53-



*   upgrading of the three rural roads (total 259 km) in low income areas included in the first phase
of the Rural Road Improvement Program in poor counties (RRIP).
2.     The analysis is based on actual and forecasted data on traffic volume, vehicle operating costs
(VOC), economic project cost and benefits to transport users. The main inputs and assumptions for the
evaluation are:
*   capital investment and maintenance costs, reflecting May 2002 prices;
*   the benefit stream, also reflecting May 2002 prices, that comprises savings in VOC and travel
time and a reduction in accident costs;
*   a capital investment period during 2002-2005, depending on the road being evaluated, and an
evaluation of benefits over 20 years; and
*   full benefits starting to accrue in 2006 for XXE, and 2004 or 2005 for the rural roads (depending
on the road).
3.     This Annex comprises three parts: Part I is the economic evaluation of XXE; Part II is the
economic evaluation of the three rural roads under the RRIP; and Part lll is the overall economic
evaluation of the project, including a probabilistic risk analysis.
PART I: XIAOGAN - XIANGFAN EXPRESSWAY
4.     For evaluation purpose, the XXE has been further divided into four sections:
Length of the     Length of the new
existing road (kn)  expressway (kn)
Section 1: Xiaogan (Wuhan) - Anlu  56.1              46.3
Section 2: Anlu - Suizhou         61.6               57.6
Section 3: Suizhou - Zaoyang      81.0               72.8
Section 4: Zaoyang - Xiangfan     69.7               66.8
Total                  268.4              243.5
Highway Expansion Plan -Justification for Investment
5.     Overview - Hubei province is a large inland basin located in the South central region of China.
The Yangtze River flows from West to East and is joined by the Hanshui River (the largest tributary of
the Yangtze River) at Wuhan - the provincial capital - in the eastern part of the province. Its central
inland location with the Yangtze River makes the Hubei province (185,900 sq. kin) a major transport hub
for both East-West and North-South bound transport in South central China. This is particularly true for
the city of Wuhan, where all the major long distance transport modes (highways, railways, inland
waterways and air transport) in South central China converge. Hubei's major economic activities occur
in a corridor stretching from East to North, the path of the proposed XXE that will link four metropolitan
cities: Wuhan, Xiaogan, Suizhou and Xiangfan (a northern city). Total served land area will be about a
quarter (25.1%) of the province, inhabited by over one third (36.0%) of the population and generates
almost half (46.9%) of the provincial GDP.
6.     Currently, Government of China (GOC) is planning to link China's inland cities with the major
rivers and/or seaports by two vertical highways, two horizontal highways, three main highway corridors
-54 -



and 8 national access roads by the year 2020. As a part of this plan, the Wuhan- Zigui expressway, a
section of the Shanghai - Chongqing national expressway (horizontal), which runs through the center of
the Hubei province, has already been completed. In addition, two vertical expressways, doubling
existing highways, also go through the province. One is the Wuhan-North Border in the East (opened in
the year 2001), that includes NH3, and the other, still under construction, is the Xiangfan - Jingzhou
Expressway that will open in 2004. The proposed XXE, stretching diagonally from East to North, will
link both the expressways and parallel highways. Furthermore, it is a part of one of the planned eight
national access roads from Yinchuan (Ningxia province) to Xi'an (Shaanxi province). The Xiangfan -
Shiyan section doubling NR316 is under construction in Hubei and will open to traffic in 2004. Once all
sections are completed, the itinerary will provide the shortest land transport route between Wuhan and
Xi'an, the gateway city to western China. Given the importance of XXE corridor in the local economy
and the role of this expressway in Hubei road network, the proposed project has the highest priority in
Hubei's regional highway development plan. The economic evaluation is based on project impacts on
traffic in served areas of the Hubei province with the road network at the time of its opening. However,
longer term and longer distance (out of Hubei province) impacts are not taken into consideration.
Level and Timing of Investment
7.     Motorized traffic on NR316, the existing highway in the project corridor, increased on average
by 15.5 percent per year between 1995-2000; it reached 7,100-9,900 motorized vehicles per day
throughout its length by the year 2000. Non-motorized and other traffic (bicycles, animal carts, small
farm tractors and motorcycles etc) add about 800-1,200 vehicles per day. Even with a modest projected
6.0 percent annual growth, motorized traffic alone on this highway corridor would reach between 10,200
- 14,200 vehicles per day by the year 2006, the planned opening year. As the current design capacity of
NR316 is 4,200 vehicles per day - a limit that was exceeded even prior to 2000, the optimum timing is
to construct the new road as quickly as possible.
Section 1    Section 2    Section 3    Section 4
Xiaogan -     AnIu -      Sulzbou -    Zaoyang -
Aniu        Suizhou      Zaoyang     Xianfan
Road Class (old road / new road)  U1/ Exp.      11/ Exp.     1 /Exp.      11/ Exp.
Road Condition (old road / new road)  Fair/ Good  Fair / Good  Fair / Good  Fair / Good
Terrain (old road / new road)      Flat / Flat  Flat / Hilly  Flat / Flat  Flat / Flat
Capacity (AADT/day) (old road / new road)  4.2001 25.000  4,200/ 25.000  2,200/ 25,000  4,200/ 25,000
Motorized Traffic - 2000 (AADT/day)  9,900       7,200        7,100       8,500
Year for Capacity                 Before 2000  Before 2000  Before 2000  Before 2000
Proposed Opening Year             Dec. 2005     Dec. 2005    Dec. 2005   Dec. 2005
Highway Corridor Traffic
8.      Estimates of base year traffic were made on the basis of routine traffic counts and a
comprehensive origin and destination (O/D) survey that took place on March 2000 (updated in May
2001). Projections of normal, generated and diverted traffic were made for 37 zones on the basis of a
conventional growth model. The traffic on the proposed XXE includes diversion from the existing road
(NR316, Wuhan - Shiyan - Xian), but not the traffic that might be diverted from NR312 (a North parallel
road in Henan province). Based on the facts that (a) the growth of total traffic (11.0%) in Hubei is lower
than the growth of total GDP (12.3%) in 1995 - 2000, and (b) the economic growth is expected to be over
7.0% during the 10th five year plan (2001-2005), the projected tiaffic growth rate in the project corridor
will be an overall 6.0 percent per year between 2000-2006, 5.2 percent between 2006-2015, and 4.4
percent between 2015-2025. The overall traffic growth rates are summarized as follows:
- 55 -



Annual Traffic Growth Rate: The XXE
Car     Bus & Truck   Averaae
Actual:  1995-2000     20.8%      13.9%        15.5%
Projection: 2000-2006   6.8%       5.7%        6.0%c
2006-2015      6.2%       4.9%        5.2%
2015-2025      5.5%       3.9%        4.4%
Alternatives
9.     The XXE feasibility study considered and compared three alternative route alignments on the
basis of costs, benefits, service to local cities and relationship to future econornic development. The
other major criteria for the selection of an alternative were to seek an alignment that would: (a) avoid the
interference with other existing facilities (such as railways, highways, power supplies, dams and channels
etc), (b) avoid large amounts of house demolition, acquisition of farm land and orchards, and (c)
coordinate the local terrain and geology to reduce the construction cost. The preferred alignment was
selected because of its least overall cost, higher EIR, and better coordination with the local economic
development plan and local transport networks. Details are available in the feasibility study reports.
Traffic on the Expressway
10.    The new highway is planned to become operational in December 2005. Based on the
information provided by the O/D survey and the feasibility study, the diversion ratios were calculated by
using financial VOC for the road users, with the impacts of the level of proposed tolls on the new
highway, travel distance, and experience from other recently Bank financed highways in China. The
results of the analysis indicate that between 50 - 68 percent of the motorized traffic in 2006, depending
on the road section, may be diverted to the new highway. This proportion will increase to 60 - 77 percent
by the year 2015. The traffic diversion is expected to increase linearly in the first ten years and stabilize
thereafter. Traffic forecasts also estimate that the bulk of traffic will be generated by the area directly
served by CXE. The linking East-West and North-South bound expressways at Xiangfan would generate
less than 25 percent of vehicle-volume.
11.   Traffic generated by the new highway is assumed to be 10 percent of the basic traffic. This
assumption is consistent with all other recent expressway projects in China. No diversion of traffic from
the railway to the new highway has been taken into account, although there is an existing single track
railway line between Xiaogan and Xiangfan (412.5 km). This is because the railway undertakes mainly
long distance low valued bulk freight transport with a different O/D from the highway, which mainly
services local transport (the average freight transport distance for the railway in 2000 for Hubei was
1,154.6 kan compared with 38.5 km for road freight transport). In addition, a much higher highway tariff
also does not encourage traffic diversion from the railway (highway tariff is about RMB 0.40 per ton-km
compared with about RMB 0.10 per ton-km for railway). The highway corridor traffic forecast, by
sections, is summarized as follows:
- 56 -



Normal Traffic, by Sections (AADT)
~Secdonk I Secdon2    Secdon 3  Sccon4
Daogan -    AnJu -    Suizhou -  Zaoyang -
AnIu      Suizhou   Zaoyang    Xianfan
Total corridor trafric  2000  9,910      7,226      7,137     8,476
2006    14,286     10,416     10,276    11,527
2015    23,046     16,,803    16,323    17,532
2025    36,407     26,540     24,857    25,428
Total XXE traffic    2006     7,171      6,953      6,993     7,164
2015    13,863     12,885     11,104    12,643
2025    21,874     20,327     16,905    18,328
Traffic diversion (in %)  2006  50.2     66.8       68.1      62.1
2015     60.2       76.7       68.0      72.1
2025     60.2       76.7       68.0      72.1
Economic Costs
12.    Investment costs have been converted to economic costs by eliminating price contingencies,
taxes, custom duty on imported materials and by applying a shadow price factor. The resulting overall
economic cost is about 95% of financial cost.
Economic Benefits
13..   Project benefits were estimated by using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
(HDM-M). The economic analysis includes benefits derived from: (a) VOC savings on the new highway
for normal and generated traffic, (b) time savings through relieved congestion on the existing road, and
(c) lower accident costs. Benefits resulting from the lower level of congestion were also quantified. The
value of passenger time savings was estimated at 2.0 Yuan per passenger-hour, on the basis of updated
values from a report on feasibility study methodology for highways in China (Rust PPK. Australia
Feasibility Study Methodology Report, March 1996). The table below presents the basic vehicle
characteristics and typical road user costs used for running HDM-I.
- 57 -



Vehicle Fleet Characteristics and Unit Road User Costs
Small  Large  Small Medium Heavy
Car    Bus    Bus   Truck   Truck  Truck Trailer
Vehicle Characteristics
Gross vehicle weight (tons):       1.20  2.50    8.00   1.60    5.00  10.00  16.00
Number of tires                      4      4      6      4       6      6     18
Number of passengers(#):             5      5     35 -    0       0      0      0
Service life (years):               12     12     12     12      12      12    10
Kilometers driven per year (km):  30,000 50;000 70,000 40,000  50,000 50,000 55,000
Hours driven per year (hours):    1,000  1,600  2,300  1,300   1,600  1,600  1,800
Economic Costs
New vehicle price (Yuan):       160,000 100,000 162,000 37,000  59,000 185,000 264,000
One new tire price (Yuan):         630    630   1,260   720    1,260  2,060  2,240
Fuel price (Yuan / liter):         2.49   2.49   2.76   2.49    2.49   2.76   2.76
Lubricants price (Yuan/iter):      12.6   12.6   12.6   12.6    12.6   12.6   12.6
Maintenance labor cost (Yuan/hour):  2.40  2.40  3.50   4.70    7.50  11.80  19.30
Driver wages (Yuan/hour):         0.00    4.62   9.23   9.23    9.23   9.23   9.23
Time costs (Yuan/hour):           2.00    2.00   2.00   2.00    2.00   2.00   2.00
Interest Rate (%)                   10     10     10      10      10     10     10
Tvpical Road User Costs (Yuan per veh-kin)
New Expressway                     1.31   0.92   2.33   0.66    1.14   2.14   3.06
Class 2 Roads (1250 AADT)          2.06   1.74   4.97   1.16    1.86   3.68   5.18
Class 2 Roads (5000 AADT)          2.09   1.75   5.03   1.17    1.88   3.70   5.19
Class 2 Roads (10000 AADT)         2.16   1.81   5.20   1.21    1.93   3.75   5.24
Class 2 Roads (20000 AADT)         2.59   2.18   6.36   1.51    2.37   4.24   5.82
Class 2 Roads (30000 AADT)         3.33   2.82   8.36   2.01    3.13   5.08   6.80
RIP Roads Without Project          2.99   2.30   5.87   1.47    2.74   6.82   8.70
RIP Roads With Project             2.38   1.92   5.18   1.26    2.04   3.99   5.57
Economic Evaluation
14.      Total costs and benefits streams, the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EiRR) and the Net
Present Value (NPV) for each section of the expressway were calculated by using the HDM-IlI model.
The overall EIRR for the XXE is estimated at 20.7 percent, with the following results for each road
section:
Economic Evaluation of XXE
EIRR (in %)     NPV (12%, Yuan million)
Xiaogan - Anlu             26.0                1,395.6
Anlu-Suizhou               18.4                 71-5.3
Suizhou - Zaoyang          18.4                 880.8
Zaoyang - Xiangfan         20.9                 980.3
Whole route           20.7                4.499.7
15.      The distribution of the estimated benefits shows that (a) the main beneficiaries are the road users
on this highway corridor, (b) trucks will receive 49.0 percent of the project benefits, while cars will
receive 29.7 percent and bus passengers 17.9 percent. Those latter benefits are more likely to accrue to
lower income people. The breakdown of benefits is as follows:
-58 -



Distribution of the Project Benefits (Yuan million)
Road user  Road agency   Society
Total benefits         8,771.0    (4,271.2)    4,499.7
By vehicles:
Cars            Buses       Truicks    Trailers    Total
2,606.4          1,568.8     4,300.7     295.1     8,771.0
29.7%            17.9%       49.0%       3.4%     100.0%
Sensitivity Analysis
16.     The basic evaluation of the project, by section and on the whole, shows that the selected
alignment is economnically viable. The sensitivity tests with respect to a two-year delay in project
completion, zero value of time, no generated traffic and lower traffic projection on the new highway
confirm this result.
Sensitivity Tests on the Economic Evaluation of XXE
EIRR (%)     NPV (12 %, Yuan million)
Delay in completion by two years         18.1               3,438.0
Zerovalueoftine                          19A                3,713.3
Zero generated traffic                   20.1               4,143.4
Lower traffic projection                 17.4               2,394.6
Switching values                         % increase
Cost increase to reduce EIRR to 12%                  205 %
Benefit reduction to reduce EIRR to 12%              48.6%
17.     In addition, sensitivity tests with variations in the costs and benefits of the project indicate that
the conditions for the project's viability to fall below the minimum acceptable, e.g. a negative NPV by
using a 12 percent discount rate or an EIRR lower than 12 percent, are unlikely to occur. Benefits would
have to fall to less than 48.6 percent of those in the base case with no change in costs, or costs would
have to increase to more than 2.05 times those of the base costs, or costs would have to increase by 135
percent and benefits to fall to 66 percent at the same time. The results of sensitivity tests (EIRR in %) to
cost and benefit variation are summarized below:
Sensitivity of Evaluation Results (EIRR in %) to Cost and Benefit Variation
Variation                           variation in benefits
in costs      120%      110%      100%       90%      80%      70%       60%
80%       26.8%     25.4%     23.9%     22.3%     20.7%    18.9%    16.9%
90%       24.9%     23.6%     22.1%     207%      19.1%    17.4%     15.5%
100%      23.3%      220%      20.7%     19.2%     17.7%    16.1%    14.3%
110(%      21.9%     20.7%     19.4%     18.0%     16.5%    14.9%    13.2%
120%      20.7%      19.5%     18.2%     16.9%     15.5%    14.0%    12.3%
130%       19.6%     18.4%     17.2%     15.9%     14.6%    13.1%  1  11.4%
140%       18.6%     17.5%     16.3%     15.1%     13.7%    12.3%  J 10.7%
150%       17.7%     16.6%     15.5%     14.3%     13.0%  1 11.6%    10.0%
PART IT: RURAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (RRIP)
Selection of RRIP and Traffic
18.     The identified projects in the RRIP consist of three rural roads located in two western districts
(Shiyan and Enshi) that have been classified by the provincial government as the poorest areas in the
province. In 2000, the total land size of these two districts constituted about a quarter (25.7 percent) of
- 59 -



the total provincial area, they were inhabited only by about one eighth (12.1 percent) of the total
provincial population, and produced about only one fourteenth (7.0 percent) of the total provincial GDP.
In 2000, the GDP per capita for these two districts was at 4,160 Yuan, only 58 percent of the overall
provincial average (RMB 7,190). The three proposed roads are all located in mountainous areas, and are
in a poor condition with rough unpaved road surfaces and steep road slopes (8 - 14 percent). They are
inaccessible during several days during the rainy or the snow season. Some sections use the existing river
bed as a roadway - a practice that lengthens the travel time and distance The main objective of the RRIP
is to upgrade existing unclassified or class IV roads to Class Im or Class IV roads with adequate
pavement. The total length of identified projects in the RRIP is 259 kin; their main characteristics are
listed below:
Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP)
Length    TraMfic    Road class  Maxi. slope
(hn)    (AADT,2000)  (Old/new)  (Old/new)
1. Tunbao - Banqiao Road    64       355         IV / II   14%/ 8%
2. Changwan - Shihuiyao Road  94      222      Unclass. / IV  12%1 9%
3. Quanxi-Xinmatou Road     101       288        IV/In       8%18%
Total           259
19.    The current traffic level for these three roads is in the range of 220 - 350 AADT. Since all three
roads are located in the same region, the local economic development and traffic patterns are quite
similar. Based on the actual traffic levels and local economic growth rates, traffic growth rates have been
conservatively estimated to be 4.0 - 4.5 percent during 2000-2005, reduced by 0.5 percent for each of the
5 years from 2005-2025. In these less densely populated rural areas, it is assumed that there is no
generated traffic.
Economic Costs and Benefits
20.     Financial costs have been converted to econornic costs by using the same method and factors as
for XXE, with the following results:
Financial and Economic Cost For RRIP (Yuan million)
Financial   Economic  Construction period
I.  Tunbao - Banqiao Road       41.58       39.47       2002 - 2004
2.  Changwan - Shihuiyao Road   55.11        52.31      2002 - 2004
3.  Quanxi - Xinnatou Road      52.71        50.03      2002 - 2004
Total             149.40      141.81
21.     As for XXE evaluation, the 11DM-Il model was used to quantify economic costs and analyze
benefits on each road. The main evaluated benefits would be reduced VOCs through the provision of a
better road surface, and the associated upgrading of road Class would also result in higher traffic speeds,
improvement of road roughness index and a shorter average transport distance ensured by all-weather
conditions.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
22.     The best estimates of EIRRs for the three local roads range from 18.5 percent to 27.7 percent.
The overall EIRR and NPV (12 percent) for the RRIP is 23.0 percent and RMB i27.6 million
respectively.
-60-



EIRR and NPV Summary for RRIP
EIRR (in %)   NPV (12%, Yuan million)
1.   Tunbac - Banqiao Road         27.7               43.4
2.   Changwan - Shihuiyao Road      18.5              25.5
3.   Quanxi -Xinmatou Road         25.4               58.6
Total                23.0              127.6
23.    The risks considered for economic evaluation are:
*   slower than projected growth of traffic;
*   higher than projected cost of civil works; and
*   less than expected VOC savings.
All these risks were analyzed through sensitivity tests and the evaluation results were found to be robust
for all of them. For the project component to be non-acceptable (i.e. an EIRR lower than 12 percent or a
nil NPV), the benefits would have to fall to less than 54 percent of those in the base case with no change
in costs, or the costs would have to increase to more than 1.85 times those of the base costs, or the costs
would have to increase by 130 percent and the benefits fall to 70 percent at the same time.
24.     Additional benefits, not included in the EIRR calculation, expected from the projects are:
increase in the income of local farmers who live along the roads because of better access to town
markets and jobs; the better paved and all-weathered roads would increase accessibility to schools and
hospitals. The quantifiable beneficiaries for the three roads are estimated at (a) about 3,500 extra
children attending school (18 percent of 19,480 children in the directly served areas) and (b) 28,510 extra
people attending health services (24.8 percent of 115,000), of which 17.9 percent are local minorities.
Benefits for each project as follows:
The Extra Benefits for RRIP
Extra children  Extra people  Minority as %
attending    attending   of the total local
school    health services  population
1. Tunbao - Banqiao Road     1,400        10,700         24.2
2. Changwan - Shihuiyao Road  1,200        10,960         25.9
3. Quanxi - Xininatou Road     900         6,850
Total             3,500        28,510         17.9
PART m: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
25.     The overall EIRR of the project (including XXE and the three identified rural roads) is 20.7
percent and the NPV (12 percent) is RMB 4,627.3 million. The overall EIRR of the project resulting
from calculations of using HDM-I, is summarized as follows:
- 61 -



Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
EIRR (in %)   NPV (Yuan million, 12%)
Xiaogan - Xiangrfa Expressway (XXEI:
Section 1: Xiaogan - Anlu             26.0             1,395.6
Section 2: Anlu -Suizhou              18.4               715.3
Section 3: Swzhou - Zaoyang           18.4               880.8
Section 4: Zaoyang - Xiangfan         20.9               980.3
Subtotal                  20.7             4,499.7
Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP)   23.0               127.6
Total                    20.7             4,6273
Project Risks
26.     All sections of the XXE and RRIP show acceptable economic returns.      HPCD has vast
experience in the construction and operation of expressways and rural road projects, thereby minimizing
the technical risks associated with the implementation of the project. The main tangible risk is that of
prolonged delays affecting the construction schedule. This will be tested through the probabilistic risk
analysis to estimate the degree of uncertainty on the project.
Probabilistic Risk Analysis for Economic Evaluation of XXE
27.     To determine the degree of uncertainty on the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte
Carlo techniques was carried out. In Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor is allowed to vary at
random between set limits and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. Monte
Carlo simulation provides probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing
these distributions, we can assess the risk associated with making various decisions (or probabilistic risk
analysis). The outcome of the analysis is a judgment on the possible range of the decision variable, and
on the likelihood of each value within this range.
28.     As the capital cost of the identified rural roads constitutes only about 2.8 percent of total capital
investment and their EIRR is higher than XXE return, the probabilistic risk analysis for the project is
focused on the construction of XXE. The highest uncertainty factors associated with the economic
evaluation of XXE have been identified as follows: (a) traffic growth rate, (b) traffic diversion ratio to
the new expressway, (c) the value of vehicle operating costs, (d) the changes of capital investment, and
(e) the delay of opening the new expressway by one year. The results of probabilistic risk analysis show
that the EIRR for the most likely scenario is 19.3 percent. The low scenario is 19.0 percent and the high
scenario is 19.5 percent. The standard error of the mean is 0.0 percent. The detailed results of the Monte
Carlo test and probabilistic risk analyses are shown in Appendix A and summarized as follows:
Summary of XXE Probabilistic Risk Analyses
Most likely  Standard Error
Range of EIRR     EIRR        of the Mean
Section 1: Xiaogan - Anlu     22.2% - 22.9%    22.6%         0.0%
Section 2: Anlu - Suizbou     16.0% - 16.5%    16.3%         0.0%
Section 3: Suizhou - Zaoyang  16.0% - 16.5%    16.3%         0.0%
Section4:Zaoyang -Xiangfan    18.1%- 18.7%     18.4%         0.0%
Total XXE            19.0% -19.5%     19.3%         0.0%
- 62 -



APPENDIX A
HUBEI PROVINCE: XIAOGAN - XIANGFAN EXPRESSWAY
EIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RISK ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Range is from 18.0% to 20.5% (in %)
Entire Range is from 18. 1% to 20.4% (in %)
After 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.0%
Statistics:                      Value      Percentiles:
Trials                       1000
Mean                       19.3%                       Percentile       (in %)
Median                     19.3%                             0%          18.1%
Mode                       19.3%                            10%          18.6%
Standard Deviation          0.5%       Low Scenario         20%          18.8%
Variance                    0.0%                            30%          19.0%
Skewness                    -0.10      Most Likely          40%          19.1%
Kurtosis                     2.37                     1     50%          19.3%
Coeff. of Variability        0.03      High Scenario        60%          19.4%
Range Minimum              18.1%               -            70%          19.5%
Range Maximum              20.4%                            80%          19.7%
Range Width                 2.3%                            90%          19.9%
Mean Std. Error            0.02%                           100%          20.4%
FoeacaEIRRa XXE,Tota Ptojoct
1,oOOTslais                     Fmquroy MM                             outler
25
.0   013                                                            125  A
4  0
'O 1l"^ l l i l fl l . 1lill. 1 8S Qi 
t&0%         1856%         193%         19%          205%
Traffic Growth Rate                          Traffic Diversion
Normal distribution with parameters:         Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                90.0%                    Mean               90.0%
Standard Dev.       20.0%                    Standard Dev.       15.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity  Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 89.6%           Mean value in simulation was 90.2%
VOC value                                    Capital Cost
Triangular distribution with parameters:     Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum             90.0%                    Minimum                          100.0%
Likeliest          100.0%                    Likeliest                        107.5%
Maximum            110.0%                    Maximum                          115.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%       Selected range is from 100.0% to 115.0%
Mean value in simulation was 99.9%           Mean value in simulation was 107.3%
- 63 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity Tests on the Economic Evaluation of XXE
EIRR (%)     NPV (12%, Yuan million)
Delay in completion by two years         18.1               3,438.0
Zero value of time                       19.4               3,713.3
Zero generated traffic                   20.1               4,143.4.
Lower traffic projection                 17.4               2,394.6
Switcing values                          % increase
Cost increase to reduce EIRR to 12%                  205 %
Benefit reduction to reduce EIRR to 12%              48.6 %
-64 -



Annex 5: Financial-Summary
CHINA: Hubei Xiaogan-Xlangfan Highway Project
Preface
1.     The financial evaluation of the project comprises three parts: Part I assesses the revenue earning
entity, Part 11 the non-revenue earning entity and Part III the financial capacity of HPCD to sustain
highway activities. Since XXE, designed as a toll road, is the only income generating component and its
cost constitutes about 97.5 percent of the total project cost, Part I will focus on XXE and Part II on the
RRIP. XXE funding will come from the Bank's loan (39.6 percent of financing at a 5 percent cost),
domestic bank loans (34.5 at a 6.36 percent cost) and grant capital (25.9 percent); an overall average cost
of capital at 5 percent is applied on the latter. The financial cost of the project (5.5 percent) is calculated
on the basis of the weighted average cost of the various sources of funds.
PART I: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF XXE
2.     HPCD is planning to open XXE to traffic in December 2005. An independent operation entity
has been established to operate XXE; it will be responsible for the day-to-day management, operation
and maintenance of the expressway. The main financial revenue of the XXE would be toll income from
road users; the government would control the toll charges.
The Financial Objective
3.     HPCD has clearly indicated that the purpose of the toll collection on XXE is to repay the
project's Bank and domestic loans, cover operating and non-operating expenses and cover routine
maintenance, instead of maximnizing the financial rate of return on the investment. Hence the toll levels
are set on the low side in financial forecasts. For 2006, the weighted average of the toll is estimated at
RMB 0.67 per vehicle-km, which is similar to the average toll charged on Bank financed expressways in
five other provinces in 2000. Toll charges are assumed to increase once every five years (30 percent or
an average of 5.4 percent per year).
Financial Forecasts
4.     Toll. The toll will be charged on the basis of vehicle size (small passenger cars, large buses,
small trucks, medium trucks, large trucks and trailers) and distance traveled. Toll exempted vehicles
(police, ambulance and mnilitary) are expected to account for 10 percent of total traffic. The proposed toll
charges are as follows:
Toil Charges (Yuan/ vehicle-km)
Small vehicle  Medium vehicle  Large vehicle  Heavy vehicle
0.40 .       0.80          1.00         1.20
5.           Overations. The operating costs of XXE can be broken down between working costs
(a. wages and benefits, b. maintenance, c. operating materials and supplies, d. administration, e. others)
and depreciation. All other expenses, including interest payments on the loans, are also taken into
account in the calculation of the XXE profitability.
- 65 -



6.     Profitabilitv. It is estimated that the expressway will generate enough revenue over the loan
period. - However, deficits may take place in the early years of operation (2008-2009) and also during the
year when major maintenance is planned (2015). The main reason for the deficits in 2008 and 2009 is
the debt service on the Bank's loan, the repayment of which will start in 2008 and yield financial
pressure on the XXE. Because of the low toll level assumptions, the net profit after tax for the first five
years (2006-2010) is low. (income statement, page 1 of 3, Appendix A).
7.     Cash flow. Although the toll assumption results in a low profitability, it will not affect the cash
flow of the XXE because of the large amount of depreciation reserves. In 2006, for example, the total
annual depreciation reserve (RMB 138.55 million) will represent about 3.4 times the total annual
working costs (RMB 41.04 million), thereby generating strong internal cash flow and providing
sufficient funds for the XXE's operations, including the Bank and local banks loan repayments and the
major maintenance costs. It is estimated that XXE will not require any external cash injection over the
life of the project (Sources and applications of funds, page 2 of 3, Appendix A).
8.     Leverage and Liouiditv. The low profitability- in the early years of operation and the high
proportion of loans (representing about 67 percent of the total project financing) will affect the financial
leverage of XXE. Consequently, the debt/ equity ratio and debt/ capital ratio (the financial leverage of the
company) will not be sound until 2016. But this will not affect the liquidity of XXE, as it is ensured by
the strong cash flow status. The current ratio will be in the sound range of 6.2 and higher, whereas the
current ratio should be at least 1.0 to avoid short-term solvency problems (Balance sheet, page 3 of 3,
Appendix A). In addition, HPCD has reiterated its full commitment to the expressway, guaranteeing its
financial viability, and releasing an official document to the Bank confirning its full financial support.
The major assumptions for the financial evaluation are shown in Appendix B.
9.     Financial Internal Rate of Return (F1RR). With the proposed toll levels, XXE should not
need any external cash injection. However, the low profit margin will impact the FIRR on the capital
investment. The financial evaluation shows that the FIRR is expected to be 4.6 percent. This return will
not change much if the opening of the XXE is delayed by one year (4.4 percent).
10.    Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis To determine the degree of financial uncertainty for the
project, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte Carlo techniques was carried out. The six most
uncertain factors which may affect the financial evaluation have been identified: (a) traffic growth rate,
(b) basic toll level, (c) toll charges growth rate (d) total working costs, (e) capital investment, and (f) one
year delay in the opening the expressway. The risk analysis reveals that the most likely FIRR would be
3.6 percent, while the worst and the best FIRR would respectively be 1.7 percent and 5.6 percent. Details
are in Appendix C and summarized as follows.
Summary of Financial Sensitivity and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Financial Sensitivity Tests  Financial Simulation and Risk Analysis
Open in   Open in        Range of    Mest Likly  Std. Errorod
Dec. 2005  Dec.2006      FIRR / NPV  FIRR / NYV  The Mean
FIRR (in %)             4.6       4.4          1.7 -5.6       3.6       0.12
NPV (5.5%, Yuan million)  - 567   - 539       -2,103 - 15   -1,188       66
Impact of the Toll Charge Level
11.    The level of tolls needs to satisfy two criteria: (a) generate enough revenue to obtain a higher
financial rate of return on investment, and (b) not to deter potential users and compromise economic
-66-



objectives. These criteria can be contradictory, since the former requires a higher toll while the latter
requires a lower one. The analysis shows that the overall average revenue from toll will be about RMB
0.67 per veh-km in 2006, which should generate the sufficient funds to service the loan. Sensitivity tests
to the level of tolls, taking into account a traffic elasticity to tolls, show that even at a toll of RMB 3.0 per
veh-km the FIRR would reach 16.2 percent but the EIRR remain in an acceptable range. Beyond this
rate, the EIRR falls rapidly while the FERR almost levels off. Furthermore, if all construction costs were
fully financed from debt and private equity, instead of being partially funded by a 25.9 percent
government grant, average tolls would need to be over RMB 3.0 per veh-km to repay the project debt and
generate an optimal FIRR to equity providers; and this toll level would substantially reduce the project's
economic benefits. The evaluation of the EIRR and FIRR at different toll levels are summarized as
follows:
Sensitivity of Evaluation Results to Variations in Toll Charges
Average Toll charges (Yuanlveh-km)  EIRR (%)  FIRR (1)
0.35                  21.8        -4.2
0.67                 20.7          4.6
1.00                  20.1         8.9
2.00                  18.9        14.9
3.00                  16.8        16.2
4.00                  14.2        14.5
5.00                  11.3         9.7
Toll Study Report
12.    The low toll level is the one of the main reasons causing the poor profitability of XXE in its early
years of operations. From a financial standpoint, limited toll increases would improve the FIRR of the
capital investment but a higher toll would also reduce traffic diversion to the expressway, which will
jeopardize the EIRR of the project. In order to determine the proper toll charges, HPCD has agreed to
undertake a toll study before XXE opens to traffic. The main purpose is to find toll levels that strike a
balance between FIRR optimization and economic efficienicy. The findings of the report will be applied
to set the effective toll on the new expressway.
PART II: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF RRIP
13.    Rural roads under RRIP are toll free roads. The financial evaluation of these non-revenue earning
projects will focus on HPCD capacity to minirnize financial risks, i.e. the lack of counterpart funds for
the construction, including the future operating expenses of the project roads.
14.    Regarding the overall RRIP, HPCD budget forecasts shows that the investment and maintenance
expenditures for the "toll-free" roads included in the project constitute only a small fraction of HPCD's
fund flow. Therefore the fiscal impact would be minimal. Based on HPCD plan, the capital investment
of RRIP is less than 0.8 percent of the annual total HPCD revenue. In addition, the required maintenance
expenditure of RRIP is less than 0.4 percent of the total maintenance expenditure of HPCD. These low
ratios indicate that the project presents a modest financial risk as regards the availability of a counterpart
fund for the construction and maintenance of the project roads. Details are shown in Appendix D of this
Annex and summarized as follows:
- 67 -



HPCD: Average Increase in the Road Network and
Road Maintenance Expenditures (in %)
9 FYP      1O0u FYP
Average annual increase in the road network      3.1        1.8
Average annual increase in maintnaance expenditures  8.7   3.8
HPCD: Investments, Revenue and Maintenance Expenditures (Yuan million)
2002      2003      2004     2005
Investments and Revenue:
RRIP Investments (a)                39.68    79.17      30.55      --
Total BPCD Revenue (b)           10,736.44  9,972.22  9,630.39  9,502.54
Ratios (ay(b)                       0.4%      0.8%      0.3%       --
Maintenance Expenditures:
RRIP (c)                              --        --        --     9.82
Total BPCD Maintenance Expenditure (d)  2,030.99  2,188.76  2,327.32  2,465.65
Ratios (c)/(d)                        --        -          --    0.4%
PART III: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF HPCD
15.    HPCD has provided its financing plan and forecasts on total revenue and expenditure during the
Ninth Five Year Plan (9th FYP, 1996 - 2000) and the Tenth Five Year Plan (10th FYP, 2001 - 2005).
Based on Hubei highway development plan, HPCD should acquire sufficient funds to finance yearly
increases in the length of the provincial road network and allocate resources for the maintenance of the
existing road network. In addition, a moderate self-financing ratio (38.7 percent for the 10th FYP) would
ensure the implementation of the development plan. This is an improvement from the 2000 ratio at 29.0
percent (actual data). The detailed sources of highway revenues and expenditures for 1996 - 2005 are
shown in Appendix D of this Annex.
16.    As regards the sustainability of road maintenance with allocated resources, the average yearly
increase in maintenance expenditures during the 9th FYP (8.7 percent) exceeded the growth of the road
network (3.1 percent), which means an increase in the average maintenance expenditure by km. The
trend should continue during the 10th FYP with percentages at respectively 3.8 percent and 1.8 percent.
-68 -



APPENDIX A
Page I of 3
Hubei Highway Project
Income Statement- XXE
(Yuan million, year ending 31 December)
2006   2007    2008   2009   2010   2011   2012    2013   2014    2015     2016
Traffic (million veh-km) /1  751.07 781.31  813.31  847.03 882.77 920.56 960.52 1002.83 1047.63 1095.13  1145.32
Revenue
Tolls                      501.07  521.13  542.34  564.64 588.20 797.09  831.27  867.39  905.59  946.00  1286.40
Others                          -              -       -         -          -      -       -       -     -
Total                      501.07  521.13  542.34  56464 588.20 797.09  831.27   867.39  905.59  946.00  1286,40
Oneratlna Taxes
Business tax                25.05   26.06   27.12  28.23  29.41  39.85  41.56   43.37  45.28   47.30   64.32
City tax                      1.75   1.82    1.90   1.98   2.06  2.79    2.91    3.04   3.17    3.31   4.50
Education levy               0.75    0.78    0.81   0.85   0.88   1.20   1.25    1.30    1.36   1.42   1.93
Total             275     28.66  29.8    31    32.35  4384    45.72  47 71   4981    52.03  70.75
Net Revenue                 473.52  492.47  512.51  533.58 555.85 753.25  785.55  819.68  855.78  893.97  1215.65
Oneratinm Costs
Wages and benefits           12.48  13.10   13.76  14.45  15.17  15.93  16.73   17.57   18.45  19.37   20.34
Maintenance                 24.30   25.51   26.78  28.12  29.52  31.00  32.56   34.18  35.90  565.28   39.57
Operating materials and supplies  2.43  2.55  2.68  2.81   2.95   3.10   3.26    3.42   3.59    3.77   3.96
Admnistration & management   0.62    0.66    0.69   0.72   0.76   0.80   0.84    0.88   0.92    0.97    1.02
Others t/                    1.21    1.28    1.34   1.41   1.48   1.55   1.63    1.71    1.79   1.88    1.98
Total working costs         41.04   43.10   45.25  47.51  49.88  52.38  55.02   57.76   60.65  591.27  66.87
Depreciation        138.55  138.55  138.56  138.57 138.77 138.97  139.19  139A1  139.65  143.38  143.64
Total operating costs      179.59  181.65  183.81  186.08 188.65 191.35  194.21  197.17  200.30  734.65  210.51
Ooeratine Ptt               293.93  310.82   328.70  347.50 367.20 561.90  591.34  622.51  655.48  159.32  1.005.14
Financial charges: IBRD         -       -  102.56  97.72  92.62  87.27  81.65   75.75   69.55  63.04   56.19
Local Bank  114.92  114.92 . 114.92  114.92 114.92 103.43  91.94  80.44  68.95  57.46  45.97
Otherincome (expenses)          -       - (13.38) (13.38) (13.38) (13.38) (13.38) (13.38) (13.38) (13.38)  (13.38)
Profit Before Taxes          179.01  195.90  97.84  121.48 146.28 357.82  404.37  452.94  503.60  2544  889.60
Income tax                  59.07   64.65   32.29  40.09  48.27 118.08  133.44  149.47  166.19  8.40  293.57
Net Profit After Taxes       119.94  131.25  65.55  81.39  98.01 239.74  270.93  303.47  337.41  17.04  596.03
/J: The highway will be opened to traffic on Dec. 2005.
tZ: Others: Including highway research, studies and mniscellaneous
-69 -



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 3
Hubei Highway Project
Sources and Applications of Funds- XXE
(Yuan million, year ending 31 December)
2002    2003   2004    2005   2006    2007    2008   2009    2010   2011    2012    2013   2014    2015    2016
Sources:
Net profits              -       -      -      -  119.94  131.25  65.55   81.39   98.01  239.74  270.93  303.47  337.41  17.04  596.03
Depreciation             -       -      -      -  138.55  138.55  138.56  138.57  138.77  138.97  139.19  139.41  139.65  143.38  143.64
State contribution  180.00  360.00 360.00  300.00      -      -       -       -      -       -              -               -      -
HPCD's
contribution         23.99   47.99  47.99  40.00       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -
Borrowing: IBRD     311.25  622.50 622.50  518.76              -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -
Local 271.04   542.07 542.07  451.72
Others                   -       -      -      -
Total        786.28 1572.56 1572.56 1310.48  258.49  269.80  204.11  219.96  236.78  378.71  410.12  442.88  477.06  160.42  739.67
Applications:
Capital
expendilure         786.28 1572.56 1572.56 1310.48  2.43    2.55    2.68   2.81    2.95    3.10   3.26    3.42   3.59    3.77    3.96
Other expenditu          -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Loan repayment:
IBRD              -        -      -      -       -       -   95.71  100.55  105.65  111.00  116.62  122.52  128.72  135.23  142.08
Local                                                           -       -       - 180.69  180.69  180.69  180.69  180.69  180.69
Change wl capital               -         -            -   (1.85)  (1.84)  (1.84)  (1.82) (16.43)  (2.74)  (2.73)  (2.72)  (2.69) (26.45)
Total         8.28 157256 15725     13104     2       QM      =     0L.2   106.78  278.36  229.83  309   30I.28  317.00  3028
Net Funds Flow                                    25606   269 .1  1076    1   4  1300    1.     112.29  138.98  166.78 (L5658) 439.3
Open balance           -       -      -       -      - 256.06   525.16  632.72  751.16  881.16  981.51 1093.80 1232.78 1399.56 124298
Closing balance        -              -       - 256.06  525.16  632.72  751.16  881.16  981.51 1093.S0 1232.78 1399.56 1242.98 1682.37
DIS Cover                                              -      -     1.36    IA0    1.44    1.19    1.25   1.31    1.39    0.63   2.01
-70-



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 3
Hubei Highway Project
Balance Sheet- XXE
(Yuan million, year ending 31 December)
2006    2007   2008    2009    2010   2011    2012    2013   2014    2015   2016
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                 4198.36 4198.60 4198.86 4199.12 4205.02 4211.22 4217.73 4224.57 4231.75 4344.81 4352.72
Less: Depreciation       138.55  277.10  415.66  554.23  693.00  831.97  971.16 1110.57 1250.22 1393.60 1537.24
Netfixedassets   405981 3921.50 3783.20 3644.89 3512.02 337925 3246.57 3114.00 2981.53 2951.21 2815.48
Current Assets
Inventory                  2.51   2.61    2.71    2.82   2.94    3.99   4.16    4.34    4.53    4.73   6.43
Receivable                 1.25    1.30   1.36    1.41   1.47    1.99    2.08   2.17    2.26    2.37   3.22
Cash                     256.06  525.16  632.72  751.16  881.16  981.51 1093.80 1232.78 1399.56 1242.98 1682.37
Subtotal          259.82  529.07  636.79  755.39  885.57  987.49 1100.04 1239.29 1406.35 1250.08 1692.02
Other Assets                   -       -              -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Total Assets      4        4      4                             4346. 61   2      _            450750
Liabilities & Equitv
Statefumds-Equity         395.72  524.66  587.79  666.63  767.59  829.74 1103.92 1410.81 1751.81 1878.14 2478.12
LFTloans: EBRD           2075.01 2075.01 1979.30 1878.75 1773.10 1662.10 1545.48 1422.96 1294.24 1159.01 1016.93
Local          1806.90 1806.90 1806.90 1806.90 1806.90 1806.90 1626.21 1445.52 1264.83 1084.14  903.45
Subtotal         3881.91        3786:20 3685.65 3580.00 346900 3171.69 2868.48 2559.07 2243.15 1920.38
Current Liabilities        42.00   44.00  46.00   48.00   50.00   68.00  71.00   74.00   77.00  80.00  109.00
Other Liabilities              -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Total Liabilities & Equity  4319.63 4    4419.99 4402   4397.59 4       34     43529 4382.8. 4201.29 4502750
Debt: capital ratio       90.7    88.1   86.6    84.7    823     80.7   74.2    67.0    59A    54.4    43.7
Debt/ equity rado         9119   88/12   87/13   85/15  83/17   81/19   75/25  68/32   60/40   55/45  45/55
Current ramdo             6.2     12.0   13.8    15.7    17.7    14.5   15.5    16.7    18.3   15.6    15.5
Fixed assets: 80% of capital investrent and 20% of naintenance.
Equity = Total asset - Total Liabilities.
Cufrent liabilities = 10% of toll revenue.
- 71 -



APPENDIX B
Hubei Highway Project
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts-XXE
1. Normal Traffic (AADT):
Snall      Medium     Large      Small     Medium      Large     Tractor
car         bus       bus        truck     truck      truck     -Trailer   Total
Section 1:  Xiaogan - Anlu
2006            2,053       1,027      192        1,650      1,115     1,058       76       7,171
2015            4,357       1,924      356       3,049      2,074      1,963       140     13,863
2025            7,802       2,848      528       4,513       3,070     2,905      208      21,874
Section E:  Anlu - Suizhou
2006            1,988       1,000      438        432        2,454      406       235       6,953
2015            4,041       1,792      778        766       4,372       720       416      12,885
2025            7,236       2,652      1,152      1,134     6,471      1,066      616      20,327
Section III:  Suizhou - Zaoyang
2006            1,859        932       269        322       2,894       428       289       6,993
2015            3,141       1,446      417        499       4,489       665       447      11,104
2025            5,117       2,140      618        739        6,645      984       662      16,905
Section IV: Zaoyang - Xiangfan
2006            1,838        921       420        673        1,866     1,041      405       7,164
2015            3,466       1,597      722        1,156      3,216     1,791       695     12,643
2025            5,382       2,253      1,019      1,630      4,537     2,527       980      18,328
2. Toll Rates (Yuan/ veh-km):            Increase 30% every five year.
Small     Medium      Large     Small     Medium     Large     Tractor
car       bus        bus       truck      truck     truck     -Trailer
2006                     0.400      0.800      1.000     0.400      0.800      1.000     1.200
3. Operating Taxes:
a. Business Tax                     5% of total revenue.
b. City Tax                         7% of business tax.
c. Education levy                   3% of business tax.
4. Operating Cost:                       Increase 5 % pa.
a. Wages and benefits:                 Y 26000/ staff/ year, 40 stafs/ station, 12 stations.
b. Maintenance (million Yuan/ km):
Routine                         Major
Maintenance (amnual)          Maintenance (/10 years)
Expressway                        0.100                           1.500
c. Operating naterials and supplies  0.010 million Yuan per kmn
d. Adrninistration                5.0% of wage and benefits.
e. Others                         0.005 million Yuan per km.
f Depreciation                      30 years straight-line method.
5. Income tax                       33.0% of total profit before taxes
6. Borrowing:   The IBRD            5.00% on 20 year rnaturities, LIBOR US$ based single currency
including 5 years grace period.
The local bank      6.36% on 15 years maturities, including 5 years grace period
and 10 years equal repaymnent.
-72 -



APPENDIX C
HUBEI PROVINCE: XIAOGAN - XIANGFAN EXPRESSWAY
FIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RSK ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Range is from -7.50% to 15.00% (in %)
Entire Range is from -8.48% to 13.19% (in %)
After 985 Tnals, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.12%
Statistics:                       Value      Percentiles:
Trials                        985
Mean                        3.39%                       Percentile        (in *l
Median                      3.63%                             0%         -S.48%
Mode                           --                            10%         -1.44%
Standard Deviation          3.73%       Low Scenario         20%          0.41%
Vaniance                    0.14%                            30%          1.71%
Skewness                     -0.42      Most Likely          40%          2.67%
Kurtosis                      3.08                    :      50%          3.63%
Coeff. of Variability         1.10      High Scenario        60%          4.67%
Range Minimum              -8.48%                            70%          5.62%
Range Maximum              13.19%                            80%          6.48%
Range Width                21.66%                            90%          7.96%
Mean Std. Error             0.12%                           100%         13.19%
Forast RRR (open In 2007)
98s TrIal                        Frequncy Cherl                        2 OuIrs
55O                                                             30
on                                                        2"~~Asumtin
-n
Nral distrbto   it paantr:Nrmldsrbtolwt                           aaees
Mea             10.0                        ea                               C00
Mi.                   75    C
0US                                        4111                 0
Sa50% 1a Om                375%          938%         15D00%
Assulm     etiomn
Traffic growth rate                          CBasic ItoU rate
Normnal distribution with parameters:         Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                100.0%                    Mean                             100.0%
Standard Dev.        10.0%                    Standard Dev.                      15.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to 10nfinity  Selected range is from -Infiniy to 1.0finity
Mean value in simulation was 100.0%           Mean value in simulation was 99.5%
Total worlng cost                             Capital Investient
Triangular distribution with parameters:      Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimium            90.0%                     Minimum                           90.0%
lkeliest            100.0%                    lkeliest                          110.0%
Maxinmum           1100%                      Maximum                          115.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to +10.0%        Selected range is from 90.0% to 115.0%
Mean value in simulation was 99.8%            Mean value in simulation was 104.8%
Toll charges growth
Normnal distribution with parameters:
mean                100.0%
Standard Dev.        15.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +-Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 99.8%
- 73 -



APPENDIX D
Page I of 2
Hubei: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Ninth Five Year Plan
(Yuan million)
1996     1997   1998    1999     2000    Total
Revenue
I Road maintenance fee                    1,483.36  1,571.15 1,484.94 1,491.72  1,315.00 7,346.17
2 Toll revenue                             831.51  1,097.21 1,301.67 1,401.84  1,600.00 6,232.23
3 Surcharge on passenger tickets           135.01   136.83  140.85  144.20  146.68   703.57
4 Surcharge on freight tickets              33.61    33.17   31.21  28.05    29.45   155.49
5 Vehicle purchase fee                     139.63    85.28  100.03  134.67  100.10   559.71
6 MOC subsidy                              139.39   130.59  572.22  614.86  574.00 2,031.06
7 State (SDPC) subsidy                      35.00    35.00   30.00  30.00    30.00   160.00
8 Bankloan                                      -   185.54 2,068.50 2,068.72 4,139.71  8,462.47
9 Fund-raised by enterprise                     -        -      -       -   248.82   248.82
10 Other funds                                   -   195.77  899.18 2,707.05  2,826.84 6,628.84
Total                  2,797.51  3.470.54 662860 8.621.11 11.010.60 32528.36
Expenditure:
1 New construction                         1,282.63  1,419.89 4,101.60 5,849.46 7,885.56 20,539.14
2 Rehabilitation                            300.86   333.06  723.81  874.06  974.62 3,206.41
3 Tax                                         5.57    52.74   50.23  50.44    45.26   204.24
4 Traffic safety supervision                 18.94    18.99   17.47  16.21    16.77    88.38
5 Major maintenance                         148.78   145.32  134.59  141.07  155.02   724.78
6 Medium maintenance                         88.75   116.88   91.24  114.05  132.35   543.27
7 Routine maintenance                       453.59   459.71  465.00  468.96  489.74 2,337.00
8 Administration and study                  331.25   331.46  344.61  349.87  351.28  1,708.47
9 Repaymnent of interest and principle      167.14   592.49  700.05  756.99  960.00 3,176.67
Total                  2.797.51  3.470.54 6.628.60 8.621.11 11.010.60 32.528.36
Total Road Network (krm) -(a)                     49,757  50,779  52,989  55,389   57,850  266,764
Average annual increase                              --    2.1%   4.4%    4.5%     4.4%     3.1%
Total maintenance expenditure (nillion Yuan)-(b) Il  991.98  1,054.97 1,414.64 1,598.14  1,751.73 6,811.46
Average unit maintenance expenditure ('000 YIkin)- (b)/(a)  19.94  20.78  26.70  28.85  30.28  25.53
Average annual increase                              --    4.2%  28.5%    8.1%     4.9%     8.7%
I_1: Sum of rehabilitation, major, medium and routine maintenance.
Acuala :1996-2000.
- 74 -



APPENDIX D
Page 2 of 2
Hubei: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Tenth Five Year Plan
(Yuan million)
2001     2002    2003   2004     2005     Total
Revenue
I Road naintenance fee                      1,384.70  1,458.08 1,535.36 1,616.74  1,702.42 7,697.30
2 Toll revenue                              1,684.80  1,774.09 1,868.12 1,967.13 2,071.39 9,365.53
3 Surcharge on passenger tickets             263.25   277.20  291.89  307.37  323.66  1,463.37
4 Surchargeonfreighttickets                  112.67   118.64  124.93  131.55  138.52   626.31
5 Vehicle purchase fee                       105.41   110.99  116.87  123.07  129.59   585.93
6 MOC subsidy                                673.92   709.64  747.25  786.85  828.56  3,746.22
7 State (SDPC) subsidy                        35.00    35.00   35.00  35.00    35.00   175.00
8 Bankloan                                  5,155.90 4,500.00 3,500.00 3,000.00 2,844.10 19,000.00
9 Fund-raised by enterprise                  219.78   300.00  300.00  233.37       - 1,053.15
10 Other funds                               1,499.79  1,452.80 1,452.80 1,429.31  1,429.30 7,264.00
Total                   11,135.22 10,736.44 9,972.22 9.630.39 9,502.54 50.976.81
Expenditure:
1 New construction                          7,817.44 7,178.22 6,175.29 5,610.66 5,253.74 32,035.35
2 Rehabilitation                              966.20  1,072.61 1,176.24 1;273.59  1,354.74 5,843.38
3 Tax                                          53.95    56.80  59.82   62.99    66.32   299.88
4 Traffic safety supervision                   19.29    20.32   21.39  22.53    23.72   107.25
5 Major maintenance                           120.00   132.00  141.00  141.00  149.27   683.27
6 Medium maintenance                           80.00    88.00  94.00   94.00    99.52   455.52
7 Routine maintenance                         701.22   738.38  777.52  818.73  862.12 3,897.97
8 Administration and study                    366.24   385.65  406.09  427.61  450.28  2,035.87
9 Repayment of interest and principle        1,010.88  1,064.46 1,120.87 1,179.28  1,242.83 5,618.32
Total                   11.135.22 10.736.44 9,972.22 9630.39 9.502.54 50.976.81.
Total Road Network (km) -(a)                        59,350  60,850  62,250  63,650   65,000  311,100
Average annual increase                             2.6%    2.5%    2.3%    2.2%     2.1%     1.8%
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan)-(b) /L  1,867.42 2,030.99 2,188.76 2,327.32 2,465.65 10,880.14
Average unit naintenance expenditure ('000 Y/lan)- (b)/(a)  31.46  33.38  35.16  36.56  37.93  34.97
Average annual increase                             3.9%     6.1%   5.3%    4.0%     3.7%     3.8%
_1: Sum of rehabilitabon, major, medium and routine maintenance.
Estimate: 2001, forecast: 2002-2005.
-75 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project
Procurement
Summary of PPCA's Findings
1.     A procurement capacity assessment of the project's executing agencies was carried out in
October 2001 and completed in May 2002. The Procurement Capacity Assessment Report is in Project
files and this annex summarizes its findings.
2.     HPCD will be responsible for all project related procurement activities. It has accumulated
relevant experience in Bank-financed projects as the implementing agency for NH3 and NH4 projects.
HPCD has established a dedicated Project Office (Hubei Provincial Xiao Xiang Expressway
Construction Headquarter - XXEH) and a shareholding company (Hubei Provincial Xiao Xiang
Expressway Company Ltd - XXEC) to manage the day-to-day management of the XXE and has allocated
adequate human and other resources for the same. XXEC is specifically responsible for procurement; it
has about 40 experienced staff fully versed in Bank procurement processes and procedures.
3.     HPCD has selected China International Tendering Company (CNITC) as procurement agent.
CNlTC has 16 years experience in ICB procurement under Bank financed projects. HPCD and CNITC
are also familiar with NCB in Bank-financed projects. Procurement arrangements are generally the same
as on NH3 & NH4.
4.     The procurement capacity assessment has assessed the overall risk of the procurement process as
average and confirmed the capacity and capability of HPCD and involved agencies to satisfactorily
manage the project procurement activities, considering the following:
*   HPCD has acquired experience with Bank financed projects (NH3 and NH4);
*   HPCD has -set up an organization to manage procurement under the project involving an
experienced procurement agent. Staff involved with NH3 and NH4 have also been transferred to
the new project and have enhanced their knowledge of Bank's requirements for the procurement
and selection of consultants during preparation;
*   HPCD has agreed on a series of measures recommended in the procurement assessment to further
strengthen the capacity of implementing agencies, including the preparation and distribution to
all procurement staff of a procurement manual, on the job training and time to time procurement
seminars and workshops; and
*   The Bank will closely monitor procurement through the Bank review procedures, supervision
missions and procurement post-review missions.
5.     As outlined in the Procurement Capacity Assessment, while China's domestic procurement
procedures fail to fully comply with the Bank's procurement guidelines, for example by permitting
bracketing and merit point s,-stem for bid evaluation, Hubei Provincial Government and HPCD are fully
committed to strictly follow the Bank guidelines. If any discrepancies arise between the domestic policy
and Bank guidelines, the Bank's policy and guidelines will prevail. For this purpose and as the GOC is
yet to finalize and agree with the Bank new guidelines and Model Bidding Documents (MBD) for use in
Bank financed projects in China, a supplementary letter to the loan agreement will be signed by Hubei
province.
- 76 -



6.    The supplementary letter will specify the following procedures: (a) all invitations to prequalify
or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper with nationwide circulation in China and in a local
newspaper of provincial-wide circulation in the Project Entity; (b) such advertisement shall be made in
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and
submit their response; and in any event a minimum of 30 days shall be given to bidders between the date
of advertisement and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and the bidding
document shall specify the deadline for such submission; (c) qualification requirements of bidders and
the method of evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents; (d) all bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient to protect the
Project Entity in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the
required form and amount of such security; (e) the time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the
deadline for receipt of bids; (f) all bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an
opportunity to be present, if they so desire (either in person or through their authorized representatives) at
the time of bid opening; (g) no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any
standard contract estimate, or margin, or bracket of average bids established by the bidding Entity; and
(h) each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that is to say, the bidder
who meets the appropriate standards of capacity and resources and whose bid has been determined (i) to
be substantially responsive to the bidding documents issued to bidders; and (ii) to offer the lowest
evaluated price. The winning bidder shall not be required, as condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as
originally submitted.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
7.     Procurement arrangements are outlined in Table A. Procurement of Goods and Works will be
carried out in compliance with World Bank's "Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and the
"Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997,
revised September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002) for services. In force Chinese MBDs, as modified
in agreement between the Bank and Chinese government to take into account changes the Bank has made
in SBDs, will be used for procurement under the project. All Consultant assignments will follow the
standard request for proposals - Selection of Consultants (July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999).
Where no MBD exists, Bank SBDs will be used. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project
was published in UN Development Business on October 31,2001, Issue No. 569.
8.    Works (US$586.8 million). Civil works for Xiao-Xiang Expressway (XXE) estimated at
US$474.71 million would be divided into 15 contracts, with an average size of about US$31.65 million.
There are essentially two types of contracts: eartworks and bridge construction, and earthworks, bridge
construction and pavement. Works were allotted by taking into account site constraints, the nature of
works and efficiency gains achievable by putting together pavement works in only five contracts.
Electro-mechanical works on XXE (E&M) would be handled as a single contract of about US$12.11
million equivalent. The 15 civil works contracts and the E&M contract for XXE would be procured
under ICB procedures. Contractors bidding for civil works under ICB would be prequalified. There
would be one tender call for the 15 civil works contracts, which would be procured on a
slice-and-package basis and with a prequalification stage. The Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) for
the civil works and consulting services required to supervise the XXE was published in the UN
Development Business on January 16, 2002 - Issue No. 574. For the contract on E&M, invitations to bid
will be advertised as Specific Procurement Notices in the UN Development Business and well-known
- 77 -



technical magazines, newspapers, and trade publications that have wide international exposure. Each
contract for works estimated at US$10 million or more and less than US$50 million will provide for a
dispute review expert set forth in the standard bidding documents (referred to in para. 2.42 of the
above-mentioned Guidelines); for contract estimated at US$50 million or more a dispute review board
will be used. Chinese contractors are no longer eligible for domestic preference under ICB works
procurement.
9.     Other works financed by the Bank include (i) XXE buildings (US$18.82 million) and connecting
roads (US$15.60 million), and (ii) rural road improvements under the RREP (US$54.51 million out of a
total cost estimated at US$65.56 million, and US$16.57 million under the first phase); as all contracts
have an estimated value lower than US$10 million - the maximum value for NCB contracts - they will be
awarded following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Since such amounts will be relatively small
in the Chinese context, and scattered throughout the province and implemented over four years, ICB will
not be justified or practical as mobilization costs are high; however, foreign firms will not be precluded
from participation.
10.   Equipment (US$8.73 million). Contracts for goods and equipment financed by the Bank over
US$250,000 equivalent up to a total amount of US$4.5 million will be awarded under ICB. Domestic
manufacturers competing under ICB will be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids
of 15% for goods, or the prevailing customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. Other items or
groups of items financed by the Bank covering maintenance and laboratory equipment estimated to be
under US$250,000 per contract package will be procured following (i) NCB procedures with an
aggregate amount not exceeding US$1.23 million, (individual contract amount between US$250,000 and
100,000); and international shopping procedures on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from at least three suppliers (individual contract amount between US$100,000 and 50,000), from at least
two countries, eligible under the Bank Guidelines, or national shopping (individual contract amount
lower than US$50,000) with an aggregate amount not exceeding US$159,000. The equipment component
also includes various equipment only funded from domestic sources and estimated at US$2.84 million.
11.   Consultants (US$18.86 million). This component includes both consultants financed by the
Bank for an amount estimated at $2.56 million and consultants financed from domestic sources only for
an amount estimated at $16.3 million and procured through domestic procedures. Consultants financed
by the Bank and required for construction supervision (international firm), staff training, technical
assistance and studies to be implemented under the Institutional Strengthening component will be
selected and employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank according to Guidelines on the
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in July
1997 and January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposals (July 1997, revised in April 1998, July
1999 and March 2002), will be used for these Consultant services. Consulting services from firmns with
an estimated contract cost of more than US$100,000 to a total value of US$1.98 million will be procured
through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). For training programs, services from firms with an
estimated contract cost of less than US$100,000 to a total value of US$0.58 million will be selected
through Consultant's Qualification Selection. Services which are estimated to cost less than the above
threshold per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured by single source selection in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. Local
experts from various independent provincial universities and institutes will be used to the extent possible.
All consultant services financed by the Bank and above US$200,000 will be advertised in the UN
Development Business. The Request for Expression of Interest for consulting services required to
supervise XXE works was published on UN Development Business Online on January 11, 2002.
-78 -



Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
12.   Prior review procedures will be used for: (a) civil works contracts with an estimated cost of
US$2 million or more; (b) equipment with an estimated cost of over US$250,000 per contract; and (c)
consulting services with an estimated contract cost of over US$100,000 for firns and US$50,000 for
individuals. This will apply to respectively 85.5 percent and 76.4 percent of the total contract values of
works and goods financed by the Bank. For contracts below these limits, post-review procedures will be
followed (sample ratio at 1/4). Consultant contracts, terms of reference and single-source selections -
regardless of the value of the contract - will be subject to Bank's prior review.
Advance Contracting
13.   BPCD has requested advance contracting and retroactive financing in the following areas:
(a) consultants for construction supervision of XXE. This would allow for the training of local staff,
setting up of the supervision offices, and start-up of construction supervision by the time
contracts are signed with contractors. Expenses to be incurred by the implementing agency are
estimated at US$600,000, and the amount subject to retroactive financing at US$546,000;
(b) laboratory Equipment for supervision teams. This would permit effective and timely
construction supervision. Expenses to be incurred by the implementing agency are estimated at
US$2.5 million, and the amount subject to retroactive financing at US$2.5 million; and
(c) construction of XXE. Early start of construction of XXE would help meet the planned schedule
for opening the expressway to traffic and alleviate traffic bottlenecks on the existing corridor.
The expenses to be incurred by the implementing agency are estimated at US$39 million, and the
amount subject to retroactive financing at US$17.1 million.
- 79 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement. Method.
XExpenditure.Category              ICB   -         NCB          Other    -   N   F.   :Total. Cost
1. Works                           486.81          88.93         0.00         11.05      586.79
(220.34)        (18.99)        (0.00)       (0.00)    (239.33)
2. Goods                            4.50            1.23         0.16         2.84        8.73
(4.44)          (1.21)       (0.16)        (0.00)     (5.81)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          2.56         16.30       18.86
(0.00)          (0.00)       (2.36)        (0.00)     (2.36)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00           0.00          0.00         74.00       74.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00           0.00          2.50         0.00        2.50
(0.00)          (0.00)       (2.50)        (0.00)     (2.50)
Total                           491.31          90.16          5.22        104.19      690.88
____________________     (224.78)         (20.20)       (5.02)       (0.00)     (250.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) mnanaging the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
-80-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Chnsultant Services
- Expenditure Category  GCBS  QBS      SFB    LCS;      ca     Other   N.B.F.. Total Cost
A. Firms               1.98   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.58    0.00    16.30    18.86
(1.78)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.58)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.36)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
Total  1.98    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.58    0.00    16.30    18.86
(1.78)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.58)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.36)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 81 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review '
Contract Value                                    Contracts Subject to
Threshold                 Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category           (US$)                      Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                      > 10 milion               ICB, Prior Review          16 contracts
US$486.81 mnillion
10 milion > >2 million       NCB, Prior Review            I contract
US$5.257 million
<2 rnillion             NCB, Post Review      40 contracts (incl. RRIP 1st
phase)
Total US$83.67 million
2. Goods                       > 250,000               ICB, Prior Review           10 contracts
US$4.5 million
250,000 > > 100,000          NCB, Post Review            7 contracts
US$1.23 million
100,000 >                     IS or                US$159,000
NS if < 50,000, Post Review
3. Services, Firms             > 100,000               QCBS, Prior Review           1 contract
US$1.98 million
<100,000                 CQ, Post Review            15 contracts
US$0.58 million
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:       28 contracts
US$498.54 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
-82-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category           Amount In US$mIIIIon               Financing Percentage
XXE Works
-Civil works                               197.58                              46%
- XXE buildings                             3.4                                20%
- O&M equipment                             9.31                               80%
- Connecting roads                          4.24                               30%
RRIIP                                        10                                 20%
Goods
- Equiprnent                                 5.66                 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 75% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
Serices
- Construction supervision                   1.73                      91% of foreign expenditures
- Training                                   0.58                      100% of foreign expenditures
Unalocated                                   15
Front-end fee                                2.5                                100%
Total                           250
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
14.     The project will be disbursing on the traditional disbursement method and will not be using
PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF.
15.     Loan would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as follows: (i) civil works - 46 percent of
expenditures on XXE, 30 percent on connecting roads, 20 percent on building and 80 percent on E&M;
(ii) equipment - 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) and
75 percent of other items procured locally; and (iii) consultants and training - 91-percent for consultants'
services and 100 percent for training.
16.     Disbursement methods, such as replenishment, direct payment and special commitment, are
available for the project. The SOE limits will be set up in line with procurement post-review threshold,
as follows: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or less; (ii) each
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2 million or less; (iii) each contract for
the consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or less; (iv) each contract for the
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or less.
-83-



Special account:
17.   One special account (SA) will be established for the project and maintained by HPFB. The
authorized allocation of SA will be equivalent to about 4 months of eligible expenses reimbursable via
SA. The allocation of SA is proposed to not exceed US$18 million equivalent. However, the
authorized allocation will be limited to US$12 million equivalent until the aggregate withdrawals and
outstanding Special Commitments will be equal to or exceed US$100 million equivalent.
18.   HPFB   will be directly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance and
reconciliation of the SA activities of the project. Supporting documents required for Bank disbursements
will be prepared or collected from World Bank Financed Project Office and local construction
headquarters and submitted by Hubei Provincial Xiao Xiang Expressway Company Ltd owned by HPCD
to HPFB for verification and approval before sending by HPFB to the Bank for further disbursement
processing.
-84-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Hubel Xiaogan-Xlangfan Highway Project
Project-Schedule          -               --     Planned       .             Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     23                          24
First Bank misslon (identification)            07/25/2000                  07/25/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    05/01/2002                  05/06/2002
Negotiations                                   06/24/2002                  07/08/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  12/31/2002
Prepared by:
Hubei Provincial Communication Department
Preparation assistance:
French Trust Fund (FASEP)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name'                                   Speciaity:
Michel Bellier, EASTR             Task Team Leader
Anil Somani, EASES                Environment
Zhefu Liu, EACCF                  Resettlement/Social Assessment
Dan Gibson, EACCF                 Resettlement/Social Assessment
Jean Marie Braun, Consultant      Highway Engineering
Dick Jonsson, Consultant          Institutional Strengthening and Road Traffic Safety
Han-Kang Yen, EASTR               Economic/Financial Analysis
Robin Carruthers, EASTR           Economic Analysis
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao, INFTD    Economic Analysis
Dawei Yang, EACCF                 Procurement
R.I. Gopalcrishnan, EAPCO         Procurement
Haiyan Wang, EACCF                Financial Management
Simon Bradbury, LOAG3             Disbursements
Yi-Ling Liu, LOAG3                Disbursements
Nina Masako Eejima, LEGEA         Legal
Hoi-Chan Nguyen, LEGEA            Legal
Tess Ortega, EASTR                Team Assistant
- 85 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
CHINA: Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Project Implementation Plan                                  May 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Project Procurement Assessment                               May 2002
*   Project Financial Management Assessment                      May 2002
C. Other
*   Feasibility Study Report (XXE)                               March 2001
*   Special Report on Traffic Forecasts (XXE)                    May 2001
*   Report on the Comparison of Preliminary Alignment Schemes (XXE)  September 2001
*   Design Scheme of XXE                                         September 2001
*   Reports on Interchanges, Link Road Works and                 July/September and
Crossing Road Junctions (XXE)                                November 2001
*   Special Report on the Annex Zones Scheme (XXE)               July 2001
*   Explanations on the Preliminary Design Optimization (XXE)    November 2001
*   Environment Assessment Summary                               March 2002
*   Environment Impact Assessment (XXE)                          March 2002
*   Environment Management Plan (XXE)                            March 2002
*   Environment Impact Assessments and Management
Plans of Suizhou, Yunmeng and Zaoyang connecting roads       March 2002
*   Report on Cultural Relics Protection (XXE)                   March 2002
*   Resettlement Action Plan (XXE)                               June 2002
*   Feasibility Study Report on Hubei Rural Road Improvement Plan  March 2002
* Environment Inpact Assessment and Management Plan of Tunbao
Banquiao, Changwan-Shiyao and Quanxi-Xinmatou Rural Roads     March 2002
*   Social Assessment Report (RRIP)                               November 2001
*   Resettlement Policy Framework (RRIP)                         April 2002
*   Project Implementation Organization                           October 2001
*   Institutional Development Plan                                April 2002
*   Training Program                                              May 2002
*   Report on the establishment and Management of the Road
Training Center                                               July 2002
*   TOR of the Highway Maintenance Management Study              July 2002
*   TOR of the Overloading Vehicles Administration Study         July 2002
*   TOR of the Hubei Provincial Expressway Shareholding Study    July 2002
*   TOR of the Long Term Action Plan for Road Safety             July 2002
*   TOR of the Action Plan on the Road Accident Analysis System  July 2002
*   TOR of the Black Spot Remedy Action Plan                      July 2002
*Induding electronic files
-86 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Hubel Xiaogan-Xlangfan Highway Project
30-Jul-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    fY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undlsb.      Orig   Frrn Revyd
P064729       2002 SUSTAINABLE F-OREzSTRY DEVELOPMENT PRO           93.90      0,00                 0 00      000       93 90      0.00      0 00
P058846       2002 National Railwasy Project                       180.00      0 00                 0 00      0 00     137 65     2765       0 00
P088049       2002 Hubsi Hydropower Developroienl in Poor Are      105.00      0.00                 0.00      000      1 06.00     0 00      0 00
P070459       2002 inner Mongolia Hlghway PrOJec                   100.00      0.00                 0.00      0 00     100.00      0.00      0.00
P071147       2002 Tuberculosis Control Priject                    104.00      0.00                 0 00      0 00     103 33     -0-67      0.00
P058845       2001 Jiangrd II Hwy                                  200.00      0.00                 0 00      0 00     193.00      6.00      0 00
P056515       2001 WATEROCONSERVATION                               74.00      0 00                 0 00      0.00      62 52      3.82      0 00
P056596       2001 Slrtyazhusang Urban TransPOrt                   100 00      0.00                 0 00       0.00     99,00     30 90      a000
P056199       2001 Third Inland Waterways                          100O.00     0.00                 0 00      0.00      90 00     -1.50      0.00
P047345       2001 ON-HUMI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL                 105 50      0.00                 0.00      0.00     102.05     -3 45      a000
P051859       2001 CN-UACORIVER BASIN                              100.00      0 00                 0 00       0.00     93.00      060       0 00
P045915       2001 Urumco Urban Transport                          100.00      0.00                 0.00       0 00     71 22     12 07      0 00
P0_56424      2Q00 TONGBAM PUMPED STORA                            320.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    304 94     43a34      0.00
P049438       2000 CN-CHONGOING UR3AN ENVIRONMENT                  20000       000D                 0.00       0 00    189053      19.43      000
P045910       2000 CN-NEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                      150000      0.00                 0.00       000     140.03     22 03       0 00
P042684       2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                             93.50      0.00                 0 00       0.00     51 23     23.23       000
P042109       2000 OH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT II                       349 00      0.00                25.00       0.00    352.65      94 93      0.00
P084730       2000 Yangtze Dike Sirengihrnnrng Project             210 00      0 00                 0 00       0.00    18.56      84 56       0.00
P058844       2000 3rd Henan Prov Hwy                              150.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    123&54      17 54      a000
P058843       2000 Guangrd HIghway                                 200~00      0 00                 0.00       0 00    167.60      37.60      0.00
PG46829        1999 RENEWABL-E ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                   100.00      0 00                000D       0.00     12.87      84.87      0 00
P04564         199  Gansu & Inner Monglia, Poverty Reduscton        60.00     100.00                0.00       0.00     99.09      35 89     -0 22
P046051        1999 CN4HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                          20,00      50.00                0.00       0.00     31.31      28 52      0.00
P003653        1999 OontainerTransporl                              711.00     0 00                 0 00       313      30 54      33.37      0.00
P043933        1999 CN-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT                   150.00      2.00                 0 00       000      98 09      32218      4 76
P042299        1999 TECOOOOPOCREDIT IV                              10.00      35.00                0.00       000O     40 41      -3 58      0 00
P041890        1999 UaoninrgUrban Transport                        150 00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     74.15      4795       0 00
P036953        1999 ON-HEALTH IX                                    10.00      50 00                0 00       0.00     43.55       9.05      0 00
P049605        1999 ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                            9000       30.00                0.00       0.00     49 77       5 40      000O
P051888        1999 GIUANZHONG IRRIGATION                           8000       20.00                0~00       000      62 22      27.35      0.00
PC56216       1999 LOESSPILATEAUOI                                 10000       50 00                0.00       0.00     86 53      53 25      0 00
P057352       1eee ON-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                         16e00      30-00                0.00       000D     32.54      13.07     -344
P058308        1999 ON-PENSION REFORM PrT                            0.00       5.00                o.oo       000D      2 53       2 59      0.00
P060270        1999 ON-ENTERPRISE REFORM LNt                         0.00       5 00                 0.100     0.00      439        6.16      0.79
P038121        1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                     0.00       0 00                3500O      0.00     27.13      13 68      0.00
P041268        1999 Nat Hwyt4Mubef-Hursan                          350.00       0 00                 0.00      0.00    181.48      48 46      0.00
P051056        1999 AOCOUNTI NGREFORM& DEVELOPMENT                  27.40       5.60                 0.00      0.00     21.62      21.18      000D
P050035       1999 Anhui Provinciall-HwY                           200.00       000D                 0 00      0.00     96.60      2410       000D
P051705        1999 Furjan II Hi-ghrway                            200.00      0.00                 0.00       0 00    133.86      87.84      0 00
P040185       1998 CN-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                          95 00      0.00                 0 00       000D     30.29      24.19      0 00
P049700       1998 IAIL-2                                          300.00      0.00                 0.00       0 00     49.46       9.06      0~00
P036949        1998 Nat Hwy3-Hubel                                 250.00      0 00                 0.00       0.00     47.29     -12 71      0.00
P03785         199  EGY CONSERVATION PRO                             0 00      0.00                22 00       0.00      5.15      2`1.70     000O
P046952       1998 FOREST.DEV. POOR AR                             100 00     100.00                0.00       000      84.35     -31.29     49 71
P051730       1998 E. CHI NNfJANGSUJ PWR                           25000D      0.00                 0.00       0.00    162.04     162.04      0.19
P045788       1998 Tri-ProvlndatJ Hwy                              230 00      0.00                 0 00       000      79 75      40 95      0 00
P046563       1998 TARIM BASIN II                                   90.00     60.00                 0 00       2.67     72.39      5335       0 00
P038414       1998 CN-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                     72.00      20 00                 0.00      000D     79 69      48.65      0 00
P003606        1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                             63.00       0.00                22.00      000O     45 85      13.25      0 00
P00314        1996 Guangzhrou city Transpot                        200.00       000D                 0.00      0.00     130.81    128.41      0 00
P003591       1998 STATE FARMSOCOMMERCI                            15000        0.00                 0.00     60.91      645       60 29      060o
P003539       1998 SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCES DEV.              100.00       0.00                 0.00      2.31     53 25      33.00      000D
P035698       1998 HU.NAN POWER DEVELOP.                           30000        0.00                 0.00    100.00     176 67    231.67     16.61
- 87 -



Differenre between expected
and acual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Pwpos                                     IBRD         IDA                    GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.      ODg   Frn Revd
Poo3619       1998 2nd Inland Wateays                             123.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     81.84      64.84      0.00
P003568       1t99S CN4ASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                         0.00     68.00                 0.00      0.00     42.77     22.11       0.00
P003850       1997 TUOKETUO POWERi1NNER                           400.00      0.00                0.00    102.50     96.09     170.89    -16.15
P003835       1997 CN-VOC.ED.REFORMPROJ                            10.00     2000                 000       0.00      029        1.42      0.00
P003643       1997 XlnjuarIg IHve                                 300.00      0.00                0.00     60.00     26.77      86.77     11.77
P003637       1997 CN-NATIONALRURALWATERIII                        0.00      7000                 0.00      0.00      i155      13.86     12.89
P034081       1997 XtIAOLANGDIMULTI.I1                            430.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     92.63     12349     11819
P035693       1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                              0.00      0.00               32.80      0.00      9.50      32.81      0.00
P003590       1997 CINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION               30.00    15000                 0.00      0.00     7038       72.79      000
P036952       1997 CN-BASC ED. IV                                   000      85.00                0.00      0.00      228        5.04      000
P036405       1997 WAMJIAZHAJWATER TRA                            400.00      0.00                0.00     75.00     52.22     124.22    -17.78
P038988       1997 HEILONGJIANG ADP                               12000       000                 000       0.00      23.52     20.82      0.00
P044485       1997'SHANG-IAIWAIGAOOIAO                            400.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     193.67     963.7      8.22
P003654       1997 Nat Hwy2/Hunan-Guangdong                       40000       000                 000      0o00      109.73    109.73      0.00
P003589       1996 CN-DlSEASE PREVENTION (HrLTH7):                  0.00    100.00                0.00      000       15.31     25.40      0.00
P003594       1996 GANSU HE)G CORRIDOR                             60.00     90.00                0.00      0.00     93.90      63.52      0.00
P040513       1999 2ndHenanPrmvHwy                                210.00      000                 0.00      0.00     69.47      69.47     -0.53
P0035S9       1996 CN-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                  125.00     25.00                0.00      0.00     88.16      80.60     45.66
P003602       1994 CN-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                     125.00     25 00                0.00     28.32      54.30     84.75     37.60
P003648       1996 CN-CHONGOING IND POL CT                        17000       0.00                0.00     164.62      2.72    167.54      272
P003648       1996 CN-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE II                        250.00      0.00                00         000      91.13     91 13      0.00
P003649       1996 SHANXJ POVEiRTY ALLEV                            0.00    100.00                000        000       6.57     15.99       0.00
P003652       1996 Second Shaanud Prcvincial Highway              21000       000                 0.00       0.00      3.02      301        0 00
P034618       1996 CN-LABORMARKETDEV                               10.00     20.00                0.00       0.00      6.45      8.68       0.00
P003638       1996 SEEDSSECTORCOMMER.                              80.00     20.00                0.00       940      1777      2822        0.00
P003598       1995 CN-UAONINGENVtRONMENT                          11000       000                 000        000      15.07     15.07       5.99
P003596       1995 YANGTZEBASIN WATER                             100.00    110.00                0.00       o.0o      2.67      520        520
P003585       1995 SHENYANGIND.REFORM                             27500       0.00                000        0.00     41.52     41.52       0.00
P003571       1995 RAILWAYS VII                                   400.00      0.00                0.00     109.00     75.18     180.18     1421
P036041       1995 FISCAL&TAXREF.&                                 25.00     25.00                0.00       0.00      064       3.15       3.15
P036947       1995 SICHUANTRANSMtSSION                            270.00      0.00                000       95.00     12.17     107.17     -0.65
P003642       2995 ZHEJIANG POWER DEVr                            40000       0.00                0.00       0.00     62.15     67.77       0.00
P003603       1995 CN-ENTERPRISEHOUSING&SOCSECREF                 275.00     75.00                000       20.00    10221      120.69     51.23
P003639       1995 SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                            47.50    200.00                0.00       0.00     14.67     39.43      39 43
P003600       1995 CR-TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                      200.00      0.00                0 00       3.02     20.97     23.99       0.00
P003647       1995 ChinaEconaticLawReform -LEGEA                    000      10.00                000        000       4.24      4.86       0.00
P003586       1994 CN-SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PFROJECT               1E0.00      0.00                0.00       0.00     29.65     29.65       4.55
P003540       1994 LOESSPLATEAU                                     0.00    150.00                000        0.00      2.22      -0.85      0.00
P003404       1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON                             0.00      0.00               1000        0.00      0.02      0 78       0.00
P003644       1994 XiAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                          0.00    11000                 0.00       0.00      2.04      0.15      -4.26
P003641       1994 YANGZHOUTHERMALPOW                             35000 -         00              0.00      11.50      3.32     14.a2       107
P003626       1994 FulsanProvHighway                             140.00      0.00                0.00      18.11     12.29     30.40      30.38
P003609       1994 SICHUANGASDEV&CONSERVATION                     255.00      000                 10.00      0.00     52.16     52.16       0.00
P003595       1994 RED SOLS II AREADEVELOPMENT PROJECT              0.00    150.00                0.00       0.00      5.65      1 19      -135
P003592       1993 REF. INSTL&PREINV                                0.00     5000                 000        0.00      3.21      3.70       1.80
P003473       1993 CN-ZHEJIANG MULTICmEs DEVELOPMENT                0.00    110.00                0.00       0.00      220       2.38      -285
P003532       1993 CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                          0.00     5000                 00W        0.00      4.85      5.46       5.14
P003827       1993 GRAtN DISTRIBUTION P                           325.00    165.00                0.00       0.00     38.19     39.03      24.03
P003623       1993 FiNANCIALSECTORT.A                               0.00     60.00                0.00       0.00      203       -3.52     -3.52
Total:   13934.80    2617.60             15680       8a5.68    6705.24   4159.86    445.23
- 88 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
April 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
2001               Sino-Forest                25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1995              Suzhou PVC                   0.0O    2,48    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.48    0.00    0.00
1998              WIT                          5.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Wanjie Hospital             15.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996              Weihai Weidongri             1.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.79   0.00     0.00   0.00
1993               YantaiCement                11.13   1.95    0.00    0.00   11.13   1.95     0.00   0.00
1998              Zhen Jing                    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.00     0.00   0.00
2002               Advantage                    0.00   0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0M      0.00   0.00
1999/00/02        Bank of Shanghai             o.oo   24.67    0.00    0.00    0.00   24.67    0.00   0.00
1996              Beijing Hormel               2.50    0.50    0.00    1.65    2.50   0.50     0.00   1.65
1998/00           CIG Holdings PLC             0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996               Caltex Ocean                19.76   0.00    0.00   32.73   19.76   0.00     0.00  32.73
1998              Chengdu Huarong              7.40    3.20    0.00    8.60    3.70   3.20     0.00   4.30
1998               Chengxin-IBCA               0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.36     0.00   0.00
1987/92194        China Bicycles               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1994              China Walden Mgt             0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.01     0.00   0.00
1994              China Walden Ven             0.00    0.21    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.21     0.00   0.00
1994              Dalian Glass                 0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00   0.00
1999              Dujiangyan                  25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00   16.11    0.00    0.00  18.89
1995               Dupont Suzhou               14.02   4.15    0.00   15.60   14.02    4.15    0.00  15.60
1994              Dynamic Fund                 0.00    9.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.09    0.00   0.00
1999              Hansom                       0.00    16.10   0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00   0.00
1996              Jingyang                     32.50   0.00    0.00   69.23   32.50    0.00    0.00  69.23
1998              Leshan Scana                 6.10    1.35    0.00    0.00    4.50    1.35    0.00   0.00
2001               Maanshan Carbon              9.0O   2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002               NCCB                         0.00  26.58    0.00    0.00    0.00   26.46    0.00   0.00
1996              Nanjing Kunbo                6.82    3.81    0.00   19.38    6.82    3.81    0.00  19.38
2001               New China Life               0.00  30.70    0.00    0.00    0.00   23.32    0.00    0.00
1995               Newbridge Inv.               0.00   2.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.04    0.00   0.00
1997              Oiient Finance               10.48   0.00    0.00   13.10   10.48    0.00    0.00   13.10
1997/00           PTP Holdings                 0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00   0.00
1997              PTP Hubei                    11.72   0.00    0.00   23.29   11.72    0.00    0.00   23.29
1996              Pacific Ports                 0.00   2.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.54    0.00   0.00
2001               Peak Pacific                 0.00   0.00    25.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Rabobank SHFC                 1.13   0.00    0.00    1.13    1.13    0.00    0.00   1.13
2000               SSIF                         0.00   6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00
1998              Shanghai Krupp               30.00   0.00    0.00   68.80   16.70    0.00    0.00   38.30
1999              Shanxi                       17.87   0.00    0.00    0.00   15.32    0.00    0.00   0.00
1993              Shenzhen PCCP                3.76    0.99    0:00    0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00   0.00
TotalPortfolio:       256.57  147.07   25.00  288.51   191.94  127.11   0.00  237.60
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Cornpany                        Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2002              Huarong AMC                    10.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002              Zhong Chen                     25.00     0.00      0.00    32.00
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                 0.00     0.00      0.00     1.50
2000              CIG Zbapu                       6.00      5.00     0.00     0.00
-89 -



2000              Meijing                         9.00     0.00     0.00     7.30
2000              CIMIC Tile                     15.00     5.00     0.00     15.00
2001              Daning Coal                    13.00     0.00     2.00     15.00
2001              AACI                            0.00     0.00     2.00      0.00
2001              Minsheng                        0.00    23.50     0.00      0.00
2002              Darong                         10.00     0.00      1.50     8.00
2002              Narada Battery                  6.60     0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      94.60    33.50      5.50    78.80
-90 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Hubei Xlaogan-Xlangfan Highway Project
East    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Asia &   mIddle-
China     Pacmc    Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                    1,262.5     1,853     Z048                  Lile expectancy
GNI per capita (Alias method, USS)                    840      1,060     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USSbilions)                    1,061.2     1,984     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population,(%)                                         1.0       1.1       1.0 '                                    G
Labor fotce (%)                                        1 2       1.4       1.3     GNI                             Gtoss
perpimr
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty `%fol population below nationalpoverty Ine)     S
Urban populaton (% of total population)                36         35        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70         69        69
Infant mortallty(per t,000 live births)                30         35        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)               9         13        1 1         Access io Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of popuiation)    75        75        B0
Illiteracy(% of population age15+)                      16        14        15
Grossprimaryenroilment (%otschool-agepooulation)       123       119       114            China
Male                                                123        121       1le              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              123        121       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
ii0o     1990      1999      2000
Economic mtaos
GDP (USs blions)                            216.2    363 0     997 5    1.076.9
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                 35.2     34 7      37.2      37.3                     Tmde
Expons oi goods and services/GDP              7 6     17 5      22 0      25.9
Gross domestc savIngstGDP                    34 9     37.9      40.1      39.9
Gross national savings/GDP                   34.9     3&3       36.7      39.2,
Current account batance/GDP                  -0.4      3.8       1.6       1.9      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                         0.2      0.7       0 6       0.7      avnsInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                  .     15.2      15 5      139        v
Total debt service/exports                    8.0      9 9       9 0       7 4
Present value of debtGDP                                        13.5
Present value o1 debtlexports                  ..       ..      58.7
Indebledness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000    200044
(avetrge annual growth)
GDP                                 10.1     10.3      7.1       7.9       7.4         -China
GOP per capita                       8.5      9 2      6.1       7.2       6.7               Lower-middle-income group
Exports ofgoods and services        110      16.5     139       32.0      11.1
STRUCTURE ot the ECONOMY
198o     1990       1999     2000      arowth ot Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                  30 1     27 0       176       1 .9    r
Industry                                     485      41.6      494       50.9
Manufacturing                              40.5     32.9       33.6      34.5     o-
Services                                     21.4     31.3      32.9      33.2      5
Private consumption                          50 5     49 9      47.4      47 0             s5   as    97   as    Ba    00
Generalgovernmentconsumptlon                 146      12.1      12.5      13.1               -  GDI          e  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 7 9     14 3      19.1      23.2                    01I
It98-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Importe (%)
(average annual growth)
Agricutture                                   5 9      41        2 8       2.4        .
Industry                                     11.1     13.7       8.1       9.6     as0 
Manufacturing                              11 1      134        8.3       97     20
Services                                     13.5      9 0       7 5       7.8     as
Prtvate consumption                           9 4      8 a       2.6       6 0
General govemment consumpton                  9.6      9 4       8.4      12.0    -1     as    as    57   as    gs   so
Gro5s domestic Investment                    10.8     11 6        32       7 9             -Expons        -0*imports
Imports of goods and seNrices                 9.1     161       22.3      24.8
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show tour hey indicators in the country Ih bold) compared with its Income-group average If data are missing, the dlamond will
be Incomplete
- 91 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990     1999      2000     Inflation (%)
Domesttc prices
(% dcange)                                                                      30
Consumer prices                             6.0      3.1      -1.4      0.4     20
Implicit GDP deflator                       5.6      5.5      -2.2      0.9     1        _
Govenment finance
(% of GDP, Indudes curent grants)                                                                   7 oo
Current revenue                            25.7     19.7      15.0     15.3    -0
Current budget balance                               3.0       1.3      0 6               GDP deflator  -C   Pi
Overall surplus/deficit                    -1.5     -0.8      -4.0     -3.6
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                      18,270   62,091   194,931  249,210     300000
Food                                     2,985   6,609    10,458    12,282
Fuel                                     4,280   5,237     4,659    7,851     2
Manufactures                             9,005  46,205   174,990  223,752
Total Imports (cdf                       20,017   53,345   165,699  225,097
Food                                     2,927   3,335     3,619    4,758     100,000             L    L *
Fuel and energy                           203    1,272     8,912   26,037
Capltalgoods                             5,119   16,845   69,469    91,934        0 _      _    _
94  95   96   97   93  9,s  oo
Export price index (1995=100)                25      78        69        67
Import price Index (199S-100)                22      80        71        75                U Exports    *lnoprtS
Terms of trade (1995-100)                   116      97        98        90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exportsotgoodsandservices                20,167   67,971   218,496  279,561      .
Imports of goods and services            20,859   55,537   189,799  250,688
Resource balance                           -692   12,433    28,697   28,873     4
Net Income                                 -100    1,055   -17,973  -14,666     3
Net current transfers                        ..     274      4,943    6,311     2
Current aooount babanoe                    -792   13,762    15,668   20,519     1 
Financing Items (net)                        ..   -7,673    -7,163   -9,971      _  __    _   _1   _  _______
Changes in net reserves                       ..  -6,089    -8,505   -10,548       94   95    98   97   9e   99   00
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)       ..   16,963   161,404  171,753
Conversion rate (DEC, locaLUS$)             2.1      5.1       8.2      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  ComposItlon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and d1sbursed          ..  55,301   154,223  149,800
IBRD                                        *-   2,865    10,400   11,118              G.17,174   A11,18
IDA                                              3,016     8,907    8.771              G    .           B: 8,771
Total debt service                         1,652   7,057    20,655   21,728                                  0 f.2,55
IBRD                                        *-     416     1,142    1,291
IDA                        *                        19       117      131
Composition of net resource flows                                   E.28,510
Ofidcal grants                              7      143       201      147
Official creditors                         ..    1,727     1,706    1,928
Private creditors                          ..       ..    -1,854    1,985
Forelgn direct Investment                  57    3,487    41,015   42,096
Portfolio equity                            0        0     1,808    7,814           F 81,871
World Bank program
Commitments                                ..      953     2,097    1,536     A - IBRD                   E - BlateraJ
Disbursements                              ..    1,098     1,756    1,907     B - IDA  D - Other multilatera  F - Private
Princidpa repayments                       ..     216       558       644     C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   ..    882      1,198    1,263
Interest payments                          ..      219       701      778
Net transfers                              ..      663       497      485
Development Economics                                                                                            9/6/01
-92 -



Annex 11: Summary of the Environment Assessment and Management Plan
CHINA: Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project
A.     Background
1.    The Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project, to be financed by a World Bank loan, is
classified as a Category A project as per OP 4.01, as it involves major expressway construction on a new
alignment. The project may result in increase in noise and air pollution, occupation of land, comnrnunity
severance, soil erosion and resettlement. The Environmental Assessment (EA) for the Xiaogan Xiangfan
expressway component (XXE) was carried out by the Shanghai Ship and Shipping Research Institute
(SSSRI), with the support from an independent environmental specialist. Separate assessments were
carried out on each of the rural road sections. The EA was prepared to meet the requirements of other
World Bank safeguard policies. Various drafts of EA documents, including Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA), Environmental Management Plan (EMT) and Executive Sunmmary (ES) were
reviewed and discussed in detail during project preparation. The final drafts of the EA documents were
submitted on April 8, 2002 and were found to be satisfactory.
2.     The preparation of the EA  followed the policy and administrative requirements for
environmental assessment of development projects in China and the Bank's Safeguard Policies. The
major Chinese laws and regulations applied to the EA include: (a) Environmental Protection Law of
PRC, 1989; (b) Water and Soil Conservation Law, 1991; (c) Air Pollution Prevention Law, 2000; (d)
Water Pollution Prevention Law, 1996; (e) Noise Pollution Prevention Law, 1996; (f) Circular on
Strengthening EIA for Construction Projects Receiving Intemational Financing; and (g) Technical Rules
for Environmental Impact Assessment, SEPA, 1997. Of the ten World Bank Safeguard Policies, the
project triggered OP/BP/GP 4.01 on Enviromnental Assessment; OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement;
OPN 11.03 (soon to be OP 4.11) on Cultural Property; and OD 4.20 on Indigenous People. The other
OP/ODs on Forestry (OP/GP 4.36), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), and Pest Management (OP 4.09)
were consulted in preparing the EA.
B.     Project Description
3.     The Project includes a new 243.5 km, four-lane, 120 km/h design speed, controlled access
expressway from Xiaogan to Xiangfan in Hubei Province. Additional components include, three
connecting roads totaling 31 km to be built partially on the existing road alignments to improve the
connection between the expressway and the nearby urban centers, and a number of rural roads consisting
of upgrading of the existing village and country roads in the Province. The rural road investment is
expected to amount to US$60 million. So far, three roads totaling 259 km have been prepared. Additional
rural roads in poor counties will be identified during the implementation of the project and processed in
the same .way as the rest of the project. The design standard for the connecting roads is Grade II with a
design speed of 80 km/h and Grade IV for the rural roads with a design speed of 20-40 km/h. The
construction of the XXE is scheduled to commence in September 2002; the expressway should open to
traffic by end 2005 and the project be fully completed in June 2007.
- 93 -



C.     Baseline Environmnent
Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway
4.     The project area is located in the north, semi-tropical region with a continental monsoon climate.
The average annual temperature ranges from 15-16C, and precipitation, frost-free days and sunlight range
from 845-1200 nmm, 220-250 days and 1940-2100 hours respectively. The terrain slopes from northwest
to southeast crossing plains, hills and undulate ridges with elevations from 50 to 165 m
5.     Between September 1999 and March 2000, ambient air quality was monitored at seven sensitive
receptors (3 villages, 3 schools and one hospital). Monitoring for TSP and NOx was carried out in
September 1999 and March 2000, at all seven locations and samples were collected over a five-day
period. Monitoring for N02 was carried out in March 2000 at two schools only. The monitoring showed
that total suspended particulates (TSP), NOx, and N02 at the seven locations were below the applicable
Class Il Air Quality Standards, indicating good ambient air quality along the proposed alignment. Similar
monitoring was carried out along the connecting roads and the three identified rural roads. All measured
air quality parameters were well below the applicable regulatory standards.
6.     Noise levels were monitored at nine sensitive locations, within 120 m of the existing country
roads, in the expressway area. The results show that the noise levels at these locations range from 42.5 to
48.9 dB(A) during day and 37.0 to 39.8 dB(A) at night, well below the most stringent noise standards.
This indicates pristine acoustic environment in the expressway area. The noise levels along the three
connecting roads and four country roads also show high acoustic quality.
7.     Between December 1998 to March 2000, surface water quality was monitored in the six rivers
along the expressway alignment and in the critical water bodies crossed by the connecting roads and the
identified rural roads. With one exception, all monitored data show that the measured parameters (COD,
Oil and SS) were within the applicable standards. The water quality parameters for the Fu river at the
Suizhou connecting road however exceeded the applicable standards, with pollution sources from local
industrial, domestic and non-point sources.
8.     The primary vehicle for soil erosion in the project area is water and colluvial erosion caused by a
disturbance to the surface vegetation by inappropriate farming and other activities on steep slopes.
Common forms of soil erosion include movement of surface materials, ditch failures due to the lack of
vegetation, soil dissolution following intense rainfall, and landslides. The remote sensing survey shows
that soil erosion area in the middle reach of Han river basin in Hubei province is 10,080.76 kxn2, with
soil erosion intensity in Tongbai Mountain and Han river at 2,771 and 2,672 t/km2 respectively.
9.     A survey by a professional archaeology and cultural relics institute was conducted between
August to September 2000 and again in November 2001, covering the main expressway line, the
alternative alignments, the connecting roads and the three rural roads. The survey included walk-through
of the entire alignment, visual observation and sub-surface investigation through drilling up to 8 m below
grade of about 250 reconnaissance holes. Local cultural relics specialists also visited sites proposed for
borrow pits and disposal areas. A Song Dynasty tomb and a Shang Dynasty cultural relics site were
identified which would be affected by the expressway construction.
10.    The total population crossed and serviced by the expressway is approximately 6.76 million and
the total serviced area is 26.38 million mu (15 mu to a hectare), including approximately 6.6 million mu.
of cultivated land. The major urban areas along the expressway include Xiangyang county, Zaoyang
county, Suizhou city, Xiaonan district, Xiaochang county, Yunmeng county and Anlu county. The
-94-



expressway will affect 59 villages and townships, eight schools, one hospital and cross six major rivers.
It will run at a distance of about 1.2 km away from the Baizaoshan forest park.
D.        Analysis of Alternatives
11.   Three alternative expressway corridors for the XXE were first proposed, analyzed and compared.
A preferred corridor alternative was selected based on the overall least environmental and socioeconomnic
impacts. Then, six sub-altematives, relatively short expressway segments, were analyzed within the
preferred corridor alternative. The final expressway alignment, on which the expressway will be
constructed, was selected from the sub-alternatives along the preferred corridor alternative, based on the
overall least environmental and socio economic impacts.
12.    The three corridor alternatives analyzed at the first stage were (see Map 6-1 in the main EIA
report for details):
Alternative 1: Starting from southern district of Xiaogan city and ending at the Haoying township with
a total length of 243.5 km (preferred alternative).
Alternative II: Alternative II diverts to the South from Anlu, Suizhou and Zaoyang but is closer to
Yingcheng and Jingshan counties. After passing Xiaghyang county, Alternative II
merges with Alternative I. The total length for this alternative is 252.2 km.
Alternative [I: Alternative III diverts to the North from the Alternative I alignment from Xiaogan and
Yunmeng, but is closer to Suizhou. After passing Suizhou, the alignment becomes
identical to Alternative I. The total length of Alternative III is 235.2 km.
Alternative I was selected based on the least river crossing distance, least occupation of woodland, least
cultural relics sites, least impacts to irrigation systems, least adverse socio economic impacts, best links
to major urban and regional centers, and lowest per kilometer engineering cost, although soil erosion,
noise impacts, and resettlement are compatible or higher compared with the other two alternatives.
Alternative I also received the widest support from the local governments, which was an important factor
in the analysis of alternatives by the EA and other project teams. Mitigation measures have been
proposed and included in the engineering design where appropriate, as well as in the Project EMP for
mitigating adverse impacts expected to be caused by Alternative L particularly in areas where Alternative
I has higher impacts than the other alternatives.
13.    Within the preferred corridor alternative, six sulb-alternatives were proposed in four segments in
an attempt to optimize the expressway alignment. These sub-alternatives were analyzed against the
originally proposed alignment within the same segments. In the following description, the
sub-alternatives on the original Alternative I are named Sub-alternative A, while the comparison
sub-alternatives are named B1, B2, B3, C, D and E, respectively (see Map 6-2 in ths main EIA report for
details). The sub-alternatives are:
Xiaoaan Segment:
B1: Sub-alternative B1 was proposed against Sub-alternative A to avoid being too close to the urban
area of Anlu city. However, Sub-alternative B 1 would affect much more sensitive receptors and
thus entail higher impacts from noise, air pollution and community severance. It would also
occupy more land and affect more people during resettlement and relocation.
- 95 -



B2: In order to minimize the resettlement and impacts on villages, Sub-alternative B2 was proposed.
This sub-alternative however would occupy more high yield farmland as well as require higher
earthwork and more borrow pits. As such, it would have higher impacts on area agriculture, and
higher potential for soil erosion at the borrow pits during construction.
B3: This Sub-alternative moves further away from Anlu city to achieve the same objective of
avoiding effect on the city's development. At the same time, Sub-alternative B3 has least
agricultural impacts, requires less land for borrow pits, fewer cultural relics sites, shorter
connecting road and thus less impacts caused by the connecting road, and widest support from
the local governments, when compared with Sub-alternative A. Based on these merits,
Sub-alternative B3 was selected. Detailed mitigation measures have been planned and included
in engineering design for the higher adverse impacts than Sub-alternative A in the areas of more
sensitive receptors, and more resettlement and relocation.
Suizhou Segment
C: Sub-alternative C was proposed in an attempt to reduce the work for deep cut and high fills in the
original Sub-alternative A. Sub-alternative C was selected because of the less land occupation,
reduced deep cuts, high fills and earth work, reduced potential of soil erosion during
construction, less impact on valuable trees, and lower resettlement and relocation than
Sub-alternative A.
Zaovang Segnent
D: Although Sub-alternative D will result in a shorter connecting road and thus cause less impacts
by the connecting road, cross fewer water bodies and has less earth work than the original
Sub-alternative A, it would occupy more land, particularly high yield land; occupy more land for
borrow pits; impact more sensitive receptors; have higher resettlement; and will be poorly
aligned to attract traffic compared with Sub-alternative A. Therefore, in this segment,
Sub-alternative A was selected.
Xiangfan Segment
E: Sub-altemative E was proposed with considerations of smaller bridges and easy design of the
Shuanggou interchange. This sub-alternative was selected because it occupies less land, needs a
smaller bridge on a major river, is less vulnerable to flood, and is more accessible to people from
Xiangfan city than Sub-alternative A.
14.   The connecting roads will be developed based partially on the existing roads and partially on
new alignment. The selection of the road alignments is based on the need for upgrading, which will
significantly improve the road conditions, as well as engineering considerations.
15.    The identified rural roads subprojects are based on the upgrading of the existing roads, which
conveniently link the villages. Altematives would be to build the roads on green field, which would
occupy more land and affect more people with regard to resettlement and relocation. At the time of the
appraisal, three rural roads (Tunbao to Banqiao, Changwan to Shiyao and Quanxi to Xinmatou roads)
had finally been identified and processed as part of the main expressway. Additional rural roads in poor
counties will be identified using the already established socio-economic and poverty criteria as the
project is implemented and will be processed using the same environmental and social/resettlement
guidelines.
- 96 -



E.     Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Plan
16.   The major potential environmental impacts associated with the project and mitigation measures
are presented in detail in the project ELA reports, and include soil erosion, construction noise, borrow pits
and disposal of excessiVe materials, construction camps, construction safety, temporary access roads
during the construction phase and increased noise, motor vehicle emissions and community severance
during the operation phase. The EA has developed a series of measures to avoid, minimize, mitigate or
otherwise compensate the adverse impact from the project. These mitigation measures are sunmnarized
below:
Design Phase
17.   To control soil erosion, permanent engineering works such as concrete and stone pavement on
deep slopes and other cut and fills areas are included in the design to completely stabilize the soil
surface. Other works include interception ditches and landscaping. The borrow pits will be rehabilitated
through conversion of all 104 borrow pits into ponds or landscaping following the completion of earth
borrowing operation. For the 33 excessive constiuction waste disposal sites, retaining walls, settling
ponds, and drainage systems will be built. The stockpiles of the waste material will be covered with soil
and landscaped. The same measures will be taken at all borrow pits and disposal sties used for upgrading
of the connecting and rural roads.
18.   There are 59 villages, eight schools and one hospital subject to noise impact from the XXE
Project component. Noise at 24 villages is predicted to exceed the standard by up to 6.3 dB(A), but most
increases will octcur in the medium (2013) to long (2020) terms. For schools and hospital, the noise levels
are predicted to exceed the applicable standards at the time of completion. The increases will be from 1.1
to 4.1 dB(A) in the short term (2006) and much higher for the medium to long terms. A number of
measures to minimize noise have been incorporated into the design. Noise insulation windows will be
installed in the first row of Impacted houses. For schools and hospital, noise barrier, higher perimeter
fence and tree planting will be implemented as noise mitigation measures. One of the most seriously
affected schools will be relocated to another area and rnerged with another school not affected by the
expressway. Similar measures will also be taken at sensitive receptors along the connecting roads and
rural roads wherever the noise level is predicted to exceed the applicable standards.
19.   To minimize the impact on water quality, wastewater treatment facilities will be built at the
service areas, including motor vehicle maintenance and repair shops, car washing operations, as well as
at the domestic facilities at the service areas along the expressway. Aerobic biological wastewater
treatment plants will be designed and built. The car washing wastewater will first go through a
pre-treatment for oil removal before entering into the biological wastewater treatment plant.
20.    To minimize the impacts of community and farmland severance, a total of 454 underpasses, 147
overpasses and 30 grade separation crossings have been included in the XXE project design. On average,
there will be 2.59 crossings for each kilometer of the expressway. A rural resident will need to walk 386
meters on average to cross the expressway to the other side. The crossings design allow usages by
various farm vehicles and allow for future expansion.
21.    Preservative excavation at the cultural relics sites will be conducted and completed prior to the
commencement of the expressway construction. During this process, all valuable archaeological and
cultural articles from the sites will be recovered, studied and kept by the county museum. The excavated
sites will be photographed, measured, documented or modeled if necessary before being handed over to
- 97 -



contractors for expressway construction. Contractors will be trained to strictly follow the procedures in
case there are chance findings of additional relics during the construction. The procedure calls for
immediate halt of all construction activities and requires the Contractor to contact the relevant
authorities. Contractors may resume work at the site if so instructed by authorities and cultural relics
specialists following their on site investigation.
22.    Because of the 1.2 km distance to the expressway, the impacts on the Baizhaoshan Forest Park
will b, negligible. However, the Project will result in indirect impacts to the park through better access to
the park and will attract more tourists. To mitigate indirect impacts, an environmenta] management plan
for the park will be prepared. The specific measures will include locating the car parking lot 300 m away
from, the park area, and providing sufficient garbage bins and washroom facilities inside the park.
Selected rural roads do not' affect any natural reserve.
23.    The project will occupy 25,805.5 mu of land, and involve the relocation of about 192,489 m2 of
primarily residential houses involving 17,800 people in 4096 households. All relocated residents will be
properly compensated and will receive training for new employment. Special consideration will be given
to the elderly, illiterate and farmers in terms of compensation. For people whose sources of well water
will be disrupted by the construction of tunnels, additional water wells and other water supply sources
will be developed.
Construction Phase
24.    The construction workspace will be minimized to reduce the impact of land occupation. Areas
which must be occupied will be re-vegetated after the completion of construction. Workers will be
educated to protect trees and other vegetation as much as possible during construction. Temporary
settling ponds will be built where necessary. To minimize soil erosion on disturbed soil, temporary
protection measures such as grass mats will be applied in places where permanent protection works
cannot be completed in time for the rainy season.
25.    Large and noisy construction activities will be kept away from populated areas (150 m
minimum). Operation of loud construction machinery and major construction activities will be restricted
to the day time. Temporary noise barriers will be constructed to protect the sensitive receptors from the
impact of construction noise. Construction traffic will be directed to avoid sensitive locations and will be
completely banned at night time.
26.    To minimize adverse impacts on surface water during construction, cofferdam techniques will be
* used in bridge column construction with complete isolation of work areas. River crossing construction
activities will be scheduled, to the extent possible, during the low flow periods. The discharge from
construction camps will be a potential source of water contamination. To rmitigate the potential impact,
no sewage from construction camps will be allowed to discharge without prior treatment. The sewage
will be either held at the site and emptied at treatment facilities regularly or will be channeled through
on-site treatment such as septic tanks to meet the irrigation discharge standards.
27.    Unpaved access roads and construction sites will be water sprayed twice a day (once in the
morning and once in the afternoon), or more (on dry and windy days) to suppress airborne dust. The
mixing stations and other point sources of air emissions will be located leeward, far enough from
sensitive receptors (300 m minimum). Trucks loaded with soil and other dusty materials, as well as
materials stockpiles, will be covered with canvas.
- 98 -



28.    Construction camps will be appropriately located to minimize the disturbance to the
communities. Solid and liquid waste will be stored with proper protection and removed from the sites
regularly by qualified vendors for disposal. The camps will be maintained in sanitary, and orderly
conditions with good housekeeping to minimize the health hazards to the workers and adverse impacts to
the surrounding environment.
29.    Workers will be educated in hygiene and healthy lifestyle at the construction sites to control
infectious diseases and protect other workers and the local communities. Warning signs, public
education, necessary barriers, etc. will be provided for public safety at the construction sites, especially
during the blasting operations.
30.    Two cultural relics sites, on the project alignment, will be excavated prior to the commencement
of construction. The result of excavation will be moved to provincial museums for permanent protection
and displays. The contractors will be requested to immediately halt the construction activities if valuable
articles are uncovered during construction.
31.    Experience with previous World Bank financed expressway project in Hubei Province has shown
that high awareness and full participation of contractors in environmental management at the
construction sites are critically important to ensure environmental performance. Environmental
protection will start from pre-qualification of contractors where environmental awareness and
management systems will be an evaluation criterion. The environmental mitigation measures,
management and monitoring plans will be incorporated into bid documents to ensure there will be
sufficient funding for these activities and the environmental management will be a contractual obligation
for the contractors. Finally, a short training course will be provided to all winning contractors and
construction supervision offices on environmental policies and regulations, potential impacts, mitigation
measures, daily monitoring and reporting, and emergency handling.
Operation Phase
32.    No new school, hospital or other sensitive facilities will be allowed to be built within 250 m from
the central line of the expressway or 37 to 50 m from the central line of the connecting roads to minimize
noise impacts. Traffic management will be enforced and motor vehicles will not be allowed to speed,
which generates excessive noise as well as safety concerns.
33.    The control of motor vehicle air emissions requires an integrated approach from numerous
government agencies as well as private sector stakeholders. The province will enforce applicable
standards for motor vehicles and fuels, and implement motor vehicle inspection programs to minimize air
emissions from the increased motor vehicle traffic on the expressway.
34.    Hubei Province will set up a leading group to handle transportation of hazardous materials and
emergency response in the event of traffic accidents involving hazardous materials. Licensing and
permission procedures will be strictly enforced to control the traffic involving hazardous materials on the
provincial expressways and connecting roads.
35.    Extensive environmental monitoring programs will be implemented during both the construction
and operation phases (details below) to determine if the adverse environmental impacts are as projected
in the EA and to ensure that the proposed mitigation measures are implemented and effective. In case,
inadequate mitigation or new adverse impacts emerge beyond the EA prediction and are detected by the
monitoring programs, prompt and appropriate new actions will be taken to address them.
99 -



F.     Environxmental Monitoring
36.    The EMP includes environmental monitoring programs for both construction and operation
phases. The parameters to be monitored include relocation and resettlement, soil erosion, noise, dust,
degradation of water quality, stream sedimentation, solid waste disposal, and electromagnetic radiation.
During the construction phase, environmental monitoring will be conducted in two ways: daily and
routine monitoring consisting mainly of visual observations and limited equipment measurements such as
hand-held noise meters; and periodic monitoring by professionals using standard methods recognized by
regulatory authorities. Monitoring reports will be compiled at intervals of once every three to four
months, summarizing the findings of the monitoring authority. The reports will be submitted to the
project owner as well as relevant agencies and the World Bank. During the operation phase, noise levels
will be,monitored once a month during the first six months and once every six months thereafter. Soil
erosion will be monitored once every six months, while air and water quality will be monitored once a
year.
G.     Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
37.    Two rounds of public consultation were carried out during the EA: the first round at the
preparation stage of EA terms of reference (TOR) between August to September 2000 and the second
round during preparation of the draft EA reports between March to May 2001. Various techniques were
used in public consultation, including public opinion surveys through questionnaires, public meetings at
villages and with local people's representatives, and interviews with affected groups and individuals. The
people consulted included mainly those who will be affected directly by the project. Relevant
government and nongovemment organizations and experts on various environmental and socio economic
issues were also consulted.
38.   In total, 3990 copies of a public opinion questionnaire were distributed and 3923 were returned.
Most people surveyed were well aware of the Project (69.2%) or had some knowledge of it (28.9%). The
vast majority of the people (95.5%) felt that the expressway, as well as the connecting roads and rural
roads, were necessary and wished to see the construction start as soon as possible. Of the environmental
issues, 77% of surveyed people cited noise and 49.2% cited dust during construction as major issues.
Most of the affected people (87.6%) wanted landscaping and tree planting as a measure to mitigate
adverse impacts of the project.
39.   In total, 116 villages, nine schools, one hospital, seven local government agencies and seven
related groups were visited in both rounds of the public consultation. These visits involved 22 public
meetings and 117 group interviews. The agencies and groups consulted include local EPBs, conservation
water supply and irrigation, agricultural, forestry, transportation, people's congress and people's political
consultative groups. The public concerns included appropriate compensation for land acquisition and
resettlement and relocation, disturbance to irrigation systems, noise and student safety at the schools,
community severance, and links and access to the expressway. Similar concerns were also raised for the
connecting roads and rural roads components.
40.    The EA team has responded to the public concerns with various measures, including setting up
land acquisition and resettlement offices under HPCD to develop, supervise and implement the
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP); planning the construction of 454 underpasses and 147 over-crossings
with provisions for farm vehicles and future expansion to mitigate community severance impacts;
designing 54 small bridges and 524 culverts to ensure that the disturbance to irrigation systems will be
minimized; providing for the installation offences to provide safety to students, residents and livestock;
including noise insulation windows; and tree plantation in the project to minimize the impacts of noise
- 100 -



from the expressway and connecting roads; and providing full consideration to local economy and
transportation needs such as appropriately locating access ramps/interchanges; opening employment
opportunities during construction; etc.
41.    In compliance with the EIA process requirements in China and the World Bank safeguards, the
completed draft EIA and EMP reports as well as part of the public consultation records were distributed
in public places along the expressway. The concerned public will have access to the reports at these
places. In addition, the project information and the availability of the reports were advertised in Hubei
Daily, the provincial wide newspaper and two of the most popular internet web sites in the province. The
public consultation and information disclosure are surmmarized in the table below. The EA team plans to
disclose the final EA reports to the public once the final version is completed.
Public Consultation
Substance         By whom, with whom   When         Where                  Bank's
arequiremnent
EA TOR, using     By SSSRI with        August -     Villages, schools and  OP 4.01
public opinion    affected people and  September    agencies along the
questionnaires    local agencies       2000         expressway
Draft EA TOR      By SSSRI with        August -     246 individuals from 19  OP 4.01
Public meetings and  affected rural residents  September  villages, 5 schools along
interviews                             2000         the expressway
Draft EA reports,  By SSSRI, with      March to     3,677 individuals from  OP 4.01
public meetings and  affected rural residents  May 2001  97 villages, 4 schools 1
interviews        and local agencies                hospital and 7 local
____ ___ ___ ___ ____   __ ___ ___ ___ agencies
Draft EA TOR using By SSSRI, with      August       Villages, schools and  OP 4.01
public opinion    affected rural residents  2000    organizations along the
questionnaires public                               connecting roads and
meetings and                                        rural roads.
interviews
Draft EA reports,  By SSSRI, with      March to     Villages and schools and OP 4.01
using public      affected rural residents  May     local agencies along the
meetings and                           2001         connecting and rural
interviews                                          roads
-101 -



Information Disclosure
Document               Date of disclosure  Location                 Bank's requirement
Draft EA report         November 2001     Book centers, Libraries,  OP 4.01
Cultural Centers, in
Xiaonan, Yunmeng, Anlu,
Final EA reports        April 26, 2002    Yandian, Luoyangdian,
Hedian, Junchuan, Zendu,
Anju Huantan, Wangcheng,
Zaoyang, Fancheng cities,
counties and townships
Draft EA report         November 2001     Government offices in     OP 4.01
Liangji, Juwan, Shungguo,
Gaoying counties and
townships
Newspaper Advertising   December 31, 2001  Hubei Daily              OP 4.01
April 26, 2002
World wide web sites    December 31, 2001 www.people.com.cn
www.cnhubei.com
- 102 -



Annex 12: Resettlement Action Plan Summary
CHINA: Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project
Land Acquisition and Resettlement -Related Impacts
1.    The main investment. component of the project is a 243.5 kilometers expressway,
Xiaogan-Xiangfan Expressway (XXE). It includes 14 interchanges, four couples of service areas and four
couples of rest areas, 108 bridges of different size, 591 culverts, 121 overpasses and 481 underpasses. It
is completed by three class II connecting roads of 31 kilometers.
2.     The second investment component is a rural road improvement program, comprising of
rehabilitation and upgrading of township-county and county-county roads. A first phase of three road
sections (259 kIn) has been identified. Projects are located within the poorest counties of western Hubei
province, among the 38 counties classified at State and Province levels as poor counties. Two projects
are in Ensh'i City, included in the Enshi Tujia and Miaojia Minority Autonomous Prefecture, and one
project is located in Zhuxi and Zhushan County that is part of Shiyan Prefecture.
3.     Both components will be implemented by Hubei Provincial Communication Department
(HPCD).
Census and Inventory
4.     The main alternatives for the XXE alignment were identified at the stage of the preliminary
technical design in October 2000. During August to September 2000, Hubei Highway Department set up
a team to undertake the field survey work. The Land Resources Administration Department and local
governments also participated in the census of affected people and inventory of affected assets. The
census and various categories of impacts were identified and recorded for each household and village,
then verified and signed off by the village leader, the head of the household and the investigation team. In
addition, HPCD established another team to prepare resettlement rehabilitation plan during January 2001.
Later, in May 2001, and according to suggestions from the Bank mission, HPCD sent specific teams,
consisting of the highway design institute, county departments of water conservancy and village leaders,
to survey irrigation impact surveys and plan recovery measures.
Socioeconomic Survey and Social Assessment
5.     Resettlement planning for XXE is based on the preliminary design and was completed in March
2001 when the expressway alignment was finalized. It takes into account a census of the affected
population, an inventory of affected assets, a socio-economic survey, a social assessment and continuous
consultations with the affected population. A socio-economic survey was also conducted by HPCD to
analyze the project impacts, understand the socio-economic background in the project areas used as the
basis for resettlement planning, and consult the affected people for gathering their feedback during the
planning of resettlement. The States Nationality University conducted a social assessment in the project
areas; it used focused group discussions and key informant interviews, focusing particularly on national
minority groups and feedback from the affected groups.
6.     The XXE project starts at Xiaogan in the westem side of Wuhan urban area, the capital of Hubei
province, and ends in the West of the province, at Xiangfan. Farming is the main agricultural activity
and crops include rice, wheat and corn. Average yield is comparatively low here and land holding per
capita is about 1.5 mu. Animal breeding is also an important rural activity. In the project-affected areas
- 103 -



along the expressway, non-farm income is generally higher and non-farm activities have become an
important source of income. Farmers normally get employment as wage laborers, some long-term and
some seasonal. Almost all interviewed households have one laborer engaged in non-farm employment.
7.     A detailed social assessment was undertaken by HPCD, under the direction of Dr. Zhang
Haiyang, Professor of Ethnology from the Central University of Nationalities, of areas affected by
identified rural road projects and inhabited by various national minorities, e.g. Enshi Tujia and Miaojia
Minority Autonomous Prefecture.
Project Impact
8.    According to the project Resettlement Action Plan, XXE will affect 178 villages in 32 townships
in 7 counties within 3 municipalities. The project will require land acquisition and demolition of houses.
The project will require the acquisition of 25,805 mu (1,720 hectares) of collective land, including
19,471 mu of cultivated land and 6,335 mu of non-cultivated land. 58.8% of cultivated land is paddy,
34.1% dry land, 7% fish pools, and the remainder is nursery land. During the expressway construction
period, the project will use additional 10,000 mu (667 hectares) of land from collectives temporarily.
Demolition of 192,489 square meters of housing will necessitate the relocation of 1,592 households.
About 10,858 people in 2,504 households would be affected by land loss and 3,756 people in 900
households would be affected by house demolition. About 3,186 persons in 692 households would be
affected by both land loss and house demolition. The project would also affect some public facilities,
such as power and communication lines, wells and irrigation canals.
9.    The social assessment on the areas affected by the first phase of the RRIP found that (i) there are
no significant differences in status, in the rural road areas, between the national minorities and the Han
majority with regard to political representation, economic activities, and standard of living, (ii) no
potentially adverse and differential impacts should affect those national minorities, and (iii) surveys
identified a high level of support to the project from population served. Consequently, the social
assessment concludes that the project affected people along the road sections do not meet the definition
of Indigenous People as described in the Bank policy. In addition, no involuntary resettlement is
expected, since works are limited to the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing road sections without
changing their alignment. In case land acquisition is needed, a standing Resettlement Policy Framework
has been prepared. Its implementation is considered sufficient to mitigate the potential social impacts and
no ethnic-specific rehabilitation measures are deemed necessary.
Legal Framework
10.   The project adopted the following policies for planning resettlement along XXE and preparing
the standing resettlement framework for rural roads:
*   World Bank Operative Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
*   Land Administration Law of PRC
*   Implementation Regulations of the Land Law of PRC
*   Forest Law of PRC
*   Mineral Resources-Law of PRC
*   Relevant Provincial Regulation on Forest and Mineral Resources
11.   The following policy principles are followed in developing the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
for XXE and the standing Resettlement Policy Framework applicable on rural roads:
-104 -



*   all possible measures should be explored to minimize adverse impacts, including engineering,
technical and economic measures;
*   the objective of resettlement planning is to increase or at least restore the living standard of the
affected population;
*   all affected assets should be compensated at replacement cost without depreciation;
*   the affected people and local govemments should be consulted over the compensation rates;
*   compensation fund should be paid 3 months before acquisition of the assets;
*   resettlement would be land-based, with non-farm industrial employment as complementary
measures;
*   the affected people and the host population should be encouraged to participate in resettlement
planning; and
*   resettlers would be relocated within existing villages.
Compensation Standards
12.   The Project Office of the XXE has consulted and negotiated the compensation with each county
involved. The actual compensation rates will be based on replacement costs for various categories of
affected assets. For the land compensation, rates will be based on the highest average annual output
value per mu among the same land in the affected counties. In each case, however, compensation rates
meet or exceed legal requirements and replacement cost valuation.
13.   The land compensation rates for paddy land and fish pool are RMB 4,880 (about US$595) per
mu, which is eight times the average agricultural output. The amount of resettlement subsidy for loss of
paddy land and fish pool is RMB 3,759 (about US$458) per person, which is seven times the average
agricultural output. In addition, the project will pay RMB 3,000 for each fishing pool. For dry land,
nursery land and cash forestry land, the land compensation rates are RMB 4,080 (about US$498) per mu,
which is about eight times the average agricultural output of RMB 510. The resettlement subsidies for
loss of dry land and nursery land are at RMB 3,759 (about US$458) per person. For the relatively small
surface areas of house plot land to be acquired, the compensation rate (including land compensation and
resettlement subsidy) is the same as for paddy land. For desert wasteland, the project will pay a nominal
compensation of RMB 200 (about US$25) per mu.
14.   Compensation rates for affected structures are based on replacement cost. The rate for residential
structures constructed primarily of brick and concrete will be RMB 210 (about US$ 25) per square meter.
For residential structures constructed primarily of brick and wood, the rate will be RMB 150 (about US$
20) per square meter.
15.   The same compensation structure would apply on rural roads if the detail design of rehabilitation
works induces involuntary resettlement. A resettlement action plan would be prepared on such sections in
accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework.
- 105 -



Resettlement Budget and Disbursement
16.    The RAP on XXE lists detailed compensation rates for all categories of affected assets.
Amounts were determined according to the above principles and after consultation with local
governments and affected people. Land compensation was estimated at 12 times the average output
value per mu for the entire project area. A detailed analysis of unit rate analysis was undertaken to
determine the replacement costs for different types of houses described also in the RAP. Compensation
for affected public facilities was estimated at reconstruction cost.
17.    A detailed resettlement budget has been developed for each village on the basis of the inventory
and the developed compensation rates. This budget includes (i) the base cost compensation funds for
land, standing crops, houses, attached structures, facilities, land acquisition tax, resettlement subsidy,
fund for land leveling, training and monitoring, and (ii) management fees and contingencies. The
management fee is about 8 percent of the base cost. Physical and price contingencies are estimated at
10.4 percent of the base cost. The total resettlement budget is RUB 616 million. Resettlement will be
financed entirely through province counterpart funds.
18.    Resettlement funds will be managed by the project office and disbursed to the various entitled
units through the resettlement offices at prefecture and county levels. Land compensation will be paid by
county government agencies to the villages while compensation for standing crops will be paid to
affected farmers. The project office will open specific accounts for each village and allocate land
compensation budgets 3 months before the village requires them to finance land compensation. In
addition the project office will assign local bank to supervise the disbursement process of land
compensations. For the private houses and other private assets, compensations will be paid directly by
the project office to the affected farmers from specific accounts opened with local banks. The
compensations for private assets will be paid to each villager directly through county government
agencies. Compensations for affected public facilities will be paid to the owning government agencies.
Livelihood Restoration
19.    Relocation of households. The villages will provide new residential plots and the specific house
sites will be selected after consultation with the affected households. Farmers will build their own new
houses with cash compensation. All relocated households will be serviced with existing public facilities
and infrastructure. No additional community infrastructure is anticipated.
20.    Rehabilitation of public facilities. The infrastructure facilities affected are mainly irrigation
canals, power and telecommunication lines, and transport facilities. For these facilities, compensation
based on the replacement cost will be paid to the respective owners. The project office conducted
specific surveys for irrigation canal recovery and the results have been reflected in the RAP; meanwhile,
the records are used by the design institute for detailed design. The affected irrigation canals will be
reconstructed by the civil works contractors and their implementation supervised by the affected villages.
Respective owners or responsible government departments will be responsible for the reconstruction of
other public facilities.
21.    Restoration of Livelihood. The proposed highway alignment will primarily run across relatively
rural areas. Rural population densities are not comparatively high, the average land occupation being
1.53 mu. per person. Resettlement planning has included a review of impacts on incomes, which is based
on an analysis of impacts at village level. Land acquisition never exceeds 20 percent of total village
famrnland. Restoration of livelihood for farmers losing agricultural land will follow a land and agricultural
- 106-



based strategy. All affected farmers will get cultivated land through the redistribution of village
collective land. Land redistribution is likely to start from August 2002. Consultations with the affected
villages on livelihood development has identified impacts that will need to be compensated. Subsidy
funds for land compensation and resettlement will be used to improve agricultural productivity through
irrigation development, construction of greenhouses, soil improvement, and other activities. In addition,
a development plan was undertaken in each village where acquired land is below 20 percent, but above
15 percent of total farming land. During appraisal, the project office was also required to undertake a
sample analysis in order to ensure the land compensation is appropriate to restore people's income. In
most villages land will be redistributed so that all village members retain access to land and
compensation payments will be used by the village to improve agricultural production. Where affected
villagers are losing more than 25 percent of their land, further consultations have been undertaken and
resulted in village-specific strategies for livelihood development; village-specific income-generating
measures will also be developed.
Institutional Arrangement
22.    Hubei province has established a Project Leading Group conducted by the Vice Governor since
the beginning of preparation. Meanwhile, the project office has set up a multilevel organizational
framework to plan and implement resettlement. This framework encompasses dedicated resettlement
offices at different levels of governments: provincial, with the coordinating project organization;
prefecture/city; county/banner, and township. These offices have been staffed with experienced experts
and their responsibilities have been specified in detail in the RAP. Other relevant government agencies
are also involved at provincial and other government levels on planning, finance, communications and
land administration. A detailed training program has been developed to build-up the capacity of project
offices; it is summarized in the RAP.
23.    Moreover, the project will streamline the management of resettlement funds in order to avoid
deductions, which may occur during the disbursement of compensations. Specific local bank accounts
will be opened by county level resettlement sectors: a land compensation account for each affected
village and asset compensation accounts for each PAP. They will be managed by the bank system under
the monitoring of the project resettlement office. This office and ,the appointed banks will issue specific
regulations regarding the approval and management of resettlement funds. Appointed banks will report
the usage of resettlement funds item by item to the project office for internal monitoring on a daily basis.
The project office will also strengthen the capacity of township-level and county-level resettlement
offices and resettlement fund management.
Implementation Schedule
24.    The resettlement schedule on XXE will follow the following principles:
*   the demolition of houses will be phased and civil works cannot start on their location before the
relocated households have moved into their new houses;
*   demolition notices must be served at least three months before relocation and relocating
households will be given at least three months for the construction of a new house;
*   civil works cannot start before compensation payment and land acquisition are completed;
*   the redistribution of land should be carried out during the season-breaks;
-107-



*   measures for the restoration of village-specific livelihood should be developed at the same time
as the redistribution of land; and
*   the reconstruction and rehabilitation of affected public facilities and infrastructure should be
completed before civil works start.
Public Consultation and Grievance Redress
25.    The RAP was prepared with the active participation of the affected population.  Local
governments, village leaders and the affected population participated in the census, inventory, the
finalization of the alignment, the determination of compensation rates and the preparation of relocation
and livelihood development schemes. In August 2000, the BPCD hired Wuhan University as consultant
agency to stimulate the guideline and survey framework. The field survey started in September 2000 and
was completed in October 2000. In January 2001 HPCD sent teams to the affected villages for the
planning of livelihood restoration. In May 2001, the Highway Department set up specific teams for
planning the reconstruction of irrigation canals and village roads. Project information and resettlement
policies were disseminated in villages before and during the consultation process. The affected
populations were systematically consulted during the social assessment and their feedback was
incorporated in the RAP. The final draft RAP has been placed in local libraries and its availability
announced in local newspapers. The project office will prepare a Resettlement Information Booklet and
distribute it to all affected households after the project appraisal.
26.    The project office has designed a mechanism to redress grievances through the management of
resettlement at different levels. The RAP contains a detailed procedure and a time frame for grievance
redress and this will be described in the Resettlement Information Booklet.
Resettlement Monitoring
27.    To ensure the smooth and successful implementation of the RAP, the project office has designed
both internal and independent monitoring mechanisms for the implementation of the RAP. Internal
monitoring will be conducted through the resettlement offices at various levels of governmental agencies
and progress reports prepared every six months. It will mainly focus on physical progress of the RAP
implementation. In addition, an independent monitoring will be carried out by Wuhan University every
six months. Apart from physical progress, it will evaluate livelihood restoration efforts and their
effectiveness. The RAP describes in detail the purpose and scope of monitoring, responsibility,
indicators, methodology, procedures and reporting requirements.
- 108-



Annex 13: Financial Management Assessment
CHINA: Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project
I.     Executive Summary and Conclusion
1.    The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan
Highway project's financial management system. The assessment, based on guidelines issued by the
Financial Management Sector Board on lune 30, 2001, has concluded that the project meets minimum
Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in BP/OP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the
project will have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project in the reporting format
as required by the Bank.
2.     Funding sources for the project include Bank loan and counterpart fimds. The Bank loan will be
signed between the Bank and the People's Republic of China (PRC) through its Ministry of Finance
(MOF), and on-lend arrangements for the Bank loans will be signed between PRC through its MOF and
the Hubei province through its Hubei Provincial Finance Bureau (HPFB), and between HPFB and the
Hubei Provincial Communication Department (HPCD). The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the
Bank into the special account maintained by HPFB for the project in respect of reimbursable
expenditures incurred, or to contractors or suppliers via bank accounts with major commercial banks
acceptable to the Bank. In terms of disbursement methods, the project will be disbursing based on the
traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with
the agreement between the Bank and MOF. The counterpart funds to be contributed directly to the
project will come from three sources: one fourth from appropriations by HPFB, one fourth from
appropriations by the Ministry of Communication (MOC) and the remaining from domestic commercial
banks.
3.     No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the implementing agencies involved in the
proposed project. The task team however will continue to be attentive to financial management matters
and audit covenants during project supervisions.
II.    Summary Project Description
4.     The proposed project aims to provide a more effective, safe and efficiently managed transport
infrastructure to support social and economic development in Hubei Province. The project will produce
the following outputs:
* increased transportation capacity and the consequent decrease in traffic congestion in the
Xiaogan - Xiangfan corridor and regional and econormic integration with the less developed
western areas of Hubei province;
*   improved accessibility in low income areas in Hubei province; and
*   improved management and maintenance of roads and better road safety conditions.
- 109-



5.     The main components of the project include:
*   construction of Xiaogan-Xiangfan expressway (XXE) and interconnecting roads;
*   Rural Road Improvement Program in Poor Counties; and
*   Institutional Development and Road Sector Management;
6.    The total investment of the project is about US$691 million. Of this, US$250 trillion will be
provided by the World Bank loan, US$108 million by MOC, US$133 million by Hubei Province
Government and US$200 mnillion by local commercial banks.
III.   Country Issues
7.     To date, no Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has been performed for
China, though dialogue with the Government of China in respect of the CFAA exercise has been initiated
and currently underway and hopefully the exercise will be carried out in the near future. No CFAA will
be conducted in FY02 for China, but the Bank will rely on a similar exercise carried out by the Asian
Development Bank in 2000, for reference purposes.
8.    Bdsed on observations in the areas of public expenditure, accounting and auditing, and the
Bank's experience with projects in China in the past few years, we noted that substantial achievement in
the aforementioned areas has been made and further improvement is expected in the next few years. As
economic reform program unfolds further, the Government of China realizes the importance of
establishing and maintaining an efficient and effective market mechanism to ensure transparency and
accountability, and minimizing potential fraud or corruption.
9.     By an arrangement with the Government of China, funding (in particular the Bank loan) of the
Bank projects is controlled and monitored by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and its extensions, at
provincial, municipal/prefecture and county levels. However, project activities are usually carried out by
implementing agencies of a specific industry or sector. The above arrangement usually requires closer
coordination on the project, as the multi-level management of the funding and implementation
mechanism sometimes work to the detriment of smooth project implementation.
- 110-



IV.    Risk Analysis
10.    The following risks with corresponding mitigating measures have been identified during
assessment:
Risk                               Risk Rating   Mitigating Measures
I. Inherent Project Risk           Moderate      Close monitoring by the task team,
particularly at the early stage.
II. Control Risk
a. Implementing Entity             Moderate      Close monitoring and constant assistance
_by HPFB and the task team.
b. Funds Flow                      Moderate      Control mechanism should be in place to
ensure that the Bank and counterpart
funds will be released to the ultimate
beneficiaries on a timely basis.
c. Staffing                        Moderate      Adequate staffing should be in place;
periodic checking on accounting work by
HPFB and the task team should be
performed.
d. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Low       Accounting policies and procedures are
already in place.
e. Internal Audit                 Moderate       The internal audit department and financial
division of HPCD, as well as HPFB will
assume internal supervision
responsibilities.
f. External Audit                  Low           The external auditors, the Hubei
Provincial Audit Bureau, have extensive
audit experience with Bank projects.
g. Reporting and Monitoring        Low           Format, content and submission frequency
of project financial statements have been
clearly defined by the Bank and MOF.
h. Information Systems             Moderate      Checking by the task team at the early
stage of implemnentation to ensure correct
set up.
V.     Strengths and Weaknesses
11.    Strengths. Project personnel identified to assume financial or accounting positions have relevant
work experience and educational background, and most of them have experience with Bank projects
(National Highway m and IV projects) currently under implementation in the province. In addition, the
project management office will also benefit from the extensive experience HPCD and HPFB have had
with Bank projects. To date, HPCD through its designated project management offices, has managed
two Bank financed highway projects in the province and is familiar with Bank policies, procedures and
requirements. HPFB has managed special accounts and project disbursement aspects for more than five
Bank projects, including the NH3 and NH4 projects. The proposed project will also fall under the care
and guidance of HPFB. The Bank's records indicate that both BPCD and HPFB have been performing
satisfactorily in the areas of project financial management and withdrawal applications processing.
12.    Weaknesses. The following weakness with resolution has been identified:
- 111 -



Weaknesses                             Resolution
1. Most of the financial staff at the county level  1. A comprehensive training on project financial
have little experience with Bank projects and are  management should be provided by HPCD and
not familiar with the Bank's requirement of  HPFB for relevant staff prior to effectiveness
financial management and disbursement
procedures
VI.    Implementing Entity
13.   Project Leading Group (PLG). A project leading group, consisting of representatives from
departments of provincial government, such as Hubei Provincial Development and Planning
Commission, Hubei State Land Resources Administration, Hubei Provincial Finance Bureau and Hubei
Provincial Communication Department, has been formed to provide overall guidance and coordination
and to monitor project implementation. MOC will assume an oversight role and provide overall guidance
and-technical support from the central level.
14.   HPCD will assume overall responsibility for road project preparation and implementation, while
the World Bank Financed Project Office (WBFO) under HPCD will be held directly responsible for
project preparation, implementation, and coordination, including other World Bank financed projects,
and will be responsible for the institutional strengthening and road safety components.
15.   Hubei Provincial Xiao Xiang Expressway Limited Company (XXEC), a State Owned Enterprise
(SOE) under HPCD, will be responsible for XXE's construction, operation, toll collection, maintenance,
interconnecting roads and loan repayment. Due to the local political environment, Hubei Provincial
Xiaoxing Expressway Construction Headquarter (XXEH) has been established by the Hubei provincial
government to provide for XXEC's coordination with local municipality or county government in respect
of resettlement issues along XXE alignment during the XXE construction period. XXEH is a temporary
organization for the construction stage only, and most staff of both XXEC and XXEH overlap.
16.   The Rural Road Improvement Program will be implemented by construction directorates
established in the affected counties (Ensh'i city, Zuxhi and Zushan counties). These local construction
directorates will be under the guidance of local government and Hubei Highway Administration Bureau
under HPCD.
17.   In addition, HPFB will play a major role in project implementation, including overall monitoring,
financing arrangement, financial management, etc. HPFB will also be responsible for maintaining,
monitoring and reconciling the special account to be established for the project, and reviewing, verifying
and approving withdrawal applications prepared by the project before being submitted by HPFB to the
Bank- for disbursement processing. HPFB has had extensive prior experience with Bank projects and is
familiar with Bank disbursement procedures. Consequently, for smooth and successful project
implementation, close cooperation and coordination between HPFB and HPCD is extremely critical.
VII.   Funds Flow
18.   One special account for the project will be set up and managed directly by HPFB and on-lend
agreements will be signed between MOF and HPFB, between HPFB and HPCD. The Bank loan
proceeds will flow from the Bank to project special account, to XXEC for reimbursement of expenditures
incurred for the project and advanced by the XXEC, or directly to contractors or suppliers.
- 112 -



19. The flow of counterpart funds will follow a similar pattern.
VIII. Staffing
20.    Adequate project accounting staff with educational background and work experience
commensurate with the work they are expected to perform is one of the factors critical to successful
implementation of project financial management. Based on discussions, observation and review of
educational background and work experience of the staff identified for financial and accounting
positions, the task team considers they are appropriate for the responsibilities they are expected to
assume. In addition, the task team notes that most of the project financial staff have had experience from
the other two Bank financed highway projects currently under implementation in Hubei province, i.e.
Third and Fourth National Highway projects.
21.    However, most of the financial and accounting staff identified and recruited for project activities
at county level have no prior experience with Bank financed projects. Therefore, a well-focused training
program with a view to strengthen project staff's understanding and knowledge of Bank policies and
procedures should be provided by HPCD, XXEC and HPFB prior to project effectiveness. The Bank
task team will provide relevant training as and when needed.
22.    To strengthen financial management capacity and achieve consistent quality of accounting work,
the task team has suggested that a project financial management manual be prepared. The manual will
provide detailed guidelines for financial management, internal controls, accounting procedures, fund and
asset management and withdrawal application procedures. The XXEC has already prepared and
submitted to the Bank a draft manual, which the task team has found satisfactory and appropriate for the
project. Finalized copy will be available to all relevant project staff before project effectiveness.
IX.    Accounting Policies and Procedures
23.    The administration, accounting and reporting of the project will be set up in accordance with the
following regulations/circulars issued by MOF:
a. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will use the "Temporary
Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the World
Bank" (Circular #127 issued in 1993) by MOF as a basis for book-keeping and preparation of
project financial statements and management reports. Accrual accounting and double entry
book-keeping will be adopted by the project.
b. Circular #12: "Regulation for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications" issued in December
1996 by MOF - includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting withdrawal
applications and retention of supporting documentation.
c. Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects" issued in January
2000 by MOF. The circular provides in-depth instructions of accounting treatment of project
activities and covers the following:
1. Chart of account;
2. Detailed accounting instructions for each project account;
3. Standard set of project financial statements; and
4. Instructions on the preparation of project financial statements
- 113-



The standard set of project financial statements mentioned above has been agreed to between the Bank
and MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes the following:
1. Balance sheet;
2. Statement of source and use of fund;
3. Statement of implementation of credit/loan agreement; and
4. Statement of special account
24.    Both circular #127 and #13 are simplified versions of the Accounting Standards for State-owned,
Infrastructure Oriented Projects (the "Standards"), taking into consideration unique characteristics of
Bank projects. The Standards are modelled after the principles of Intemational Accounting Standards
and provide detailed guidelines to accounting for activities of an infrastructure oriented project.
25.    Each project implementing agency will be managing, monitoring and maintaining accounting
records of the project component for which it is responsible. XXEC will then consolidate project
financial statements prepared by implementing agencies for respective components and submit them to
the Bank for reviews and comments on a regular basis.
X.     Internal Audit
26.    The intemal audit department and financial division of BPCD, as well as HPFB will assume
internal audit responsibilities. The task team will evaluate work performed by such internal auditors and
determine the degree of reliance in respect of project implementation and Bank supervision mission.
Xl.    External Audit
27.    The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will be audited in
accordance with the Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition).
The Hubei Provincial Audit Bureau (HPAB) has been identified as the auditors for the project. Annual
audit reports will be issued in the name of HPAB and subject to reviews by the China National Audit
Office (CNAO). The Bank currently accepts audit reports issued by CNAO or provincial or regional
audit bureaus for which CNAO is ultimately responsible.
28.    Audit reports on annual project financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months of
the end of each calendar year, with a separate opinion on Statement of Expenditures and Special
Account.
XII.   Reporting and Monitoring and Format of Financial Statements
29.    The following financial statements represent the standard project financial reporting package
agreed to between the Bank and MOF, and have been discussed and agreed with the proposed project.
The project financial statements will be submitted as part of the Financial Monitoring Report to the Bank
on a semi-annual basis no later than August 15 and February 15 of the subsequent year, including the
following 4 statements:
*   Balance Sheet;
*   Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component;
- 114 -



*   Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement; and
*   Statement of Special Account
XIII. Information Systems
30.     A computerized financial management system has been in place in the XXEC, and a widely
accepted accounting software, Yongyou, will be used to keep track of project activities. Yongyou has
been a mature financial software and widely used in the business community in China, and is considered
appropriate for the financial and accounting work of the project. However, the task team will closely
monitor accounting work, particularly at the initial implementation stage, to ensure proper set-up and
recording.
XIV. Impact of Procurement Arrangements
31.    The impact of procurement arrangements of the project on financial management is considered to
be minimal. Threshold set for procurement post-review will be consistent with that set for SOE for
disbursement purpose.
XV.    Disbursement Arrangements
32.    The project will be disbursing on the traditional disbursement method and will not be using
PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF.
33.    Loan would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as follows (i) works - 46 percent of
expenditures for XXE civil works, 30 percent for connecting roads, 20 percent for buildings and 80
percent for E&M works, (ii) equipment - 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory) and 75 percent of other items procured locally, and (iii) consultants' services
and training - 91 percent for consultants' services and 100 percent for training.
34.    Disbursement methods, such as replenishment, direct payment and special commitment, are
available for the project. The SOE limits will be set up in line with procurement post-review threshold,
as follows: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or less; (ii) each
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2 million or less; (iii) each contract for
the consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or less; (iv) each contract for the
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or less.
35.    One Special Account (SA) will be established for the project and maintained by HPFB. The
authorized allocation of SA will be equivalent to about 4 months of eligible expenses reimbursable via
SA. The allocation of SA is proposed to not exceed US$18 million equivalent. However, the authorized
allocation will be limited to US$12 million equivalent until the aggregate withdrawals and outstanding
Special Commitments equal or exceed US$100 million equivalent.
36.    HPFB will be directly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance and
reconciliation of the SA activities of the project. Supporting documents required for Bank disbursements
will be prepared or collected from World Bank Financed Project Office and local construction
headquarters and submitted by XXEC to HPFB for verification and approval before sending by HPFB to
the Bank for further disbursement processing.
- 115-



XVI. Action plan
37.    The following represents a time-bound action plan of the project that is not considered serious
enough to withhold project preparation:
Action                      Responsible person         Completion Date
1. Financial management and  HPCD, HPFB and XXEC       At project launch workshop or
disbursement training                                  before project effectiveness.
2. Financial management     XXEC                       Before project effectiveness.
manual finalized and issued
XVII. Condition
38.    There are no specific conditions conceming project financial management for negotiation, board
presentation, effectiveness and disbursement.
XVIII. Financial Covenants
39.    There is no specific financial covenant for the project, other than the standard one, e.g.
maintaining project accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices, audit requirement and SOE,
as described in the legal document.
XIX. Supervision Plan
40.    More frequent supervision missions (such as twice a year) are recommended at the initial
implementation stage to ensure proper accounting set up, operations and assess the needs of further
assistance or training. From mid-point on, annual supervision mission for financial management aspects
may be sufficient. In addition, to maximize efficiency and effectiveness of supervision mission,
procurement and FM/SOE/disbursement reviews should be carried out simultaneously.
- 116-



Annex 14: Summary of Social Assessment of Rural Roads
(First Phase of the RRIP)
CHINA: Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project
Overview
1.    A Social Assessment (SA) was carried out on identified rural road sections included in the RRIP
according to the Bank's policies as set forth in Draft OP 10.05, OP 4.10 and OP 4.12. The WBFO used
the social assessment as a tool to identify potential impacts and risks, benefits and rights with a focus on
national minorities living in the areas served by rural roads under RRIP. A Social Assessment team
consisting of Dr. Zhang, Haiyang, Professor of ethnology from Nationality Department, Central
University of Nationalities, conducted fieldwork and the participatory approach in Ensh'i city and Zhuxi
and Zhushan counties, which are populated by a concentration of national rninorities.
2.     The SA report clarifies the social and ethnic situation in the rural road areas, and highlights the
priorities in local development in relation with the needs of national minority groups and their
expectation from the rural road improvements. The three road sections included in the first phase of the
RRIP are located in twvo prefectures that are among the poorest areas of Hubei Province. The rural road
rehabilitation would complement the government's on-going efforts on poverty alleviation, particularly
on agricultural development and the rural road network, by providing easier, more efficient and less
costly means of transportation. The RRIP is designed as a poverty reduction intervention to benefit the
rural areas of the region.
3.     Feasibility studies of identified road sections have concluded that no involuntary resettlement or
land acquisition is expected. The SA also has found out that Tujia and Miaojia minority people, who are
official national minorities in China, do not display distinctive cultural, linguistic or economic
characteristics. They will not be subject to any kind of group-specific impacts and will not be
differentially or adversely affected. In addition, the Social Assessment concludes that those minorities
do not meet the definition of Indigenous People as described in the Bank Policy.
Methodology
4.    In view of the complexity of possible impacts of rural roads on local groups of national
minorities, the investigations under the SA have adopted the social anthropological methods and PRA
(Participation Rural Assessment) techniques.  From the expertise point of view, an independent
evaluation was undertaken in order to provide reliable information and feedback from meaningful
consultation with farmers. It has addressed aspects such as the relevance of the selection of rural road
alignments, sensitivity of ecological environment and socio-cultural impacts, including direct and
indirect potential influences of the program on ecological and social environment, people's needs and
concems.
5.     Methods adopted by the SA team were drawn from an anthropological toolkit, including PRA
conducts (Participatory Rural Appraisal ) and questionnaire surveys. Prior to the start of the assessment,
Professor Zhang, Anthropologist, held training courses for the SA team on the qualitative social science
methodologies appropriate for field investigations and PRA requirements. The team also briefed HPCD
and local authorities on the SA conduct and requested local cooperation and informant confidentiality,
meanwhile providing training for local facilitators hired for questionnaire distribution and collection.
-117 -



6.     Questionnaire
The social assessment team disseminated 700 copies of questionnaires along the three rural road sections
and 664 were returned. The questionnaire included a set of 28 questions in six categories about the usual
demographic data of all the house members, language, family life, kinship as well as marriage, social
contacts, ethnic relations, religious beliefs, etc. The main objectives are to find the correlation between
ethnic status and education, occupation and internarriage.
7.     Participation and Consultation
Over 300 farmers and local officials took part in a series of meetings and discussions. The assessment
team asked every participant to speak, raise their concerns and comments about the negative impacts of
the rural road, and to suggest measures to protect their rights and benefits. The consultation and
participation intended to assess the feasibility of rural road selection and effective benefits to the
minorities and farmers, take into consideration people's concerns into the project preparation and
identify potentially adverse impacts in the early design stage so as to take measures avoiding or
mitigating thern  This approach strengthened the decision-making process and provided experience in
poverty alleviation and social development.
8.     Focused Groups
The SA team organized 16 focused group discussions in the sample villages. Participants included ethnic
groups, women, local officials and rural road undertakers, as well as villagers. The village group
meetings normally involved middle aged and above, ethnic, and female participants, since young laborers
were out for some temporary work at the time. The ethnic group meetings were always attended by
ethnically diversified participants, with Tujia, Miao, Dong and Han in different proportions according to
geographical locations. No village has a concentration of a single minority. Minorities are, in fact,
spread out in different villages. For discussions with other stakeholders' groups, such as local officials
and rural road undertakers (local groups of national minorities), the team usually held two to three
meetings in each county, in order to explain the purposes and objectives of the SA, obtain a broad
feedback from national minorities, farmers, local officials, rural road undertakers, to report their concerns
and exchange results and views.
9.     Normally, a series of PRA tools was employed for a systematic local diagnosis and analysis
through farmers' consultation and participation during group discussions or village meetings. Tools
utilized, besides interviews and discussions, included community mapping, resource diagramnming,
preference ranking, problem tree, historical events, seasonal calendars, daily activity charts, etc. These
tools helped to build mutual understanding between the SA team and villagers.
Conclusion
10.   Final conclusions and recommendations were reached on the basis of demographic statistics and
the intensive fieldwork, after a comparative analysis and by combining the outcomes from each field
survey method. They can be summarized as follows:
*   the analysis of data from the questionnaire surveys has revealed that there is no significant
correlation between ethnicity, education, occupation, and livelihoods;
*   the focus groups have illustrated that the national minorities population, in the assessed areas, do
not have distinctive languages, religions and customs, but share one culture. There is no ethnic
consciousness and no remarkable expression;
-118-



*   there are no indications of specific adverse impacts from the project on minorities. The
structured interviews have reinforced the output of questionnaires and confirmed that all
respondents shared similar views concerning the irrelevancy of ethnicity to division of labor,
education, marriage, social contacts and wealth; and
*   rural road sections are located in poor areas of Hubei Province which urgently need
development. There are no requirements for land acquisition and structured resettlement. The
RRIP work program on the selected road sections is feasible and meaningful. It fits with the
requirement of the Bank poverty alleviatioi strategy.
*   the social assessment concludes that the national minorities in the proposed Project area do not
meet the definition of Indigenous People as described in the Bank policy; consequently, there is
no need to undertake an National Minority Development Plan (NMDP) for the identified road
sections.
11.    Local residents along the rural roads are eager to address poverty and have voiced an active
support to the road rehabilitation and upgrading programs. They have been expecting road improvements
for decades and are worried that works could be cancelled or delayed. Most minorities wanted the
rehabilitation work to start as early as possible in order to make coordinated private business plan and
village development plans. The SA has been an information and mobilization event which has stirred
hopes of mninorities and farrners. The SA report stresses that all information gathered shows unanimous
expectations by the affected residents from the rural road improvements and its early implementation.
12.    Under the second phase of the RRIP, the implementing agency will undertake a social assessment
of each sub-project as a phased process. If found warranted, a full-scale social assessment will be carried
out; then an NMDP will be completed if project affected people meet the definition of Indigenous People
as described in the Bank policy.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31822
75'               ES'              TO0 \ 0'                        11o0             120'             130'
RUSSIAN   FEDERATION                     /         N
KAZAKHSTAN             0,                           -0
, C n t ; \ e E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILONGJiAN
UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                 HARBI
-;                          0 ' z \ Kulbn /  M O  N G O   L I A 
, s,KYRGYZ 0K *h-'
REPUBLIC
LIA  0VDEM   Sea ~~~~~~~~~~40of
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~~~~~~' k_EO~ .-                           Japa,n J  iNAG
?   "                                                                           HHT          4   Y, I N J I A N G  v  e }
WYirniTafwnar                                >     \<X      5wINHUso't  /   T,YU'N  SH81N0 <      " <e     +OREb -
Wnyomor unfmcc l d Ion                                          N.              SH *  EP,,o
corhisc.oPdococor  0                            ((                                                   YKOREA>'\  &_   T   v 
oron  ndo--,  -ds KnSRE
HU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EI~~~~~                               X PROVINCE
EM.IOR HIGHWAYS.         a  SELECTED TOWNS   -SU     MNS,          K    S                    ;GSW   (AIl!N
sosoooo WORLD ElANK PROJECT  @S PROVINCE CAPITALS   TY  NAN\_     .s       /GXI2GAp        N   ZTT 
=   COMPIETED                NATIONAL CAPiTAL      4                   0  3  \ E'G0O         S ho/ ozciu !lTVN
UNDER CONSTRUCTION    ---'  PROVINCE ECUNDARIES      t     f'/ANIN        3   Icokoc 4  ,Ytl
a    PLANNED 3EEFORE 2003  -  --  INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARIES  Sg _,'  >  *            "'c>o  MO9 CNO KONGi                20'
"Y  ......                                                                                   Sea~~~~~~~~~~~Zt.  A   RAA
a    PLANNED AFTER 2003                          4    r'tj  I  VIETNAM hoi                     NA
XIZANG                I-  'f long           0  100  200  300  400 500MILES
'/A    P EOPLE'S <0      , pC4DAU        0    200  400  600  800 KILOMETERS
THAILAND 0                      HSCNAN                     PHILIPINES
_C10,0HINA,\_R,r'\ x, >                               i' -10     .    '               120wL       M






IRRD 31 823
I a                                  ~~~~~~~~~~CHINA             -
Th,s mop - ,. ...d cd by A.r .S )>        3                                   EIPROVINCE..
D-qf pfteftpFed   WddAA  N--k                                            HUBEI PROVINCE
.edeJp&heIDThefl_J                                              XIAOGAN-XIANGFAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ah mp& ip.y on e hepdee -. 
The Wed Be,4Js OZesy,or j   .1 I       -                         = . =  PRONECT XIAOOAN'YIANOFAN EXPRESSWAY --PROECTXIAGA  X  E-PSELECTED ROADS
eepeC4eCefteCeeIe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ eceepAcee CA  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ........CONNECTING ROADS  '"- -R~AILROADS---- -----
e,eAhee,,de',ee                     -  s'  -<+, >_ 2,              > efteeftee RUPAL ROAD IMPROYEMENTPRO GR AMROADS ll TANCHE)  0  SELRCTED TOWNS
- ,  {  ~ <_ ' ,) -   EXISTING EXPRESSWAYS  o   COUNTY CAP TALS       .  - .
--  -  .  -   \\.            ',..*.''.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONSTRUCT ON  D  DRICTEICCAPITALS  ,- -- I-- ---
SHAANXI      .r. .. S                      /                .  , D ATER 2003       PROVINCE CAPITAL
A                              COJNTY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DER   ROYNDAR ES
DAwpeg  A                     ~~    ~   ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~'a  >A N  "'r-  PROVINCE ROYNDARIES D.-  - .-
i': X  ' | /   w;  ,  ,  0<H E N A N -
te~~~~~~~~~~~~    II~~~~~~~~~~~
0      50     IOSD   -<        C  iN  ;- i=              V' ;     i    ~  -'  R  '                   .s         I_ .
I .I.  1,,.    I        -_A-}'*HSDtlNONtoJLA                                              ,  ;-----|<- :;r.-. 
KILOMETERS                   F'"  AAEI  T  "NE-
A ~~~~~ ~~~ P(CJWEST  -.                      (\..~~~~~~~~~~~A        HU 
0  X      g L              ;   B       tA      S    g        4               X   !        0   X      f~~~~~~~0 
CHONGQING . ;..----                                                                        I         h     -  J
,4 .. _- ,                              j,
r
1.v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
eJ,                               HNA N
'U                 ftC   -  -.      ,            ft=..~~ftJ IL'  I *   I~~-  
EN A (WpN keuA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1                          NGX
uFtJMUqEO 









IMAGING
Report No.:        23909   CHA
Type:     PAD



