Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4677 CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Hubei Xiaogan - Xiangfan Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
HUBEI PROVINCE 
 
Dated December 17, 2002 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4677 CHA 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HUBEI 
PROVINCE. 
 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of two hundred fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Hubei 
Province agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS Hubei Province, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Hubei Province declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and economic practices, and social and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Hubei Province shall otherwise agree, Hubei Province shall 
Page  3
-
2
-
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) Hubei Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Hubei Province shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Hubei Province, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Hubei Province on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) Hubei Province shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
Hubei Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Hubei Province of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) Hubei Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Hubei Province responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
 
(b) Hubei 
Province 
shall: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon Hubei
 Province’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Part F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Hubei Province shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds. 
 
(b) 
The first such financial report shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each financial management report shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar semester, and 
shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Hubei 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Hubei 
Province thereof. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For Hubei Province: 
 
c/o Hubei Province Communications Department 
 
Gutiansilu 21 
 
Hankou, Wuhan 
People’s Republic of China 430034 
 
Facsimile: 
(86-27) 8386-9260 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Hubei Province 
may be taken or executed by the Governor or any Vice Governor of Hubei Province or 
such other person or persons as such Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in 
Page  6
-
5
-
writing, and Hubei Province shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
HUBEI PROVINCE 
 
By 
/s/ Zou Jiayi 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for works under Part A.1(a) of the Project shall be prequalified in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods 
manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
(c) 
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall include 
the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding documents for 
works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
 
(d) 
Notification and Advertising
Page  8
-
7
-
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a)    Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $90,140,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 but more than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,230,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $159,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures or, in the event such goods are 
readily available from more than one domestic source at competitive prices and cost less 
than $50,000 per contract, on the basis of national shopping procedures, in all cases 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  9
-
8
-
With respect to each contract for (a) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more and (b) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto,  and the following provisions of this Section: 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part C of the Project and for the provision of training, estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract
,
up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $580,000 equivalent
,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, contract 
packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Environmental Protection, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1. Hubei 
Province 
shall: 
 
(a) 
take, or cause to be taken, all necessary actions to minimize to the extent 
possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or of income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently;  
 
(b) 
carry out the EAPs, RAPs and the Resettlement Policy Framework, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
furnish any proposed revision of the plans and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above to the Bank for its prior approval. 
 
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section A of this Schedule, 
and in respect of any rural road section under Part B of the Project, Hubei Province shall, 
prior to commencing work on such rural road section: (a) for any rural road section which 
requires the acquisition of land, temporarily or permanently,  prepare a resettlement 
action plan satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the principles and procedures set 
forth in the Resettlement Policy Framework; (b) furnish the same to the Bank for its 
approval; (c) conduct a social assessment, satisfactory to the Bank to determine, inter 
alia, the necessity of an NMDP; and (d) if necessary, prepare and carry out such NMDP 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Hubei further undertakes to furnish any proposed 
revision of the plans referred to in this paragraph to the Bank for its prior approval. 
 
3. 
In respect of Part B of the Project, Hubei Province shall: (a) prior to commencing 
work on any rural road section, prepare an environmental impact assessment and action 
plan in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank; (b) furnish the same to the Bank 
for its approval; and (c) carry out such environmental action plan in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
4. Hubei 
Province 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the EAPs,  RAPs, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and the NMDP, if 
any; and 
 
(b) 
prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) an annual summary environmental monitoring report, by January 31 of each 
year commencing in 2003 through the period of Project implementation; (ii) a quarterly 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
environmental monitoring report by January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each 
calendar year, for each preceding quarter commencing in 2003, through the construction 
period of the Xiaogan Xiangfan Expressway; (iii) by  January 31, 2003 and July 31, 2003 
and thereafter on  January  31 of each year through the period of Project implementation, 
an internal monitoring report prepared by the appropriate agencies of Hubei Province on 
the implementation and impact of resettlement activities during the preceding  one year 
or  six-months period, as the case may be; and (iv) by January 31, 2003 and July 31, 2003 
and thereafter on January 31 of each year through the period of Project implementation, 
an external monitoring report prepared by an independent entity acceptable to the Bank 
on the implementation and impact of resettlement activities and the NMDP, if any,  
during the preceding year or six-months period, as the case may be. 
 
B. Xiaogan-Xiangfan 
Expressway
1. 
For purposes of carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project, Hubei Province shall 
prepare, and provide to the Bank a monthly progress report in form and content 
satisfactory to the Bank on the civil works for the Xiaogan-Xiangfan Expressway, 
commencing January 31, 2003 and continuing through the period of Project 
implementation. 
 
2. 
Hubei Province shall, by June 30, 2005, or such later date as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comment, an analysis 
and recommendations on the structure of toll rates on the Xiaogan-Xiangfan Expressway, 
taking into consideration the results of other studies on toll-rate structures under Bank-
financed highway projects in China and the experience with toll rates on major roads in 
China. 
 
C. 
Rural Road Improvement
1. 
Hubei Province shall select each rural road section under Part B of the Project on 
the basis of technical and socio-economic criteria acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
Prior to commencing works on any rural road section under Part B of the Project, 
Hubei Province shall prepare: (a) using indicators acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank for its prior approval an economic and social benefits analysis and a technical 
analysis, including alternative engineering designs, proposed work plans and estimated 
costs; (b) an environmental impact assessment and, if necessary, pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph A (3) of this Schedule, an environmental action plan; and (c) if 
necessary pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A (2) of this Schedule, a resettlement 
action plan prepared in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, and an 
NMDP; all in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
D. Institutional 
Development
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
1. 
Hubei Province shall: by March 31 of each year commencing March 31, 2003 
and continuing through the completion of the Project, furnish an annual highway 
expenditure report for the Bank’s review and comments for the prior year, which shows: 
(i) the length of each class of highway by condition as of December 31 of the previous 
year; (ii) the completed physical works and actual expenditures of the previous year 
against the planned physical targets and budgeted funds of that year, for new 
construction, upgrading and improvement, rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and 
routine maintenance: and (iii) the targets of the highway program for the current year, 
including new construction, upgrading and improvement, rehabilitation, periodic 
maintenance, and routine maintenance, in terms of planned physical works and planned 
expenditures. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Hubei Province shall: (i) carry out the training under Part C of the 
Project in accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and to that end (ii) 
by November 15 of each year, commencing November 15, 2003 and continuing through 
the completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual institutional 
strengthening and training report in form and content satisfactory to the Bank, covering 
progress in implementing its training program, including a training schedule for the 
future year and a description of the training carried out during the year of the report. 
 
(b) 
Hubei Province shall strengthen the Road Training Center established in 
Hubei Province in 2001, and to that end shall: (i) establish an advisory group with 
representatives from relevant agencies and entities both within and outside of the 
highway sector, to support the leading group in charge of said Center; (ii) develop 
appropriate courses and training material, including programs for the training of trainers, 
and establish e-learning facilities; and (iii) from time to time review with the Bank the 
progress of said Center in the delivery of its training programs.  
 
3. 
Hubei Province shall, by December 31, 2005, complete a study on the 
development of road maintenance activities by contract, in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, furnish such study to the Bank for its review and comments, and 
thereafter implement its recommendations taking into consideration the Bank’s views 
thereon. 
 
4. 
Hubei Province shall, by June 30, 2005, complete a study to assess and make 
policy recommendations in respect of the management of overloaded highway vehicles, 
in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, furnish such study to the Bank for its 
review and comments, and thereafter implement the policy taking into consideration the 
Bank’s views thereon.  
 
5. 
Hubei Province shall, by December 31, 2003, complete a study on the 
establishment of an expressway shareholding company, in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, furnish such study to the Bank for its review and comments, and 
thereafter implement the recommendations of the study taking into consideration the 
Bank’s views thereon. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
E. Highway 
Safety
1. 
Hubei Province shall, by December 31, 2005, complete the development of the 
accident analysis system designed under the Fourth National Highway Project (LN 4493 
CHA)
,
and thereafter put such system into effect taking into consideration the Bank’s 
views thereon. 
 
2. 
Hubei Province shall, by December 31, 2004, prepare a comprehensive road 
safety action plan for the HPCD road safety unit under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank, provide said plan to the Bank for its review and comments, and thereafter 
implement said plan taking into consideration the Bank’s views thereon. 
 
3. 
Hubei Province shall, by December 31, 2003, prepare a blackspot identification 
and improvement plan under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, provide said plan 
to the Bank for its review and comments, and thereafter implement said plan taking into 
account the Bank’s views thereon. 
 
F. Reporting 
and 
Monitoring
1. 
Hubei Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
Hubei Province shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports, not later than January 31, April 30, 
July 31, and October 31 in each calendar year, commencing on January 31, 2003 and 
ending in 2007, that set forth physical progress in the implementation of the Project, both 
cumulatively and in respect of said preceding calendar quarter, explain variances between 
the actual and planned Project implementation, and set forth the status of procurement 
under the Project at the end of the period covered by each such report. 
 
3. 
Hubei Province shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank by January 31 of each year, commencing January 31, 2003 and 
continuing through January 31, 2007, an annual report which: (a) integrates the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this 
Section F, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding 
year; and (b) sets out any measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the immediately 
succeeding year. 
 
4. 
After furnishing each report referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, Hubei 
Province shall review the same with the Borrower and the Bank, and, thereafter, promptly 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
