Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4677 CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Hubei Xiaogan - Xiangfan Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 17, 2002 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4677 CHA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December17, 2002, between the PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC 
OF CHINA  (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Hubei Province with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the 
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Hubei Province, 
as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Hubei 
Province (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Affected Person” means a person who
,
on
account of the execution of 
the Project
,
had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land), or right in annual or perennial crops and trees or 
any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or 
(iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected 
Page  3
-
2
-
temporarily or permanently, and "Affected Persons" means, collectively, all persons who 
qualify as an Affected Person. 
 
(b) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“EAPs” means, collectively, (i) the environmental action plans dated 
March 2002 and duly adopted by Hubei Province in respect the Xiaogan-Xiangfan 
Expressway and the connecting roads under Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) the 
environmental action plans dated March 2002 and duly adopted by Hubei Province in 
respect of the Tunbao-Banquiao, Changwan-Shiyao and Quanxi-Xinmatou rural road 
sections under Part B of the Project; and (iii) the environmental action plans to be 
prepared and adopted by Hubei Province in respect of other rural road sections under Part 
B
of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A (3) of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement; referred to in paragraph A (1)(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, which together set out the environmental protection measures in respect of 
said Parts of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
the implementation of said plans, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; and “EAP” means any of the EAPs. 
 
(d) 
“Hubei Province” means the Borrower’s Hubei Province and any 
successor or successors thereto. 
 
(e) 
“HPCD” means Hubei Province Communications Department, an agency 
of Hubei Province, and any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(f) 
“NMDP” means the National Minorities Development Plan to be 
adopted by Hubei Province that sets forth the special planning measures or actions to be 
undertaken by Hubei Province under the Project, aimed at ensuring that national 
minorities in Hubei Province receive benefits from the Project in a culturally compatible 
manner and do not suffer adverse effects as a result of the implementation of the Project. 
 
(g) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Hubei 
Province of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
 
(h) 
“RAPs” means, collectively, (i) the resettlement action plan dated May 
2002, duly adopted by Hubei Province in respect of Part A of the Project, and (ii) the 
resettlement action plans to be prepared and adopted by Hubei Province in respect of Part 
B
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A (2)  of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement, referred to in paragraph A (1)(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, 
resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure compliance with said plan
s
,
as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
Page  4
-
3
-
agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental 
to said plans; and “RAP” means any of the RAPs. 
 
(i) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the resettlement policy 
framework dated April 2002, adopted by Hubei Province in respect of Part B of the 
Project, that sets forth the resettlement principles, organizational arrangements, and 
design criteria in accordance with which a resettlement action plan is submitted to the 
Bank for approval. 
 
(j) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
(k) 
“Rural road section” means a rural road section selected for financing 
under Part B.1 of the Project as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in accordance 
with Part C of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred fifty million Dollars (US$250,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such late date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of  the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, in respect of the Loan, for each 
Interest Period, the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period 
(or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, in respect of the Loan, for each 
Interest Period: (A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made 
by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
Page  6
-
5
-
said Loan upon not less than six (6) months notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Hubei Province to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Hubei 
Province therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable Hubei Province to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Hubei 
Province under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following 
principal terms: 
 
(i) 
Hubei Province shall repay a principal amount equal to the 
amount equivalent in Dollars (determined on the dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, or payment out of the 
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn or paid out; 
 
(ii) 
Hubei Province shall repay, in Dollars, the principal amount 
referred to in paragraph (b)(i) above over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years; 
 
(iii) 
Hubei Province shall pay interest on such principal amount 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to 
the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.06(a) of this Agreement;  
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(iv) 
Hubei Province shall pay a commitment charge on such principal 
amount not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Hubei Province 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such 
Page  8
-
7
-
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Hubei Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Hubei Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, 
namely that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Hubei 
Province, and is legally binding upon Hubei Province in accordance with its terms.  
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
    Facsimile: 
 
FINANMIN 
    (86-10) 
6855-1125 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Works: 
 
(a)  under Part A.1(a) 
197,580,000   
            46% 
 
 
 
of the Project 
 
(b)  under Part A.1(b) 
3,400,000 
20% 
 
of the Project 
 
(c)  under Part A.1(c) 
9,310,000 
80% 
 
of the Project 
 
(d)  under Part A.1(d) 
4,240,000 
30% 
 
of the Project 
 
(e)  under Part B.1                                10,000,000 
20% 
 
of the Project 
 
(2)  Goods 
 
 
 
   5,660,000                    100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory costs), 75% of 
local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(3) Consultants’ Services 
1,730,000 
91% 
 
under Part A.1(a) 
 
 
 
of
the Project 
 
 
 
(4) Training under Part C.3 
   580,000 
100% 
 
of
the Project 
     
 
 
(5) Front-end fee 
2,500,000 
 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this  
 
Agreement  
 
 
(6) Unallocated  
 5,000,000 
 
TOTAL   250,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, above: 
 
(a) 
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding $20,146,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a), (2) and 
(3) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 6, 2002; 
and 
 
(b) 
no withdrawals under Category (1)(e) shall be made in respect of 
payments made for any rural road section in respect of Part B of the Project until such 
Sub-project has been approved by the Bank in accordance with paragraph C (2) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
Page  13
-
12
-
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each; (c) services provided by consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (d) services provided by individual consultants 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (e) training; all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Hubei Province to 
improve the efficiency, safety and cost-effectiveness of the transport infrastructure in 
support of the social and economic development of Hubei Province. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
PART A
:
Highway Capacity Expansion
1. 
Construction of Xiaogan-Xiangfan Expressway in Hubei Province, consisting of:  
(a) construction of about 243.5 kilometers (km) of a divided, two-by-two lanes, access-
controlled expressway between Xiaogan and Xiangfan; (b) construction of related toll 
stations, interchanges, service and rest areas, and facilities for highway administration 
and maintenance; (c) supply and installation of electrical, electronic, and mechanical 
equipment for toll collection, traffic monitoring, lighting, and emergency 
telecommunications facilities on said expressway; and (d) construction of about 31 km of 
interconnecting roads linking said expressway to Suizhou, Zaoyang and Yunmeng.  
 
2. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part A.l of the Project. 
 
PART B
:
Rural Road Improvement Program in Poor Counties 
1. 
Carrying out of the rehabilitation and upgrading of  selected rural road sections in 
Hubei Province. 
 
2.  
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part B.l of the Project. 
 
PART C
:
Institutional Strengthening and Road Sector Management
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capacity and efficiency of highway 
sector agencies and institutions in Hubei Province in highway management, through an 
Institutional Strengthening and Road Sector Management Program that includes: 
 
1. 
construction quality monitoring equipment support; 
 
2. 
studies relating to, inter alia, road maintenance by contract, control of overloaded 
vehicles, the establishment of an expressway shareholding company, and road safety; and 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
3. 
staff training in respect of highway management and related matters. 
 
******** 
 
The project is expected to be completed by June
 
30, 2007. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
June 15, 2008 
  
 6,905,000 
December 15, 2008 
 
 
 
 
    6,990,000 
 
June 15, 2009    
 
 
 
 
    7,080,000 
December 15, 2009 
 
 
 
 
    7,170,000 
June 15, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
    7,260,000 
December 15, 2010 
 
 
 
 
    7,350,000 
June 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
    7,445,000 
December 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
    7,540,000 
June 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
    7,635,000 
December 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
    7,730,000 
June 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
    7,830,000 
 
December 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
    7,930,000 
June 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
    8,030,000 
December 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
    8,130,000 
June 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
    8,230,000 
 
 
 
December 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
    8,335,000 
June 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
    8,440,000 
December 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
    8,550,000 
June 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
    8,655,000 
December 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
    8,765,000 
June 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
    8,875,000 
December 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
    8,990,000 
June 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
    9,105,000 
December 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
    9,220,000 
June 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
    9,335,000 
December 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
    9,455,000 
June 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
    9,575,000 
December 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
    9,695,000 
June 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
    9,815,000 
December 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
    9,935,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions
.
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories”  means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for
 
the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to          
$18,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $12,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of  $100,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(iv) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
Page  18
-
17
-
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
