                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000633




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-46770)




                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF USD250 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR THE

               HUBEI XIAOGAN-XIANGFAN HIGHWAY PROJECT




                                   June 27, 2008




Transport, Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2007)

                               Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                                   Y 1.00 = USD 0.14
                                  USD 1.00 = 7.32 Y

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 to December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CPS   Country Partnership Strategy
E&M   Electrical and Mechanical
EAP   Environmental Action Plan
EIA   Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR  Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENPV  Economic Net Present Value
FIDIC Fédération Internationale Des Ingénieurs-Conseils
FIRR  Financial Internal Rate of Return
FNPV  Financial Net Present Value
GOVIA Gross Output Value of Industry and Agriculture
ICR   Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR   Implementation Status and Results
HPCD  Hubei Provincial Communications Department
m     Million
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOC   Ministry of Communications
NEN   National Express Network (new name for the NTHS)
NH3   Third National Highway Project
NH4   Fourth National Highway Project
NTHS  National Trunk Highway System
O&M   Operations and Maintenance
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PAP   Project Affected Persons
PCD   Provincial Communications Department
PDO   Project Development Objectives
QEA   Quality at Entry
QSA   Quality of Supervision
PIP   Project Implementation Plan
PMO   Project Management Office
RAP   Resettlement Action Plan
RPF   Resettlement Policy Framework
RRIP  Rural Road Improvement Program
RMB   Renminbi (Chinese Yuan)
XXE   Xiaogan-Xiangfan Expressway

     Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
   Country Director: David R. Dollar, EACCF
    Sector Manager: Junhui Wu, EASTE
Project Team Leader: Christopher R. Bennett, EASTE
  ICR Team Leader: Christopher R. Bennett, EASTE

                                                  China
                      Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 14
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 27
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 31
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 39
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 41
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 42
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 43
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 44
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
 MAPS

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Hubei Xiaogan-
Country:                China                 Project Name:         Xiangfan Highway
                                                                    Project
Project ID:             P070441               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-46770
ICR Date:               06/27/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 250.0M            Disbursed Amount:     USD 221.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Hubei Provincial Communications Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/10/2001    Effectiveness:       02/27/2003         02/27/2003
Appraisal:             05/06/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/17/2002    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:             12/31/2007         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                 90                 90
Sub-national government administration                             10                 10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary           Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                    Secondary        Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          David R. Dollar                     Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Junhui Wu                           Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       Christopher R. Bennett              Michel Bellier
ICR Team Leader:           Christopher R. Bennett
ICR Primary Author:        Christopher R. Bennett



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project is to provide a more
effective, safe and efficiently managed transport infrastructure to sustain and support
socio-economic development, trade, and regional integration in Hubei province and
improve transport links to western lagging regions.

  The project, when completed, will offer the following socio-economic benefits to Hubei
province and other areas influenced by the project:



                                                 ii

  * Increased transportation capacity and the consequent decrease in traffic congestion
in the Xiaogan-Xiangfan corridor and regional and economic integration with the less
developed western areas of Hubei province through the construction of Xiaogan-
Xiangfan Expressway.

  * Improved accessibility in low income areas in Hubei province through a program of
rehabilitation and upgrading of rural roads in poor counties.

  * Improved management and maintenance of roads and better road safety conditions
through the provision of training, technical assistance and equipment to Hubei Provincial
Communication Department (HPCD) and related provincial road agencies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target      Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value              Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                    approval          Target          Completion or
                                                  documents)          Values           Target Years
                Ave. daily traffic on NR316
                (A-B) Xiaogan-Yunmeng
                (B-C) Yunmeng-Anlu
                (C-D) Anlu-Fushui

Indicator 1 :   (D-E) Fushui-Suizhou
                (E-F) Suizhuo-Xinlong
                (F-G) Xinlong-Zaoyang
                (G-H) Zaoyang-Shuangguo
                (H-I) Shuangguo-Zhangwan
                (I-J) Zhangwan-Xiangfan
                (A-B) 10,120                   3,867
                (B-C) 9,756                    4,013                               (A-C) 5,111
                (C-D) 7,668                    4,581
Value           (D-E) 7,159                    4,342                               (C-E) 4,856
quantitative or (E-F) 7,186                    2,657
Qualitative)    (F-G) 6,975                    3,736                               (E-H) 3,447
                (G-H) 7,943                    4,882
                (H-I) 8,657                    4,217                               (H-J) 5,451
                (I-J) 10,040                   8,385
Date achieved 12/31/2000                       12/31/2006                          12/31/2007

Comments        The traffic on the existing roads is higher than forecast. This is due to the fact

(incl. %        that i) there is less traffic in the corridor than forecast; and ii) the diversion rate

achievement)    for the corridor traffic is 55%, compared to the 50-68% forecast (see Table
                A3.3).
Indicator 2 :   Average daily traffic on XXE (veh/day)



                                                    iii

               (A-C) Xiaogan-Anlu
               (C-E) Anlu-Suizhou
               (E-G) Suizhou-Zaoyang
               (G-J) Zaoyang-Xiangfan

Value           (A-C) 0                     7,171                              5,794

quantitative or (C-E) 0                     6,953                              5,507

Qualitative)    (E-G) 0                     9,993                              3,909
                (G-J) 0                     7,164                              6,180
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments        Target values are from traffic analysis in Annex 4. Traffic is lower than forecast,
(incl. %        reflecting a lower diversion rate & corridor traffic which on some sections was
achievement)    lower than forecast.
Indicator 3 :   Accident rates on NR316/NR316 and XXE (per 100m veh)
Value
quantitative or 65                          45                                 45
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The accident rates were significantly reduced and the project met the target rate.
achievement)
                Average daily traffic on RRIP road sections

Indicator 4 :   (1) Dunbao-Banqiao
                (2) Changwan-Shiyao
                (3) Quanxi-Xinmatou
Value           (1) 447                     630                                392
quantitative or (2) 339                     528                                451
Qualitative)    (3) 362                     547                                350
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments        As with the traffic for the main corridor, the traffic on the RRIP is lower than
(incl. %        forecast. Two of the roads are carrying less traffic than the baseline data. It was
achievement)    not possible to establish the cause of this.
                No. of days RRIP road sections are closed to traffic

Indicator 5 :   (1) Dunbao-Banqiao
                (2) Changwan-Shiyao
                (3) Quanxi-Xinmatou
Value           (1) 65                      6                                  0
quantitative or (2) 75                      4                                  0
Qualitative)    (3) 60                      0                                  0
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        All three target areas now have roads open all year, which exceeded the project's

achievement)    goals.

                Average household income in areas served by RRIP road sections (RMB)

Indicator 6 :   (1) Dunbao-Banqiao
                (2) Changwan-Shiyao
                (3) Quanxi-Xinmatou
Value           (1) 5,810                   8,970                              8,876
quantitative or (2) 5,052                   7,900                              7,900
Qualitative)    (3) 6,158                   9,560                              9,678


                                                iv

Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments        The household incomes in all areas increased, however, it is impossible to
(incl. %        confirm what portion of this was due to the project as opposed to the general
achievement)    development in Hubei.
                High school enrollment in areas served by RRIP road sections (% of teenagers)

Indicator 7 :   (1) Dunbao-Banqiao
                (2) Changwan-Shiyao
                (3) Quanxi-Xinmatou
Value           (1) 2.3                    2.9                                3.1
quantitative or (2) 3.5                    4.3                                4.1
Qualitative)    (3) 3.9                    4.4                                4.3
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        All areas experienced an increase in enrollment. One area exceeded the target by

achievement)    0.2% while the other two areas were 0.1 - 0.2% lower than the target.

                No. of treated black spots:
Indicator 8 :   (1) LRIP Prefectures
                (2) Other Roads
Value
quantitative or (1) 0                      165                                165

Qualitative)    (2) 0                      60                                 45

Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The target was met for the selected prefectures, but was 25% lower for the other

achievement)    roads due to funding limitations.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval           Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   % of civil works completed on XXE
Value
(quantitative   0%                         100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2005                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Although the expressway opened in 2005 as scheduled, some minor additional

achievement)    works delayed full completion until June 2006.

Indicator 2 :   % of works completed under RRIP
Value
(quantitative   0%                         100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Completed on schedule.
achievement)



                                                v

                % of completed training (person/months):

Indicator 3 :   (1) Domestic
                (2) Overseas

Value
(quantitative   (1) 0%                      100%                               100%

or Qualitative) (2) 0%                      100%                               100%

Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2004                         06/30/2006
Comments        The domestic training was fully achieved, although less overseas training than
(incl. %        planned was done. This was due to delays in the domestic approval process,
achievement)    outside of the HPCD control, and overlap NH4 project training.
Indicator 4 :   % of equipment procured
Value
(quantitative   0%                          100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2005                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        All equipment was procured and put into operation.
achievement)
                % of road pavement maintenance procured by contract

Indicator 5 :   (1) Expressways
                (2) Class 1 and 2
                (3) Other Classes
Value           (1) 0%                      100%                               100%
(quantitative   (2) 0%                      70-80%                             70-80%
or Qualitative) (3) 0%                      30%                                30%
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments        There has been a stronger trend than anticipated towards maintenance by contract
(incl. %        in Hubei. It is anticipated that the remaining Class I and II roads will also be
achievement)    under maintenance contracts in the near future.
Indicator 6 :   % of Institutional Strengthening activities completed
Value
(quantitative   0                           100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        All institutional strengthening activities were completed on the project.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                  DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/16/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     04/11/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       2.50
  3     09/17/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      37.80
  4     11/12/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      60.22


                                                  vi

  5   06/14/2004        Satisfactory       Satisfactory     96.16
  6   12/23/2004        Satisfactory       Satisfactory     133.67
  7   05/12/2005        Satisfactory       Satisfactory     152.92
  8   01/24/2006        Satisfactory       Satisfactory     198.20
  9   12/18/2006       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory    208.29
  10  05/21/2007        Satisfactory       Satisfactory     214.45



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


At appraisal, China's road network--some 1.7 million km--was relatively low
compared to its area and population. To address this issue, the Chinese government
had been making major investments in road construction. As shown below, there were
significant increases in the road network length for all road classes.


                                                Percentage Increase in Road Length
             Period           Total       Express-
                             Length         way         Class I     Class II     Class III    Class IV

            1980-1990         1.5%                      29.6%        13.2%         4.6%         2.8%

            1990-1995         2.4%         32.6%        29.6%        14.4%         4.1%         2.9%

            1995-2000         7.7%         50.0%        21.4%        15.9%         8.1%         5.4%

            2000-2003         2.5%         22.2%         5.8%        6.0%          2.1%         2.1%

            1990-2003         4.4%         36.5%        20.6%        13.0%         5.1%         3.7%

            Source: People's Republic of China: China Expressway Retrospective Study ­ June 2006


During the periods of the 8th, 9th and 10th Five-Year Plans (FYP), covering the years
1990 through 2005, China completed nearly 44,000 km of high-grade tolled
expressways comprising the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), or as it is now
called the National Expressway Network (NEN). The NEN is also called the "7-9-18
Highway Network" and is to be completed by 2020. Incorporating and expanding the
NTHS, this highway network will have some 85,000 km of high-grade expressways
consisting of seven capital radials, nine north-south major highways, and 18 east-west
corridors. The NEN design goal is to reach more than 1 billion people in China by
connecting all provincial capitals and large cities of more than 500,000 inhabitants
with cities of more than 200,000 inhabitants.

The Xiaogan-Xiangfan Expressway (XXE) is a key element of the NEN as part of the
Shanghai-Wuhan-Xi'an-Urumqi corridor. Within Hubei, it provides access to the
north-west region of Hubei province where there are major automobile manufacturing
plants.

The investment was timely since China's economy was growing by 8 to 10% annually,
and has continued to do so. This economic growth generated high growth in transport
demand and a rapid shift towards highway transport. The development of a road
network linking lagging western areas with the rest of the country has accelerated
economic development in these less developed areas.

The Bank's sector work identified the following main challenges to the sector:

            meeting investment needs to sustain economic development, trade and
            integration;


                                                    - 1 -

            improving accessibility to remote/low income areas;
            fostering sustainable road sector management; and,
            addressing road traffic safety issues.

The sector issues to be addressed by the project were: (i) promoting economic growth,
improving regional and market integration, and facilitating trade; (ii) reducing poverty
in low income western region and other remote areas of Hubei province by improving
their accessibility; and (iii) strengthening provincial road institutions, supporting their
transition towards market based road activities and improving the efficiency of
highway management, especially road maintenance, traffic safety, and the
environmental and social impacts of highway construction and operations.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The project's development objective was to provide a more effective, safe and
efficiently managed transport infrastructure to sustain and support socio-economic
development, trade, and regional integration in Hubei province and improve transport
links to western lagging regions.

This would be done through the following outputs:

        increased transportation capacity and the consequent decrease in traffic
        congestion in the Xiaogan-Xiangfan corridor and regional and economic
        integration with the less developed western areas of Hubei province through
        the construction of the XXE;
        improved accessibility in low income areas in Hubei province through a
        program of rehabilitation and upgrading of rural roads in poor counties; and
        improved management and maintenance of roads and better road safety
        conditions through the provision of training, technical assistance and
        equipment to Hubei Provincial Communication Department (HPCD) and
        related provincial road agencies.

A number of key indicators were established for the project and are in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD), Section A.2. The main indicators were: (i) average daily
traffic on the XXE and the existing NR316; (ii) accident rates on NR316; (iii) average
daily traffic on the rural roads in the Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP);
(iv) the number of days RRIP roads were closed; (v) the average household income in
the RRIP road areas; (vi) the high school enrollment in the RRIP road areas; and
(vii) the number of black spots treated.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification


The PDO and the key indicators were not revised.


                                          - 2 -

1.4 Main Beneficiaries


The major beneficiaries of the project were:

            The communities along the expressway corridor and the local communities
            and road users in the areas served by the RRIP. As noted in the XXE PAD,
            there were some 36 million people in 1998 living in the cities and counties
            that would benefit to some extent from the expressway, with some 6.8
            million directly served by the project. The major benefits include:
            (i) reduction in travel time and vehicle operating costs; (ii) improved road
            geometry making for a smoother and more comfortable ride; (iii) reduced
            traffic interference; and (iv) safer traffic conditions on existing roads.
            Residents of low-income counties benefit from improved local roads
            resulting in better access to markets, education, health, and other social
            services.
            In the longer-term, the province shall benefit as a result of the project due
            to development of a tourism industry and the resulting economic growth.
            The intercity traffic between cities in the corridor and beyond through
            reduced travel distances, travel time savings, vehicle operating costs, and
            reduced traffic accidents;.
            The HPCD and related institutions from institutional strengthening and
            training activities covered by the project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)


Component 1: Increased Highway Capacity and Regional Integration:
                  (USD611.3 million including contingencies)

Construction of the Xiaogan-Xiangfan Expressway (XXE): (USD505.6 million
including contingencies)

The construction of the 243.5 km long XXE was the main investment. Providing
access to the north-west area of Hubei Province, it linked several major industrial and
hub cities including Wuhan (provincial capital), Yunmeng (250,000 pop.), Anlu
(40,000 pop.), Suizhou (340,000 pop), Zaoyang (210,000 pop.) and Xiangfan
(789,000 pop.)1.

Its eastern terminus is the Beijing ­ Zhuhai expressway which is a major north-south
expressway in China. Designed according to Ministry of Communications (MOC)
standards, the XXE was 2 x 2 lanes with a design speed of 100 km/h and a subgrade
width of 26 m. It includes 14 interchanges, three management centers, three



1All populations given are those at the time of appraisal.


                                          - 3 -

maintenance centers, four pairs of service areas, four pairs of parking areas, and
necessary traffic management, operations and maintenance (O&M) equipment.


Construction of Interconnecting Roads: (USD15.6 million including
contingencies)

This sub-component consists of three Class II interconnecting roads with a total
length of 31 km. These link the XXE interchanges to Yunmeng, Suizhou and Zaoyang
to ensure good connections to these three cities and accommodating the increased
traffic levels.


Construction Supervision: (USD16.1 million including contingencies)

Supervision of construction activities was undertaken by a combined team of
domestic engineers, technicians and other personnel, supported by international
engineers integrated into the supervisory organization.


Land Acquisition and Resettlement (USD74 million including contingencies)

This sub-component consisted of establishing the framework for resettlement and
undertaking all resettlement activities for the XXE and the interconnecting roads.


Component 2: Improved Accessibility in Poor Counties (RRIP): (USD66.2
                   million including contingencies)

This component was designed to improve accessibility to low-income areas. The
activities consisted of rehabilitating and/or upgrading existing road sections to Class
II, III, or IV levels. The objective was to ensure all weather road access in affected
areas, linking them to townships and the provincial highway system, thereby
improving population access to markets, facilities and social services.


Component 3: Institutional Development and Road Sector Management:
                   (USD10.9 million including contingencies)

Capacity Strengthening (USD1.2 million including contingencies)

This sub-component included: (i) training program for government agencies on
highway planning, design, supervision, road safety, and management and operation;
and, (ii) the development of the provincial Road Training Center to improve training
quality and knowledge dissemination.




                                          - 4 -

Highway Maintenance Management (USD0.3 million including contingencies)

The activities under this sub-component included: (i) further development of
maintenance by contracts, including testing of the performance-based maintenance
model as an alternative contractual scheme; and (ii) development and piloting of a
policy to address vehicle overloading.


Establishment of a Shareholding Expressway Company (USD0.2 million
including contingencies)

A shareholding company was to be established and the benefits of this approach in
terms of increasing the efficiency of the toll network management to be assessed.


Road Traffic Safety (USD0.4 million including contingencies)

The road traffic safety sub-component included the development and implementation
of a multi-pronged road traffic safety agenda based on an Accident Analysis System.
This agenda included: (i) establishment of a Road Traffic Safety Unit;
(ii) development of expertise, tools and processes to address road traffic safety issues;
(iii) a scaling up of black spot treatment practices throughout the province; and
(iv) identification and testing of a road safety village program.


Provision of Equipment (USD8.7 million including contingencies)

This sub-component consisted of procurement of equipment to monitor:
(i) construction quality; (ii) environmental safety during construction; and (iii) ensure
satisfactory traffic operations.

1.6 Revised Components


There were no formal revisions to the project components.

1.7 Other significant changes


The only major change to the project was the upgrading of the interconnecting roads
from the two-lane roads agreed at the time of appraisal to four-lane roads. As
discussed in Section 2.2, this had major implications on the safety of the roads. After
consultations with the Bank, the HPCD retrofitted the roads to include the necessary
safety features.




                                          - 5 -

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


A. Preparation


The project was well prepared and designed with consideration of the experiences on
previous highway projects in China. Various risks were considered in the design
including: insufficient geotechnical investigations, inadequate designs, insufficient
bid documents, resettlement delays, insufficient quality control, and late tendering of
E&M facility components. These, along with other risks, were discussed with the
HPCD who took the following active steps to mitigate them: (i) establishing the
resettlement organization early on in the project and using public consultations to
improve the designs; (ii) utilizing an international consultant to review the designs
and advise HPCD on technical elements and bid documents; (iii) tendering the E&M
works early on in the project; and (iv) supervising the project using FIDIC rules.

Particular attention was paid to institutional strengthening and policy dialog, which a
1999 OED assessment of the China portfolio had identified as an area of importance
for the sector. As the third project in Hubei province, after the third and fourth
national highway projects (NH3 and NH4), the outcomes from previous institutional
strengthening activities were carefully considered during project design. The design
was further enhanced by strengthening the preparation team with an experienced
institutional and policy expert.

With regard to resettlement, as described below, the project design paid particular
attention to minimize the impact on agricultural land and on communities along the
alignment. The project undertook an inventory of affected assets, a socio-economic
survey, and a social assessment during the preparation stages, supported by
continuous consultations with the Project Affected Persons (PAPs). These
consultations resulted in modifications to the project alignment in several places to
reduce the impact of relocation and adverse environmental effect on the communities
along the route. Compensation rates were established based on replacement costs for
various affected assts, and land compensation rates based on the highest average
annual output value. The project prepared a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) as well
as a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), for application on local roads in the event
that land acquisition and resettlement was necessary. These materials were made
available to PAPs for review and comment during the project's preparation phase.


B. Project Design


The project design reflected lessons learned on other projects in China, particularly
the NH3 and NH4 projects in Hubei where foreign consultants were used to review

                                         - 6 -

the suitability of the designs. The following key issues were addressed in the project
design: (i) selecting the optimal alignment, to avoid and minimize impacts on villages
and communities along the alignment; (ii) minimizing the use of agricultural land;
(iii) avoidance of environmentally sensitive areas; (iv) adopting appropriate design
standards to reflect the traffic forecasts; and (v) strengthening geological
reconnaissance and hydrological surveys.

The design teams carefully considered the options available to mitigate the negative
impacts of the project on other existing infrastructure, reduce land acquisition and
resettlement, and limit impacts to the environment. As an example of environmental
consideration, the alignment was: (i) shifted by about 6 km to avoid a direct impact on
the ancient Ginkgo forest near Anlu--one of the last remaining Ginkgo forests in
Hubei, and, (ii) to avoid a direct impact on the Baizhoshan Natural Forest Park,
passing 1.2 km north of the park2.

The design also mitigated smaller environmental impacts; for example, a surface
water drainage collection system was fitted to the bridge passing over the Qingshuihe
Reservoir to collect, test and, if necessary, divert surface water runoff from draining
into the reservoir. Additionally, the Shuanggou Middle School and Yandian
Community Hospital were fitted with double glazed windows to mitigate excess noise
from the expressway.

The overall design approach was therefore viewed as thorough and technically sound.


C. Quality at Entry


There was no Quality at Entry rating by QAG for the project.


D. Project Risks


In the PAD all risks were identified as negligible (N) or modest (M). The overall risk
was modest. This was based on the previous experience in the province and the
commitment to implementing similar projects in China. The key risks, and how they
were addressed in the design, were as follows:


         Insufficient traffic (M): (i) careful review of traffic studies; and (ii) proper
         setting of toll rates.




2 As part of the discussions on the park, the HPCD agreed to finance a car park to be built about 300 m
from the park entrance and to provide electric cars to ferry visitors. The HPCD also agreed to fund
garbage receptacles, flush toilets, septic tanks, etc. However, these activities were not required as the
local authority did not proceed with the overall development plan for the park.


                                                  - 7 -

        Poor quality engineering designs and cost estimates (M): (i) build on
        experience from NH3/NH4 projects; and (ii) review by international experts at
        an early stage of the project.
        Inadequate quality of construction (M): The design called for this to be
        minimized through: (i) quality tender documents; (ii) careful contractor
        selection; and (iii) adequate supervision arrangements.
        Delays in land acquisition and resettlement (M): Mitigation through:
        (i) early establishment of the resettlement management organization; (ii) staff
        training on resettlement; and (iii) frequent Bank supervision during early years
        of implementation.

As evidenced by the experiences through implementation and operation, the risk
assessments were reasonable and the appropriate mitigation measures were put in
place. In spite of the efforts of the task team during preparation to increase the cost
estimates, the client insisted that the adopted values were appropriate. As shown by
the cost table in Annex 1, and as discussed in Section 2.4, the actual construction
costs (excluding resettlement) were about 32% higher than the estimates. However, in
spite of the higher costs the HPCD did not have any problems with financing the
project.

2.2 Implementation


Project implementation went smoothly and at no time in the project was there an `At
Risk' rating. No mid-term review was undertaken.

Several issues arose during implementation and were resolved satisfactorily:


        Road safety on interconnecting roads: Changes were made to the designs of
        the interconnecting roads without proper consultation with the Bank.
        Originally planned to be two-lane roads, at the request of the local authorities
        they were upgraded to four-lane roads. The design of these roads was deficient
        from a safety point of view, especially with regard to slow moving and non-
        motorized traffic. At the Bank's request, the HPCD retrofitted the roads with:
        (i) median barriers (to prevent dangerous overtaking); (ii) pedestrian and slow-
        moving traffic refuges for crossing the roads; (iii) turning bays for traffic
        exiting the roads; and (iv) improved signage and lane markings.
        Road safety at local road intersections: The designs of the intersections
        between the interconnecting roads and/or interchanges and local roads were
        considered by the supervision team to be unsafe, even if they were consistent
        with Chinese design standards. Eleven junctions were redesigned to improve
        the safety for pedestrians and motorized traffic.
        Noise impact: About 2,580m of noise barriers were designed and installed.
        After installation, it was noted that many were too short, poorly constructed,
        or used inadequate materials. The HPCD replaced and improved the barriers;


                                           - 8 -

         the mission observed that the final barriers are fully functional and mitigate
         the noise at the village level. At the Yandian Hospital, new double glazed
         windows were installed to ameliorate the noise impacts.
         Construction quality on local roads: Early on, the RRIP roads had major
         problems with construction quality. These included: insufficient slope
         protection, poor drainage systems, and insufficient testing equipment to ensure
         engineering quality. After these were identified during a Bank supervision
         mission, remedial actions were taken and subsequent missions confirmed that
         the roads were of suitable quality and meeting their intended purpose. The
         Bank placed an emphasis on routine and periodic maintenance works as
         necessary for low standard rural roads.

Throughout the project, the Bank supervision team was very pro-active in identifying
issues and seeing them through to a satisfactory outcome. This was particularly so for
the issue of road safety where initially there was resistance from the construction team
against undertaking the necessary improvements to address the Bank's road safety
concerns. The task team took the matter up with provincial and central authorities,
downgraded the project's overall implementation progress rating to `Unsatisfactory'
in the Implementation Status and Results (ISR) report, and actively worked with all
involved towards to ensure that the necessary actions were taken to ensure road safety
measures were implemented.

The institutional strengthening program presented a number of challenges to the
project. While some studies, such as the establishment of the `Accident Information
System' and `Establishment of an Expressway Shareholding Company' went
relatively smoothly, others such as the `Maintenance by Contract' study were
problematic. The Bank team provided technical and other support to the activities to
help facilitate a successful outcome.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


A series of physical targets for measuring progress were adopted in the project design.
The M&E indicators were selected wherever the data was available or could be
reasonably collected. In hindsight, better indicators could have been selected,
particularly with regard to resettlement and institutional strengthening; for example,
there was no performance indicator for resettlement in the expressway component.

Baseline, intermediate and end-of-project indicators were collected during
construction by the HPCD and provided to the Bank. As shown in the Data Sheet, the
traffic in the corridor was lower than forecasted as was the diversion rate. This led to
less traffic on the expressway and more on the local road than expected. In spite of the
lower traffic levels, the indicators confirm that the project achieved its development
objective. The expressway is providing the necessary regional integration, improved
accessibility in low income areas, improved road safety and management.


                                           - 9 -

 2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


 Environmental Protection

 During the early stages of construction, the implementation of the Environmental
 Management Plan (EMP) fell short of the requirements, as stated in the project
 agreements, in several key areas: (i) poor living conditions in labor camps;
 (ii) inadequate sanitation and hygiene facilities; (iii) dust from vehicular traffic;
 (iv) uncovered materials transport vehicles; (v) uncovered materials storage areas, and
 lime storage piles; and (vi) inadequate environmental monitoring staff. After
 discussions with the Bank missions, the HPCD diligently addressed the issues and
 they did not reoccur. Once the road was completed, the HPCD did a very good job of
 rehabilitating construction areas and reclaiming waste disposal areas.

 EMP compliance was also a problem with the RRIP roads, for which the management
 of construction was done by local authorities as opposed to the HPCD. These issues
 included improper waste disposal sites, lack of an adequate system for drainage, and
 insufficient slope protection, which resulted in serious landslides along the alignment.
 Appropriate corrective measures were taken after these deficiencies were identified by
 the Bank. By the end of the works, borrow pits and proper waste disposal sites were
 reinstated, greening efforts and tree plantings were carried out in most road sections in
 order to minimize the negative environmental impact.

 Two major environmental issues that arose on the XXE were with traffic safety and
 noise impacts. These are discussed in Section 2.2.

 Land Acquisition and Resettlement

 As shown in the table below, the total land area acquired was 1,399 ha, 7% higher
 than estimated in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The difference is almost
 entirely accounted for by the widening of 32 km of interconnecting roads from two to
 four lanes. The area of homes acquired was 222,394 m2, 15.5% higher than the RAP
 estimate. The additional house acquisitions arose principally because: (i) the
 alignment was modified to avoid of agricultural land acquisition; and (ii) the
 interconnecting road land acquisition was not included in the RAP.



                                         Land Area (ha)                House Area (m2)
          Component
                                       RAP            Actual          RAP            Actual
XXE ­ Main alignment                                  1,278.4                       192,427
XXE - Interconnecting Roads           1,298.0                        192,489
                                                        59.8                         29,967
RRIP                                   10.1              0.8            0              0
Total                                 1,308.1         1,339.0        192,489        222,394




                                         - 10 -

 The HPCD has previous experience with resettlement for the NH3 and NH4 projects;
 they were therefore well prepared and experienced in these activities so resettlement
 proceeded relatively smoothly. The resettlement office was established during project
 preparation and there was staff continuity throughout the project. There was full
 information disclosure and transparency, and the compensation rates, quantities and
 compensation costs were made public. The compensation was paid through bank
 accounts to every impacted household in order to guarantee the PAPs received the
 funds promptly and in full accordance with the compensation rates stipulated in RAP.
 The work was audited by both the government and an independent monitoring
 consultant.

 There were 18,493 PAPs (see below), an increase of 3.9%. These were associated
 with the interconnecting roads which had a resettlement policy framework so no PAPs
 were identified during preparation. The compensation for the main alignment was
 12% higher than in the RAP mainly because of the effects of the alignment change.
 During the project only a few complaints were received, mainly due damages of
 village facilities such as roads and irrigation ditches during civil works. All
 complaints were addressed by the HPCD and resolved in a satisfactory manner.



                                      Number of             Number of PAPs      Compensation
        Component                    Households                                    (USD m)
                                   RAP         Actual        RAP      Actual    RAP       Actual
XXE ­ Main alignment              4,096         4,144       17,800     17,716   74.0       85.01
XXE - Interconnecting Roads1/      RPF           238          RPF      1,185    RPF         9.93
RRIP1/                             RPF             9          RPF        45     RPF         0.02
Total                             4,096         4,391       17,800     18,946   74.0       94.96


 Notes: 1/ The interconnecting and RRIP roads had a resettlement policy framework (RPF) so there
             were no households identified at the time of the RAP preparation.


 At the completion of the project, the independent monitoring consultant undertook a
 survey of the PAPs. The report concluded: "As a whole, the project has very limited
 negative impacts" with the main negative impacts "reduced land resource and
 decreased income" and "worsened traffic". These were reported by 5 ­ 20% of the
 households, depending on their location.

 However, the overall view of PAPs surveyed was that the project had many positive
 impacts on the traffic, non-agricultural employment, production conditions, housing
 conditions and the improved living standard of all the districts and counties. With
 regard to housing quality 76% indicated that they were better off than before the
 project, 22% reported their conditions were unchanged, and only 2% indicated they
 were worse off. With regard to compensation, 87% reported the compensation rates
 arrived in a timely manner. When asked for their views on their overall satisfaction
 with the resettlement process, 43% were very satisfied; 32% were satisfied and 25%

                                             - 11 -

were neutral/unsatisfied. Those unsatisfied were largely people who had previously
had good housing and had not had a significant improvement in housing standards.

Financial Management

The overall financial management compliance was satisfactory. The financial
management system during implementation had no significant changes from appraisal.
The project continued to maintain the project financial management system that was
acceptable to the bank. For audit compliance, the implementing agency complied with
the legal agreement and submitted annual audit reports to the Bank in a timely manner.
All the audit reports were reviewed by the Bank and considered to be acceptable. The
implementing agency demonstrated its capacity in managing Bank loan disbursement
which was consistent with the construction progress.

The HPCD had over USD28 million in savings which were cancelled at the end of the
project. The HPCD had hoped to use these savings to undertake additional rural road
improvements, but this was not permitted by the Ministry of Finance policy, in
accordance with their national uniform standards of expenditures and regulations on
public finance.

Procurement

The procurement under the project was executed following the Bank's procurement
guidelines, project legal documents, and the PAD, including the procurement plan.
The procurement methods used on the project were ICB for 15 civil works contracts,
one E&M contract, and some equipment contracts; NCB for building and annex areas,
interconnecting roads and the rural roads. International consultants were hired for
construction supervision using QCBS. The HPCD used tendering agencies to prepare
the bidding documents and undertake the bidding. The procurement was completed on
schedule and the cost overruns were mostly under 15%.

It will be noted from the costs in Annex 3 that the actual cost of the expressway was
USD802.6 m, compared to the appraisal estimate of USD611.3 m. There are several
reasons for the difference:

        As mentioned earlier, during preparation the task team was concerned that the
        estimated construction costs were low and identified it as a project risk.
        However, the client insisted that the values were correct and so they were
        adopted for the project. At USD646 million, the bid prices were some 50%
        higher than the PIP estimate of USD430 million.
        There was a 13.3% devaluation in the USD against the Chinese RMB over the
        course of the project. Since most costs were in RMB, while the USD rate was
        used in the PAD this served to increase the difference between the estimated
        and actual costs.


                                       - 12 -

        Design variations for activities such as: (i) reconstruction of noise barriers;
        (ii) improved safety facilities for interconnecting roads; (iii) accounting for
        soft subgrades; (iv) change in pavement design; and (v) change to type of
        guardrails.

As part of a portfolio exercise, a review was done in 2006 on how bitumen was
procured for the Bank's transport projects in China due to issues on some projects.
This found that the procurement of bitumen on the XXE project was done in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


The project was successful in that it met the project development objective of
providing a more effective, safe and efficiently managed transport infrastructure to
sustain and support socio-economic development, trade and regional integration in
Hubei province and improve transport links to the western region. While the overall
corridor traffic is lower than forecasted (see the Data Sheet), this does not detract
materially from the project achieving its development objective. The following points
summarize the program's success in meeting its development objectives:

        Since opening in late 2005, the expressway and the local roads have been
        successfully carrying traffic;
        The XXE carries significant volumes of long-distance truck traffic with
        markedly reduced travel times;
        Traffic has diverted to the XXE from the existing roads thereby improving
        safety, and the black spot investments have improved safety further;
        The equipment procured on the project is being actively used;
        The areas of the RRIP now have roads open all year, and have experienced
        increases in high school enrollments and household incomes; and
        The HPCD's management and operations have been enhanced through the
        institutional strengthening program.

The expressway is currently being operated by the HPCD's Hanshi Expressway
Division. While the traffic levels are lower than forecast, the HPCD indicated that the
income from tolls is sufficient to cover the ongoing maintenance costs. This is
evidenced by their ability to satisfactorily address the issues identified above during
the early operational stage.

The HPCD has applied the training from the project and other aspects of the
institutional strengthening program, particularly with regard to traffic safety. The
training benefited the two downstream projects: Hubei Shiman Highway Project and
Hubei Yiba Highway Project.




                                         - 13 -

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


The Government of China is committed to the continued development of the National
Expressway Network (NEN). The NEN is also called the "7-9-18 Highway Network"
and is to be completed by 2020. Incorporating and expanding the NTHS, this highway
network will have some 85,000 km of high-grade expressways consisting of seven
capital radials, nine north-south major highways, and 18 east-west corridors. The
NEN design goal is to reach more than 1 billion people in China by connecting all
provincial capitals and large cities of more than 500,000 inhabitants with cities of
more than 200,000 inhabitants.

It is intended that people in eastern areas should have access to an expressway within
half an hour, the central provinces within an hour, and the western areas within two
hours. In addition, it will improve the communications between economically
developed areas, such as the lower Yangtze in central China and the Pearl River Delta
in the southeast, and the mid-west and north-east areas. The NEN will also enhance
the connections with western China, and will promote the economic growth of central
and south-eastern provinces.

Central provinces such as Hubei are considered to be particularly important since road
investments here provide both a push and a pull effect on the adjacent western and
eastern provinces resulting in the best overall net economic effect. While investment
in the eastern and western provinces tends to stay local, investment in the central
provinces benefits all regions. The focus is now on completing network
connectivity--which the XXE is an important contributor to as part of the Shanghai-
Wuhan-Xi'an-Urumqi corridor. By the end of 2008 the Hubei portion of this corridor
will be completed and the isolated north-west areas of Hubei will be open to
development.

As shown in the table below, the project directly addressed several areas identified in
the Bank's FY06-10 Country Partnership Strategies (CPS).

             CPS Recommendation                                  How Addressed by Project
Reduce internal and external barriers to trade and   Facilitates inter-provincial trade and commerce,
investment.                                          and improving regional and national integration,
                                                     by removing highway bottlenecks.
Reduce poverty, inequality and social exclusion      Improve the road quality and accessibility to poor
through expanding access to basic social and         counties in the north-west of Hubei province
infrastructure services
Manage resource scarcity and environmental           Improve (i) the efficiency of highway
challenges                                           maintenance management; (ii) traffic safety; (iii)
                                                     ensure proper resettlement; and (iv) minimize the
                                                     environmental impact of construction.


                                               - 14 -

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives


The project aimed to provide a more effective, safe and efficiently managed transport
infrastructure to sustain and support socio-economic development, trade and regional
integration in Hubei province and improve transport links to lagging western region.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory based on its having achieved satisfactory
outcomes on most components of the project, including implementation of the road
traffic safety component, quality of supervision, general borrower performance, and
the overall successful achievement in meeting the project development objectives as
outlined in the PAD.

The completion of the XXE provides a high-speed, reliable link between the capital
Wuhan and the north-west area of Hubei, particularly the major truck manufacturing
city of Shiyan. When the remaining links are completed it will form part of the
Shanghai-Wuhan-Xi'an-Urumqi corridor. Travel times and distances have been
reduced for travel to this part of Hubei Province, thereby reducing vehicle operating
and transport costs. Since expressways are generally safer than local roads, traffic
safety has been improved by diverting traffic from local roads, thereby lowering the
accident rates on local roads, and by increasing travel on safer roads. Through the
RRIP investments road closures on local roads went from two or more months per
year to none. These local areas saw a reduction in poverty and an increase in school
enrollments.


A. Increased Transportation Capacity and Decreased Congestion in the Xiaogan-
    Xiangfan Corridor With Improved Integration of the Western Areas of Hubei


The XXE and interconnecting roads opened to traffic in October 2005. The tolling
and E&M equipment were fully operational, although during the defect liability
period some repairs were required, for example to the traffic counting system.

The objective of reducing congestion was partially met insofar as the traffic levels in
the corridor proved to be lower than forecast, and this was in spite of using relatively
conservative values for traffic growth rates in the original analyses.

The XXE has significantly reduced the travel times in the Xiaogan-Xiangfan corridor,
and in neighboring areas. Prior to completion, the expressway link to Shiyan city was
opened and so, with the completion of the XXE, this major truck manufacturing
center had full access to China's expressway network.

The economic benefits of the project are considered sustainable, without any
appreciable risk, as traffic--especially buses and heavy trucks--has been growing
steadily since opening.




                                        - 15 -

B. Improved Accessibility in Low Income Areas Through Road Improvements


The project improved three roads located in poor counties in the province. Prior to the
project, these roads experienced closures of 60 ­ 75 days per year due to the effects of
inclement weather. After the improvements and upgrading to all-weather roads, there
have been no closures. This has served to markedly improve the accessibility to
services for the local residents, although the traffic flows are lower than forecast. The
percentage of teenagers enrolled in high school grew by 10 ­ 35%, although the
overall enrollment rate is still below 4.5%. The average household incomes in the area
served by the RRIP roads increased by over 50% over the course of the project,
although it should be noted that during the period 2000 ­ 2006 the Hubei Provincial
GDP grew by 75%. It is unfortunately impossible to isolate the economic benefits due
to the road investments from the overall economic development.


C. Improved Management and Maintenance of Roads, and Traffic Safety


The HPCD have benefited from the project and improved the management and
operations of the network.

Training: Although less training than planned was undertaken, the HPCD reported
that the training program was very useful and trainees are applying what they have
learned. It would have been better to have some overseas training activities earlier in
the project when the project would have benefited from the new skills. The delay was
a result of the domestic approval process, something outside of the control of the
HPCD. Additionally, because some overseas training occurred with the NH4 project,
operating in parallel with the XXE efforts, the HPCD encountered difficulty executing
overseas training under this project. The subsequent Bank financed Hubei Shiman and
Hubei Yiba projects clearly benefited from the training programs.

Road Training Center: The center continues to function and improve the overall
quality of training in the sector in Hubei. It was further strengthened through the Bank
in 2007 obtaining a USD0.5 m grant from the `Global Safety Facility' to create the
`Hubei Road Traffic Safety Training Centre'. This will see additional resources and
emphasis put on improving the road safety situation in Hubei.


Traffic Safety: As evidenced by their support for the establishment of the Hubei Road
Traffic Safety Training Centre, the HPCD continues to have a strong commitment
towards traffic safety. At the micro level, because of the project the accident rate on
the national road adjacent to the XXE has fallen from 65 to 45/10 m vehicles.

As a result of the HPCD's and others efforts, the number and severity of accidents in
the province have decreased substantially since 2000, despite the rapid growth in
vehicle registration and traffic, as shown in the following table.



                                        - 16 -

      Year            Number of         Number of      Number Injured        Registered
                      Accidents          Fatalities                          Vehicles
      2000              15,997             3,810            12,590           2,334,890
      2001              18,302             3,042            14,883           2,736,850
      2002              20,469             2,794            12,045           3,473,370
      2003              20,047             2,729            14,251           3,827,773
      2004              13,680             2,554            11,813           4,152,553
      2005               9,585             2,417            10,555           4,336,446
      2006               9,593             2,304            11,979           5,017,196
      2007               8,986             2,142            11,355           5,791,035
  Change in %
   2007:2000             - 44%            - 44%             - 10%             + 148%


The project undertook three traffic safety activities under the institutional
strengthening program, all of which had satisfactory outcomes:


        Road Safety Village: This project reduced the number of accidents in the
        three sample villages to zero in 2005, from the 2002 levels of 17 accidents,
        seven fatalities and 18 injured in 2002. The HPCD have expressed an interest
        in expanding the work throughout the province, should funding permit.
        Accident Information System: In consultation with the Public Security
        Bureau, a computerized accident information system was established and as a
        pilot test used to analyze accident history on 596 km of NH107, NH316 and
        NH318. This led to physical works, for example, USD0.1 m was invested on
        one section which saw traffic accidents on the section drop by nearly 70%.
        Black Spot Identification: The black spot study undertook a detailed
        investigation on several roads. This identified safety deficiencies and
        undertook corrective civil works to address the problems. A reduction in
        accidents of 80% was reported, and the HPCD is considering expending the
        program province wide.

Maintenance by Contract: As part of the goal of "development of market based road
management", this study looked at introducing performance- (output-) based
maintenance contracts on a pilot basis. It was supported by the Bank who arranged a
seminar on performance based maintenance in 2005, as well as a Bank financed study
in Hubei and Jiangxi provinces looking at the issues associated with introducing
performance-based maintenance to China. The project developed Chinese bidding
documents, established performance monitoring criteria, and identified a number of
practical issues to overcome. It provided a foundation for future work, but there are a
number of national level and other issues that need to be overcome before they can be
fully introduced.


Expressway Management: The study reviewed the legal and policy framework
associated with expressway ownership and the process by which expressways in
Hubei could be corporatized. An important element of the study was the identification
of policy and operational risks. The government created the `Hubei Chutian
Expressway Corporation' in 2004, which is listed on the Shanghai stock exchange.


                                        - 17 -

With a return on equity of 14%, this can be considered to be a successful project
outcome.

Truck Overloading: The study on overloaded vehicles identified the impacts of
overloaded trucks on the Hubei road network, both physical and economic, as well as
countermeasures. Through pilot testing enhanced enforcement, they found that
overloading was reduced from 90% to 15%. However, in spite of there being a policy
framework in place, the commitment of governments at all levels to addressing
overloading is still lacking.

Procurement of Equipment: The project procured USD12.6 m of equipment to help
improve the quality and effectiveness of construction and maintenance. The
equipment was employed by the maintenance bureaus to maintain the expressway and
was implemented by June 2006.


3.3 Efficiency


Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return


The economic evaluation covers the expressway section, the interconnecting roads
and the RRIP. The results are summarized in the following table and the details are in
Annex 3.


                      EIRR (in %) and ENPV (12%, in USD million)


                                         PAD                          ICR
        Component
                               EIRR %         ENPV USD                     ENPV USD
                                               million        EIRR %         million
Expressway (XXE) and
interconnecting roads           20.7%           585.0          23.8%          785.7

RRIP                            23.0%           16.6           25.5%           17.4
Total Project                   20.7%           601.6          23.8%          803.1


It is recognized that there is an `optimism bias' in China's expressway projects
wherein the demand is overestimated and the costs underestimated. A recent review
of 41 projects with domestic and international funding found that 76% had a lower
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) at opening than forecast, with an average
return of 18.5% versus the 24.9% forecast3. Since the XXE had lower traffic and
higher costs it would be anticipated that the ICR's EIRR and NPV would be lower
than the PAD rather than higher. As explained in Annex 3, the differences largely
arise due to: (i) the much higher value of time in the ICR than when the PAD was



3Lee, J. and Guangbin, Z. (2006). Toll Roads Corporatization Strategy ­ Towards
Better Governance. Report to the Asian Development Bank.


                                         - 18 -

prepared: in the period 2002-2007 rural and urban incomes increased by over 60%;
and (ii) a more detailed approach to valuing time (differentiating between trip purpose
in ICR as opposed to a constant value in the PAD).


Financial rate of return


The expressway opened in October 2005 and the Hanshi Expressway Division
assumed the day-to-day management, operations and maintenance of the expressway.
As shown in Annex 3, the income is from tolls charges to the road users. The toll rates
are set by the province and are uniform for all the expressways in the province,
regardless to the form of management (public, joint-venture or private). Based on
current toll rates, and traffic levels, the expressway section is generating enough
revenues to finance operation and maintenance and to service the financial charges. It
can be anticipated that when the remainder of the expressway links are completed and
the corridor to Xi'an opened, there will be substantial increase in traffic and revenue.
These are not fully reflected in the calculations in Annex 3.

The detailed financial analysis is presented in Annex 3 and summarized as follows:

                                         PAD/1                               ICR/1
      Component
                               FIRR %            FNPV                               FNPV
                                              million USD          FIRR %        million USD
Expressway (XXE)                  4.6              -73                 1.4           -373


Notes: 1/ The Financial Cost of Capital which was used to calculate the FNPV was 5.5% for both
            the ICR and the PAD.


Cost effectiveness


At appraisal, the total project cost, including contingencies and land acquisition, was
estimated at USD688.4 million, of which USD250 million (36%) was to be financed
by the Bank loan. The total actual project cost of USD860 million is 25% higher than
the estimate. Detailed cost tables are in Annex 1.

The civil works for the construction of the expressway (excluding resettlement)
increased from the estimate USD537 million to USD707 million. This accounted for
93% of the final total project costs, compared to only 87% of the estimated costs. As
shown in the following table, the estimated cost per km was lower than for similar
projects, while the actual cost was higher.




                                          - 19 -

     Project        Length in     Estimated Cost (USD m)          Actual Cost (USD m)
                       km           Total         per km          Total         per km
Hubei XXE              244           537            2.2            707            2.9
Hubei (NH4)            110           349            3.2            241            2.2
Hunan (NH4)            183           438            2.4            457            2.5
Jiangxi II             130           397            3.1            271            2.1
Henan III              95            295            3.1            268            2.8


The costs of the RRIP were 30% lower than estimated--the cause of the differences
could not be established. The institutional development program was more expensive
than anticipated, due to the purchase of additional equipment.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating


Rating: Satisfactory

The overall achievement of the project objectives is rated as satisfactory. The project
has achieved its objective of providing a more effective, safe and efficiently managed
transport infrastructure to sustain and support socio-economic development, trade,
and regional integration in Hubei province and to improve transport links to the
lagging western region. This assessment is based on the economic and financial
returns and the cost management efficiency presented in Section 3.3 and a review of
achievements of the three project components given in Section 3.2:

         Although traffic in the corridor is lower than forecasted, the expressway is still
         carrying over 5,000 veh/day and generating sufficient revenue to cover its
         operating costs. The traffic enjoys significantly reduced travel times and
         operating costs over the previous roads, as well as enhanced traffic safety.
         The poorer western areas of Hubei province have been provided with
         enhanced accessibility through the expressway, and the roads improved in the
         RRIP have eliminated road closures from the previous levels of two or more
         months a year.
         The HPCD have enhanced their management and operations of roads, through
         enhanced capabilities, a strengthened road safety program, and activities such
         as establishing an expressway company listed on the Shanghai stock exchange.

Details on key indicators are in Data Sheet, Section F.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


One sector specific goal of the XXE project was reducing poverty in the low income
western region and other remote areas of Hubei province by improving their
accessibility. Indeed, both the central and local governments have emphasized the role


                                         - 20 -

of transportation in the integration of national economy, and in its ability to stimulate
growth in remote areas. This was achieved by the expressway linking this area to the
existing expressway network of China. Upon completion of the Hubei Shiman
highway project, and a section in Shaanxi province, there will be a continuous
expressway link between Shanghai, Wuhan and Xi'an.

The goal of the Rural Road Improvement Program (RRIP) component was to improve
the socio-economic conditions in low-income areas of Hubei province. All
investments were located in poor counties and selected for their potential to benefit
the local development in these areas. Satisfactory completion of the RRIP has resulted
in positive outcomes to poverty and social development in the project affected area
through the elimination of road closures.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening


The institutional strengthening program contributed towards improving the overall
operations of the HPCD. The department's capacity for addressing road traffic safety
was strengthened, and this led to the creation of the `Hubei Road Traffic Safety
Training Centre' to provide a vehicle to further improve the quality of training to
ensure safer roads. This is located at the provincial `Road Training Center', supported
by the project, which continues to function. The training was used effectively,
particularly to improve project preparation and implementation: as evidenced by the
HPCD's performance in the Hubei Shiman and Hubei Yiba highway projects.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops


Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

The project aimed to provide a more effective, safe and efficiently managed transport
infrastructure to sustain and support socio-economic development, trade, and regional
integration in Hubei province and improve transport links to lagging western regions.
The risk that the development outcome will not be realized and sustainable is low for
the following reasons:

        Both for the expressway and the rural roads, the physical investments have
        resulted in good transport infrastructure;


                                        - 21 -

       Although the XXE traffic is lower than expected, it is still substantial and
       continues to grow. This shows demand for the investments;
       The provision of the high standard expressway has improved traffic safety
       over the previous existing roads; and
       The rural roads have had road closures eliminated.

There is evidence that routine maintenance activities have been initiated to protect and
even improve the projects assets.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
was satisfactory. The Bank team had the requisite skills and experience from previous
projects for successful preparation, and was supplemented by an institutional
specialist to help maximize the impact of that component.

As noted in Section 2.1A, the risks were adequately considered in the design
including: insufficient geotechnical investigations, inadequate designs, insufficient
bid documents, resettlement delays, insufficient quality control, and late tendering of
E&M facility components. These, and other risks, were discussed with the HPCD
who took active steps to mitigate them.

The Bank's Safeguard Policies were adequately addressed. A financial management
review was undertaken to ensure compliance with the Bank's financial management
procedures.

To improve the overall quality, during preparation the engineering designs and
technical bidding documents, including cost estimates for the proposed expressway
and related roads, as well as E&M facilities, were reviewed by international
engineering consultants under grant funding. As discussed elsewhere, the greatest
weakness was in the cost estimates, which were significantly lower than the actual
costs. The task team was unable to persuade the client to adopt alternative values
which led to the actual expressway construction costs being 32% higher than the
estimates.




                                       - 22 -

(b) Quality of Supervision


Rating: Satisfactory

The task manager who appraised the project also supervised it until early 2005, after
which much of the major construction was completed. No other key staff changed
during the course of the project.

Detailed attention was paid to all components of the project with supervision missions
at least twice a year.

The financial management of the project was supervised in an effective manner, and
the HPCD was provided financial management training by the Bank to improve their
efficiency. Timely advice was provided to the client on treating undisbursed funds so
as to use the loan funds efficiently, although the HPCD did not follow this advice.

The task team showed a proactive response to addressing issues when encountered, as
evidenced by their work to improve the safety of the interconnecting roads and
junctions. Through continued discussions with all parties involved, a downgrading of
the project's overall implementation progress rating to `Unsatisfactory', and
continued follow up on the issues, they helped ensure that the project's roads were
safe. A similar approach was used to ensure quality construction on the RRIP roads
and to minimize the negative environmental impact of the project.

The quality of supervision is therefore rated as satisfactory.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance


Rating: Satisfactory

The rating for overall Bank performance as satisfactory is based on the appropriate
quality at entry and satisfactory quality of supervision.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance


Rating: Satisfactory

The central and provincial governments were fully committed to the project which
was contributing to the completion of the Shanghai-Wuhan-Xi'an corridor. This was
the third project in Hubei, so the government was familiar with the Bank's
requirements and procedures. This helped facilitate smooth project preparation. With
the support of local governments, the land for the project was acquired in a timely



                                         - 23 -

manner so that construction was not delayed. The performance of the central and
provincial government during the project implementation was therefore satisfactory.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance


Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. The HPCD
demonstrated commitment towards achieving the project objectives in all areas of the
project. The only area of major dispute was over the interconnecting roads, but once
the HPCD appreciated the importance of the situation they provided their full
commitment and the necessary resources to have a satisfactory resolution.

The HPCD has a strong commitment to many of the institutional strengthening
activities, as evidenced by their request for Bank support with the Hubei Road Traffic
Safety Training Centre and in the area of performance-based maintenance contracting.
The successful listing of the Hubei Chutian Expressway Company on the Shanghai
Stock Exchange is another example of their support for these activities.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance


Rating: Satisfactory

The project objectives were achieved and all loan conditions were met. There was
effective cooperation between the borrower and the Bank throughout preparation and
implementation of the project. There is evidence of continued support for project
activities by the HPCD after completion of this project.

6. Lessons Learned

Regular supervision missions during construction are essential

It is important that the Task Teams allow sufficient time to properly inspect projects
during the construction phase and that the team has the skills to cover all potential
issues, especially road safety. With expressway projects such as the XXE, some 224
km long, it can take several days in the field to do a proper inspection. Budget and
time constraints can lead to the temptation to reduce the time in the field, but this is to
the detriment of the overall project. Through supervision visits, the Task Team helped
identify a number of critical issues which, if left unresolved, would have potentially
compromised the project's ability to meet the PDO.




                                         - 24 -

Local road improvement programs pose major challenges

The practice on Bank-financed expressway projects in China has been to include a
local road improvement program, typically on the order of 10% of the total project
size. These have been included to help further ensure that the projects benefit the poor.
The implementation of these local road programs presents major challenges for the
Bank and our clients, in this case the HPCD, in several ways:

        The repayment of the loan is done with revenue from the expressway tolls so
        the client objects to these being used to fund local roads which are non-
        revenue generating;
        The implementation under the responsibility of the local government and not
        the HPCD, although the Bank holds the HPCD liable for compliance with the
        Bank's policies;
        Local contractors supervised by the local government are unfamiliar with the
        Bank's safeguard policies and tend to opt for the less stringent domestic
        policies. This often leads to issues which need to be resolved during or after
        construction;
        The quality of construction is often lacking; and
        The proper supervision of these roads can be a challenge for the Bank where
        there are numerous sections scattered in different locations.

With the provincial government now undertaking major local road investment
programs on their own--since 2005, some 20,000 km of village roads have been
improved--it is necessary to consider whether or not the Bank should continue to
insist that local roads be included as components on expressway projects. Further
comments on this issue are provided by the client in Annex 7.


Improve designs to ensure safe roads

The need to redesign eleven junctions as well as the interconnecting roads in order to
ensure traffic safety shows that there is a pressing need to improve the quality of
designs. Even though a design may qualify based on Chinese standards, they may still
be unsafe for motorists or pedestrians. Safety audits, from qualified independent
consultants, are required on all final designs. It is vitally important to consider the
impact of designs on pedestrian safety.

The Hubei Road Traffic Safety Training Center should go some way towards
addressing this issue, but the HPCD needs to implement formal procedures to ensure
proper safety audits are done.




                                         - 25 -

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


The borrower notes that the Bank's insistence of including local roads be included in
all Bank financed projects creates difficulties for the implementation of the project.
This is because the borrower is not directly in control of these activities--they are
done by local government--and yet are responsible for their performance and
compliance with safeguards compliance. Given that Hubei province has a major local
roads program under separate financing, as noted above since 2005, some 20,000 km
of village roads have been improved, it is no longer necessary to include these
activities in Bank financed projects. For this reason, the Hubei Yiba Highway Project,
under preparation at the time of ICR preparation, does not include a local roads
component.

The borrower makes several observations with regard to the use of loan savings,
adjusting amounts between categories, and the commitment fees. In most instances
the issues were discussed during supervision missions, however, internal Chinese
procedures and delays outside of the control of the project team precluded actions
being taken in a timely manner.


(b) Cofinanciers


Not applicable.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                        - 26 -

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                               Appraisal             Actual/Latest
                                               Estimate                Estimate1/           Percentage of
            Components                      (USD million)            (USD million)          Appraisal2/,3/
 Construction of Expressway,
 Interconnecting Roads,
 Construction Supervision, and
 Resettlement                                           562.41                 802.61                142.7%
 Rural Road Improvement Program                          60.00                   42.00                70.0%

 Institutional Development and
 Road Sector Management                                  10.51                   15.36               146.1%
 Total Baseline Cost                                    632.92                 859.97               135.9%
 Physical Contingencies                                  33.80                    N/A
 Price Contingencies                                     21.68                    N/A
 Total Project Costs                                    688.40                 859.97               124.9%
                 Front-end fee IBRD                        2.50                   2.50
 Total Financing Required                               690.90                 862.47               124.8%


Notes: 1/ The contingency costs are included with the actual/latest costs for each component.
        2/ The percentage of appraisal costs are calculated by including the contingencies in the
            appraisal costs for each component.
        3/ The exchange rate in the PAD was USD 1 = 8.29 RMB, compared to USD 1 = 7.32 RMB
            in the ICR. This exchange rate differential accounts for 13.3% of the 24.8% differential
            between the PAD and ICR costs.


(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest
          Source of Funds                 Type of         Estimate                      Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing          (USD          Estimate         Appraisal
                                                           million)     (USD million)

Borrower                                                       440.90            640.74           145.3%
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development                                 250.00            221.72            88.7%




                                            - 27 -

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Construction of the Xiaogan-Xiangfan Expressway,
                 Interconnecting Roads and Construction Supervision: (PAD
                 estimate USD505.6 million, ICR actual USD802.6 million - costs
                 include contingencies)

The XXE opened as planned in 2005. Contract variations were under 15% for most of
the contracts. The procurement and installation of the E&M system also proceeded
smoothly and in a timely fashion, so that all equipment was operational when the
expressway opened.

As described in Section 2.2, there were several issues which had to be addressed
during the project implementation: (i) improvements to interconnecting roads to
ensure that they provided appropriate levels of safety; (ii) redesigning of eleven
intersections with local roads to improve road safety; and (iii) replacement and
improvement of about 2580 m of noise barriers. These were effectively addressed by
the HPCD and, at the time of writing the ICR, after over two years of operation the
expressway is in good condition and performing effectively.

Supervision of works was carried out by domestic consultants supported by a small
team of foreign consultants. The quality and overall performance of the expressway
indicates that supervision was satisfactory.

The land acquisition and resettlement program was successfully executed. The 18,493
PAPs received their agreed compensation. When asked for their views on their overall
satisfaction with the resettlement process, 43% were very satisfied; 32% were
satisfied and 25% were neutral/unsatisfied.


Component 2: Road Rehabilitation and Improvement Program in Poor
                 Counties: (PAD estimate USD66.2 million, ICR actual USD42.0
                 million - costs include contingencies)

The LRIP program consisted of six subprojects (five roads and 1 bridge) in three
phases. By 2005, total of 402 km of rural roads were upgraded to Class III and IV
standards and one 488 m bridge. All the subprojects were selected to fulfill the
objective RRIP objective of upgrading and improving rural roads in low-income areas
to increase the accessibility.

During the defect liability period the Bank inspections identified some minor
improvements needed in terms of traffic safety measures, slope protection and flood
repairs. These were addressed and the roads are performing as expected.


                                       - 28 -

Component 3: Institutional Development and Road Sector Management: (PAD
                   estimate USD10.9 million, ICR actual USD15.4 million - costs
                   include contingencies)

Training: As shown in the table below, a comprehensive domestic and international
training program was conducted. The skills acquired were put to use by the trainees.


             Training Description               Location      Number of       Number of
                                                                Trainees     Man-Months
Operation Management                                              50              28
Management System                                                 30              20
Resettlement                                                      75             155
Quality Control                                                    8              16
Road Safety                                                        8              16
Highway Maintenance Management                   China             8              16
Project Construction Management                                   34              8
Traffic Engineering                                                8              16
Engineering Supervision                                           145            199
Teacher Training                                                   6              6
Construction Quality Management               USA, Canada          8              4
Financial Management                             Japan             6              3


Road Training Center: The goal of the provincial Road Training Center was to
improve knowledge dissemination and training quality which was fully achieved by
2005. In 2007 the center received a grant of USD0.5 m from the Global Road Safety
Facility and USD0.2m from the HPCD to establish the `Hubei Road Traffic Safety
Training Centre'. This will strengthen safety training.


Road Safety Village: After its completion in 2005, the study reduced the number of
accidents to zero from the 2002 levels of 17 accidents, seven fatalities and 18 injured
in 2002.


Accident Information System: The study was completed in June 2006. It established
a computerized accident information system which was pilot tested on several roads
to identify accident areas requiring remedying.

Black Spot Identification: Completed in April 2007, the black spot study undertook a
detailed investigation on several roads. This identified safety deficiencies and the
HPCD undertook corrective civil works to address the problems.


Maintenance by Contract: This study was completed in 2006. The study developed
Chinese based bidding documents, established performance monitoring criteria, and
identified a number of practical issues to be overcome.

Expressway Management: The study on expressway management started in 2003.
The government created the `Hubei Chutian Expressway Corporation' in 2004 which
is listed on the Shanghai stock exchange. In 2006 the study was completed.

                                       - 29 -

Truck Overloading: The study on overloaded vehicles was completed in June 2005
and identified the causes and impacts of overloading. It has contributed towards the
continuing policy dialog in this area.

Procurement of Equipment: The project procured USD12.6 million of equipment to
help improve the quality and effectiveness of construction and maintenance. The
equipment was implemented by June 2006.




                                      - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Tables A3.1 and Table A3.2 summarize the results of the economic and financial
evaluation. The XXE has an EIRR of 23.8%, and an ENPV of USD785 million. Both
of these values are higher than those in the PAD based on higher estimates of VOC
and time savings. The FIRR of XXE is only 1.4% and FNPV is USD-373 million at a
discount rate of 5.5%. For the RRIP the economic evaluation found that all roads had
an EIRR greater than 20%, and positive NPV's. The overall project economic
performance is 23.8%.

                        Table A3.1: Economic Evaluation Summary

                                                          PAD                            ICR
                                                                  ENPV                         ENPV
 Component                 Section
                                                    EIRR          (12%,                        (12%,
                                                                   USD            EIRR          USD
                                                                 million)                      million)
                 1. Xiaogan-Anlu                    26.0%          181.4          21.3%         175.7

                 2. Anlu-Suizhou                    18.4%          93.0           19.6%         161.0

     XXE         3. Suizhou-Zaoyang                 18.4%          114.5          22.9%        100.62

                 4. Zaoyang-Xiangfan                20.9%          127.4          33.9%         348.3

                 Total Expressway                   20.7%          585.0          23.8%         785.7

                 1. Tunbao - Banquia                27.7%           5.6           28.1%          6.1

                 2. Changwan ­ Shihuiyao            18.5%           3.3           20.3%          3.5
     RRIP
                 3. Quanxi ­ Xinmatou               25.4%           7.6           28.2%          7.8

                 Total RRIP                         23.0%          16.6           25.5%         17.4

 Total Project                                      20.7%          601.6          23.8%         803.1



                         Table A3.2: Financial Evaluation Summary

                                             PAD                                     ICR
        Section
                                 FIRR             FNPV(5.5%,                             FNPV(5.5%,
                                                  USD million)            FIRR           USD million)
 Total Expressway                 4.6%                -73.7               1.4%               -372.9




As shown in Table A3.3, for Sections 1 and 3, the traffic in the corridor, and on the
XXE, are lower than forecast4. Sections 2 and 4 have traffic similar to the forecasts.



4The PAD data are based on the table on page 57. Although the title of the table is `Normal Traffic by
Sections', the text indicates that this includes both normal and generated traffic. Given the context of
the PAD discussion it is reasonable to assume that it is the total corridor traffic.


                                                 - 31 -

             Table A3.3: Number of Motorized Vehicle per Day (2005-2030)


                                   The PAD                                           The ICR

 Section    Year      Old     New                   Diversion       Old         New              Diversion
                      road    road       Total        Ratio         road        road      Total   Ratio
                       (1)     (2)     (3=1+2)       (4=2/3)         (5)         (6)     (7=5+6) (8=6/7)
            2005                                         -         9,760          -       9,760     -
            2006     7,115    7,171     14,286        50.2%        4,742        5,794     10,536  55.0%

Section 1   2007     7,320    7,716     15,036        51.3%        5,111        6,247     11,358  55.0%
            2010     7,969    9,612     17,581        54.7%        5,917        7,653     13,570  56.4%
Xiaogan     2015     9,183    13,863    23,046        60.2%        7,198       10,241     17,439  58.7%
 -Anlu      2020     11,552   17,414    28,966        60.1%        8,345       13,071     21,416  61.0%
            2025     14,533   21,874    36,407        60.1%        9,214       15,902     25,116  63.3%
            2030                                                   9,684       18,435     28,119  65.6%
            2005                                         -         9,276          -       9,276     -
            2006     3,463    6,953     10,416        66.8%        4,508        5,507     10,015  55.0%

Section 2   2007     3,511    7,446     10,957        68.0%        4,856        5,938     10,794  55.0%
            2010     3,658    9,146     12,805        71.4%        5,621        7,274     12,895  56.4%
  Anlu      2015     3,918    12,885    16,803        76.7%        6,839        9,735     16,574  58.7%
-Suizhou    2020     4,942    16,176    21,118        76.6%        7,929       12,424     20,353  61.0%
            2025     6,233    20,307    26,540        76.5%        8,754       15,116     23,870  63.3%
            2030                                                   9,200       17,523     26,723  65.6%
            2005                                         -         6,583          -       6,583     -
            2006     3,283    6,993     10,276        68.1%        3,198        3,909     7,107   55.0%

Section 3   2007     3,457    7,362     10,818        68.0%        3,447        4,214     7,661   55.0%
            2010     4,034    8,588     12,623        68.0%        3,990        5,162     9,152   56.4%
 Suizhou    2015     5,219    11,104    16,323        68.0%        4,855        6,908     11,763  58.7%
-Zaoyang    2020     6,442    13,701    20,143        68.0%        5,628        8,817     14,445  61.0%
            2025     7,952    16,905    24,857        68.0%        6,214       10,727     16,941  63.3%
            2030                                                   6,531       12,436     18,967  65.6%
            2005                                         -        10,407          -       10,407    -
            2006     4,363    7,164     11,527        62.1%        5,056        6,180     11,236  55.0%
Section 4   2007     4,419    7,631     12,049        63.3%        5,451        6,662     12,113  55.0%

Zaoyang     2010     4,589    9,221     13,811        66.8%        6,310        8,161     14,471  56.4%

-Xiangfan   2015     4,889    12,643    17,532        72.1%        7,677       10,922     18,599  58.7%
            2020     5,892    15,222    21,114        72.1%        8,900       13,939     22,839  61.0%
            2025     7,100    18,328    25,428        72.1%        9,826       16,959     26,785  63.3%
            2030                                                  10,328       19,660     29,988  65.6%
Annual Average Growth Rate, AAGR (2006-2025)
    Section 1        3.8%     6.0%       5.0%                      3.6%         5.5%      4.7%
    Section 2        3.1%     5.8%       5.0%                      3.6%         5.5%      4.7%
    Section 3        4.8%     4.8%       4.8%                      3.6%         5.5%      4.7%
    Section 4        2.6%     5.1%       4.3%                      3.6%         5.5%      4.7%

  Sources: HPCD and the XXE PAD. PAD data of 2007, 2010 and 2020 are calculated based on AAGR.




                                              - 32 -

With generally lower traffic and higher costs there would be an a priori reason to
expect that the economic performance of the XXE would be lower rather than
higher than that in the PAD.

The differences arise due to the ICR using a more detailed methodology for the
treatment of travel time than in the PAD. The PAD adopted a constant value of 1.5
RMB/h for all types of trips. For the ICR the value of time followed the more
standard approach of differentiating by trip purpose: business vs. leisure travel,
personal travel vs. commercial vehicles. Based on the Hubei GDP and employment
level, as shown in Table A3.4 the 2006 value of business time was assumed to be
10.6 RMB/h, and leisure time at 10%, or 1.1 RMB/h. This was then increased over
the analysis period to reflect the forecast growth in the Chinese economy and
number of employees.


                           Table A3.4: Value of Time Estimation


                  GDP (2006 Prices)                Employment
                                Average                   Average  GDP/        Time
  Year             GDP           Annual      Number of    Annual  Employee     Value
             (RMB billion       Growth       Employees    Growth   (RMB)      (RBM/h)
                                  Rate        (million)    Rate
                                  (%)                       (%)
  2006            758.13                        35.64              21,272       10.6

  2010           1,109.98        10.0%          36.94      0.9%    30,048       15.0

  2015           1,669.03         8.5%          38.44      0.8%    43,417       21.6

  2020           2,340.90         7.0%          39.81      0.7%    58,807       29.3

  2025           3,132.65         6.0%          40.81      0.5%    76,759       38.2

Source: Statistical Yearbook of Hubei and forecasts


The approach of increasing the value of time is supported by data on the income rates
in Hubei province. In the period 2002 ­ 2007 urban incomes rose from 6789 RMB/y
to 11,485 RMB/y, and rural incomes from 2,444 RMB/y to 3,997 RMB/y.




                                             - 33 -

                             Table A3.5: EIRR Summary of Xiaogan - Xiangfan Expressway (USD million)




               Total                     Section1                     Section2                   Section3                   Section4
      Total  Total              Total    Total              Total    Total               Total  Total               Total  Total
Year  Cost  Benefits Net Cash   Cost   Benefits  Net Cash   Cost    Benefits  Net Cash   Cost  Benefits  Net Cash   Cost  Benefits  Net Cash
2003  165.3              -165.3  60.2                 -60.2 42.6                   -42.6 39.1                 -39.1 23.4                 -23.4
2004  213.6              -213.6  63.5                 -63.5 74.0                   -74.0 34.7                 -34.7 41.5                 -41.5
2005  135.7              -135.7  38.0                 -38.0 63.5                   -63.5  9.2                  -9.2 25.0                 -25.0
2006  112.6    91.4       -21.2  25.5      23.6        -1.9 50.1       23.0        -27.2 10.3     18.4          8.1 26.7     26.4         -0.3
2007   5.5    101.9        96.4   1.1      26.5        25.4  1.4       24.7         23.3  1.7     20.1         18.4  1.3     30.7         29.4
2008   5.7    117.2      111.5    1.1      30.7        29.6  1.5       28.3         26.8  1.7     22.0         20.3  1.4     36.1         34.8
2009   5.9    134.9      129.1    1.1      35.7        34.6  1.5       32.4         30.9  1.8     24.2         22.4  1.4     42.6         41.2
2010   6.0    160.1      154.0    1.2      42.9        41.7  1.5       39.4         37.8  1.8     26.9         25.0  1.5     50.9         49.4
2011   6.2    183.5      177.3    1.2      48.3        47.1  1.6       45.7         44.1  1.9     29.8         27.9  1.5     59.7         58.2
2012   6.4    210.7      204.3    1.2      54.5        53.2  1.7       53.1         51.5  2.0     33.0         31.1  1.6     70.0         68.5
2013   6.6    242.1      235.5    1.3      61.5        60.2  1.7       61.7         60.0  2.0     36.7         34.7  1.6     82.3         80.7
2014   6.8    278.7      271.9    1.3      69.5        68.2  1.7       71.7         70.0  2.1     40.7         38.7  1.7     96.7         95.1
2015  45.4    321.2      275.7    8.9      78.7        69.8 11.7       83.5         71.8 13.9     45.3         31.4 11.1    113.7        102.7
2016  45.4    368.0      322.5    8.9      89.5        80.7 11.7       95.5         83.8 13.9     49.6         35.7 11.1    133.3        122.3
2017   7.4    421.9      414.5    1.4     102.0       100.5  1.9      109.3        107.4  2.3     54.3         52.0  1.8    156.3        154.5
2018   7.6    484.2      476.6    1.5     116.2       114.7  2.0      125.2        123.2  2.3     59.5         57.2  1.9    183.3        181.5
2019   7.9    556.2      548.3    1.5     132.4       130.9  2.0      143.4        141.4  2.4     65.2         62.8  1.9    215.1        213.2
2020   8.1    639.4      631.3    1.6     151.0       149.4  2.1      164.3        162.3  2.5     71.6         69.1  2.0    252.5        250.5
2021   8.3    686.3      678.0    1.6     165.0       163.4  2.1      181.2        179.0  2.5     79.5         77.0  2.0    260.7        258.6
2022   8.6    737.7      729.1    1.7     180.3       178.6  2.2      199.8        197.6  2.6     88.4         85.8  2.1    269.2        267.1
2023   8.9    794.0      785.1    1.7     197.2       195.4  2.3      220.4        218.2  2.7     98.3         95.6  2.2    278.1        275.9
2024   9.1    855.7      846.6    1.8     215.7       213.9  2.3      243.3        241.0  2.8    109.3        106.5  2.2    287.4        285.2
2025   9.4    923.5      914.1    1.8     236.0       234.2  2.4      268.6        266.2  2.9    121.6        118.8  2.3    297.2        295.0
            EIRR=23.8%,                EIRR=21.3%,                  EIRR=19.6%,                EIRR=22.9%,                EIRR=33.9%,
            ENPV=785.7                 ENPV=175.7                   ENPV=161.0                 ENPV=100.6                 ENPV=348.3



                                                               - 34 -

                            Table A3.6: Income Statement: Xiaogan ­ Xiangfan Expressway (USD million, year ending 31, December)

                              2005       2006       2007      2008      2009     2010         2011       2012    2013   2014  2015  2016  2017  2018   2019     2020
Traffic (million veh.-km)      64.9       468.2     504.8       540.1     578      618.4       655.5      694.8   736.5 780.7 827.6  869  912.5 958.1 1,006.00 1,056.20
Operating Revenue
            Tolls               0.9       51.6       55.8        59.7    63.9      68.3          83.5     88.5    93.8  99.5  105.4 127.7 134.1 140.8   147.8    155.2
            Others              -          -         -          -        -         -            -          -      -      -     -     -     -     -       -        -

            Total               0.9       51.6       55.8        59.7    63.9      68.3          83.5     88.5    93.8  99.5  105.4 127.7 134.1 140.8   147.8    155.2
Operating Taxes *
            Total               -          -         -          -        -         -            -          -      -      -     -     -     -     -       -        -

Net Revenue                     0.9       51.6       55.8        59.7    63.9      68.3          83.5     88.5    93.8  99.5  105.4 127.7 134.1 140.8   147.8    155.2
Operating Costs
        Wages and benefits      0.0         1.1       1.2         1.2      1.3       1.4          1.8      1.9      2.0   2.1   2.2   2.7   2.8   3.0     3.1      3.3
               Maintenance      0.1         4.9       5.0         5.2      5.3     25.2           5.7      5.8      6.0   6.2 75.9    6.6   6.8   7.0     7.2     33.9
          Fuel & materials         0          0         0            0       0          0            0       0        0     0     0     0     0     0        0       0
            Administration      0.1         2.5       2.8         3.0      3.2       3.4          4.2      4.4      4.7   5.0   5.3   6.4   6.7   7.0     7.4      7.8
                     Others        0          0         0            0       0          0            0       0        0     0     0     0     0     0       0        0
        Total working costs     0.2         8.4       9.0         9.4      9.9     30.0          11.6     12.1    12.7  13.3  83.4  15.6  16.3  17.0     17.7     44.9
               Depreciation               22.7       22.8        22.8    22.8      22.8          22.8     22.8    22.9  22.9  22.9  22.9  22.9  23.0     23.0     23.0
       Total operating costs    0.2       31.1       31.8        32.2    32.7      52.8          34.4     35.0    35.5  36.1  106.3 38.6  39.2  39.9     40.7     67.9
Operating Profit                0.8       20.4       24.0        27.5    31.2      15.5          49.1     53.5    58.3  63.3   -0.9 89.1  94.8  100.8   107.1     87.3
Financial Charges
                     IBRD          0        0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0         11.4     11.1    10.7  10.2    9.8   9.2   8.7   8.0     7.3      6.5
               Local banks         0      29.1       28.2        27.2    26.1      24.8          23.5     22.0    20.4  18.6  16.7  14.5  12.1    9.5     6.6      3.5


Profit Before Taxes             0.8        -8.6      -4.1         0.3      5.1      -9.3         14.2     20.5    27.2  34.5  -27.3 65.4  74.0  83.3     93.2     77.3
                Income tax         0          0         0            0       0          0            0       0        0     0     0     0     0     0        0       0


Net Profit After Taxes          0.8        -8.6      -4.1         0.3      5.1      -9.3         14.2     20.5    27.2  34.5  -27.3 65.4  74.0  83.3     93.2     77.3


     Actual: 2006, best estimates: 2007, forecast: 2008 and thereafter.

     *Note: Xiaogan-Xiangfan Expressway is operated as Government project and no operating taxes are charged.




                                                                                         - 35 -

                Table A3.7: Sources and Applications of Funds: Xiaogan ­ Xiangfan Expressway (USD million, year ending 31, December)

                         2003  2004  2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010    2011   2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   2018   2019   2020


Sources:
 Net profits               -     -     0.8   (8.6)  (4.1)   0.3    5.1    (9.3)  14.2   20.5   27.2   34.5  (27.3)  65.4   74.0   83.3   93.2   77.3
 Depreciation              -     -     -     22.7   22.8   22.8   22.8   22.8    22.8   22.8   22.9   22.9   22.9   22.9   22.9   23.0   23.0   23.0

 State contribution       28.5  41.4  20.3   26.5    -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -

 Provincial contribution  47.0  68.3  33.5   43.6    -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
 Borrowing: IBRD          65.1  68.9  66.1    8.5    -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
              Local       90.8 131.9  64.5   84.2    -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
 Others                    -     -     -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -


        Total            231.4 310.6 185.1  176.8   18.6   23.1   27.9   13.5    37.0   43.3   50.1   57.3   (4.4)  88.3   97.0  106.2  116.1  100.3


Applications:
 Capital expenditure     231.4 310.6 184.4  162.7    4.6    4.7    4.9     5.0    5.2    5.3    5.5    5.6    5.8    6.0    6.2    6.3    6.5    6.7

 Other expenditure         -     -     -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
 Loan repayment:IBRD       -     -     -      -      -      -      -      -       6.6    7.2    7.9    8.7    9.6   10.6   11.6   12.8   14.1   15.5
                  Local    -           -     11.7   12.9   14.1   15.6   17.1    18.8   20.7   22.8   25.1   27.6   30.3   33.3   36.7   40.4   44.4

 Change w/ capital         -     -    (0.1)  (3.2)  (0.6)  (0.3)  (0.3)   (0.3)  (1.1)  (0.3)  (0.4)  (0.4)  (0.4)  (1.5)  (0.4)  (0.5)  (0.5)  (0.5)


        Total            231.4 310.6 184.3  171.2   16.8   18.6   20.1   21.8    29.5   32.9   35.8   39.0   42.6   45.3   50.7   55.3   60.5   66.1


Net Funds Flow             -     -     0.8    5.6    1.8    4.5    7.8    (8.3)   7.5   10.4   14.3   18.3  (46.9)  43.0   46.3   50.9   55.7   34.2

Open balance               -     -     -      0.8    6.4    8.2   12.7   20.5    12.2   19.7   30.1   44.4   62.7   15.8   58.7  105.0  155.9  211.6

Closing balance            -     -     0.8    6.4    8.2   12.7   20.5   12.2    19.7   30.1   44.4   62.7   15.8   58.7  105.0  155.9  211.6  245.8


D/S Cover                   --    --    --     --     --     --    1.8     0.8    1.5    1.6    1.6    1.7   (0.1)   2.2    2.2    2.1    2.1    1.7




                                                                     - 36 -

                              Table A3.8: Balance Sheet: Xiaogan ­ Xiangfan Expressway (USD million, year ending 31, December)

                               2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016    2017    2018    2019    2020


Assets:
 Fixed Assets

 At cost                         550.7  633.7    682.6   683.1   683.6   684.1   684.6   685.1   685.7   686.2   686.8   687.4   688.0   688.7   689.3   690.0
 Less:        Depreciation         0.0    22.7    45.5    68.3    91.0   113.9   136.7   159.5   182.4   205.2   228.1   251.0   274.0   296.9   319.9   342.9
              Net fixed assets   550.7  611.0    637.1   614.8   592.5   570.2   547.9   525.6   503.3   481.0   458.7   436.4   414.1   391.7   369.4   347.1


 Current Assets

 Inventory                         0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1

 Account receivable                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
 Cash                              0.8     6.4     8.2    12.7    20.5    12.2    19.7    30.1    44.4    62.7    15.8    58.7   105.0   155.9   211.6   245.8
                         Total     0.8     6.5     8.3    12.8    20.6    12.2    19.7    30.2    44.4    62.7    15.8    58.8   105.1   156.0   211.7   245.9

 Other Assets                      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0


 Total Assets                    551.5  617.5    645.4   627.6   613.1   582.5   567.7   555.8   547.7   543.8   474.5   495.2   519.2   547.7   581.1   593.0


Liabilities & Equity

 State funds- Equity              64.2    46.0    86.2    82.2    83.0    69.2    78.7    94.4   116.7   146.1   113.6   173.6   242.1   319.7   407.0   478.2


 L/T loans:             IBRD     200.1  208.5    208.5   208.5   208.5   208.5   202.0   194.7   186.8   178.1   168.5   157.9   146.3   133.5   119.4   103.9
                        Local    287.2  359.7    346.8   332.7   317.1   300.0   281.2   260.5   237.7   212.6   185.1   154.8   121.4    84.7    44.4     0.0
                         Total   487.2  568.2    555.3   541.2   525.6   508.5   483.1   455.2   424.5   390.7   353.5   312.6   267.7   218.2   163.8   103.9


 Current Liabilities               0.1     3.3     3.9     4.2     4.5     4.8     5.8     6.2     6.6     7.0     7.4     8.9     9.4     9.9    10.3    10.9
 Other Liabilities                 0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0


 Total Liabilities & Equity      551.5  617.5    645.4   627.6   613.1   582.5   567.7   555.8   547.7   543.8   474.5   495.2   519.2   547.7   581.1   593.0


Debt- to- equity ratio         88/12   93/7    87/13   87/13   86/14   88/12   86/14   83/17   79/21   73/27   76/24   65/35   53/47   42/58   30/70   19/81
Current ratio                  12.8    1.9      2.1     3.0     4.6     2.6     3.4     4.9     6.8     9.0     2.1     6.6    11.2    15.8    20.5    22.6




                                                                                - 37 -

Table A3.9: Assumptions for Financial Forecasts: Xiaogan ­ Xiangfan Expressway
  1.  Toll and Traffic

                                   Small     Medium         Large       Small      Medium      Large.     Tractor-
                                    Car         Bus          Bus        Truck        Truck     Truck      Trailer     Total

      Toll (Y/ vkm) /_1               0.40         0.75         1.00        0.40        0.75      1.00        1.50

      Xiaogan(Wuhan)-Anlu

                           2006      3,305         162          105       1,099          860       782         96    6,409

                           2010      3,946         194          125       1,312        1,027       933        116    7,653

                           2015      5,280         259          167       1,756        1,374     1,249        156   10,241

                           2020      6,739         331          213       2,241        1,753     1,594        199   13,071

                           2025      8,199         402          260       2,726        2,133     1,940        242   15,902

      Anlu-Suizhou

                           2006      3,106         155          100         929          962     1,108        153    6,513

                           2010      3,469         173          111       1,038        1,074     1,237        172    7,274

                           2015      4,643         231          149       1,389        1,438     1,656        230    9,735

                           2020      5,925         295          190       1,772        1,835     2,113        293   12,424

                           2025      7,209         359          232       2,156        2,233     2,571        356   15,116

      Suizhou-Zaoyang

                           2006      3,444         179          116       1,245        1,849     1,855        205    8,893

                           2010      1,999         104            67        723        1,073     1,077        119    5,162

                           2015      2,675         139            90        967        1,436     1,441        159    6,908

                           2020      3,415         178          115       1,234        1,833     1,839        203    8,817

                           2025      4,154         216          140       1,502        2,230     2,238        247   10,727

      Zaoyang-Xiangfang

                           2010      3,986         213          138         978        1,617     1,076        153    8,161

                           2015      5,335         285          185       1,308        2,164     1,439        205   10,922

                           2020      6,808         364          236       1,670        2,762     1,837        262   13,939

                           2025      8,283         443          288       2,031        3,360     2,235        318   16,959

                     /_1: Increase 0% every 5 years.

  2.  Operating Taxes :

      a. Business tax                   0%  of total revenue.         based on Hubei PCD actural operation

      b. City tax                       0% of business taxes.

      c. Education levy                 0% of business taxes.


  3   Operating Costs:

      a. Wages and benefits          2.10%  of total revenue

      b. Maintenance                 9.50%  of total revenue

      c. Fuel and materils           0.00%  of total revenue

      d. Administration              5.00%  of total revenue

      e. Depreciation:                   30 years straight-line method.


  4.  Maintenance (MY/km):      Increase 3% pa.


                                  Routine                  Medium                    Major

                                maint./ year            maint./ 5 years        maint./ 10 years

                                    0.15                     0.750                   1.950


  5.  Income Tax Rate:                0.0%  of profit before tax.     based on Hubei PCD actural operation


  6.  Loan:                           5.5% , 20 year maturaties, LIBOR US$ based single

                                            currency including 5 years grace period.

                                      7.8% , 10 year maturaties, flexiable principal payment.




                                                                38

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title                Unit Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending

Michel Bellier           Task Team Leader/Lead Transport
                         Specialist                           EASTR

Anil Somani              Senior Environment Specialist        EASES
Zhefu Liu                Resettlement/Social Assessment Spec. EACCF
Dan Gibson               Resettlement/Social Assessment Spec. EACCF
Jean-Marie Braun         Highway Engineering Consultant       EASTR

Dick Jonsson             Institutional Strengthening and Road
                         Traffic Safety Consultant            EASTR

Han-Kang Yen             Research Analyst                     EASTR
Robin Carruthers         Economist                            EASTR
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao  Economist                            INFTD
Dawei Yang               Procurement Specialist               EACCF
R. I. Gopalkrishnan      Procurement Consultant               EAPCO
Haiyan Wang              Financial Management Specialist      EACCF

Simon Bradbury           Senior Financial Management
                         Specialist                           LOAG3

Yi-Ling Liu              Disbursement Analyst                 LOAG3
Nina Masako Eejima       Senior Counsel                       LEGEA
Hoi-Chan Nguyen          Senior Counsel                       LEGEA
Teresita Ortega          Team Assistant                       EASTR
Supervision/ICR
Anil H. Somani           Consultant                           EASTE

Aurelio Menendez         Peer Reviewer/Lead Transport
                         Specialist                           EASTE

Christopher R. Bennett   Sr. Transport Specialist             EASTE
Dawei Yang               Procurement Spec.                   EAPCO
Emily Dubin              Junior Professional Associate        EASTE
Esperanza Miranda        Operations Officer                   EASSD
Haiyan Wang              Finance Officer                     LOADM
Hong Chen                Peer Reviewer/ Operations Officer EASOP
Jean-Marie Braun         Consultant                           EASTE
Nurul Alam               Senior Procurement Spec.            EAPCO
Pan Wen                  Consultant                           EASTE
Wenlai Zhang             Transport Specialist                 EASTE
Wenling Chen             Junior Professional Associate        EASTE
Yi Geng                  Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO
Zhefu Liu                Senior Social Development Spec       EASCS
Teresita Ortega          Program Assistant                    EASTE




                                           39

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                               No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                  7                      43.59
  FY02                                 45                     237.50
  FY03                                  7                      38.05
  FY04                                                          0.00
  FY05                                                          0.00
  FY06                                                          0.00
  FY07                                                          0.00
  FY08                                                          0.00
                        Total:         59                     319.14
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                          0.00
  FY02                                                          0.00
  FY03                                 10                      48.85
  FY04                                 10                      76.04
  FY05                                 10                      64.49
  FY06                                 10                      91.46
  FY07                                  8                      68.07
  FY08                                  1                       3.87
                        Total:         49                     352.78




                                   40

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                   41

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                 42

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The HPCD has the following major comments and suggestions.

     The Bank should not include the irrelevant programs like rural roads into the
     project, and also should not consider it as one precondition for the loans. This
     causes difficulties for the implementation of the project.
     Strongly suggest the Bank cancel the 1% of the loan as a font-end fee.
     Suggest the Bank make comprehensive arrangements for the studies within the
     range of whole China, so as to avoid the same study recurring under different
     Bank-financed projects.
     In view of China's economy development, it is suggested that the procurement
     for equipment and consulting experts not only be limited to foreign
     procurement.
     The Bank should pay attention to the safety issues of connecting roads as early
     as possible when they review the project, so as to avoid additional financial
     cost for the reconstruction of safety facilities after its completion.
     Since the engineering procurement follow the principle of "wining the bid at
     the lowest price" from the Bank's procurement guidelines, it may cause the
     implemented contract price is low, but savings of loan. So the project
     undertakes the extra commitment, which increases the cost for financing. So it
     is suggested to deduct or exempt the extra increased commitment.
     It is suggested that the Bank establish a procedure to solve the use of loans
     savings. For example, increase the withdrawal percentage or adjust the loan
     amount among different catalogues, so as to ensure the loans can be fully and
     efficiently be used for the project.
     It is suggested to simplify the withdrawal application, and avoid the late
     replenishment to the special account causing the financial arrangement for
     constructions.
     The format of progress report is too complicated. It is hoped to simplify the
     content and reduce the numbers, so as to let the simple procedure improve the
     working efficiency of the client.
     It is hoped that the allocation of resettlement fund can consider the
     government network system.
     It is suggested to combine internal and external resettlement reports into one,
     which alllows the independent monitoring organization to do it, and reduce the
     numbers of resettlement report.




                                          43

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                  44

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



  1. The World Bank, Xiaoxiang Highway Project: Project Appraisal Document
      (No. 23909-CHA), August 19, 2002.

  2. The World Bank, Xiaoxiang Highway Project: Loan Agreement (No. 4677-
      CHA), between the People's Republic of China and the International Bank for
      Reconstruction and Development, December 17, 2002.

  3. The World Bank, Fourth National Highway Project: Project Agreement
      (No. 4677-CHA), between the Province of Hubei and the International Bank
      for Reconstruction and Development, December 17, 2002.

  4. The World Bank, Aide-Memoires of the Xiaoxiang Highway Project from
      2002 to 2007.

  5. Hubei Provincial Communications Department. Project Implementation Plan,
      May 27, 2002.

  6. Hubei Provincial Communications Department, Resettlement Action Plan,
      June 2002.

  7. Hubei Provincial Communications Department, Environmental Impact
      Assessment, June 2003.

  8. Hubei Provincial Communications Department, Environmental Management
     Plan, June 2003.

  9. Research Center for Involuntary Resettlement, Wuhan University, The World
      Bank Financed Xiaoxiang Expressway Project Post Evaluation Report of
      Resettlement. June 2006.

  10. Hubei Provincial Communications Department, Project Progress Reports,
      2002-2007.

  11. Hubei Provincial Communications Department, Environmental Monitoring
      Reports, 2002-2007.




                                     45

