Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2800-TH
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAI BAINK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
MAE MOH LIGNITE PROJECT
May 1, 1980
This doment bu a restricted distbution and may be used by recipients only It the performance of
ther offkMc  dtis. 1ts coentents may net ohrwise be discoSd withou World Bank authorization.



C46130/J60475/D1661/30
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current unit         =  Thai baht (B)
US$1.00              =  B 20.00
B 1.00                  US$0.05
WEIGHTS AND MDEASURES
1 meter (m)                              =  3.281 feet (ft)
I cubic meter (cu m)                     -  35.315 cubic feet (cu ft)
1.308 cubic yards (cu yd)
1 kilometer (km)                         =  0.622 miles (mi)
1 bank cubic meter (cu bm)               =  1.308 bank cubic yards (cu byd)
1 kilogram (kg)                          =  2.205 pounds
I metric ton (t)                         3  1.1 short tons (st)
1 metric ton per year (tpy)                  1.1 short ton per year (stpy)
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)                     =  3.97 British thermal units (BTU)
Kilocalorie per kilogram (kcal/kg)    =  1.805 British thermal units
per pound (BTU/lb)
I kilowatt (kW)                          =  1,000 watts (W)
1 megawatt (MW)                          =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatthour (GWh)                     =  1,000,000 kilowatthours (kWh)
(106 x kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              =    Asian Development Bank
DMR              -    Department of Mineral Resources
EGAT             -    Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
MEA               -    Metropolitan Electricity Authority
NEA              =    National Energy Administration
OSP                    OPEC Special Fund
PEA              =    Provincial Electricity Authority
PTT              -    Petroleum Authority of Thailand
SFD              -    Saudi Fund for Development
UNDP             -    United Nations Development Programme
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



THAILAND                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAE MOH LIGNITE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
Guarantor:      Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:         $72 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 8.25% per annum.
Project
Description:  The project forms part of a national development strategy to
reduce the country's high dependence on oil imports by deve-
loping indigenous energy resources such as natural gas, lignite
and hydropower. The expansion of lignite production at Mae Moh
mine is required to meet the incremental demand of the Mae Moh
power generating facilities up to and including the 150 MW Unit
4 scheduled to be commissioned by January 1984. Production
will need to increase from 1 million tons of the run-of-mine
lignite in 1979 to 2.8 million tons per year in 1984.
The project scope for the Mae Moh lignite mine includes the
engineering, procurement and erection of mining and related
equipment, technical assistance, training and civil works. The
mining equipment comprises four 15 cu yd electric rope shovels,
thirty four 85 t rear end dump trucks, one coal crushing,
conveying, stacking and reclaiming system, and ancillary
equipment. The project also includes expansion of the main-
tenance workshop and office and the mine power supply system.
The net foreign exchange savings over the 30 year life of Power
Units 4 and 5 (300 MW) to be supplied by lignite are expected
to average about $16 million annually in 1979 terms, taking
into account the impact of debt service. This is of particular
importance in Thailand where foreign exchange scarcity is a
constraining factor. Other benefits of the project will
include technological transfer through technical assistance and
training and institutional improvement within EGAT's Mining
Department; increase in economic activity in the remote
northern region of Thailand through increased employment
opportunities at Mae Moh and indirect employment in the
surrounding areas for providing supporting services and
facilities. The project will further benefit the area by the
resettlement program to be undertaken by EGAT, under which
about 300 squatter families would be resettled in a village
with a school, health center, water supply, electricity and
other amenities which would represent improvements in their
living conditions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The only major risk of the project could result from the
sulphur dioxide emissions from the associated power plant
development.  EGAT is undertaking an air pollution study which
will be furnished for the Bank's review not later than end
1981. ADB has agreed to finance this study and the pollution
monitoring equipment. This risk is therefore considered to be
adequately covered by these measures.
Estimated Cost:                                  Local   Foreign   Total
- $ million ------
Land,resettlement, civil works                   2.6       -        2.6
Mining equipment                                14.2      37.5    51.7
Freight and erection                             2.0       6.4      8.4
Prestripping costs                              17.4       -       17.4
Engineering and Training                         0.3       1.2      1.5
Working capital                                  0.1       -        0.1
Contingencies
Physical                                      3.6        4.2      7.8
Price                                         15.3      10.7    26.0
Total Proiect Costs                       55.5       60.0   115.5
Interest During Construction                     2.8      12.0    14.8
58.3      72.0   130.3
Financing Plan:
Government                                      19.9       -       19.9
EGAT                                            32.7       -       32.7
IBRD                                                      72.0    72.0
Commercial banks                                 5.7       -        5.7
Total                                    58.3       72.0   130.3 /a
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:        Bank FY 1981        1982        1983        1984
------------ ($ million) ------------
Annual                          29.7       17.5        15.4         9.4
Cumulative                      29.7       47.2        62.6        72.0
Rate of Return:    About 14%
Appraisal Report: Report No. 2722-TH, dated April 18, 1980.
/a Including interest during construction of $14.8 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE MAE MOH LIGNITE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), with the
guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $72 million to
help finance the Mae Moh Lignite Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum. EGAT
is also seeking commercial loans of about $5.7 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that certain income groups have lagged behind this progress. It
identifies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to the
need for continued overall development as well as the initiation of specific
measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural areas. It
further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation of these
policies. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differences in view about Thailand's external relations and about the politi-
cal decision-making process within the country. The government formed in
November 1977, under the prime ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
moved to strengthen relations with Thailand's ASEAN partners and tried to
stabilize and improve relations with its Indochinese neighbors. Progress in
the latter was, however, affected by Vietnam's involvement in Kampuchea and
the flood of Khmer refugees into Thailand. These developments and the
necessary actions related to caring for the refugees have diverted a consi-
derable amount of high-level Government attention and led to significant
increases in military and other expenditures. General Kriangsak formed his
second administration in April 1979 but came under mounting criticism in the
National Assembly for his economic policies, particularly the petroleum price
increases and his handling of the refugee problem. Faced with waning



-2-
political support and public demonstrations, General Kriangsak undertook an
extensive cabinet reorganization in February 1980. However, this failed to
engender the necessary political stability, and facing a no confidence vote
precipitated by petroleum price and electricity tariff increases, his
government resigned on February 29.
4.        General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected to succeed Kriangsak as Prime
Minister by the National Assembly after receiving the support of nearly all
major political parties. General Prem's new government, formed on March 14,
included leaders from the political parties which supported him. On March 28,
1980, General Prem announced his government's policies on a number of issues
including economic and social development. The statement places high and
immediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes
and on measures to improve health and education. Particular emphasis is given
to generating more jobs and it is expected that a rural public works program
similar to the 1975/76 Tambon Program will be a major element in this
strategy. The Government also intends to exert efforts to contain inflation
and a more gradual adjustment of energy prices is foreseen besides developing
domestic energy resources. Reforms in monetary and fiscal policy and efforts
to improve the trade balance through improved export performance are also
called for. As discussed below these reforms are critical to increasing
resource mobilization (especially in the public sector) and reducing the
current account deficit.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor
sustaining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year,
water control was improved, irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of
relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew
rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to export growth.
Until recently, the Government was able to maintain economic stability but
inflation is now accelerating. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated
between 19% and 24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high level
of private investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year
since 1970. All this was achieved with a limited inflow of external resources
and, until recently, the resource gap remained at about 5% of GDP.
6.        The rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.6% p.a from 8.1%
in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil price increase of 1973
and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for this decline has
been the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been pushed into less
fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural growth to about
4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. During 1973 and part of
1974, this deceleration was partly obscured by a domestic investment boom.



-3-
This was accompanied by rapid domestic inflation, however, which led the
Government to curtail sharply the public investment program in 1974 and 1975.
Inflation in subsequent years has continued to rise, reaching an estimated 13%
for 1979, and projected at 13-15% in 1980. Substantial growth of the
agricultural sector contributed to rapid expansion of 11.7% of the economy in
1978, but a combination of poor agricultural output and adverse effects of
external factors, primarily the oil price increase, reduced 1979 growth to an
estimated 6.7%, with little improvement expected for 1980. The budget deficit
is expected to exceed $1.0 billion in FY80 as a result of increased military
expenditures, an increase in civil service pay, and increased subsidies to
public enterprises as a result of the failure to raise electricity tariffs
sufficiently to offset fully oil price increases.
7.        Thailand's terms of trade and prospects for agricultural export are
now less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing severe
restrictions on two of its major exports to the European Economic Community,
cassava and canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the
International Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded
surpluses in 1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The current
account deficit reached $1.1 billion, or 5% of GDP in 1978 and is estimated to
be $2.2 billion in 1979, or about 8.0% of GDP. The overall balance-of-
payments deficit for 1979 is estimated at nearly $600 million. The Government
has significantly increased its foreign borrowing from traditional sources,
from the Eurodollar market and from IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign
exchange reserves have also been used extensively. To contain the
balance-of-payments deficit, the Government, in March 1978, raised tariffs on
141 "nonessential" imports and increased excise taxes on a number of items,
most notably gasoline. The prices of petroleum products were raised in
January 1979, July 1979, and February 1980, for a cumulative increase of about
100% for gasoline. The current price of gasoline is the equivalent of about
$1.80 per gallon (US). After a proposed power tariff increase of about 55%
was rejected in November 1979, a lesser tariff increase of about 38% was
finally implemented in February 1980. This is insufficient to cover the
increased cost of fuel, and subsidies from the oil fund (partly funded by
revenues from other petroleum products) continue. Apart from raising prices,
the Government has also taken some energy conservation measures to contain the
oil import bill which is expected to jump by $1.0 billion in 1980 despite
almost no increase in the volume of imports. With a view to encouraging
domestic savings and curtail the flight of capital abroad, the Government
raised interest rates by 3 percentage points at the beginning of 1980.
8.        The growth in incomes has not been equitably distributed throughout
the country, and at present there are very significant regional differentials
in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure. The regions are
very different in terms of topography, climate, soils, urbanization, etc., and
present quite distinct problems for future development. The Central Region,
including Bangkok, has the highest per capita income and is better served by
roads, telecommunications, schools, public health and other services than the



-4-
other three regions, the North, Northeast and South. Within the regions also
there is considerable variation: farmers who have diversified into cash crops
have generally enjoyed substantial growth in real incomes while the incomes of
those who have been unable or unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice
culture have stagnated. Recent research has shown that inappropriate cropping
patterns and agricultural techniques are major factors in much of the rural
poverty. This is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in
the Northeast and North. Since there is a well functioning labor market, the
low incomes of this large group have tended to depress unskilled wages
throughout the economy.
9.        Real concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards is being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978, and the
new village development program in 1979. These programs have been designed to
produce quick and tangible political as well as economic results, but consid-
erably more attention and resources need to be devoted to rural development if
these programs are to have lasting impact. The Government is strongly
committed to rural development and raising rural incomes and is expected to
launch a major public works program in the near future. While the absorptive
capacity in rural areas has increased since the Tambon program of 1975-76,
there is some concern about the efficacy of crash programs in view of the
resource constraints facing the budget and the limitations of implementation
capacity at various levels of government.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable
distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved
technology, provision of infrastructure by the Government, and the dynamism of
the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have
been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979.
The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation. Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time,
additional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural
production and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view
of these factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may



-5 -
lead to a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next
decade; persistently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external
factors of rapid oil price increases and recession in developed countries.
The oil price increase alone will add about $1 billion to the 1980 import
bill, even with no increase in volume, and the current account deficit is
estimated to be at least 9% of GDP. In 1980 major structural adjustments and
a shift in the development pattern is necessary for social as well as economic
reasons. The unfavorable external situation will require major domestic
adjustments and it is unlikely that the overall growth rate will exceed about
6% in the coming years.
12.       Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions. At the same
time it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated
long-term policies and actions in areas of resource management and balanced
regional development.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in the rural sector. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about
one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost double
the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of manufactured
exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for
a balanced industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agri-
cultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption.
Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distortions,
increase availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to efficient



-6 -
production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic private sector
can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating jobs.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fourth Plan (1977-81)
are to achieve 7% real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and balanced regional development. Projected public sector development
expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period, a 90% increase in
real terms over the Third Plan. However, the Plan addresses sectoral issues
and strategies only in broad terms, and concrete policies and programs to meet
the Plan's economic and social objectives are defined only in general terms.
The Government has now embarked on the preparation of the Fifth Plan (1982-86)
and the agencies of the Government are undertaking a number of studies to help
ensure that the Fifth Plan would provide an unambiguous basis for the
allocation of resources and the formulation of development policy and program.
These studies may help identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural
adjustment.
Financing Requirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. With
expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal year 1979/80 is
estimated at above $1.0 billion, or over 4% of GDP. The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections but much greater efforts will be needed
in the future.
16.       During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% and increased
domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the price of
imports - led by the price of petroleum - implies that large trade and current
account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s. It is esti-
mated that a 6% overall growth rate can be maintained and the current account
deficit reduced to 4-5% of GDP by 1985 if appropriate policy is followed,
including greater efforts in implementating energy saving measures, promoting
agricultural growth and exports, reducing distortions and excessive protection
in industry, promoting more labor-intensive exports, and postponing major
capital intensive investments until the economy can afford them. This implies
an average current deficit of $3 billion per year in 1980-85, which will
require very large amounts of external borrowing totalling about $18 billion
net over the period.



-I -
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of the growing resource require-
ments. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets,
and by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 mil-
lion, and Thailand is considering even larger drawings under standby arrange-
ments. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to
coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank
of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad
in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Current estimates of Thailand's
external borrowing requirements exceed those discussed at the last Consulta-
tive Group, and the need for continued concessional aid is perhaps now more
acute. In addition, external agencies, including the Bank Group, have in
recent years increasingly concentrated project lending to Thailand in the
agricultural and social sectors that have high social benefits, but low
foreign exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external
resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects
where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures. Program and structural-adjustment lending should also be con-
sidered.
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing. The
debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will exceed 10% by 1985, but
should decline thereafter. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, the debt service ratio on total public and private civilian
borrowing (currently about 15%) will rise to about 25% before declining.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements should be sustainable if
rapid export growth continues and economic stability is maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of February 29, 1980 had received 53 loans amounting to about
$1,600 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of these
loans has been as follows: $311.5 million for transportation; $316.4 million
for irrigation; $498.7 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $65.8 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153.0 million for telecommunications; $144.2 million for agricultural and
rural development; $79.6 million for urban development; $52.3 million for
education; and $42.5 million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA
credits: two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of
$25.0 million for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for
irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population
project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out
satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a



summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of February 29, 1980.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 35%
of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside
the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural exten-
sion, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which prior to
FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program,
have both diversified and grown. In recent years education, population and
low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the program.
21.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report verify the
appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, and underscore the need to
move even further in designing programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been largely bypassed by
recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore, the Bank is
redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will help to lift the
rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of education,
agricultural research and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is
foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far of a viable
package for the poorest and most remote farmers. Expansion and improvement
of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on reaching
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report
is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity
outside of Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial
lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the
attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the agricultural
economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at
strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban population
and the development of low cost, replicable programs to meet the demands of
the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce
resources from other high-priority development needs.



-9-
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward project
preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to play
a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infra-
structure development, particularly for developing energy and its domestic
primary sources, are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining
funds in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy
changes, mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in
rural areas. The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector
through its economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order
to help promote industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and
dispersed activities to complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$459.3 million, as of December 31, 1978, representing about 26% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (8.3% of GDP in 1978). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is below 30% of total public
external debt as Thailand has diversified its borrowing program. The Bank
Group's share in total debt outstanding is expected to fall below 20%, and
its share of total debt service would not exceed 10%.
24.       As of February 29, 1980, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$83 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sponge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector;
and projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to
continue to help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in
financial institutions and money market developments.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Consumption
25.       Total energy consumption in Thailand has increased from 7.4 mil-
lion tons of oil equivalent in 1970 to over 14.4 million tons in 1978, an
average annual growth rate of 9.0%.  In 1978, petroleum products accounted



- 10 -
for almost 70.6% of total energy; hydro and lignite (low grade coal) for
about 4.6% and 1.9% respectively; and charcoal, firewood, paddy husk and
bagasse for the remaining 23%. The price of oil products has increased
almost five-fold since 1973 and has become a heavy burden on the Thai
economy. Between 1972 and 1977, the oil import bill rose in volume by 25%
and in value by 635%. In 1978, oil imports, which were about $1,150 million
in value, absorbed 29% of export earnings, leaving Thailand with a
substantial current account deficit. The impact of oil prices will be even
greater following the 1979 increases. Preliminary estimates indicate that in
1980, Thailand's oil import bill will increase to $2.7 billion, absorbing
over 30% of total export earnings and contributing to a current account
deficit of more than $2 billion.
Potential Energy Resources
26.       Natural Gas.  Significant reserves of natural gas have been dis-
covered in the Gulf of Thailand which are projected to come on stream in mid-
1982. The proven recoverable gas reserves are 1.6 trillion cubic feet (tcf)
of good quality gas and 1.3 tcf of lower quality gas. Probable recoverable
reserves are estimated at a further 4.7 tcf. Two overseas groups, Union Oil
Company and Texas Pacific Oil Company, will undertake the development of gas
reserves, and the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) will take delivery at
the offshore production platforms. In the initial years much of the gas
output will be contracted to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
(EGAT), while a small proportion will be available to ind,bstries. The Bank
made a loan of $107 million (Loan 1773-TH) in FY80 for the first phase of
development of the natural gas pipeline.
27.       Lignite Reserves.  Substantial increases in Thailand's lignite
deposits have been indicated by recent drillings. The present known lignite
reserves total 770 million metric tons (Mt) located at Mae Moh (650 million
Mt), Krabi (100 million Mt), and Li (20 million Mt). Of these, 175 million Mt
are proven reserves that can be economically exploited, and the remainder
require proving. About 57 new occurrences of lignite have been identified in
the northern and southern regions, among which 13 have been investigated by
the National Energy Administration (NEA) and 6 by EGAT. Lignite is the lowest
quality coal with a heating value of about 3,880 kcal/kg or lower (2,700
kcal/kg at Thailand's Mae Moh mine). Lignite is uneconomical to transport due
to its high moisture and ash content, and unsafe to store due to its tendency
to decompose and self-ignite in open air. Hence, lignite is not traded and is
used almost exclusively in Thailand, as elsewhere, for large-scale power
generation at mine-mouth sites.
28.       The proven and probable lignite reserves at Mae Moh are capable of
supporting a generating capacity of about 1,500 MW during the 1980s which,
together with the presently installed 60 MW capacity at Krabi, would
constitute approximately 22% of EGAT's total energy generation in 1990.
Under EGAT's development plan (1979-1990) annual production at Mae Moh mine
would expand from 1 million Mt of lignite in 1979 to 9.8 million Mt in 1988
thus maintaining the share of lignite among its primary energy sources.



- 11 -
29.       Other Energy Resources.  Thailand's other energy resources include
hydro, fuelwood, and oil shale. Domestic hydro potential is about 9,300 MW,
of which about 910 MW are in operation and another 2,200 MW will be installed
by 1990. The international rivers, the Mekong, which forms the border between
Thailand and Laos and then flows through Kampuchea, and the Salween in Burma,
together have an estimated hydro potential, in nine potential projects, of
about 24,000 MW with an annual energy output of 144,000 GWh. This represents
about 12 times Thailand's electricity consumption in 1978 and 3.5 times the
forecasted electricity requirement in 1990. The Mekong Secretariat had been
instrumental in helping to complete project preparation studies but serious
resettlement and political problems will have to be addressed if these hydro
resources are to be developed. Oil shale reserves at Mae Sot are estimated
at 2,500 million tons, but these are uneconomic to develop at present
prices. Fuelwood resources, once plentiful, are rapidly being depleted and
deforestation is becoming a serious problem.
30.       Energy Investment Program.  Large investments are required to meet
Thailand's energy demand in the 1980s. The annual cost of the energy
investment program will be in excess of $300 million for oil and gas, $100
million for refineries and $50 million for lignite development. By contrast,
the power program will cost $800 million annually, less than 10% of which is
for hydro. These figures exclude the possibilities in international hydro.
Other investments in energy production and conservation will be needed to
reduce the country's dependence on imported energy in the future.
The Sector Entities
31.       Electricity Enterprises.  Thailand has three autonomous state enter-
prises. The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) has respon-
sibility for generation and transmission; it sells energy in bulk to large
industrial consumers and to the two power distribution authorities; the
Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) is responsible for distributing
electricity in the Bangkok metropolitan area, and the Provincial Electricity
Authority (PEA) supplies electricity to the rest of the country. EGAT
accounted for 95% of all electricity generated in 1978, the balance being
generated by PEA in areas not yet connected to the grid, and by self-
generating industries.
32.       A new Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy was created
recently for the development of nonconventional energy and new uses of exist-
ing energy sources, but, so far, it has played a minor role in the larger
sector issues. The National Energy Administration (NEA) within the Prime
Minister's Office, while responsible for overall energy policy, has concen-
trated mainly on collecting energy data. NEA is currently planning to carry
out an Energy Master Plan Study, with the assistance of Asian Development Bank
(ADB) and UNDP financing, to define a program to meet Thailand's energy
requirements up to the year 2000. The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT)
was established in December 1978 to undertake all petroleum business and
develop related energy policies. Under the Second Natural Gas Development
Project (Loan 1773-TH), PTT will receive technical assistance to undertake:
(a) a refinery expansion study; (b) a gas utilization study; and (c) energy



- 12 -
conservation studies. These efforts, in addition to NEA's program, should
provide an initial framework for the development of a comprehensive energy
strategy for the country.
Sector Coordination
33.       In 1977, the Committee on Power Policy and Development (CPPD) was
formed to oversee the functioning and development of the sector and to provide
overall coordination. However, CPPD has not developed into a decision-making
body with sufficiently broad competence to exercise control or to provide the
required focus for sector planning. The Government has agreed to undertake a
study to improve sector coordination. This study would be financed under the
Khao Laem Hydroelectric project (approved on November 27, 1979, but not yet
signed), and the recommendations of the study would be implemented during
1980/81.
Sector Financial Position and Tariffs
34.       Tariff levels proved adequate throughout the late 1960s and the
early 1970s, and the financial position of the sector remained strong. During
the sixties and early seventies, the electricity sector enjoyed substantial
economies of scale, shifts to hydro and large steam generation coupled with
rapid increases in demand and numbers of consumers. Tariffs were reduced from
time to time during these years. The fuel crisis and economic slowdown of
1973/74 necessitated large increases in tariffs but the political changes in
Thailand, which coincided with those developments, left the country ill
prepared for fully implementing such increases. Tariff increases took place
in 1974 (50%) and 1977 (29%) but were not sufficient to ensure the financial
viability of the sector even though at the time it was anticipated that the
next tariff increase would only be needed in 1979 to be effective for FY80.
35.       Recent Developments.  Severe droughts in 1977 and 1978 adversely
affected the thermal/hydro generation mix; while, in 1979, fuel oil prices
increased some 116%. The last 15 months there has been a steady decline in
the overall financial position of the sector. In an attempt to cushion the
impact of accelerating inflation, the Government chose to delay passing
through the rising costs of electricity to consumers. In 1978, prices of
petroleum products were adjusted so that a greater proportion of the oil price
increases were borne by gasoline consumers to the benefit of fuel oil
consumers, mainly the Electricity Generation Authority of Thailand (EGAT).
However, by mid-1979 this subsidy proved inadequate to cover the increasing
costs of fuel oil to EGAT, and the Government, faced by mounting criticism of
its handling of the economy, introduced direct budgetary subsidies, estimated
to cost about $7.0 million a month. These budgetary subsidies were seen as a
temporary measure to be removed when the political climate improved. The
Government's attempts to raise tariffs in November, 1979 by about 56% were
thwarted by strong political opposition and widespread public demonstrations.
These tariff adjustments were required as a condition of effectiveness of the
Bang Pakong thermal power loan (1690-TH), approved in April 1979, and as a
condition of signing the Khao Laem hydropower loan approved in November 1979.



- 13 -
36.       In an effort to gain political support for the necessary tariff
adjustments, the Government set up a parliamentary committee in November 1979
to study the question of tariffs. The committee met through January 1980 but
failed to reach a consensus. Nonetheless, the Government decided that a
further postponement of tariff action was unacceptable and raised tariffs 38%
at the retail level on February 1, 1980. While this increase was insufficient
to remove the budgetary subsidies, senior officials of the Government advised
the Bank that further increases would be implemented to remove these subsidies
by May 1980.  In light of these positive steps, on February 8, the Bank
invited EGAT and the Government to negotiate the proposed loan for the Mae Moh
lignite project and asked the Government to bring to negotiations its program
for removing the budgetary subsidies and restoring the sector to financial
viability. At the same time, the Government announced increases in the prices
of gasoline, diesel, kerosene and cooking gas ranging from 24-51%. These
increases were met with overwhelming opposition in the National Assembly and
by the public and the Government, threatened with a vote of no-confidence,
resigned on February 29, 1980.
37.       In presenting its proposals for dealing with the sector's financial
difficulties, the Thai delegation to the mae Moh lignite loan negotiations
explained that the new Government was committed to removing all budgetary
subsidies and reestablishing the sector on a sound financial footing.
However, in light of the recent political instability in the country, the
delegation requested that the Government be given time in which to develop a
workable energy pricing strategy. Accordingly, it was agreed that all
budgetary subsidies to the power sector would be removed by January 1, 1981,
and that the sector would earn a rate of return of 2% in FY81 and 8% in FY82
and thereafter (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of
the draft Guarantee Agreement). To meet these objectives, the Government and
EGAT agreed to carry out an Action Plan consisting of the following specific
steps:
(a) adjustment of electricity tariffs for bulk power (totalling
about 56%) in two or more steps to remove all oil subsidies
to the sector not later than January 1, 1981;
(b) a tariff increase of about 19% for bulk power around April 1,
1981 to achieve a 2% rate of return for FY81;
(c)  procedures to avoid infrequent and large-scale tariff adjust-
ments in the future, whereby the Government, together with the
Bank and EGAT, would review every six months, commencing from
October 1980, the tariff requirements of the sector for the next
two quarters and introduce agreed adjustments; and
(d)  adjustments to the tariff schedules of the three utilities (MEA,
PEA and EGAT) through the respective fuel adjustment clauses,
to be introduced promptly after oil price increases are
announced by the Government.



- 14 -
38.       Amendments to Previous Agreements.  While these arrangements will
lead to somewhat lower earning levels than envisioned under the Bang Pakong
and Khao Laem projects, they will enable the sector to reach a rate of return
of 8% in FY82 as stipulated under these loans.  It is proposed that the rates
of return in para. 37 above, namely 2% in FY81 and not less than 8% in FY82
and in each of the fiscal years thereafter will supercede the relevant
provisions in the Guarantee and Loan Agreements of (a) the Accelerated Rural
Electrification Project (Loan 1527-TH); and (b) the Bang Pakong Thermal Power
Project (Loan 1690-TH). It is also proposed that Section 5.04 of the Loan
Agreement for the Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project (approved but not yet
signed) would be modified in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.05(a), (b), (c) and (d) of the draft Loan Agreement for the proposed Mae Moh
Lignite Project before it is executed; similarly Sections 3.02 and 3.05 of the
Guarantee Agreement for the Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project (approved but not
yet signed) would be modified in accordance with Section 3.02(a) and (b) and
Section 3.03(a), respectively of the draft Guarantee Agreement of the proposed
Mae Moh Lignite project. In addition, while no retroactive financing was
envisaged when the Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project Loan was approved by the
Executtve Directors in November 1979, after approval, EGAT requested that it
proceed to award the main civil works contract and procure some construction
equipment in order not to delay project implementation until the condition of
signing could be met. The Bank agreed to this request with the understanding
that Bank financing for any eligible expenditures incurred would be at EGAT's
risk if the loan was not signed.  It is estimated that these expenditures will
total about $12 million from December 1, 1979 to the expected signing date end
May. It is therefore proposed that paragraph 4 of Schedule I of the Khao Laem
Hydroelectric Project Loan Agreement be modified accordingly and that it be
executed with such modification.
The Bank's Lending to the Sector
39.       Sector growth has been considerable.  Since 1970, electricity
demand and energy generation have increased annually by about 14% and 15%,
respectively, reaching 2,101 MW and 12,372 GWh in 1978. The Bank has helped
finance nine projects through loans to EGAT, totalling about $362 million,
a loan to PEA of $25 million, and two loans totalling $107 million to PTT.
EGAT's projects have included dam construction, equipment for hydro and
thermal power generation, transmission and substation facilities. Six
projects have been completed and are operating satisfactorily and the
seventh was virtually completed at end of February 1980; another two are
under construction. The two most recent loans to EGAT will help finance the
dual gas/oil-fired Bang Pakong thermal power station designed to use the
natural gas from the Gulf of Thailand and meet the growing demand for
electricity by the increased use of indigenous hydro resources at Khao Laem.
The loan to PEA in 1978 helped finance the first phase of the accelerated
rural electrification program.  Currently about 28% of all households in the
country have electricity; by 1983 the rural electrification program is
expected to increase this proportion to 50%. Negotiations for a proposed
$72 million loan for the second rural electrification project have been
substantially completed. The loans to PTT would help the development and
availability of natural gas for power production and use in industry. The



-15 -
proposed loan for Mae Moh Lignite project will enable EGAT to expand lignite
production from 1 million tons in 1979 to 2.8 million tons in 1984 in order to
meet the requirement of the 150 MW Power Unit 4 at Mae Moh scheduled to be
commissioned by January 1984.
40.       The most recent power project performance audit report, of March
1978 on the South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project (Loan 790-TH), indicated
that the main objectives of the project had been met and that the project was
completed on time and within the original cost estimate.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was presented to the Bank in April 1978, following
several years of exploration drilling at Mae Moh which established the
availability of sufficient lignite reserves to support an increase in the
installed power generating capacity from the existing 225 MW (Power Units
1-3) to 525 MW (Power Units 4 and 5). EGAT's consultants completed a
feasibility study on mining of lignite for Power Plant Units 1 to 4 in March
1979. A project for the construction of Power Generation Unit 4 is being
financed principally by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and was approved by
ADB Board in November 1979. The proposed mining project was appraised by
the Bank in April/May 1979. A brief follow-up mission to coordinate mine
and power projects was made in September 1979. A staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Thailand Appraisal of the Mae Moh Lignite Project (No. 2722-TH
dated April 18, 1980 is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are provide in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
from March 10-20, 1980. The Government and EGAT delegations were headed by
Khun Kraisri Chatikavanij Director General Fiscal Policy Office, Ministry of
Finance, and Khun Kaseme Chatikavanij, General Manager, EGAT respectively.
42.       Objective.  The project forms part of a national development
strategy to reduce the country's high dependence on oil imports, by developing
indigenous energy resources such as natural gas, lignite and hydropower.
The mine expansion is required to meet the incremental demand of the Mae Moh
power generating facilities up to and including the 150 MW Power Unit 4.
43.       Location.  The Mae Moh power and mine complex is located in North
Thailand in Lampang Province, approximately 650 km north of Bangkok and 12 km
east of the town of Lampang (see Map). The site is an extensive basin with
an elevation of approximately 300 m above sea level. The main land use in
the area is commercial teakwood cultivation and there is some limited
subsistence agriculture. Population density in the basin is low and the
climate is tropical with an average annual rainfall of 1,000 to 1,500 mm.
The area is adequately served by paved roads and by a rail spur line which
connects the site with the national rail system approximately 5 km to the
south of Mae Moh.



- 16 -
44.       Power and Lignite:  Financing Arrangements.  The Mae Moh lignite
project (see para. 59) and the Power Unit 4 are being financed independently,
but because of the important linkages between them, the financing of the two
projects has been considered together. Total costs, including contingencies
and interest during construction, are $383.3 million, of which $206.5 million
is in foreign exchange. These costs will be met by loans from the Bank ($72.0
million), ADB ($81.8 million), the Saudi Fund ($32.2 million), the Swiss
Government ($8.9 million), the OPEC Special Fund ($7.0 million), Government
contributions ($37.5 million), EGAT ($108.7 million), and commercial banks
($35.2 million). To ensure that all financing requirements are met, the
effectiveness of ADB's loan for Power Unit 4 will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). EGAT has agreed that lignite produced under the proposed mine
expansion will be used only for purposes of EGAT's power generation (Section
3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Description of the Project
45.       The project scope for the Mae Moh open pit lignite mine includes
engineering, procurement and erection of mining and related equipment,
technical assistance, training, and civil works required to increase total
mine production to 2.8 million tons per year in 1984. The mining equipment
comnprises four 15 cu yd electric rope shovels, thirty four 85 ton rear-end
dump trucks, one coal crushing, conveying, stacking and reclaiming system,
and ancillary equipment. The project also includes expansion of the
maintenance workshop and office, as well as expansion of the mine power
supply system.
46.       Mining Equipment.  The selected mining equipment, together with
the existing equipment, would be sufficient to meet the lignite requirements
of Power Units 1-4 or a total of 375 MW installed generating capacity. Its
size and particularly the capacity of the conveying and crushing system,
however, have been determined taking into account the scheduled construction
of a fifth power unit of 150 MW capacity to be commissioned six months after
Unit 4 thus comprising in some components a slight overcapacity for the
fourth power unit, but a more economic investment for Units 4 and 5
together.
47.       EGAT - The Borrower.  EGAT was established in 1968 by the merger
of three power utilities (the Yanhee Electricity Authority, the Northeast
Electricity Authority and the Lignite Authority) with the object of
coordinating the generation and transmission systems and increasing the
electricity supply throughout the country. EGAT has succeeded in these
objectives to the extent that it can now be considered to be a highly
developed and efficient institution. EGAT's FY79-86 power development
program is based on the principle of the least-cost sequence of development,
following an extensive study of the alternative generation and transmission
projects. The program is currently firm up to FY86. Beyond that year,



- 17 -
further studies would be necessary on the basis of the availability of primary
energy resources and the prevailing economic conditions.
48.       Financial Forecast.  According to EGAT's financial forecast for the
period FY80 through FY88, its energy sales would increase at an average of 11%
annually; capital expenditures are estimated at $9.6 billion at current prices
and include the investment required to develop the lignite deposits and
interest during construction. These estimates do not include the government
contributions toward the cost of facilities for downstream benefits.  For the
sector as a whole, capital expenditures for the same period are estimated at
$11.5 billion, 84% of which is EGAT's total estimated expenditure. In
addition, about $0.7 billion will be invested by PTT to construct a pipeline
to transport natural gas from the Gulf to EGAT's Bang Pakong and South Bangkok
power stations. These measures, coupled with the lignite development, are
expected to enable EGAT to reduce fuel-oil based generation from 74% in FY78
to less than 10% in FY90.
49.       To finance its construction program, EGAT intends to borrow 53% in
overseas funds to cover foreign costs and another 23% locally, obtain 3% from
the Government as equity to cover duties and taxes and provide the remaining
21% of required funds from internal cash generation. EGAT has access to
short-term borrowings from local banks that it can use to meet temporary
liquidity needs. As under previous Bank loans, EGAT has agreed to secure the
Bank's agreement on borrowings if its debt/equity ratio exceeds 60/40 or if
short- and medium-term borrowings exceed 15% of total debt (Sections 5.07 and
5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Tariff Study.  A study of tariff structures based on long run
marginal costs for the sector financed under the Pattani Hydroelectric
Project (Loan 1485-TH) is now expected to be completed by end December,
1980. The delay has been due to the time taken to derive demand forecasts
in the inter-agency working group and the fact that this working group had
also been occupied during the latter half of 1979 on work connected with the
required increases in tariff levels.
51.       Organization and Management.  EGAT's Mining Department is being
reorganized and expanded to support EGAT's plans to increase lignite
production. Of the Department's total staff of 1,079 (excluding semi-
skilled and unskilled workers at the mines), 921 are heavy equipment
operators, technicians and skilled labor mostly at the mine sites, with the
balance comprising engineers, geologists and senior supporting staff. At
present there are four divisions, namely, the Mine Operation Control
Division, the Lignite Geology Division, the Mae Moh Lignite Mine Division
and the Krabi Mine Operation Division. These divisions will be strengthened
to intensify lignite exploration and production control of expanded mine
activities. The new organization plan, recently approved, would add three
more divisions: (a) the Mining Engineering Division for planning, technical
designs, capital and operating budgets, statistics and production cost



- 18 -
analyses; (b) the Mine Equipment Division dealing with mechanical
engineering, repair, maintenance and mine equipment; and (c) the Mae Moh
Mine Maintenance Division for on-site maintenance and repair.
52.       Efficiency of Mining Operations.  The Mining Department maintains
detailed and complete records of all its operations, and expenditures are
fully recorded. Nevertheless, while the Comptroller's Department determines
and analyzes the respective mines' lignite production costs, the Mining
Department has not so far devoted sufficient attention to review and analyze
the production cost of lignite per ton for the Mae Moh and Krabi mines, and
therefore lacks continuous assessment of the efficiency of its operations,
except on an end-of-the-year basis. EGAT has agreed to transfer to the
Mining Department responsibility for lignite production costs and for the
financial performance of mining operation by not later than April 1, 1981.
The transfer entails treating Mae Moh and Krabi mines and any other major
mining operation at EGAT as mine accounting centers with the performance of
each center measured in terms of the expenses it incurs and the charges it
makes for the lignite transferred to the power plants. The methodology for
establishing a price for the lignite produced for the consumption of the
power units has been agreed with EGAT (para. 55).
53.       The new Mine Management System entails new divisional responsi-
bility within the Mine Department for such functions as cost control,
planning and budgeting and accounting relating to mining activities. Two
divisions will be placed within the Mining Department to handle these tasks,
but will be supervised and controlled by the Comptroller's Department. EGAT
has agreed to arrange a short-term training program for the relevant staff
of both Mining and Comptroller's Departments in mine accounting and systems
and procedures for cost information flows, and following review by the Bank,
to implement the training program not later than October 1, 1980 (Sections
3.07 and 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The Lignite Price.  In view of the importance of economic
parameters to lignite pricing, and the uncertainties regarding Thailand's
potential energy resource reserves, the appropriate fuel comparator for
lignite and long-term energy pricing trends, it has been agreed that EGAT
will, not later than December 31, 1981 complete, with the assistance of
consultants, a study to determine the long-term forecast price for lignite
to be used: (i) in making annual adjustments to the lignite price at Mae
Moh and Krabi mines, as described below; and (ii) in preparing the master
mining plans for the Mae Moh basin and any other mining developments. The
terms of reference for the study will be agreed with the Bank and the study
will be furnished to the Bank for its comments (Section 5.06(b) of the draft
Loan agreements).
55.       EGAT has agreed that, upon completion of the study expected at
end-1981, the price to be used at the mines will be based on the
recommendations of the study, as well as, inter alia on the size of lignite



- 19 -
reserves, prevailing prices of substitute fuels and possible developments in
the uses of lignite. Commencing in 1982 EGAT will consult with the Bank not
later than April 1 of each year on suitable adjustments to be carried out
during the next fiscal year in the price of lignite. In the interim, a
minimum lignite price will be set, sufficient to cover the costs of production
plus a margin to cover debt service, fixed assets replacements and exploration
requirements for each mining operation. This price will be established in
consultation with the Bank not later than December 31, 1980 and become
effective on April 1, 1981 (Section 5.06(a) and (c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
56.       The Rents.  The price of lignite, as in the case of other fuel
sources to EGAT, will be included in the fuel adjustment clause of its tariff
schedule (Section 5.05(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Consumers, then, will
bear the incremental economic costs implied in the pricing strategy, dampening
consumer demand for power to the extent possible and providing EGAT with
additional resources (the rent) needed for the costly new facilities that are
likely, given the very high growth rates predicted for power usage in
Thailand. For the electricity tariffs to reflect the lignite price, it is
necessary to exclude the rent from EGAT's earnings and the net revalued mining
assets from EGAT's net revalued total fixed assets. These adjustments will be
made by EGAT in calculating the corporate rate of return for purposes of its
earnings covenant.
Exploration and Mining Plan
57.        EGAT is presently allocating about $2.3 million per annum for
lignite exploration. To facilitate the continued financing of exploration,
but on a wider territorial basis, the Mining Department has agreed to prepare
each year countrywide exploration plans which will be reviewed by the Bank
(Section 3.06(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). EGAT's current mining plan is
based on proven reserves of 130 million tons at a stripping ratio of 2:1 in
the eastern part of the Mae Moh basin, a final mining depth of 120 m below the
surface and an ultimate installed generating capacity of 525 MW. It has been
agreed that this mining plan is adequate for the purposes of the proposed
project. However, the recent increase in known lignite reserves and the
proposed countrywide exploration is expected to provide sufficient geological
data to prepare an initial outline of a new master mining plan, by September
30, 1981 followed by land reclamation activities in accordance with such plan.
This mining plan will be updated to take account of the recommendation of the
lignite pricing study by not later than March 31, 1982 (Sections 3.06(b) and
5.06(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The plan is highly significant to the
selection of technically and economically optimum exploitation methods and to
the determination of the ultimate economically recoverable lignite reserves.



- 20 -
Technical Assistance
58.       EGAT has selected two consulting firms with which it has had pre-
vious experience, to undertake (a) general technical consulting services,
including assistance in interpretation of geological data and lignite
reserves, mine planning, preparation of the mine master plan, selection of
appropriate mining methods and preparation of equipment specifications for
procurement purposes; and (b) design and detailed engineering of the coal
crusher and the conveying, stacking and reclaiming system, supervisory
assistance in quality inspection and erection of equipment; update and review
of EGAT's master mine plan and inclusion of a detailed land reclamation
program and its implementation (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Signing of a satisfactory contract between EGAT and the consultants is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
59.       The total cost of the proposed project, excluding interest during
construction ($14.8 million), is $115.5 million; including duties and taxes of
$14.2 million equivalent and a foreign exchange component of $60 million.
Estimates are at August 1979 price levels and include contingencies amounting
to $33.8 million, about 41% of base cost. Physical contingencies of $7.8
million or 10% of base cost and price contingencies of $26.0 million, 31% of
base cost, were calculated at the assumed annual escalation rate for foreign
expenditures of 12% in 1979, 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% in
1983; local cost escalation rates were assumed at 16% in 1979, 14% in 1980,
13% in 1981 and 12% in 1982-83. Cost estimates are summarized in the loan and
project summary. Project costs will be met by the proposed Bank loan of $72
million (which will cover the foreign exchange component and interest during
construction), commercial loans of $5.7 million, government contribution of
$19.9 million equivalent and EGAT's cash generation of $32.7 million
equivalent.
Project Mangement and Implementation
60.       Project preparation is well advanced and project-related activities,
like the continuation of the drilling program and preparatory work for the
master mining plan, ecological studies, preparation of equipment specifica-
tions for procurement and acquisition of land are well under way (Section
3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). Retroactive financing of up to $3 million,
for eligible expenditures incurred after January 1, 1980, is proposed for
downpayments covering (a) a portion of the consultant contracts for the
preparation of the mining plan; and (b) procurement of two 15 cu yd mining
shovels, which are critical for the prestripping required for Power Unit 4,
and other related mining equipment as any delay in procurement would adversely



- 21 -
affect the implementation schedule. The key delivery date for the third
mining shovel is July 1981 and for the fourth, January 1982. The implementa-
tion schedule appears realistic and, barring any major unforeseen difficul-
ties, it is anticipated that the mine can produce about 3 million tons of
lignite starting in early 1984, when Unit 4 comes onstream.
Procurement
61.       About 97% of the total equipment to be financed under the proposed
project, will be procured under international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. A preference of 15% or
the customs duties, whichever is lower, will be granted to local equipment
manufacturers. Contracts for the purchase of minor items of equipment not
exceeding the equivalent of $250,000 each, and not exceeding $1.5 million in
aggregate, will be awarded after inviting quotations of which not less than
three shall be from suppliers or manufacturers abroad.
Disbursement
62.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against (i) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment and vehicles,
100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods and 60% of local
expenditures in the case of off-the-shelf procurement; (ii) 100% of
foreign expenditures for engineering, training and studies; and (iii) 100%
of the interest and other charges during construction on the Bank loan.
Rate of Return
63.       The rate of return of the Mae Moh development has been calculated
on an incremental basis for the mine expansion needed to supply both Power
Units 4 and 5 and the construction of both Power Units 4 and 5 which EGAT
has planned as one development package. Capital expenditures under the
proposed project include equipment that has been sized to meet the
requirements of both Power Units 4 and 5, a new reservoir of sufficient
capacity to support the same power units, plus an additional 900 MW power
generation capacity thereafter, and a resettlement program required by the
new reservoir location and the mine expansions for Power Units 4 and 5.
Consequently the package approach to the development of Units 4 and 5 power
and mine expansion provides a more appropriate basis for analyzing the
financial return of the proposed investment. The financial rate of return
thus calculated is 14.6%, which is satisfactory and comparable to similar
types of coalfired power investments.
Ecology, Environment and Safety Factors
64.       Air Pollution.  Since the lignite has a relatively high sulphur
content, the major concerns regarding the ecological impact will focus on



- 22 -
air pollution caused by sulphur dioxide emissions from the stacks. Prelim-
inary studies have shown that ground level concentrations up to and including
Unit 5 will be within the Bank guidelines. However, ADB's loan will finance
an air pollution study to analyze this problem more thoroughly and to make
recommendations also regarding any future expansions of the Mae Moh Power
plant. ADB will review and approve the stack design for Power Unit 4 in
light of the findings of the first phase of this study. EGAT will furnish
the study, when completed, for the Bank's review but not later than December
31, 1981 (Section 3.09(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.      Resettlement, Land Reclamation and Water Quality.  EGAT has presented
firm plans for the resettlement of about 293 families which will be affected
by the mining activities. Financing for resettlement is included in the
proposed loan and EGAT is presently negotiating for the required land with the
competent government authorities. Confirmation that EGAT has acquired the
selected or other satisfactory resettlement site will be a condition for
effectiveness of the loan (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). A
land reclamation program will be undertaken with technical assistance
initially provided by consultants (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Water quality in the area is being monitored and no major impact
through water deterioration is foreseen. EGAT, however, has agreed to
prepare contingency plans in case mine drainage water quality deteriorates
to unacceptable levels (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       Pit Slope Stability.  EGAT, with the assistance of the Asian
Institute of Technology in Thailand and its consultants, has carried out
geotechnical work for the determination of the slope and stability for the pit
and the power plant safety pillars. The results of this work are presently
being reviewed by EGAT's consultants and will be furnished to the Bank with
their assessment by not later than December 31, 1981 (Section 3.09(i) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The hydrological data generated by the drilling
program indicate that no artesian aquifers exist in the basin and the normal
inflow of groundwater and surface run-off is not expected to pose any drainage
problems.
Benefits and Risks
67.       The economic costs and benefits of the proposed project have been
analyzed in two different ways. First, the project has been analyzed in the
same manner as the financial analysis of the mine expansion and associated
Power Units 4 and 5 with appropriate adjustments to cost and benefit
streams. Second, the project has been compared with a coal-fired power
plant to evaluate the economic benefit of substitution under the assumption
that the combined mine and power investment in both Units 4 and 5 would
substitute for a 300 M4W coal-fired plant.
68.       The first analysis shows a rate of return of 13.8% which would
increase to a relatively high 15.9% if no shadow pricing of foreign exchange
is made. The return on substitution, at recently quoted international



- 23 -
contract prices for coal ranging from US$32-36 per ton, ranges from 14-16%.
Net foreign exchange savings resulting from reduction in coal imports under
the same assumptions as in the second economic rate of return analysis above
will average US$15.0 million per year in 1979 terms taking into account the
impact of debt service.
69.       Other benefits of the project will include technological transfer
through technical assistance at the mine site, and institutional improvements
within EGAT's Mining Department. Additionally, the project will provide some
increase in economic activity in the remote Northern Region of Thailand
through the direct employment of 265 persons at Mae Moh and indirect employ-
ment in the surrounding area of persons engaged in providing supporting
services and facilities. The project will further benefit the area by the
resettlement program to be undertaken by EGAT, under which about 300 squatter
families would be resettled in a village with a school, health center, water
supply, electricity and other amenities which would represent improvements in
their living conditions.
70.       Risks.  The only major risk of the project is in respect to sulphur
dioxide emissions from the associated power plant development. Action pro-
posed to deal with this problem is referred to in para. 64 above.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Kingdom of Thailand and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. In addition to the
special conditions which are listed in Section III of Annex III, additional
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement) are:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB Loan
Agreement have been satisfied (para. 44);
(b) the contract between EGAT and the consultants has been signed
(para. 58); and
(c) the aquisition of the resettlement site has been confirmed
(para. 65).
72.       In addition to the above it is proposed to (a) substitute Section
5.05(a), (b), (c) and (d) of the draft Loan Agreement of the Mae Moh Lignite
Project for Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement for the Khao Laem Hydroelectric
Project already approved by the Executive Director on November 27, 1979 but



- 24 -
not yet signed; (b) substitute Section 3.02 (a) and (b) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement of the Mae Moh Lignite Project for Section 3.02 of the Guarantee
Agreement of the Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project and Section 3.03(a) of such
Mae Moh draft Guarantee Agreement.for Section 3.05 of such Khao Laem Guarantee
Agreement; and (c) modify paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the unexecuted Loan
Agreement of the Khao Laem Hydroelectric project to permit up to $12.0 million
in retroactive financing of eligible expenditures incurred after December 1,
1979.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Article of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and proposed amendments to previous agreements.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 1, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                                       ANNEX I
TU.AO  - SOCIAL INGICATo0S DAT SHEET                  Page  1  of  5
7RAILAW           ~~~REFOUZCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Ajj[RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                               - HOST RSCENT ESTIMTE)
TOTAL           514.0                                                  SAME        SAIE    NEXT UGHER
AGRICULTURAL     179.6                               MOST RECENT     CGIORAIC   INCOME        INC0HE
1960 Lk    1970 A  ISTT7     lb A   XIRGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP a
Gll PE CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       210.0    490.0            528.9      467.5      1097.7
ENERGY CONSUMFTION PER CAPITA
(KUIOGUMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      64.0       247.0    308.0            371.1      262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-EA  (MILLIONS)    26.4         35.7      43.3
URAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.0        13.0      14.0 -          27.4       24.6        49.0
POPULATION FlOJETIOUS
POPULATION rI YTE   2000 (KILLIONS)                    69.0
STATIONART POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      105.0
TMR STATIOARY POPULATION IS ERACUD                   2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PU SQ. KK.                       51.0        69.0      84.0           154.8      45.3        44.6
P  SQ. iX. AGRICULTUAL LAND    204.0        251.0    244.0            566.7      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGZ STRU     (PUCmET)
0-14 YIS.                        44.7        46.2     4U.0             41.3       45.2       41.3
15-64 SRS.                        52.6        50.8      52.0           54.9       51.9        55.3
65 TRS. AND ABOVE                  2.7         3.0       3.0             3.3        2.8        3.5
POPULATION GROWH RATE (PUCENT)
TOTAL                             2.8         3.0       2.8             Z.4        2.7         2.4
U1A                               5.1         3.6       3.5             4.3        4.3        4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TBUSAND)     46.0        42.0      32.0            30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DETH RATZ (PU THOUSAND)      17.0        12.0       8.0             8.3       11.7        9.2
GROSS EPRODUCTION RATI               ..         3.2       2.2             2.1       2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       203. OA    527.0
USERS (PUECENT or HARRIED lOt)    ..         27.4      32.3            34.1       13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
InDEX or FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITk (1969-71-100)         68.0       100.0    110.0            106.2       99.6      104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRflHlTS)                  96.0       103.0    107.0            104.1       94.7      105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         43.5        52.2      50.0            57.4       54.3       64.4
Ot WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSI       8.4          ..      14.6            16.9       17.4       23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATR    15.0         9.0       6.0             4.8       11.4        8.6
HEALTH
UFE EXPZCTANCY AT JILT! (YTARS)    51.0        57.0      61.0            61.1      54.7        60.2
INfANT KORTALITY RATE (PZR
THOUSAND)                            ..        86.OLI   68.0             46.6      68.1        44.7
ACCESS TO SAE WATE7 (PQCENT Of
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17.0      22.0            21.9       34.4       60.8
LRBAN                              ..          ..      49.0            46.2       57.9       75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      12.0            12.8       21.2       40.0
ACCESS TO ERTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Of POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17.0      40.0            28.4      40.8        46.0
URBAN                              *-        65.0      58.0            65.0       71.3       46.0
RURAL                              ..         8.0      36.0            14.7       27.7       22.5
POPULArION PER PRYSICIAN         7800.0      S420.0   8370.0           3790.5    6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PEU  WUISING PERSON   4900.0      3340.0   1510.0           1107.4    1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL SED
TOTAL                          1340.0/f    890.0    aoo.o             613.3      726.5      453.4
LRBAN                              ..       280.0    240.0            203.6     272.7       253.1
RURAL                              ..      1380.0    1290.0          1110.3    1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        31.0      33.0            23.9       27.5       22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.5/f       5.8       5.5             5.2       5.4         5.3
URBAN                             5.3Lf       5.9       5.5              ..        5.1        5.2
RURAL                             5.6/f       5.8       5.5             ..         5.5        5..
AVERAGE NUMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..       2.4             ..         ..         1.9
L:RLAN                             ..          ..       2.2             ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                              ..          ..       2.4             ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS O ELECTRICIrY (PERCENr
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      2S.6             ..       'A.l        50.0
URSAN                              .         63.0:g      ..              *        45.1       71.7
tURAL                              ..        13.0        ..             ..        9.9        17.3



- 26 -                                        ANNEX I
THUILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SEET              Page  2  of  5
THAILAND                 REFZJENCI GROUPS (ADJUSTED A)PAES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SANE        SAME     NIEr HIGHER
MOST RECZNT     GZOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP I.
EDUCATION
ADJUmD CEROLLMENT RATIOs
ERnHAR:     TOTAL                83.0        81.0      83.0            97.9       82.7       102.5
MALZ                 88.0       85.0      86.0            98.7       87.3       108.6
FEMALE               79.0       77.0      79.0            97.4       75.8        97.1
SECON1DARY:  TOTAL               12.0        18.0      26.O            42.2       21.4        33.5
MALS                 15.0       21.0      29.0            46.7       33.0        38.4
FECU                 9.0        15.0      22.0            40.9       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL EROL. (S Of SZCONDARY)    19.0        24.0      13.0            12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACEiR RATIO
PRIMAr                           36.0        35.0      30.0            32.5       34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                        20.0        16.0      21.0            25.8       23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      68.0        79.0      82.0            84.1       54.0        64.0
CONSOIPTION
PASSENGER CARS PM THOUSAND
POPULATION                        2.0         5.0       6.4             6.1        9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PU ThOUSAND
FOPULAT1ON                        6.0        78.0    131.0             84.4       76.9       122.7
TV RECEIES PER TROSAND
POpULATON1                        2.3         7.0      17.0            22.4       13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CNznAL
DiTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPUATION                 11.0        24.0        ..            24.2       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANIUAL ATTENDAINC PU CAITA   ..           ..       1.7             3.6        2.5         3.7
LABR FORCE
tDTALLAUQ FORCE (THOUSADS)    12757.0    16163.0  18514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 48.3        47.3      46.9            36.7       29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURZ (PERCENT)            83.7        79.9      77.0            54.6       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                4.4         6.0        8.0           16.3       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCZNT)
TOTAL                              51.3        46.6      45.6            40.7       37.1        33.5
'ALE                               52.7        49.3      48.6            49.9       48.8        48.0
FEMALE                             49.8        43.9      42.6            31.0       20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDNCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.1             1.1        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED 8T
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSCEHOLDS   21.8/b    23.8/1    14./1           14.9       15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSCEDLDS  50.97i     49.77T    42.2L           46.8       48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEWOLDS    6.27w      6.17i    7.6/             6.2        6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.97E     15.97?    19.1Lj.         16.8       16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    126.0            193.1      241.3       270.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      94.0           128.7      136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..     115.0           136.8      179.7       282.5
RURAL                              ..          ..    108.0             96.8      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      15.0            32.0       24.8        20.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      34.0            52.5       37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geoWmetric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indica or and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, beween 1969
and 1971; and for Mout Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   cast Asia & Pacific;   Id  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  Intermediate Kiddle
Income (S551-1135 per capits, 1976);  if  1962;  aI  Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area;   /h  1962-63;   /i  1968;  /J  Preliinary data for 1975/76. due to lack of data on national
basis, the methodology 'or aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of low income
groups and understates income of higher income groups.  Thus, this data is not suitable for any
analytical zomparisons;  /k  Government:  /1  1964-1965.
'1osc Recent Estimate of HNP per capita is for 1978.
Augut, 1979



-27-                                                                            w 
DwmnII  OF NOff  dIAMORS                                                                       Page  3 of  5
Notes:  Although the data .rc  rs  from soregnerelly judgd the   et authoritative and reliable, it shoud  se he eetsd. that they                              not he interen-
tIf1i  comparble iboense of ths lack of standardised definition   ..d concepts used by dlffe.-t coutries in collecting the data. The data ar, nontheless,
usflto describe orders of emitude, Lod Ionte trends, asd ohamterise certain fier difference  bete-  coutrie..
Th  g,et9jp-   av--e  for.eah indictor.r-  pyepltien-sighted gennthic mean, excluding the extreme onios of ths indicator end the nost pepeated
coetry II9Wiid(izYie  to Ink of  ats, group avrages of  il indictors for CaPitni Aurplue Oil  rporters end of indicators of Accens to dater and Encreta
Doeposal , Houning, IoIIe Distribuion sod Pevery for other coutey groups ar  poPulatic-selighted ge-trio  -en  without eniemnof tic ectree  -I.oes and
tht noet popui.td .o-try.  SInc-h  coeas of  ctrise aWE  the Ipdicstor  14.gdso   valblty of data end is not unifxe. cuIonnt he nuecised
inrelatiogavrse_o_oeinicto_o   nohr.Ins                       acg  .s a etml9yi usfla_axoitin    f"eece   viistncei                                   the  aue   fo
iniAto   tatieas  the co~ntej sd reference scOut.
IAND ASEA (tho-so  sqa.)k.                                                                   cee  to Norta .Disoa   pecn   fonuaie)-ttl  uh                            n  rural 
%WtflZ  Ttota  _ufae are  o-prisig lend are  sod Inland waters.                              NMembr ofpepl  (totalt       re,sdrri   evdb   ort   ip                    la
agiulua  -Iot re..ect estleate of agicultura  area used tnq,raiiy                  percetages of their repective popsuatione. Encreta dispcaal eny include
or pormnet ly for crops, pastures  nskht nod kitchen gardene or to                        the coIlntion and dispy..al, with or withot treatmet, of h.   .... erta
lie  fallen,                                                                              end wate-cter by cater-borne  system o  the use of put prince  end -ouied
VIP cOP CAHfA  di I - iii' per capita entimatre at current market prices,  Pt    tionpec~sipmoti- perslatioe divided by ned ber of practicing pbpsicmen-
&iI1uIlthiAbyli   covrinathod -i World Bnh Atlas (1976-7t basis)                            q.i(if?i.d fr- .           .lVlehnol at iseverity leve.
9i60, 1970,-ed 19T8 data.                                                                Pocultio         !gVlrn   Persm  - Ptp.ation dicided by ou Io   f prctiriog nale
Il!YC,UPINPRCPT  - uncoo  coneenption of oonvllenergysdfil n                                         :    graut   uss  pratical eus,ed ecistastnus.
(i 7I'goit",petrleu     natura  gas nod bydro-, oucea  end gro-                     Pecltion per' gddia  te -I ixeta,ob., not             1..pt1bd rua_i.lto    ttl,l  onto
thernl e1sotricity) in kilogram   Of coa   quiralwnt per capita; 196n0ua)  iie   ythi   epciv    ne   fhoptlbd  aalbyi
1970, ad 1976 data.                                                                         poblic end prirAts general end specisiod hoftpital end rhbaiiiitnti. ctei
Pospitale  -r  wstabliehnts permnet   staffed by at leact-one ptyioa.
POUIATDIO  AlI) VITAL STATISTICS                                                              Establishments proiddeg principaly  eusto`dial car  acntLinluded.  uRa1
Total Population~   yeaV"llihon) - A. of Ju,ly 1; 1960, 1970, sad                   hoepitalo, hoe ,inclde bnalth  ad medical osotere not permaently eta!fled
19tl77 data,.                                                                              by a physim. I (but by aedical assistent,nre  mdeife, etc.) ehiob offer
Urbs. Pepulatio   (pren ftotl  - Patio of orbs. to totxl poelatiow;                         in-patient  ocoadatio   end proide a liatted range of nedival facilities
different definitions of orbs. area  sey affect coparbility of data                    Adm;issinsper H,Iextal ted - Ttota  number of admissions to or disohargen  ro
eog tocuntries; 1960, 1970, end 195data                                                hsiasdvdedby the numbr ofreu
PeMljc,i gj.pg.~- Current population projections are hued on                         HOUtSING
19'75total populatio  by age and se  an  their   ortality sod fertility              heerg  Sioc of Houehold (prosprhu xd      oa,obs..an   -rerl -
rxte.  yrjo eprmters for  Irotality rates copi of three                                A household cnit   fagnpo                                              4-iiul   h  saelvn    urtern nu
lees  eoIng lif.e.wpeotacoy at birth itor-aig with coutry's                       their mate -.aI..  A boarder or lodger map or ma  not he ibluocda in h
per  apitix iLcom  iccel  end fesaiw  life eupsot-ny etabilising at                    ho...ehold foe otatixtical peposra.
?77.5 yeavs.  Thr parawtere for fvrtilty rate also hav  three levels                 Average nbe  of person  pefrcoon-_tdotal. bmen  sod rual-orage tujb-
asooing deolicv In fertility aoordong toiom  leve  and pat                            ofprospc  onI                   h.  adrrlocplIe  con-rtio-a  dccLingo,
sadl  olacioc p-rforaoo. Eaoh vootry is then assigned one of these                     r..speoti-ely.  Iu1.linge exclude  on-peennoet  tIruturen ted  -cocpird p_rt~.
ems om-binations of motality and fertility treods for proJection                     Access. to ilotr'iit  (ncet ofidelliega) - tota,1,   urban, so  coci    Coo-
purpse.                                                                   .vetion-  doelliag    bbestiot   nlvn   quarters notprcetagoo
Sljq   iPatio --Oatati-ery population there is .c growth                         total, urban, and rura  dIling  repectively.
.ineh. iiUftbci   is  Iqalt  the dea,ti rate,an  also the age
niructur,e reneios cons.tent. mix icoiscd onyatrfertility rates..                      k TION
hwlie to the  rp 1cn   -olev  of u-it net reproduction rts,  h..                  AjsedErlmetPto
each geeainoonnrplxe   tsefesol                        Thesaionry ppyn-                Priasry aehoul - total, male W   fvne-irs  total, sale and femle enroll-
lation  ci cc sa  extonated cc tc taclc of theprojoted cha.trac intios       esot of all ag.ee  t the primrlel anpr..ag                 o   repectice Prieop
of tic popolxtioc in the pear 2000, nod tic  -tiv of dvoiiee Of frrtiiity                 nohool-age populations; normaly includes childre  ngd  '-il yarbu
ratv te rePi: .eset leve.                                                                 aijunted for different lengths of primacy eduatioc;  -.r...trc'- otth
Ycce stationary popoatio It.I  r-enoe  - Tar prar ohm  etatio...ry population               ucoca   duction enrollmet  sy oc-ed 100 per-ec  oo- con  poplIn
sloe hd en  voe.                                                                          arblo  or abov  te fIDiaL.  school age.
popointioc Density                                                  ieoon~~~~~~ ...dmcc shool -total. male and female - Computed ac ci o;  cooir
Per 00. Am. - gd-ycar popoitico pec nquar  Ailoarter (100 heotares) of                      eduction reqirex  at least for year  of approved primary  reot-to  o
total  re                                                                                 provides general vrtIo..al, ort techr trainin   ios !.tcutioc f..  '  popoin
per so. :s.  grio-it-I land - Cnputed as ahoo  for agriouItuc1 iand                         usua lly of 17 to 17 years of ag; correspond ecc  coursec  -c  c-nr-iiy
only.                                                                                     -nluded.
PcplatlcrrA.etrctur   (percet) - Children (0-lb yvars), -orhing-age                         Voctional s.oellment (peroeni of ncecadsy) - Vocatio...I Icotitati-o  -In'lde
(15-he  rare   end retie   (i earo and over) no p-rrtagee of aid-year                      trohnica, industrial1, or other prgerse    hiot operte icdvp-od-tly or n
popultion  170, 1970,and19f77 dta                                                          departasta of asoondary Icetitution..
P.cuatit toet  na?te (proeot) - total - A.-ua  ercethratee of toni mid-                     Pucil-teohec ratio      rcy   en  secondary - Total  tt,ud-to corolid II
yerPopulti    foe -  1950-tV, 19b0-70, an   907.phayad eo ay  eeedvIdd  by  o-bro~ of t-ctrxi  tic00
P..ultion Growth Palte  yret  -ubn- A-nal growth ratos Of urbaneodn-eco
ppltosfor 1950-_o, 1907,td 1970-75.                                                  dl  ieayrt  (pecceIt) -Liteente  adu1to (nile to Icl and erit-  n
Crude Birth Pa. t Oer thuo  ed)  _ Anullv    itxprtho-sac  of  id-                            apercetage of total adult ppulatho- agd 15 peac  nod   cr
yeiFpopulton;19 19197,  19          1977 dat.
Crude Death  nte Ipee thouxad)  _Anul deoh  per tiocoand ci aid-year                   CONSO54PIOg
poultin;170,1970, Mo   97  aa                                                    Passenger Cars (pe  th-eadpeuain                P-IPneger caro o-pr ice  ,t.,c  -oro
Oroso Pprodooton   at- A-era    crneof daughtercacono xcibersetn   lens the  eIgh-esn;ecldaeilacex, ivacoe  ted eliter
it her tor-a  reproduction p-rcd if fhe epircuprexe..t age-                               .eilv.
opocific fert ittY rote-; o..oIly fio-yea  -cecgre  ending in i960,                     gadic Rsri--r (per thounen~dpclation) -All1 typen of -ro-cceIs -rdi-
i9'70, and195.                                                                           bcondcaots to genera  puli IPer thou_ed ofP pop lato; noll ludvseiie-oed
Easily PLiacoi - . Acetoro. A-ou   (thoucands) - AnnuaI number of                           croci v-r  ceooutri-s sd Lc yenr   h.c. ccgitca1l- of _adi" veooti
acceptoce of bicth-otrt-1 decice  under -.pice. of nations1 famly                         cffeot; dat  for reoeet peace say Oct heoo-pabohlcsi-ovm.'to cr
plecicig pogran.           '                                                              aOlishcd Iiccen.ig.
PanlyPlacig    Ocro(pecetIf exertd  -cc) - P-eoetngc of marricd                  TO R-oe..e. (Per ttUna M opultiuc) - TV r-oi-rro  for b-odi-nt t0  geoc-a
cocn of  hild-hearing ag   RI5-h  yero) eh. doc bicth-control d-i-e                        public Pertosn    ouain   oldscld               ione Te  -oecic-ro           -t
to ali married  ccec co can  age group.                                                   end in yeart a ohe  -giut-atio  of TiV sets ens to effect.
FOOD All SIOTITIOiS                                                                         Necnay- Ciroulationi wor thouso  ortion I- lono tic uc-rgc circulation
I.de. of F.                                                                             t~~~~~~~~~~~ofdal  goea  interet o.oneper,   d   efie    as riodical public-ti-c
ladn o  food Podcio Of     c Caia(17-1= )- oe.o. e  opt                                   devted prisuily t. recrding geeeral Iros.  It in consticred to  Ic "doily
ancoa  prducion o  alld.   food Ocaiditix   Poutnexldsydtd                                if It= apsatie-et four times. .ee.i,
feed and tocc celendafpeso hxniu.Coemoditine. cove  prieary gocdt            cloes OculAttelduow  per CapitanecI Per -.~ hr  cc tie  -ob-r of tiOc:to
(cc   tgaonc iotodofsooc)ouh  rcrdiieendcntio   oticto            acd during tic year,icud           i _gadio_o  to dri c-icc IIcnxt xcd a-1
Ieg.cpff- nod tea ar  vo-iuded).  Agg-egate production of .-ch coutry                    unita
Ie baced on anti coal . acrng  Producc  pcive eighte.
pec capita  _upoly of onrir  (Perent of rcuxir-mets) - Comptved from                 LABOR FORCE
_ccrgy eoivlvt1 ht e   foodoupvoaaiable Ic coutry per onpita                           oa  ao   oc   tcsos       cnmial   ciepros   nldn    re
pv;Odsy.  Avalhcoupiocopicdnotcpodcie-mprsbe                                            ocsad uvpl d bt sociding huric                        tudeoto, vtc  Dfi,,it,'
courts, and cIncgco lo otuc.  Pet cupplieneoidod  animal feed,  _wO,                    i   aious coutries arc not coparable.
ciusotilo lee ud it ~food prc-oitg, and loso-eie diotrobution. Require-               .I Peavp.roea)   P.-I.e  ao  force as Percentage of ti,tni labor furor
cent. evr estl1atcd by PAl) baod cc phyoioigic  needo  o   cm,                            cutregcet    Ilbo  forc  Lc faring, fceutry, botleg and
activity end health  -cciderlag  o-ir-anrtaI tempe-atoc,bd-             oiho           fishing apretage Of total labor force
agendIce  dietriioo;oo-  "C  .Pop1lt-, sod a11-ciog 10 perccnt fcc                   l,duetrovet)  - lair r fo-rc  InInig    -ntrucic, oxofaturiog aol
na tIn.t houchldl loud,                                                                           eaterIi r andgsa  pervetag  of tota  laboc force.
_cc  spto  oupp    f preteic  ugrsa  pcr dey) - Protjic cooteot of peDatcpto   bt   cret  t                             otal, 'male nd fenale - incitiipatio  or
capbt  Rvt nupply of food per dsp. Oct suPPlY of food is doliOld n                     anticM     un   r  compted         tt Otale ae=   ndfni  lao   oc   cpr-
aho.  equire=wts for all  -outcc-.-etabIished by USDA provide for a                  centagro of total, male and female popultio  of   Ia rerpetiv_y
eloinie allccnovv 6o hO  ran  of totnI protron per day sod 20 gras  of            loo,190,an  1975 datn.  The..ar I-                pcicpeiotnt:ervflecti
anima   n  pas    rti,o    h   10 lgres   budh   cnlpoec                                 g-e  etructre Of the population, sod long time trend.  A fee -otimate
Tee  tnodsrdo. aeicoec than those of 75 greE  of total puteic and                    arc frenno.ihoa e...cI
27 Erane of anna  prici   sn   crg  for tie corld, proposed by TAt                   ecnmi   eenenrPtio -  Patio of popuet-c  under 15 and i5 and ove  to
Ic tie Tird Borld food loc-ey.                                                         thLabrfoc   inag  group Of 15-hi years.
Per capita cotcio _upply from animal sod poLar - Proteic supply of food
C,der ived from  animal  nod pulve to g-n  per day.ICOM  DISRBUTIONI
Cid(ae1-)MrtalityPte  cc  thcus_d) - A-ouI deaths per thouxano                          Prcentaae of Pr Ivte Inom       both in  -asi sd bled) - R-ci,-ed by rooheet
it ae goup1-hyvar, t  oild0oLi  thin: ag ru;fr  -os  dcc-l-                        5 percent, ricEs   Cperen,ooet  70 percent, an  pooret ii Percent
opiOg ocutriec data derived Prow life table.~                                             of householdu.
ME AITM                                                                                   POVERT  TAPGIT GOUOtPS
T lidetey a't Birth (yan   - .AveRae nuber of year  Of life                        Estimated Absolute PIvrt  ioc-me leve  (did perca'pita)l  -buha  sod  rurl-
remainig  atbrh    97,17,sd 1977. data.                                                   bsltpoeyinmeveL.i that inc                           leelbeo  ohichasiml
infant Mortalt  ane(e   iu           d) - A-c--I deaths of infants under oo                 otritiona.lly adequate  iet P los  ssetia  non-food requiremets '5 nt
prar of age per thousnd live births.                                                      affordabl.
Aceoto  aeetr(eocto                 uaic  - total  oh           n   u  l-             Esin        eaiePvrt   nalvl(i   e  capita) -rbaned rurl 
Number of prol P    tta,I cic  te   ua)etiraoal  ennes  to                                 oa  rltv   pover-ty   on ee   soetido  avra er pe-cpita
saf  oatec supply (iooludee treated surface water  or entreated but                       personal incom  of the  -o-try. Urban leve  in derived fro  the  -rura  Ie-el
uncotaminated eater such as that frum protected   hrhles,springs,                        with edjoshm_nt fee higher cant of ljivig in orbs.aea
and sanitary cells) ax perc...tagen of their respective Populations  in               EPtAtedPUati.n  Below AbsltPnet   Ina   ee                                    orbs  and
auris. ura-    publi  foutain Or stadpuet leratnd net fMIre then                       rua        scn   fpplton (urbaIa   uraL)  b   arc.-
_0 mtes from a h-u.. may be conidere.d as being withIn reasnable
soesof that boone.  In rura  arsas reasoable acces   ..uid iMply
tha.t the hussaIfe.o-mebers of the hou=hld An net have to apeS a                                                                  tn ic so  Solal Data Division
disproportlo..atc part of the day in fetching the fonilys. mater ned.                                                       lesmeAnalysis and ProJections Depetect
Augut 1979



-28-                                                                        ANNEX I
Paee 4 of 5
CCOIC  rD!LWP1UT ITA 39!!?
ACt.41                                                 ft0207t.4                               Grm    00   Z                       2961 *6...
1965        1970        1907        2977        1978 /        1179       1I80         1985       2963-77      2977 -7      97  (1          -        t.f 00P (21
A- N2.-ln.1 Accolutn
(rl1 I I.n S .r15  1933 prIe. 1
1 . I:rc.  4,0.7,. produr             9,84 3.8   io 123.0   15, 712.6    1 6,685.       8, 13.9    I9 391.2   20,692.9   29,218.7             7.7          7.8         7.1          7.0        11 .0
1    oian.l Ito. tirrn  of irad.     -64. 3       42 .9    -107.7      -978. 1      1,10 .9      1,238. 4   -1.473.0   -1.962.8 -2                                                             2
3.  G,r... do.lc  2, o                6 799.3    0,367.9    1,204.9   15 707.4    17,030.0    1,216.9  29.2                 27,291.9         7.2           7.1         7.0          7.0         99.8
...ort.                           1.59.9    2,989.8    1 699.1    4,460.8         4,994.        1,082.8    3,440.4    7 507.8           8.6          6.7          6.7          6.8         23.3
3.  3.,portn -  ci,,.                -2.197.2   -2.274.0   -1,908.4   .4.106.9    -51.17.9    -5.077.4    3,512.1   -8,044.2                 9.1           6.1         8.0          8.7         24.2
t   2r-rtF -ndI,oed  for TOT    -_, 148.9   -2.127.3   -3,100.7   -3 ,29.8  4,048.9    -3. 839.0   - .039.1   -6.02l. 5            7. 1         4.1         8.0          8.8         21.0
1.  6...... .... g -. dIa.-d
f.0  TOT                           220.0      671.9       398.4       932.1         447.9    -12243.8   -1 402.3   -21419.3                                                                2.5
h.  Tot.  con.o,pt2on                   , 302.3    8,007.0   112709.5   122170.1    23 ,02.6    24,223.6   15,090.4   20,721.2                7.3          7.2         6.5          6 1         74.3
2.  Inv 1t*.                           2,l 608.2    3,010.0    3,899.9   46269.2        4,.          1,247.2    S530.8    8,062.0            8.5         20.2          7.6          7.3         29.8
n3.  22,ilonnl .ooln.                  12,976.4    2,100.8    3,477.7    3,312.5        3,908.1      3,901.5    4,022.2    6,225.9           6.6           9.3         .8           9.6         22.2
I I. Oo.7n. 1 .00208. .4J,,ond
Fr.  TOT                        2,497.2    2.351.7    1,495.5    3,1137.1        3967.4       1.9416I    4,122.3    6,172.7            6.9          8.,         ".9 I.3                  22.2
I.  CDr a            u s$rrefl  US     4,052.9    6.543.1   16.28.43   28,156.9    21 2,8I.8    23 214.2   29,90.9   19,776.6                13.3         17.8         21.1         23.4
8 1. Sc or 0427.2
(S0.,. of r21P)
1.  'A47 g,22o                          0.191       0.136       0.301        0.281        0.271        0.26        0.2518      0.229
2.  2nd_.r7                              0.2M       0.227       0.269        0.288        0.299 I       .304       0.309       0.331
3.  077,27..                             0.401      0.427       0,430       0.431         0.430        0.432       0.632       0.437
. Prlce- 2975 . 100)
1.  Fsp090   97270 28:I:                46.43       48.04       92.65       89.35        9W.55        212.61      125.04      171.40         1.6         22.7         7.2           1.2
2.  2.~or2 9727. 2.4..                   47.76      47. 23      010.71      224.12       123.05       147.66      1629.9      226.72         7            6 .7         .             0
1.  t . ol 27. 2nd.                      97.22      201.98       96.67       78.38        78,30        75.61       73.64       71.6O        -1.9          1.1          2.2          0.2
4.  C0DP WI72.o.  (US20                  59.22       63.39      103.66      204.92       116.07       130.00      141.00      204.32         5.2          6.9          7.3          6.0
S.  Mn..1 unerog. ea h.no   72           20.8        20.84       28.40       20.60        20.39
D. S.1.c-d 2.427.2.7.                                  1965-77    1977-79    2979-43        2985-90
2.  tC04                                              3.56        :3.3        3.80         39
2   1.p-07   1 ...2It7Y                               2.09        087         0 95T        0.97
3.  AvM ". -' ...ono2 1v, -  .                        0.24        0.22        0.22         0.24
4      S4720.    1     t .on 27   7.2.                0.28        0.12        0.23         0.28
5.  2.997907087                         0.~~~~~~~~~~O'27  0.26  0.26         0.,26
6.  -nv  .-22t/   p                                   0 27        0.26        0.27         0.28
R. 2...,7n.  4P9/G8P                                  0.04        0.06        0.05         0.03
i41_  ed  /b                            Lbr., fore. ..                         9..   r   ut.r 7lb
r. 2647.2,2  1.0   F07c0   87 04d td.tl"t., 2. 1975              II         .      j Sm2.ill..                            t                         111 t of _-,T
I.  4472c422470                                                 '.139        32.3                      23.                                        340        42.
2.  2n4,.270                                                     4.412        38.4                      2.4         7.9                          3.120       336.7
3.  5.7,27..                                                     1.9 I        38.3                      2.9        26.4                          2.930       231.4
t-1 . .....                                            14254 ,189    00.0                      17.7      100.0                            820       100.0
r.  6bl61   I2-c. 12 of 0DP) (C2nt-7l C -7 -.-.-t) ..2                1970        2974         1975        19716       11L  1-    197?
1.  Currt                                             235         23.8        24.3         23.6          .         24.0        24.6
2.  *02 7ns   2mr2.3                                              22.1        23.5         22.0        22.2        I2.9        23.6
3.  Curr_    _0.22.7                                  28.1        22.6        20.7         22.2        23.0        12.8        23.2
5.  Ddat.1y  -o1 .S.                                   2.9         2.2         3.7          2.3         0.4         2.2         2
5.  Tt2.2Ipbll2  2.2-.2t.                                          7. 7        3.8          4.9         3.3         5.4         1,3
C. 9648   T       2C27 U0         il02 ..)                61.0       112.0       629.6        72.         833.7       923.0    21,14o.
tS .o t2020  IWport0In,l. ES)                           9.3         8.0        28.4         20.0        21.2        29.7        29.2
Lb  Al -1r.t _.rh     plc...
Ls r 210020.



ANN!S S
-  29  -                                                              Page 5 oF 5
BAIANCF  OF 7AY9FNTS, FXTrONHA  AS LSTANC.F PFRT AND rC8FD3TW1N TH81F
(Current US$ mIllins)
Actual                                             _    Pro-ected
1973      1974      1975      1976      1977       19781s    1979        1980       1985       1990
Su.-ry of btunce of Omnecto
Etports (I-cl1dIng NFS)                                 2,084.7  3,025.4  2,796.5  3,490.6  4,029.3   4,930.7   6,300.0   7,660.0  12,835.0  24,967.7
Imports (-ocluding NFS)                                 2,258.3  3,353.2  3,487.3  3,911.9  5,093.8   5,919.2   8,140.0   9,460.0  13,904.5  24,650.4
Resource blance                                          -173.6   -327.8   -609.8   -421.3 -1.064.4    -989.2  -1,840.0   1,800.0  -1,069.5               317.3
let fectuer seclc jocose                                  -20.8      -0.7        5.4    -41.6    -72.5    -154.5    -210.0    -300.0    -925.0  -1,412.5
Net ioterest  AYnco-to                                     7.0     36.0      69.0      26.1      -4.0      -69.4    -100.0    -210.0    -766.9  -1,170.7
Of which no publIc 0 6 LT 1I000                       -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -101.8    -133.1    -174.5    -407.1    -882.0
Direct inveorm- ot inooe.e                              -28.0    -37.0    -64.0    -66.1    -68.5          -72.8      -75.5       -80.0    -192.5    -290.0
W-oke-e  re-ltt..cos (net)                                 0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0       22.9       24.5       34.4       48.2
Carret tru-sfeco (net)                                     145.5    241.0       80.1      22.8      39.3       40.4       60.0       80.0      100.0      110.0
laBor1e. 0   urcol occon- at                              -48.9    -87.5   -605.3   -440.0 -1,097.6  -1,103.4  -1,990.0  -2,020.0  -1,894.5    -985.1
Private direct inveatmeot                                  67.0    135.6       85.5      79.1    106.1         50.0       60.0       75.0      276.3      487.0
Grents 4 groat-like flavs                                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Feblic N 4 LT Io...
Disb.r-.aenct                                             69.0     95.9    149.2    241.7    362.6          739.5      900.0   1,010.8   1,960.4   2,697.6
Anorticintio                                            -28.9    -32.3    -38.7    -43.4    -87.8           -90.7    -164.1    -222.1    -620.1  -1,092.7
Net djsbure-monts                                         39.2      63.5    110.5    198.3    274.8         648.8      735.9      788.7   1,340.3   1,604.9
Other M 6 LT loa..
Dl.sbhsam--t.                                           178.9    326.2    299.6    279.7    311.8          501.3       900.0   1,150.0   1,393.0        462.2
Aaortiration                                           -223.1   -197.2   -235.1   -245.9   -264.2    -467.2    -520.0    -600.0    -850.6  -1,167.8
Net dishenbeoc-tr                                       -44.2    129.3       64.5       33.8     47.6        34.1      380.0      550.0      542.4    -705.6
lee of IMF  -esocrces                                        0.8       0.0       0.0     77.1        1.8      181.4      200.0      200.0      -30.0        0.0
Shurt-term capitoi transactiara                             42.0      55.5    127.5    136.2    256.2          84.0      120.0      250.0      180.1      252.6
Capital tro.se.tl.n.  NEI                                   57.9     96.3       77.2    -11.4    136.2    -371.9           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Change in renerve-  (- - ioceeo                          -113.0   -392.7    140.1    -73.0    275.0           476.9      494.1      176.3    -414.8    -654.5
Net foreign eachunge reaervee lb
(end of period)                                       1,306.0  1,599.0  1,406.0  1,444.0  1,135.8          659.9      166.0       10.0   2,634.5   5,320.9
Groat end Loan Cunitnl .te
Official groota                                              0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0
Total public M & LT looa.                                   87.1    436.5    223.4    372.3    633.0   1,220.0
I88D                                                      15.0    142.0      95.0    158.0    137.8        256.0
IDA                                                      25.0        7.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       33.1
Other foltiloterol                                         6.4      77.2     62.7      92.1      47.0       194.7
Governaents                                               24.0    200.5      47.7      22.2    106.4        312.0
Of which centrally pla..ed econoies 1I                   0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Sappliera                                                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
fi-aclal institutioms                                     16.7       9.7     18.0    100.0    341.9        423.7
Other M 6 LT 1-ons (h.rt  avollable)                       178.9    415.9    392.5    360.2    348.9          531.8
Memmorsados Ite-m
Grant element of total r-smitmente (X7                   44.600   31,400   16.700   11.500   10.200    14.869
Aversge latore-t (X)                                      0.044    0.057    0.076    0.081        0.080      0.072
Average maturity (years)                                 29.100   23.800   23.300   18.500   14.000    12.832
Nedi-   nd Loop-Tarc  Debt (Diobur.ed ealy)
Total debt outntondiog (DOD end of period)                903.9  1,160.7  1,345.6  1,606.8  1,931.9   2,691.0
nclading  -ndinbhrsod                                  1,182.4  1,770.0  2,009.5  2,404.0  3,145.9   4,594.3
Pablic debt ser-ie                                        -54.9    -60.4    -73.2    -87.7   -152.3    -202.9
Interest                                                  -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -100.7
Other M 6 LT debt serni.e                                -253.8   -266.8   -314.5   -245.9   -338.3    -590.8
Total debt service                                       -310.7   -327.2   -387.7   -333.6   -490.6    -796.7
Debt Burdon (X)
Debt  ervice ratio                                          14.9     10.8      13.9       9.6    12.2          16.1
Debt mervice r.tie  di                                      16.2      12.0     16.2       11.5    13.9         17.6
Debt  erniro/GDP                                             2.9       2.5      2.7       2.0      2.7          3.6
Public debt servoCe/Governe..t revena                        4.3       2.5       3.5      3.7      4.4          6.3
Terl (t)
Intereet am tntal DOD/tot-l dibuebe--te                     5.7      5.5       5.6       5.4       5.7        5.6
Total debt                ..rvlns/Govmeeeoet r-eouom        12.4     11.8      11.9      10.7      12.0       19.6
Deme-denty ratios foer M 6 LT Dbt (X)
Grome diSbcrreot.a(lporte (including NFS)                   11.0      12.6     12.9      13.3      10.9       21.0
Net traasfer/lopurts (1n-lodiep, NFS)                      -2.8        2.8       1.8      4.8       2.0        10.2
Ret traosfec/groas  disbor.ceeto                          -25.3      22.5      13.6      36.0      L8.4       48.7
mmaCareE (X)
I0RR  di      net/gr     tot       aurseets                14.8       8.0       9.1       8.3      12.0        9.3
80mk Cro-p diobhr.eeaents/tn.. tntal disburseearst    14.8            8.3       9.7       9.5      13.6        9.9
1BR  DOD/total DOI                                        24.2      20.8      20.0      18.6      17.9       20.2
Iamk 1en,p  OD/tcotrl DOD                                  24.2      20.9      20.4      19.2      18.9       21.3
1SIID debt  -ervle/tatul dcbt n-rni-                       8.0       8.5       8.3      10.9       9.8        7.8
Iam  G Crnu  debt service/total scroe                       8.8       8.5       8.3      10.9       9.8        7.8
lxtecral Debt (Disborsed omny)                           Ottaermdime 12/31178
(Cerrert VSt  ill.m.)                                   Asnount        X
1BRD                                                       434.8      24.5
Rook Cronp                                                 459.3      25.8
Othoc  ualtilmtnel                                         257.5      14.5
Governments                                                549.2      30.9
Of which ce.tenlly plenood ecoot-elcom /                   0.0       0.0
Sapplierm                                                    9.0       0.5
Pion.n.il ieon1 to-iono                                    502.1      28.2
Bo-ds                                                         .0       0.0
Total publli  M & LT debt                                1.777.1    100.0
Other M & LT debt                                          913.9      51.4
Total public debt (lmdludlng undiebhrned)               3,680.4    207.1
Tota1 M & LT debt (I-ludiog endl.b-rsed)               4,594.3    258.5
la Peelisimary.
lb  Net foreign emeeta: 1S$ equlvaleet of Line 31.                                                                                                  October, 1979
Ic  Inlades  4HFA  oo.utries., Peptpl- Repablir of Chi.., No-th Kor.a, North YIet e
Id In.l1ndig ent direct Investment income.



-30 -
ANIEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEKENT OF BANK LOANS AND 1DA CREDITS
(As of February 29, 1980)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                           Purpose      Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                    388.90    5.50    -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education      15.40        -    2.78
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            37.00        -    0.77
870   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                     Highways        28.60        -    -
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education           -   19.50    2.59
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation         -    7.00    0.95
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           75.00       -    8.34
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                             Industry        11.70        -    0.20
1021  1974   Hetropolitan Water Works Authority   Water             55.00        -    0.11
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00         -   67.58
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    8.84
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock        5.00(TW)   -    3.05
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber          50.00        -   31.58
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            26.00       -    4.29
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education       31.00       -   20.25
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry        25.00       -    7.42
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00         -   20.75
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00         -   37.67
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -   26.04
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                             Industry         4.80       -    3.12
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Population          -   33.10/b 33.01
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Transport.   110.00         -   64.32
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00         -   22.61
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.60        -    7.64
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                             Natural Gas    4.90         -    0.21
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.00        -   90.00
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50         -   17.18
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban           16.00       -   14.00
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways        16.70       -   16.70
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   80.00



31 -                                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                    Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                     Less Cancellations
Number   Year          Borrower                     Purpose             Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
913       1979   Kingdom of Thailand              Education                -    35.00   35.0
929       1979   Kingdom of Thailand              Agriculture              -    25.00   25.0
1752      1979   Kingdom of Thailand              Ag. Extension        40.00        -    40.0
1773      1980   Petroleum Authority of           Natural Gas
Thailand                        Pipeline          107.00/d          107.0
1787      1980   Kingdom of Thailand              Irrigation           80.00             80.0
Total                                                           1,598.10  125.10  879.0
of which has been repaid                                        214.70    0.09
Total now outstanding                                           1.383.40  125.01
Amount sold /c                         68.62
of which has been repaid             43.21                       25.41
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  1.357.99  125.01
Total undisbursed                                                 782.45   96.55
/a This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of February 29, 1980.
/b Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/d Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 29, 1980)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company               Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                  0.30       -       0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                    -    0.38       0.38
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials                28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                        -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                   Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -       2.00
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers            4.85    0.25        5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited          tion Materials          36.00    4.00       40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                  -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                              73.98    9.51      83.49
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           48.86    2.56      51.42
Net held by the Corporation                          25.12    6.95      32.07
Total undisbursed                                    34.00       -      34.00



~ 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of February 29, 1980)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date:              22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years
behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procure-
ment. The delays in civil works result from delays in contracting archi-
tectural consultants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts.
These delays also reflected ineffective management which has begun to improve
after the recent formation of a commission of senior officials to coordinate
project implementation. Consequently, civil works are expected to be
completed by June 1980 and equipment procurement, by September 1980. The
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. Out of
26 experts, 21 have completed their assignment and the remainder have been
recruited. Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching, research
and extension activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented
by the university staff. All the fellowships have been awarded; nearly all
recipients have completed their training. Total project cost will exceed
appraisal estimates by about 35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973: Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Good progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of
project components except at Songkla University where the attraction of
teaching at Bangkok universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9. 1977; Closing Date:
June 30. 1982
Progress in project implementation follows approximately the
appraisal estimate. There have been no significant delays in civil works
or procurement of furniture and equipment. Nearly all fellowships have been
awarded.  Staff training programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as
does supervision by the Ministry of Education of its nonformal education
programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28. 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Good progress is being made in project implementation: (i) the
Central Procurement Unit has been established; (ii) sites for all first phase
institutions have been acquired, and expected to be completed by mid-1981;
(iii) Phase I sketch plans and lists for most furniture and equipment have
been prepared; and (iv) technical assistance contractors have been identified
and partly contracted.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5. 1972; Effective Date: March 1. 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and as of February 29, 1980, $0.8 million remains to be disbursed.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed. After
a year's delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of the
long distance transmission equipment is now progressing satisfactorily. The
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976: Effective Date: August 25. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete.  The Bank loan is fully committed and
$21.7 (83%) had been disbursed as of February 29, 1980. Local telephone
network expansion is a few months behind schedule. After a year's delay in
procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of long distance
transmission equipment is progressing satisfactorily. The project is now
expected to be fully disbursed by September 1981, having been completed by the
end of December 1980, 11 months behind schedule.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4. 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to review of management decision on standardization of switch-
ing equipment and cables, action on procurement has been delayed by about 9-12
months. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone areas and
procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on implementation of
other project components is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23. 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan was declared effective on August 22, 1979 and progress
on project implementaton is satisfactory.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30. 1979; Current Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving
equipment. Work on rehabilitation of main canal systems has been completed
and the pace of construction of tertiary canals has improved considerably.
The current estimate of project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5
million at appraisal. This increase is due to inflation being higher than
foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new tertiary canals over an
area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the
adoption of higher standards for tertiary development than envisioned at
appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases in projected
commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at 24%
compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component has been
affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several
disciplinary groups.



ANNEX II
-36-                       Page 7 of 12
Loan ,c-. 1630  Se-oad Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: May 9,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Consultant contract was signed in March 1979. Design by contract
is delayed but "force account" work began in early 1980. Procurement of
,vehiclas and equipment is delayed due to difficulties in reconciling the
drainage used in existing bidding documents with recently introduced
government regulations on procurement.
Loan No. 1149  Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Major civil works are behind schedule, but project completion is
still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on the diversion dam is
progressing will and RID expects to award a third canal contract in
time to commence construction during the next dry season. About 4,500 ha of
on-farm development was completed in 1979. Thus, total area provided with
on-farm development is now 9,000 ha or 10% of the project area. All studies
financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 15,500 ha were completed in the 1979
construction season bringing the total area developed to 22,000 ha, which
is in accordance with the appraisal estimate. A project monitoring system is
being set up and the Chao Phya Project area is now served by the National
Agricultural Extension Project.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
February 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date:  June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on
two contracts for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have
delayed the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has
now been delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained.
The rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on
agricultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
~ 37 -                     Page 8 of 12
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast'.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project: $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This development credit became effective on October 12, 1979.
Preparation for the first year of project implementation have been satis-
factory, particularly in view of the fact that the implementing agencies
have no prior experience with Bank-supported projects.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but disburse-
ments remain about eighteen months behind appraisal estimates. The appraisal
target of 50,000 ha seems to have been reached in FY1979. The seed production
and pasture development programs are progressing well and the loaned-bull and
artificial insemination program, hitherto hindered by the delay in importation
of cattle, are improving.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing date: June
30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving, however. Staff constraints have delayed completion of the
socio-economic survey of rubber smallholders.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Staffing is almost complete in 20 of the possible 25 provinces.
The quality of training, particularly that for subject matter specialists,
can be further improved. Efforts to rectify shortcomings in the quality of
leadership and technical support are being made in the weaker provinces.
Excellent extension results have already been achieved, in particular through
the extensive use of small pumps for dry-season cropping by small farmer
groups, in rubber quality improvement and in improvements in home gardens.
The civil works program is about two years behind schedule because of high



ANNEX II
-38 -                        Page 9 of 12
inflation and, until recently, the low unit cost of ceilings for civil works
set by the Budget Bureau. It is expected that contracts for all remaining
civil works will be awarded before October 1980. Procurement of vehicles,
equipment and materials is on schedule. Disbursements are lagging through the
delays in the civil works program. Consultants continue to provide DAE with
excellent assistance.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan became effective on December 18, 1979, and implementation
progress to date is satisfactory.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project: $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974: Effective Date: June 14, 1974:
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. The
installation of the turbine generating units is expected to be completed on
schedule. Project costs are likely to be about 30% higher than appraisal
estimates, due mainly to additional grouting work required beneath the main
embankment. The progress on resettlement has been satisfactory, and all of
the families affected have now been resettled.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project: $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977: Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial
delay was caused by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer-than-
expected rock conditions at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels.
Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been
placed. Construction for the resettlement component is progressing according
to schedule. Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project: $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978: Effective Date:  June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is in the early stages of implementation. There was
an initial delay of about four months in the preparation of bid documents
but procurement is now under way and should present no further problems.
Field construction crews have been working on pole setting and conductor
stringing since the middle of 1978, utilizing materials available in stock.



39                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
S-10      Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date:  September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
All the project preparation activities and preliminary engineering
have been completed. In July 1979, the Borrower, the National Gas Organiza-
tion of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand who
is the Borrower for a loan of $107 million for the Second Gas Pipeline
project.
Loan No. 1690 Bank Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 20. 1980:
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1773  Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan is not yet effective. The loan amount includes $4.9 million
under Loan S-10.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974: Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision
of construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. Because of the
initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in M4ay
1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be poor. The Government
approved MWWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased
operating costs were recently approved by Cabinet; parliamentary opposition
has put these tariff increases in abeyance.
l
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates. In order to minimize resistance to beneficiary charges, cost
recovery in improved slums is expected to be introduced as physical works
are completed.



40-                        ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project: $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Implementation of the project is generally ahead of schedule.
Signal equipment has been installed, some two years earlier than expected, as
a result of the consulting and procurement work done under contracts for which
the Bank provided retroactive financing.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project: $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastructure
has been progressing. Bunding, drainage, and three of the four deep wells
have been completed. Substantial progress is being achieved in road construc-
tion, sewerage, and water distribution. Land sales have been very encouraging
with nearly all of available plots either firmly committed or being nego-
tiated, and are well ahead of appraisal estimates. These sales have been
achieved at an average sales price of B 300,000 per rai, as compared to
projected sales price of B 250,000 per rai in the appraisal. In order to
accommodate substantial demand for the Export Processing Zone, IEAT has
enlarged this area to 30 ha. The estate's full development is expected by
mid-1980.
Loan No. 992  Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continued to be good. The loan is fully committed and nearly disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December
3,1980
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected
because of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. This has much
improved. The IFCT's capital structure and liquidity position have
improved, however, with successful share capital increases. Satisfactory
progress has been made on the institutionbuilding aspects of the project.



- 41 -                     ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
In accordance with the Credit Agreement the Government has
(a) established and staffed the Project Coordinating Committee, which has
met frequently; (b) established and staffed the Project Administration and
Financing Unit (PAFU); (c) appointed a project director, deputy director and
two assistant project directors and a health planner/economist; and (d)
initiated most of the key project activities at the national level and in
the 20 Accelerated Family Planning and Health Provinces. Due to initial
staffing problems, key project activities were held up initially and major
elements of the project are about six months behind schedule. The Ministry
of Public Health is, however, taking appropriate action to strengthen
project management, improve coordination and remove impediments to
implementation.



- 42 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
MAE MOH LIGNITE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken by the country to
prepare the project                     -  About 2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project       -  EGAT/Consultants
(c)  First presentation to the Bank          -  April 1978
First mission to consider the project -  May 1978
(d)  Date of departure of the Appraisal
Mission                                 -  April 1979
(e)  Completion of Negotiations              -  March 20, 1980
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness           -  August 31, 1980
(Tentative)
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness of the proposed loan are that:
(i) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB
Loan Agreement have been satisfied (para. 44);
(ii) the contract between EGAT and the consultants has been
signed (para. 58); and
(iii)  the acquisition of the resettlement site has been
confirmed (para. 65).
(b)  EGAT has agreed:
(i) to earn a rate of return of 2%, for FY81 and 8%, in FY82 and
thereafter, and carry out a plan of action to eliminate
fuel oil subsidies and to adjust tariff rates to the
required levels (para. 37);



- 43 -                               ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(ii)  that lignite from the mine expansion financed with the
Bank loan will be used only for EGAT's power generation
(para. 44);
(iii)  to establish not later than April 1, 1981 a mine management
system based on mine accounting centers, and placing
financial management responsibility within the Mining
Department (paras. 52 and 53);
(iv)  to prepare and furnish to the Bank a training program for its
staff in mind accounting and commence the implementation
of such program not later than October 1, 1980 (para. 53);
(v) to carry out a study to determine the long-term forecast price
for lignite to be used for adjusting the lignite price and
preparing master mining plans (para. 54);
(vi)  commencing in 1982, to consult with the Bank, not later than
April 1, of each year, on the adjustments to be carried
out during the next fiscal year in the price of lignite,
to be based on the recommendations emanating from the study
as well as, inter alia the size of the lignite reserves,
prevailing prices of substitute fuels and possible
developments in the use of lignite (para. 55);
(vii) to use a minimum price of lignite, produced and transferred
to the power plants, which shall be established on the
principle that it will be based on the cost of production
plus a margin which is at least adequate to cover debt
service, fixed asset replacements and exploration
requirements for each mine accounting center (para. 55);
(viii)  to prepare annually nation-wide exploration plans and review
with the Bank (para. 57);
(ix)  to complete the initial master mining plan by September 30,
1981 followed by land reclamation activities. The mining
plan will be updated by March 31, 1982 taking into account the
recommendations of the lignite pricing study (para. 57);
(x)  to furnish to the Bank for review the air pollution study, to
to financed by ADB under the Unit 4 power project (para. 64);
(xi)  to prepare water quality contingency plans (para. 65);
(xii) to furnish the Bank with the assessment by EGAT's consultants
on the geotechnical aspects of the slope stability of
the open pit mine at Mae Moh (para. 66);



ANNEX III
- 44 -
page 3 of 3
(c) The Government has agreed:
(i)  that the electricity sector will earn rates of return of
not less than 2% for FY 1981 and 8% for FY 1982 and
thereafter, and to this end take or cause to be taken
measures in accordance with a plan of action to adjust
electricity tariffs and to eliminate fuel oil subsidies
(para. 37);
(ii)  that the above rates of return for the sector and EGAT will
supercede the relevant provisions in the Guarantee and
Loan Agreements of (a) the Accelerated Rural Electrifica-
tion Project (Loan 1527-TH); and (b) the Bang Pakong Thermal
Power Project (Loan 1690-TH) (para. 38).
(d) Modifications to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Khao Laem
Hydroelectric Project are that:
(i) rate of return provisions are conformed to the proposed
Mae Moh Lignite Project (para. 38); and
(ii) Retroactive financing of up to $12 million would be
permitted (para. 38).



B U R M A                      _                      j,#   
20'6 ,.
ROD A.M                                                              LAO  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
k MCe Hongson O       1'>         IFKI\P>:taO    /'  '          e                         REPUBLIC
Diese l4MMwoqt Cnioeoh-g          !          on T/ I                                NAM  NGUM  DAM                               -                                      AM
C h,iV in og- ro.,i35lM
hUN' ok  -C75 MW                                                   Iol 30Mw
0MW   PA~~~~~i.. 3CC
&1          '         nAW7MW                 FrS
LL.r.p.in]                          df                          onhh 
2  C  ;   :>      t>M=e Sof      w    n g           KPhich/7             ,o       USonKhon,  Joo n iS    Soo NoLo
"5 \OnnhOlM -/                                                                                                                                              Ju'SRpSGAPOREA3O    ChmPi  k h m 
OHUM BI'DEi DAMt                           NSoc :khbone 5MWon                              I q   zzH              \                 rRKI  A
S  0  0   \i.Ultimale420 MW             Sokiro      A,rnho,S5 u6 21*                           Ngho                NAMhm   RUN  DAM,             TnorphonoMW
l\    5                    L  0-         Sob                Ph,gstjXRnon7 iW ./  HIor
T                                                             4 P ht  Ahi t  mP
C>                             ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,g
:: ,  , i  D t  ,<   Rlkhoburl 1l  ,2Samut S mgkhrlen  J r ChonburlG- T ,b-                                                             ig5ite S.k- 
= ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                                                               Chonkoen9fE L       CoTiur              ~         6    VTrnmsiO    ie
_S  2/v JJ        | Ui\Pro Noohoc   Soon         iZ:             E <Do ,Tr7                                        Cho5Ktooncton
2 M            S;   ||/,h'.,                           g              i '\7 \              O         i            O                 ThermallrnonnoPlants
-t1.                                                                T AY    1                                      2H25                      oerPaE
5 _, r \        MontPom  pp     okhI   if            (Soc  rhino              ?                                     Botooth N ula   oePon
to    ~                     I           j                                          >'ictW                   Borr                 S 5         egonl oura-
A-                             p         ^          '            |             -     -     S                      Initionl 24MW   j      )
_                                                            >E OR  4 1  iUP
RIN0ARID a                                                          /                     EC       I   GN AI   A                    O  TH
.hooong     0t                                         N                            MAE MO-       I GNI'TE PROJAEC
lV                            NknonA    MT            Chorhoergnoo
CHIEWLARNpno$T/ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ARE           Roe noM Poe P -I -  -OSTN                          \NE        OOe         n
nItbl 2                                                                                    OPTION P3uJPOT 7Pl
PhsrN'    K NKACHASE-DAM  P:n,eohboe S,                                                                                                        230Emo  KV  Tromso  Liner
Andaman                                                                                                                                                        11  KV Traasmissio  Licces T WTR NX RA
-,H.:,fPOWER PLANT    Sottoiip I                                                                       69 KVTranmisoLHAeN
o,,-e                                                              EL ECTRCIT    -  n          -E T   A2T3R0I SYbsNTERaAN
j'*6mashau  Amp,epe  df/v/he                      Soeaehip 2n    o~~~--  Asip           A1iSETT-                       A                  115KV STbsTatloes
R,     I    %Penhorr                                         ,r-t(-A                                                      69KV  SMinetasi,fs
NG KIZACHA -,DAM~~~~~~~ 0230 Hydr  PowrPantsmsonme
rhe~~~ /ctenmn oof  Ethn Kho "d5r Nocea  Poe  Ploet :Iat                                                 -      -
-hedden omif h1 mS u 9 )Mf                               th.P/ *, *-                                                                         9 .  ---  KV Trasmiss  _
do                                                                                                                              D           11I                20  V   ubta . a3 W
/                                                                                        -thA    A Rgn                     KV  Substaaiies
Nj                                                                      -   --    Intereational Boundorte~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~69KVSusain
ov~~~ /cetoc                                                  ofFchbed e  f/a an                                   / \,      __                    MAE A_,OH M N E AREA _                     _
kn                                                                                       0                  Thermal  3oe  Plonts
53      7         50                 HyED                   200 Plnt
.1'  K                                                        I~~~~- KnK-                                                        ularPwr  ln
Ronre0                                     I                    ________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rgina    o.care
CHIERE EARN FE  0W 30MW  --  .~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20                                                                 0
7   'C-.0        o
0. -;              Thon~~~~~~~gulDEPOSIT OOUNDILOETeR
R-       ANG SUoAN         i                                                                                                       PWE  PAN
Tore 'nap Re Deeo pwenA OpRthe        STo      rt                 o    oHOSARE
World eanpe eroft corAre4r45WoPAVEtoR
We roosniocore GDho noaAere of  ~~~~~~~~~~   '~~'\         NotoAERhTEROoD
toeneponetroorGooettecoed             5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~RAIWA
The Aeoerioaeooo  RoTTHnA th
CoonA  WIee  Roo N ARe oro    *CPATTON                                                      /
*  MALAYSIA                                                                                     N Er~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ol MN



