OFFICILL
DOCUMENTSJ LOAN NUMBER 1852 TH
Guarantee Agreement
(Mae Moh Lignite Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        1-4V                  , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1852 TH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                ol           , 1980, between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND (herein ter called the Guarantor) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONST iCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to seventy-
two million dollars ($72,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower
in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term
"Completion Date" means the earlier of the date immediately
following a period of consecutive six months of lignite production
at the rate of 1.4 million tons or the date immediately following
a period of consecutive twelve months in which lignite was pro-
duced by the mine and used by the four power units at Mae Moh
uninterupted by any shortage.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance.of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower w-.11 be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, promptly to
provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures until the
Completion Date.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its


﻿-3-
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3 02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Guarantor shall from time to time take all such
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of electricity tariffs of the utilities in the
Guarantor's Electricity Sector) as shall be required to produce
for the said Sector as a whole annual rates of return of not less
than 2% in FY 1981, and not less than 8% as of FY 1982 and in each
Fiscal Year thereafter on the average current net value of the
Sector's fixed assets in service. To this end, the Guarantor
shall take or cause to be taken by the utilities in the Guaran-
tor's Electricity Sector, measures substantially in accordance
with a Plan of Action satisfactory to the Guarantor, the Bank and
the Borrower.
(b) for the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
by dividing the Sector's net operating income
for the Fiscal Year in question by one-half of the
sum of the -urrent net value of the Sector's
fixed assets in service at the beginning and at the
end of that Fiscal Year, expressed as a percentage;
(ii) the term "net operating income" means gross reve-
nues from all sources related to the Sector's


﻿electricity operations less all expenses of elec-
tricity operations, including cost of all fuels,
administrative expenses, adequate maintenance and
taxes or any payments in lieu of taxes, and provi-
sion for depreciation. Interest and other charges
on debt are not considered to be operating expenses
for the purposes of determining said net operating
income;
(iii) the term "current net value of the Sector's fixed
assets in service" means the gross value of the
Sector's fixed assets in service for electricity
operations less the amount of accumulated deprecia-
tion and consumers contributions, all valued
annually from Fiscal Year 1971 in accordance with
the fixed capital formation deflator used for
public investment in the Guarantor's annual
accounts; and
(iv) "electricity operations" shall exclude all mining
activities of the utilities in the Sector.
(c) Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement (Accelerated
Rural Electrification Project) dated March 9, 1978, and Section
.3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement (Bang Pakong Thermal Power Pro-
ject) dated August 9, 1979, both said Agreements being between the
Guarantor and the Bank) are, respectively, amended to read as
provided in Section 3.02 (a) and (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to make adjustments to the Sector's electricity
tariffs to reflect changes in the price of all fuels and in the
price of purchased electric power.
(b) Section 3.03 of the said Guarantee Agreement (Bang
Pakong Thermal Power Project) is amended to read as provided in
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor
is de&ignated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok
Thailand
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINANCE                            TH2823
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHERSOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By IS           v        ,
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /7       day of   A-A, 198 b.
FOR SECRETARY


