CoA,A 666-&,Z.
FILECOPY                  RESTRICE
FiLE         AJ C{           R ESTR I CTEReport No. DB-59a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCrION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT S. A.
GREECE
March 11, 1970
Development Finance Companies Department






A '7AIS&L OF
INATIONAL DITES.TTI'NT BANTk FO 2 IITUJST.IAL DVE7ELO1=T S.A.
Table of Contents
LPZe            Paragra2h
STPiLY                                     i  -ii            i   - viii
I.   ECONI1IIC AND FINNTCIAL ENVIRON IENT       1  - 5            1   -  20
General                                    1                 1
Industrial Sector and Investment           1  - 2            2   -   4
Government Incentives                   1  - 2            4
Financial Environment                      2  - 4            5   - 18
Credit and Interest Rates               2                5   -   6
The Banks in Greece                     2  - 4            7   - 16
Capital i4arket                         4               17   - 18
Prospects for Industrial Growth            4  _ 5           19   -  20
II.  T-E COMPANY                                5  -9            21   -  36
Purpose and D'olicies                      5                21   -  22
Ownership                                  5                23
Board and Executive Committee              5  - 6           24   -  26
Management and Staff                       6  - 7           27   -  29
Project Appraisal and Follow-up            7  -             30   -  32
Relationships with Other Institutions    F  - 9             33   -  35
Resources                                  9                36
III.  OPERATIONS                                 9  -14           37   -  49
General Features of Operations             9  -10           37   - 41
Loan Operations                           10  -12           42   - 44
Loan Terms                            10  -11           42   - 43
Quality of Loan Portfolio              11  -12          44
Equity Operations                         12                45
Arthur D. Little-Hellas S.A.              12  -13           46   -  48
Capital Market Work                       13  -14           49
IV.  FINANCIAL RECORD                          14 - 15           50   - 53
Tncome, E%penses and Profitability        14 - 15           50   -  51
Financial Position                        15                52   -  53



-2
2Pge        Paragraph
V.    I'UTUJRE OPERATIONTS                   16 - 20         54  - 70
Operational Forecasts                 16             54  - 56
Foreign Exchange Component         16              57
Resource Needs and Sources            17 - 18         58  - 62
Needs                              17              58  -  60
Scurces                            17 - 1P        61  - 62
Capital Structure                     18 - 19        63  -  66
Projected Financial Position          19 - 20         67  -  70
Profitability                      19 - 20         67  - 68
Debt Service Coverage              20             69
Projected Balance Sheets           20              70
VI.    COCCIIISIONS AND RECO1IIENDATIONS     20 - 22         71  - 76
This report is based on the findings of
a mission to Greece in February 1969 by
HIr. C. Lethbridge, another mission
in October 1969 by HIessrs. C.Lethbridge
and Edgar Su and on other information
received from NIBID.



LIST OF AMNTEXES
1.   Statement of Policies and Procedures
2.   List of Shareholders as of December 31, 1969
3.   Board of Directors and Executive Committee
as of December 31, 1969
4.   Organization List as of December 31, 1969
5.  Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements,
January 1, 1964 - December 31, 1969
6.   Characteristics of Operations, January 1, 1964-
December 31, 1969
7.   Geographical Distribution of NIBID's Operations
as of December 31, 1969
8.   Equity Portfolio, as of December 31, 1969
9.   Year-End Balance Sheets - Actual Dec. 31, 1964-1969
and Projected Dec. 31, 1970-1974
10. Income Statements - Actual 1964-1969, and. Projected
1970-1974
11.   Projected. Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements
1970-1974
12.   Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1970-1974
13.   Projection Assumptions



SINKRY
i.     The National Investment Bank for Industrial Development S.A. (NIBID)
was formed in 1963 by the National Bank of Greece (NBG) and a number of
foreign banks. IFC became a shareholder in 1965. NIBID's first foreign
exchange loan was obtained from IBRD in March 1968 (US$12.5 million) and
had been fully committed as of the end of 1969.
ii.    Greek economic growth, averaging 8% per annum in the 1960 to 1966
period, slowed down in 1967-68. Economic counter-measures by the Govern-
ment produced some signs of recovery toward the end of 1968 and the situa-
tion continued to improve during 1969. A reduction in manufacturing
investment was a feature of the recent recession but this is nevertheless
expected to recover and grow modestly in the next five years although lack
of fully articulated large projects makes the targets of the 1968-72 Five-
Year Plan over-optimistic. Greek industry, presently characterized by a
large number of small enterprises, must modernize, expand and increase
efficiency and competitiveness if it is to derive full advantage from the
country's associate status with EEC.
iii.  NIBID's management is capable and energetic and its professional
staff is gaining in competence and experience. The consulting company,
jointly promoted by NIBID and Arthur D. Little Inc., has strengthened
NIBID's appraisal capabilities particularly on engineering and production
matters. Some strengthening of financial and economic analysis is still
required.
iv.    As of December 31, 1969, a total of 121 loans and equity operations
had been approved by NIBID, amounting to US$67.4 million equivalent.
NIBID's business reached its highest level in 1969. Its approvals during
the year, totalling Dr 813.1 million (US$27.1 million equivalent), exceeded
the aggregate of operations approved during NIBID's first four years,
1964-67, and were 56% higher than the approvals of 1968. A much larger
portion of its loans was made in the latter half of 1969 after the Govern-
ment had agreed to assume the foreign exchange risk on the sub-loans ex-
tended by NIBID out of the Bank funds.
v.     Although NIBID's financing remains moderate (less than 10%) in
proportion to gross private manufacturing investment, the company has made
an important contribution in such matters as sponsoring joint ventures,
promoting a consulting company and in introducing higher evaluation standards
in Greece.
vi.    NIBID's total assets, at December 31, 1969, stood at about US$43.3
million equivalent. NIBID's available resources totalling US$67.4 million
equivalent had been largely utilized, on an approval basis, by the end of
1969. Further drachma funds will be obtained from the present sources
(National Bank of Greece and the Bank of Greece) and a subordinated Govern-
ment loan, but there is little prospect of further foreign exchange funds
for NIBID, at the present moment, other than from IBRD. The existing Bank
loan was fully committed by the end of 1969. NIBID has achieved only a
moderate level of profitability, but this will improve in the next few years.



- ii -
vii.   NIBID must increase its borrowing capacity and lower the average cost
of funds employed, in order to sustain a higher volume of business and to
realize a higher return. To this end, NIBID initiated negotiations with
the Government for low cost funds. In February 1970 the Government agreed
to extend to NIBID a 3.5% loan ranking pari passu with share capital in
the event of liquidation. The loan will be repayable in 15 years including
a 10-year grace period. Approximately 50% of the maturities of this loan which
fall due after the propo ad Bank loan has been fully repaid should be eligible
for inclusion in NIBID's borrowing base. Moreover, a higher debt/equity
limitation is justified given NIBID's experience and it is recommended that
the ratio be increased to 5:1.
viii. NIBD requires Dr 1,252 million (US$41.6 million equivalent) to
finance its onerations, on approval basis, to June 30, 1971, of which about
US$28.5 million is a foreign exchange requirement. NIBID remains a suit-
able and creditworthy borrower for Bank funds and it is recommended that a
Bank loan of US$20 million be extended to NIBID to help meet its foreign
exchange and resource gap through mid-1971. The loan incorporates the
terms aDplied generally to recent loans to development finance companies.



APPRAISAL OF
NATIONAL INVEST NT BANK FOP INDJSTaIAL DEELOPIMIT S.A.
I.  ECONOPIIC AND FINANCIAL EWFIRONIENT
General
1.   Following a period of impressive growth of GNP (8%) in the 1960-1966
period economic activity slackened in 1967-1968.  This development was already
beginning to show itself before the revolution of April 1967, and the
political sitaation thereafter further disrupted. and slowed investment
activity. Counter-measures by the new Government, largely through heavy
public sector expenditures, together with a cautious revival of confidence in
economic stability, produced some signs of recovery by the second half of
1968 and this was maintained during 1969.
Industrial Sector and Investment
2.   The manufacturing sector in Greece, employing 14% of the labor force
and contributing 19% to GDP, grew by 8% per year in the five years to 1967.
The highest growth rate in the manufacturing sector iwas registered by the
building material industry although, with the help of heavy foreign capital
imports, the chemical, mining and oil sectors also registered higher than
average growth and investment record.s. In 1967 industrial investment fell
sharply. Nevertheless, after only a partial recovery of investment in 1968,
industrial production increased about 10.5% in the first ten months of 1969,
and capital goods imports, a direct indicator of industrial investment
totalled $ 389 million for 1969, an increase of 16% relative to 1968.
Foreign investment has played an important role in Greece's recent industrial
development.  In the 1960-66 period for example, about half of total
industrial investment was represented by foreign investment. Two large
investments in the aluminium and petroleum fields were particularly important
in boosting both the overall investment totals as well as the foreign
investment levels during this period.
3.  To date, industry has largely been of an import substitution nature.
Exports account for only 5S-' of manufacturing output.  However, in 1968 and
1969 exports of manufactured goods and minerals registered significant gains.
Much of this increase has come from two large projects (the Pechiney
aluminium complex and the Esso-Pappas petroleum/chemical concern). Textiles
and other industries, however, also increased exiports and evidence of the
opportunities presented by G3reece's association with EEC is provided by a
doubling (to hV%) in the percentage of Greek manufactured exports which go to
Common lIarket countries. Under the 1962 Agreement of Association, Greek
manufactured products have enjoyed duty-free access to the EEC countries
since 1968, while the Greek tariff on imports from EEC will not be fully
phased out until 1984.
4.   Government Incentives.  The Government offers a number of measures
designed to accelerate industrial development.  Direct financial assistance
to industry, shipbuilding and tourism is provided through the Hellenic
Industrial Development Bank (wIDB). A number of fiscal and other incentives



have also been introduced to boost private investment, encourage exports and
attract foreign capital. Tax incentives to shareholders, interest rebates
on loans to exnorters (allied to the proportion of output exported) and
fiscal and other concessions to foreign investors are available.
Financial Environment
5.   Credit and Tnterest TRates.  The Greek economy has been characterized by
high liquidity in the past two years. To help absorb this by stimulating
private investment, the Government authorized in 1968 an expansion of credit
facilities designed to channel funds, through the commercial and investment
banks, to development. A reduction in cash holdings and some renewed confi-
dence in savings was observed in 1968 but the credit situation remains free,
although some tightening measures were instituted in Nlay 1969 to curb import
levels.
6.   The banks in Greece are subject to regulation both as to the amounts and
terms of bank credit. A recent improvement in these regulations was the
abandonment in mid-1968, of a very complex system of interest rates on
industrial loans.  Since mid-1968, the basic long-term rate for industry has
been 7-1/2% plus a 1% commission making an effective rate of E-1/2/0. CrediUs
for working capital carry 9% interest plus the 1% commission.  Modified rates
are still available for exports, handicrafts and other special categories but
in general a simplification of the structure has been achieved.
7.  The Banks in Greece.  The commercial banking system is by far the
greatest supplier of funds, short- and long-term, to the manufacturing sector .
Banks supplied something over 60% of gross private manufacturing investment
in the period 1962-1967. The loans to this sector have been divided almost
equally between short- and long-term. Manufacturing is the largest single
private sector debtor to the banks, and outstanding loans to this sector had
risen to Dr 39 billion (US$ 1.3 billion) by November 1969, an increase of
over Dr 20 billion in the past six years.
8.   The predominant role of the banking system in financing investment,
particularly industrial investment, explains the continued imposition of 'er.d-
ing controls designed to regulate the economy in accordance with Government
policy.  Obligatory interest rates are one aspect of this, as are regulatror±s
relating to the minimum amounts to be granted by way of long-term loans,
special loans (such as to handicrafts) and other matters.
9.  Among the commercial banks operating in Greece, the National Bank of
Greece (WBG) is by far the most important. With a wide ownership among
private and public organizations as well as individuals, the NBG is in most
operational aspects an orthodox private commercial bank. Nevertheless,
although the Government's shareholding in NBG is equivalent to less than lOo
of the total share capital, it is the largest single shareholder and this
enables the Government to exercise its influence in appointment of the
Governor of the NBG. Since NBG's assets are  equivalent to nearly two-thirds
of total commercial bank assets in the country, the Government has a definii J9
interest in seeing that NBG operates fairly closely in accordance with
official policies.



10.  The second largest bank is the Commercial Bank of Greece.  Although not
as 'Large as BMG, it is an aggressive competitor.  An important development mn
the Greek banking scene in recent years, however, has been the establishment
of branch offices of foreign banks; five of these are now operating in Greece.
Their operations are so far on a small scale compared to NBG and the
Commercial Bank Group, but their arrival has been im-portant because they have
had a role in stimulating interest in Greece on the part of some of their
foreign customers and., more importantly, they have brought to Greece a more
modern approach to banking methods and management. Particularly during the
present period of liquidity, the rather conservative Greek banks are being
faced with hitherto unaccustomed competition and the resulting increase in
efficiency and flexibility is apparent.
11. Although the commercial banks have traditionally provided long-term
investment funds for industry, there are three banks (including NIBID)
specializing in this field. The largest and. most important channel for public
financing of industry is the 1Hellenic Industrial Development Bank (HIDB).
Formed. in 1964 from a merger of three Government lending and investment
agencies, HIDB now has a staff of about 400 (including 180 professionals) and
assets with a book value of over US$250 million. HTIDB's share capital of
US$178 million is wholly owned by the Government, which has also provid.ed
(or arranged for) most of its debt resources.
12. Operations approved by HIDB's Board in 1968 had a total value of Dr 2.1
billion (US$70 million) ccmpared to Dr 1.1 billion (US$36 million) in 1967.
In the first seven months of 1969, approvals reached the level for all of 196.
Some 45,> of the 1968 approvals were for industrial enterprises, representing
a greater amount than the total 1968 approvals of the other two investment
banks combined. More than half of EDB's business, however, is in shipping
and. tourism. In these sectors, HIDB makes funds available at special interest
rates and. in effect follows administrative and policy directives laid down by
Government. In this type of operation, 1HIDB is not in competition with the
private banks. HIDB's outstanding loans at the end of 196E amounted to about
UJS$ 180 million.
13.          In addition to its loans, 11HDB has equity investments with a
book value of some US$70 million, 80% of this in companies wholly owned. and
managed, by HIDB. HIDB also has other semi-official responsibilities, such as
providing industrial promotion services abroad, administering industrial
estates and coordinating certain aspects of the public sector development
program.
14. Despite a considerably lower interest rate than was charged by other
banks, HIDB's operations were rather slow until 1967. Conservative managemert
and a reputation for inneficiency were mostly to blame.  New management made
strenuous attempts to assist the Government to offset the fall in private
industrial investment in 1967-1968 by increasing its activity, and. HIDB's
recent high approval level is a direct result of this drive.
15. In addition to NIBID there is one other private investment bank, the
Investment Bank, S.A., a subsidiary of the Commercial Bank Group. A minority
of its shares (13%) is held by a number of foreign banks. Total assets of the
Investment Bank at the end of 1968 were Dr 476 million (US$15.9 million).
Resources, in addition to its share capital (Dr 150 million) have come mainly
from loans from the Commercial Bank of Greece. Its resources have been
limited and its operations on a smaller scale than NIBID.



- h -
16.  The recent emergence of HIDB as a more active organization has not been
without its effect on the two other iives-Zment banks.  Really serious com-
petition was first felt in early 1968 when HIDB dropped its previous requir-
ement that all its loans carry a foreign currency repayment clause. On the
other hand, the previous advantageto HIDB, in being permitted to lend at a
lower rate of interest than the private banks, was almost eliminated in late
1968 when the authorities increased HIDBts lending rate from 7,' to 8%.  The
normal rate for long-term industrial loans from HIDB is thus only one-half
per cent lower than from the other banks.
17.  Capital iMarket.  The capital market still plays a minor role in channel-
ing private savings into manufacturing investment. The range and value of
securities available through the Athens Stock Exchange remains limited; new
issues and. listings are infrequent. Transactions of the Stock Exchange in
1968 had a total value of Dr 1,8F5 million, a rise of 85,Z, over the comparable
volume in 1967.  The first nine months of 1969 recorded an even greater voll:-Lze
of transactions, valued. at Dr 2,030 million. lIost of the securities traded
are Governmaent or other public sector bonds (on which dividends are tax free),
although industrial shares accounted for 25% by value of the amounts traded
in the first nine months of 1969. These, however, include Bank and insuran'ze
company stocks and industrial securities are still not widely available. The
industrial stock price index moved up 32:o in 1968, in contrast with the
previous six years when very little growth was recorded.  Prices in 1969 hive
risen dramatically, almost doubling in the first nine months.  The paucity co
shares available, the liquidity of the economy and the tax law modifications
allowing tax free stock dividends from asset revaluations have resulted in a
rising market.
18.  Legislation has recently been enacted to stimulate the capital market.
The measures adopted include tax incentives for shareholders, tighter audit
regulations for listed companies and a minimum dividend distribution of 33-$
of net profits. Although these measures are helping to attract private
savings, as evidenced by the 1969 market behaviour, the capital market is
unlikely to contribute significantly to manufacturing investment for some ttie
to come.  Legislation has been proposed for the establishment of investment
companies and two open-end mutual funds are in the planning stages.
Progects for Industrial Growth
19. On one hand, the characteristics of Greek industry present problems fc'r
future growth. Greek industry consists largely of small, family owned,
import substitution enterprises.  Modernization and the ability to expand
horizons beyond the local market are difficult for firms accustomed to
traditional practices and hitherto protected from competition. Such firms
will be hard put to export, and even to compete on the increasingly vulner.,d  e
home market, as the discipline of Greek's Common Market arrangements proceort.
20.  On the other hand, there is evidence that Greek firms are becoming more
interested in securing foreign collaboration.  Also, the labor force is r m;
readily trainable (as evidenced by the Greek labor force working abroad) and.
relatively inexpensive. Although hard statistical facts are not available
on current foreign and domestic investment, the banking and industrial
community in Greece indicate that foreign investor interest in Greece is
fairly strong and that although no huge projects of the Pechiney or



- 5 -
Esso/Pappas size are anywhere near the implementation stage, industrial
investment should continue to grow moderately in the next few years.
II.  T1]E COMPANY
furT ose and Policies
21.  The National Investment Bank for Industrial Development, NIBID, was
formed in 1963 to provide financing for industrial and related enterprises,
in the private sector. In addition to serving the manufacturing sector,
NIBID has also financed projects in the tourism and shipping sectors. NIBID's
Articles, which are similar to those of most private development finance
companies, are amplified by a Shareholders' Agreement, which regulates such
matters as the acquisition and disposal of slhares, the appointment of
directors and voting requirements. The original Agreement, which is renewable,
expires in July 1971. New shareholders are required to become parties to the
Agreement.
22. In June 1965 NIBID's directors adopted a Statement of Policies and
Procedures (Annex 1). This sets out the objectives and scope of the insti-
tution and regulates certain aspects of its financial and managerial
procedures. NIBID's operations have conformed to these policies. The only
limitation that NIBID has approached is the one that sets a ceiling equivalent
to 25% of NIBTD's net worth on total commitments (Dr 87 million) to any one
enterprise. This has meant that in a few cases, new loans to some of its
larger clients whose earlier operations, with NIBID assistance, have provided
a successful basis for expansion, have not been possible.
Ownership
23.  NIBID's initial share capital was Dr 180 million, of which 55% was held
by the National Bank of Greece and the balance by ten foreign banks. The
present share capital is Dr 300 million, and its ownership is indicated in
Annex 2. The increase was undertaken in two steps, the first in 1965 to bring
in IFC with a 7T holding subscribed at book value (102.5% of par).
Subsequently, a rights issue was subscribed proportionately by all share-
holders and brought the capital to its present Dr. 300 million level. Apart
from NBG and IFC, the remaining 38SO of NIBID's shares is now held by 13
foreign banks from nine different countries. The largest foreign shareholder
is the Chase International Investment Corporation whose 7% share equals the
holding of IFC.
Board and Executive Committee
24. The composition of NIBID's 18-member Board of Directors is given in
Annex 3. Nine directors are appointed by the National Bank of Greece and*
nine by the foreign shareholders. Since the establishment of the Bank, the
Governor of the NBG has been Chairman of NIBID's Board. Since the Bank loan
became effective, there have been two changes in the composition of the
Board of Directors. Professor Koulis retired in October 1968 and was replaced
by 1M1r. Gondicas, General Mlanager of NIBID. Mr. Esgo Kuiper who had
represented IFC on NIBID's Board ever since IFC became a shareholder retired
in imay 1969.  11r. Melson Schaenen was appointed in his place and served
through 1969. Subsequently Ut-. ~Harbld F. Linder was nominated by IFC to
NIBID's Board.



- 6 -
25. Full Board meetings are held only once or twice a year and normally
deal with general matters. The responsiblilities of the Board as far as
project approvals are concerned have been delegated to an Executive Committee
consisting of seven members and one observer. In addition to the Chairman
and one other NBG representative, the Executive Committee has four members
representing foreign shareholders, one member without vote (Mr. Gondicas)
and the IFC Director (Mr. Linder ), who participates, also without voting,
as an observer (Annex 3). The Executive Committee, which has been meeting
in Athens about twice each year, has in turn delegated to its members
resident in Greece (the two NBG representatives, a representative of Hambros
Bank and the General Manager) the authority to approve investments below
a certain size (See para. 32 below). Projects requiring an investment or
loan exceeding this limit are circulated to the Executive Committee by mail
(if no meeting is imminent) and require the written agreement of five of
the six voting members before the General Manager is authorized to commit
the company.
26. Originally the resident members had authority to approve operations up
to Dr 6 million (US$200,000). However, as the volume and size of NIBID's
applications grew, and particularly since 1968, the number of projects
above the Dr 6 million became greater and the correspondence method of
Executive Committee decision was found to be cumbersome.  Rather than incre3-ie
the number of its meetings, the Executive Committee decided upon further
delegation to the resident members as the solution to this problem, reflect.inr
their increased confidence in the experience of NIBID's management and
staff.  The limit of the members of the Committee resident in Athens was
thus increased to Dr 15 million in November 1968. The bulk of the review
of projects by the full Committee is still done by mail. This is not as
satisfactory as discussing projects at meetings but some improvement in
communications was made in that in 1968 when foreign members agreed to
circulate among themselves comments or questions, which are not infrequent,
raised on projects. The Board receives a quarterly report covering all
operations approved, projects under consideration, new applications, cancellVd
proposals and a statement of NIBID's financial condition. These reports
are also sent to the World Bank.
Management and Staff
27. NIBID's Senior Executive, Mr. George Gondicas, spent 14 years with the
Bank and IFC before becoming NIBID's first General Manager in 1963. He is
capable and experienced. He enjoys a good relationship with the NBG under
Governor Cominos as well as with other persons of standing in Greek Governir,-rt,
banking and industrial circles. The senior professional staff, of whom the
nucleus came from MBG, is also competent and is gaining in experience. Most
have been with NIBID since its creation. An organization list for NIBID
is reproduced in Annex 4.
28. Of NIBID's 30 professional staff,13 are in the Operations Department
which has the primary responsibility for the evaluation and negotiation of
investments and loans. Projects are allocated to the two Groups within
this Department according to industrial sector, each having built up a
certain amount of expertise on a specific range of industries. Early in



- 7 -
1969, responsibility for follow-up of existing projects was transferred
from the Operational Department to a new section, and two additional pro-
fessionals have been recruited to take responsibility for this aspect of
the company's business. For legal matters, NIBID's Counsel is assisted by
three lawyers.
29.   NIBID's Technical Advisor, a senior engineer, is responsible for the
review of projects from the engineering standpoint. He has recently been
joined by another full-time engineer. NIBID has deliberately refrained
from building a sizeable technical staff, preferring to employ consultants
where appropriate, or to make use of the specialist services of its associ-
ate, Arthur D. Little-Hellas S.A. (see para. 46).
Project Appraisal and Follow-up
30.   Although NIBID's project appraisals have improved since the Bank
Group first participated in the company in 1965, there are some aspects of
NIBID's analyses that require further improvement. In most cases, appraisal
reports deal satisfactorily with the project's management and past financial
history (if it is an existing firm), but financial details, particularly
pertaining to the future, are sometimes meagre. The association with ADL-
Hellas has considerably improved the appraisal work, on engineering and
marketing aspects, particularly on more complicated projects. However, in
cases where there has been no consultant, this type of analysis is still
weak; the appointment of a second engineer should improve this.
31.   NIBID's Policy Statement stipulates that NIBID will finance only thcze
projects which will contribuite to the economic growth of the country, and
it is true that, on balance, the majority of NIBID's business has been in
areas that either earn foreign exchange for Greece or which produce manu-
factured items that are reasonably competitive with imported goods. More-
over, as mentioned earlier, Greece has adopted the discipline of declining
protection as a result of its association with EEC and this will help to
ensure movement towards competitiveness in general. However, NIBID has not,
in most cases, explicitly focused on the economic aspects of the projects
it finances to the extent which would be desirable and NIBID needs to
strengthen its appraisals in this area. In those cases where the market
mechanism is affected by any form of subsidy, protection or price control,
this should be fully evaluated in NIBID's project appraisals. The Bank has
advised NIBID of its general concern that projects should be scrutinized
carefully to ensure that all economic factors are fully taken into account.
NIBID has agreed to focus more directly on the economic aspects of its pro-
jects in order to ensure that only reasonably competitive projects will be
financed.
32.   Follow-up and supervision of existing clients has not been well
organized, but recently substantial improvements have been made in this
area. As mentioned above, follow-up has now been made the responsibility
of a new department. A system of regular follow-up visits and reports has
been instituted; senior staff hold a weekly meeting to discuss the reports



- 8 -
and initiate any action required. The follow-up reports have generally
been of good quality.  The procedures for advising management of overdue
payments are well-established and action has been taken quickly to probe
the reasons; nevertheless, the real test of an adequate follow-up system
will come when problems are spotted and overcome before payments become
overdue. As a final comment on evaluation, NIBID's arrearage experience
does not so far indicate any serious defects in project appraisal work or
supervision but NIBID is aware of areas requiring improvement and is making
efforts to raise standards generally.
Relationship with Other Institutions
33.   NIBID continues to have close working relationships with NBG, although
it is now recognized in Greece as an important entity in its owm right.
NIBID has succeeded, particularly since its association with the Bank Group,
in establishing a reasonable degree of independence and autonomy of manage-
ment, vis-a-vis NBG, while at the same time retaining effective cooperation
with its major shareholder. NBG continues to pass on to NIBID the long-
term industrial finance applications suitable for NIBID's consideration,
applications which, before NIBID's establishment, NBG might have dealt with
itself. The supporting services of NBG (such as legal assistance and credit
information) are still important to NIBID. W4hile almost all NIBID's
original staff came from NBG, more recent recruitment has been from outside.
There has been a considerable increase recently in formal and informal con-
sultation and contact between HIDB and the two private investment banks,
to a large extent as the result of NIBID's efforts.
34.   Despite some criticism that its requirements in evaluating projects
and setting the terms of its loans are too strict, NIBID's approach to
financing problems is recognized by NIBID's clients and other financial
institutions as progressive, its management capable and its international
eharacter is respected. NIBID's portfolio now includes interests in many of
the larger and better known Greek companies, as well as a cross section of
the Greek projects recently sponsored by overseas concerns.
35.   NIBID's relationships with the Government are also satisfactory.
NIBID has become increasingly important as a source of finance for indus-
trial development and its potential for attracting further investment
through contacts with its shareholders and clients is respected by Govern-
ment. 1Noreover, NIBID has been the recipient of the only World Bank loan
to Greece and the Government is aware that the manner in which these funds
are used is closely followed. As a result, NIBIDts autonomy as a private
financial institution has been maintained. NIBID has obtained certain con-
cessions from the Government, in addition to the guarantee of the Bank loan.
The most important of these, described in paragraphs 43 and 65 in this re-
port, are the coverage of the foreign exchange risk and the provision of a
3ubordinated, low interest loan. In negotiating these, NIBID has been
careful to emphasize its private sector character; the Government, for its
part, provides special treatment because NIBID is operating in a priority
sector of development and because of NIBID's ability to attract foreign



- 9 -
investment. NIBID's management feels, however, that special concessions
from the Government should, as a matter of principle, be sought only when
absolutely necessary, and that the main objective must be to grow into a
strong, profitable institution in accordance with normal commercial criteria.
This attitude is one which NIBID's shareholders, and the Bank, fully support.
Resources
36.   The resources acquired by NIBID up to December 31, 1969 are as follows:
Dr million
Share capital                              300.0
Reserves and provisions                     69.7
Local currency loans:
NBG Loan No. 1                        300.0
NBG loan No. 2                        300.0
Bank of Greece Loan No. 1             300.0
Bank of Greece Loan No. 2             300.0
Foreign currency loan:
IBRD Loan 530-GR (US$12.5 million)   375.0
1,944.7
The local currency loans are drawn down in tranches by NIBID as needed.
As of December 31, 1969, the entire amounts of the first loans from NBG
and the Bank of Greece, and Dr 145 million under the second NBG loan had
been drawn. The first NBG loan is repayable over 12 years at 5% interest
on the entire amount, while the first Bank of Greece loan is repayable over
eight years at 4.5% on Dr 250 million and 5% on the remaining Dr 50 million.
Both the second NBG loan and the second Bank of Greece loan have a term of
10 years including a grace period of two years, the former bearing interest
at 5% and the latter 5.5%. The Bank of Greece loans are secured by NIBID
assigning to the Bank of Greece a part of its loan portfolio. The WIorld
Bank shares equally in these security arrangements. The NBG loans are
unsecured. As of December 31, 1969, the entire first IBRD loan had been
credited to the loan account.
III. OPERATIONS
General Features of Operations
37.   A summary of NIBID's operations is given in Annexes 5, 6 and 7.   A
total of 121 loan and equity operations (involving 110 borrowers) had been
approved, amounting to Dr 2,020.5 million (US$67.4 million equivalent),
from NIBID's creation in early 1964 to the end of 1969. The increase in
NIBID's business since 1964 has been rapid and, despite a slight drop in
1967 due to the unsettled conditicns following the military revolution,
fairly steady. However the record shows that 1969 was a record year for



- 10 -
NIBID's business. Its approvals during the year, totalling Dr 813.1 million
(US$27.1 million equivalent), exceeded the aggregate of operations approved
during the first four years, 1964-67, and were 56% higher than the approvals
of 1968. During the first half of 1969, the volume of business was very
low, primarily because of the difficulty of negotiating foreign exchange
clauses with its borrowers. However, its operations registered a very sharp
rise in the second half of 1969, after the Government has agreed to assume
the foreign exchange risk on the sub-loans extended by NIBID out of the Bank
funds (see para. 43 ).
38.   The average size of NIBIDts operations up to December 31, 1969 has
been Dr 16.7 million (Us$557,000 equivalent). NIBID's policy statement
restricts it to a maximum exposure equivalent to 25% of net worth in any
one project: this now means an upper limit of about Dr 87 million (US$2.9
million equivalent).  NIBID's Executive Committee is considering amending
the limit to 20% of net worth plus the proposed Dr 300 million subordinated
loan, an upper limit of about Dr 120 million (US$4 million equivalent).
The largest operations to date are the two loans of Dr 75 million each,
extended to Aluminium of Greece, S.A. and Goodyear-Hellas S.A. respectively,
and the loan of Dr 60 million to and the investment of Dr 15 million in
Owens Illinois Glass Co.
39.   NIBID's lending and equity investments are well diversified, with no
one industry dominating the portfolio.  The textiles industry has received
the largest amount of financing with 17% of the total. Building materials
plants follow with 12%, food products factories 10% and chemical industry
(including pharmaceutical producers) 9%. All other industrial classifica-
tions have each received less than 9% of NIBID's financing.
40.   The location of projects assisted has followed closely the dispersiorn
of industry in Greece. The geographical distribution of NIBID's loans is
shown by the map in Annex 7. Fifty-four per cent of NIBID's financing has
been for projects in the Athens/Piraeus area. While the capital area con-
tinues to dominate the Greek industrial scene, the financial incentives to
locate elsewhere are beginning to attract industrialists to other locali-
ties. NIBID's three largest operations (Aluminium of Greece, Goodyear-
Hellas and Owens Illinois Glass) are all located outside Athens.
41.   Since Greece has a fairly long-established manufacturing sector, much
of NIBID's business has been directed toward the modernization and expansioni
of existing companies. To this extent it has been financing established
businesses and entrepreneurs. Nevertheless, 24% by number and 26% by value
of its financing activity has gone to the setting up of new projects and
companies. This split between old and new projects is not unreasonable,
given the present stage of development of the Greek manufacturing sector.
Loan Operations
42.   Loan Terms.  During the two years, 1968-69, 96% of NIBID's
approvals were straightforward loans, most of them for 10-year terms
with  interest  at  8.5%.   The  basic  interest  rate  permitted  for
investment bank funds is 8.5% plus a profit-tied increment



- 11 -
of up to 1.5% to bring total yield to 10%, which is the return NIBID was
negotiating in 1966 and 1967. However, long-term lending in Greece became
more competitive since early 1968 and the profit participation element becane
much more difficult to negotiate with borrowers. Only 32% of the loans ex-
tended during the past two years gave NIBID the right to the additional re-
turn and, for those that did, the increment was only 0.5%. In addition to
straight loans, NIBID has also made debenture loans, some with conversion
features. In some cases, NIBID combines more than one type of loan to one
comPanY. Six of the nine debenture loans made by NIBID since 1964 have
conversion features on all or part of the loan; three others are loans made
under the special terms of law 3746, which gives privileges to holders of
certain approved debentures for which the Government wishes to encourage
public subscription. Interest on these '13746t? bonds is tax-exempt. To
date, NIBID has exercised its conversion rights with respect to two of the
debenture loans and the shares so acquired amount to Dr 8.6 million.
43. Under the terms of the Bank Loan Agreement, NIBID is obliged to cover
itself against the exchange risk in lending from the Bank loan. When it
was the practice of HIDB to insist on a "dollar clause", regardless of the
currency lent, and when money was tighter, INIBID had no difficulty in get-
ting clients to accept this risk. However, since HIDB dcropped this require-
ment and the tight credit situation eased in 1968, NIBID has been encoun-
tering difficulty in getting foreign exchange obligations in a situation
where drachma is readily convertible for capital goods imports. NIBID
ultimately obtained the Greek Government's agreement to bear the foreign
exchange risk on NIBID's loans made from the proceeds of the first Bank
loan. NIBID had already lent US$1.5 million of the Bank funds to clients
which absorbed the risk, before the agreement was reached; the Bank of
Greece therefore assumed the risk on the remaining US$11 million of the
Bank loan. An agreement providing this guarantee was signed on January 20,
1970 between NIBID and the Bank of Greece. NIBID will not be charged for
this. NIBID expects to negotiate similar arrangements on foreign exchange
funds it will obtain in the future.
44.   Quality of Loan Portfolio.  Principal maturities and interest in
arrears, over three months at December 31, 1969, aggregated approximately
Dr 9.4 million. They relate to 13 loans whose outstanding principal amounts
to Dr 98.5 million, corresponding to 9.5% of loan portfolio. (A total
amount of Dr 3.5 million from four delinquent borrowers, representing 37%
of total arrears as of December 31, 1969, had been collected during the
first six weeks of 1970.) About half of these are tourism loans, particu-
larly to hotel projects in Rhodes, which had a very poor tourist season in
1968. However, serious efforts were made to attract new bookings, and
business has picked up a great deal in 1969. With some moderate reschedul-
ing of repayments, the hotel projects should be able to meet their obliga-
tions. The remaining arrears relate to breweries, textiles, and chemical
products manufacturers. NIBID is watching each case closely and, since all
loans are well secured by mortgages, there are no projects in arrears in
which NIBID seems likely to suffer any losses. Moreover, provisions that



- 12 -
have been made against possible losses are about Dr 48.1 million, which is
more than sufficient to cover accounts in trouble. In the circumstances,
NIBID' s loan portfolio can be characterized as sound.
Equity Pperations
45.  As of December 31, 1969, NIBID's equity portfolio, consisting of
shares in nine companies, had a book value of Dr 64.2 million, equivalent
to 5.8% of the total outstanding portfolio. One investment (Titan Cement)
accounted for Dr 40.5 million or 63% of the total. The shares of two com-
panies (ETMA Rayon Manufacturing Company, Dr 7.45 million; Keramiki Cedit
Ceramics Company, Dr 3.6 million) were acquired as a result of NIBID's
exercising conversion rights. Six of the nine companies have been profit-
able and, of these, five have been distributing dividends. One company is
stiU under construction and two others are not yet profitable. A tabula-
tion of NIBID's equity portfolio at December 31, 1969 is shown in Annex 8.
The relatively low volume of equity operations is in part explained by a
disinclination of closely controlled, family companies to accept outside
shareholders. On NIBID's part also, there has been reluctance to invest in
equity in family-held firms where minority shareholders run heavy risks.
But NIBID continues to seek opportunities for prudent equity investments,
advantageous both to NIBID and its clients. At December 31, 1969, the
market value of NIBID's equity portfolio was approximately 241% of acquisi-
tion value. Much of this is attributable to NIBID's holdings of Titan
Cement shares for which there has been a heavy demand in 1969. Although
NIBID is arranging to sell some of these shares, the thinness of the market
indicates that this must be done with restraint in order to maintain a
reasonable price. Dividends received by NIBID in the first half of 1969
were equivalent to an annual return on average portfolio of 4.2% compared
with 2.8% realized in 1968. The general quality of the equity portfolio iz.
good. Dividend yields on it are still low, however, and profits are likely
to come more through sales of shares than through dividend payments.
Arthur D. Little-Hellas S.A.
46.   From the start of its operations NIBID had recognized that technical
(i.e. engineering and production) evaluation of projects was perhaps the
weakest link in its operations. At the same time, NIBID's management felt
that to develop its own staff to include the experience needed to analyze
a wide variety of technical projects would be difficult and expensive.
NIBID therefore explored the possibility of delegating the more complex
engineering and related technical work to consultants. But no suitable
firm existed in Greece. This lack of specialist consultants also appeared
to be a disadvantage to the requirements of Greek industry for moderniza-
tion and improvement. So NIBID interested Arthur D. Little, Inc. of
Cambridge, Massachusetts, in jointly sponsoring a consulting company in
Greece.  NIBID subscribed 30% of the share capital (Dr 5 million) of Arthrl-
D. Little-Hellas S.A. and Arthur D. Little, Inc. provided the remaining 70%
The company started business early in 1968 with two senior staff members of
Arthur D. Little, Inc., seconded to Greece as manager and senior consultantV



- 13 -
ADL-Hellas renders consulting services of a wide variety using its own
staff or, where necessary, hiring outside consultants either from ADL or
elsewhere. The company accepts suitable assignments from any source but
grants priority to consultancy work for NIBID and its clients. NIBID sup-
plies ADL-Hellas with certain administrative services (for which NIBID is
paid) and Arthur D. Little, Inc., Cambridge, has undertaken to pass to
ADL-Hellas projects which it would normally have undertaken in Greece or
the neighboring countries. ADL-Hellas clarges fees for its services; where
these relate to project evaluations on NIBID's behalf, the fee is passed on
by NIBID to the client, wherever possible.
47.   AlL-Hellas' first one and a half years of operations have been
encouraging. The two original staff members have been augmented by four
qualified Greek consultants and a total of 30 projects (worth US$400,000 in
fees) have been completed or are in progress. Ten of these relate to pro-
jects financed by NIBID and nine were assignments outside Greece (Algeria,
Switzerland and Abu Dhabi were among the countries in which work was done).
This level of business was some 50% higher than the sponsors had forecast.
Despite heavy establishment expenses, ADL-Hellas is breaking even and should
make a modest profit from 1969 onwards.
48.  NIBID's investment in ADL-Hellas may be counted as a successful start
to an unusual experiment in solving some aspects of the technical evaluation
problem of a development finance company. The financial attraction of the
investment is modest, and is greatly outweighed both by the added dimensioa
which has been given to NIBID's appraisal capabilities and particularly by
the fact that ADL-Hellast widening circle of clients is both an actual and
potential scurce of new business for NIBID. With its ability to call on a
wide range of skills from its parent company, ADL-Hellas is also helping to
introduce a more modern outlook in production and marketing efforts to
Greek business management and has already secured a number of assignments
(particularly in electronic data processing and in marketing techniques)
from important Greek organizations. ADL-Hellas has been particularly
encouraged by the repeat business it is getting from scme of its earlier
clients; NIBID also benefits from this trend both as regards facilitating
follow-up work and as keeping NIBID closely in the picture when clients are
considering expansion plans. Finally, the physical proximity of ADL-Hellas,
which rents office space from NIBID, has many advantages in enabling staff
to meet and discuss projects informally and in arranging for joint meetings
with clients.
Capital Market WIork
49.  NIBID is concerned with the need in Greece to stimulate and diversify
the flow of capital and to develop an investing public for industrial shares
particularly. NIBID's management believes that the company stands to bene-
fit from a more active market for securities, and would be able to enhance
its resources for new business if greater opportunities existed for sales
from its portfolio.  One idea that NIBID is exploring in this connection is
the creation of a mutual fund. Jointly with the International Basic Economy
Corporation (IBEC), which has experience in the operation of mutual funds.



particularly in Latin America and Spain, NIBID sponsored a study of the
prospects for such a fund in Greece. This study concluded that scope exists
for a mutual fund and IBEC has been sufficiently encouraged to continue
discussions with NIBID and to submit draft legislation to the Greek Govern-
ment. This legislation is now in final form and likely to become law withiii.
a few months. NIBID's management has been discussing, in outline, the form
such a fund would take, and the possibility of an IFC investment in the
managing company.
IV. FINhNCIAL RECORD
Income) Eapenses and Profitability
50.   Income statements for NIBID's first six years, 1964-69, are given in
Annex 10. Earnings before tax and provisions have increased about 50% in
the three years between 1967 and 1969, and were equivalent to 10.4% on
share capital in 1969, compared with 7% in 1967 and 8% in 1968. However,
in terms of net profit on average net worth, NIBID's profitability was only
4% in 1969, compared with 3.8% in 1968. This is attributable to the fact
that NIBID's leverage is still not large and it operates with fairly narrow
margins between its borrowings and lending rates. M14oreover, it has charged
generous amounts to provisions for possible losses. Under the Greek tax
law, investment banks are allowed to set aside each year an amount of up to
2% of average portfolio (increased from 1% to 2% in 1968) for a provision
against possible losses, a tax deductible item. To reduce its tax liability
NIBID has charged the full provision against income since 1965 but claims,
with justification, that the amount exceeds a prudent requirement for pos-
sible losses. To this extent, NIBID profits have been understated each
year. It is reasonable to consider that any such charges, which result in
a cumulative provision for possible losses in excess of 2% of NIBID's loan
and equity portfolio, constitute hidden profits. Consequently, on this
basis, NIBID's real net profits for 1968 and 1969 would be Dr 21.7 million
and Dr 22.8 million compared with the published profit figures of Dr 12.3
million and Dr 13.3 million, respectively. Returns on net worth and share
capital before and after the hidden profit adjustments are compared as
follows:
1968      1969
Net profit (as published):
As % of average net worth           3.8%      4.o%
As % of year-end share capital      4-.%      4-4%
Net profit (adjusted):
As % of average net worth           6.6%      6.6%
As % of year-end share capital      7.2%      7.6%
51.   The average yield from its loan portfolio is approximately 8.5%.  Tb:'
return from its equity investments is, as yet, insignificant. NIBID's bo'-
rowed funds as of the end of 1969 cost an average of 5.5%.  Administrative



- 15 -
costs have fallen in relation to average total assets (from 2.2% in 1965 to
0.8% in 1969) but there seems little scope for further significant reductions
in this ratio without impairing efficiency. NIBID operates, therefore, on a
gross spread of only about 3% and, given fairly low leverage to date, NIBID's
profitability cannot yet be considered attractive. NIBID paid its first
dividend of 2% in 1968, out of 1967 earnings, and the pay-out ratio (based on
real earnings) was 46%. A 3% dividend was paid in 1969 against the 1968
earnings. The pay-out ratio was 42%. The dividend rate is expected to be
increased to 4% in 1970. Distributed profits are subject to tax only in thae
hands of the recipients.
Financial Position
52.  Balance sheets from NIBIDns first year of operation are given in Annex 9
and those as of December 31, 1967, 1968 and 1969 are summarized below (Dr
million):                                            December 31
1967      1968       1969
Assets
Current assets                   30.5       44.5       66.0
Temporary investments           155.0    150.0        150.0
Loans                           497-7      632.6    1,040.1
Equity investments               42.2       44.7       64.2
Less provisimns                  (11-3)    (23.4)     (48.1)
Fixed assets                      0.7        1.0        1.0
714.8     849.4    1,273.2
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities              30.5       30.5       35.6
Long-term debt                  365.0      496.2      916.0
Share capital and reserves      319.3      322.7      321.6
714.8     849.4    1,273.2
During 1969, NIBID's loan and equity portfolio grew by 63% compared with the
increase of 25% in 1968. The disbursement rate during 1968 was slower than
usual due to the bottleneck in finalizing commitments (see para 54), but the
pace increased sharply in 1969. As of December 31, 1969, the entire amounts
of the first Bank of Greece loan and the first NBG loan, Dr 300 million each,
and Dr 145 million under the second NBG loan had been dratwn. The IBRD loarn
started to be disbursed in early 1969 and the total disbursements reached
US$5.4 million by the end of December. The ratio of total long-term borrow-
ings to net worth at the end of 1969 was 2.6:1. NIBID's liquid funds, which
have been maintained at approximately the same level as in the previous years,
are mostly invested in 6% tax-free Treasury Bills.
53.   Provisions and reserves at December 31, 1969 totalled Dr 69.7 million,
equivalent to 6.3% of loan and equity portfolio value at that date, which is
more than sufficient to cover any possible losses on doubtful accounts. The
book value of NIBID's shares at that date stood at 116% of par, compared
with 111% at the end of 1968 and 107% at the end of 1967.



- 16 -
V. FUTURE OPERATIONS
Operational Forecasts
54. Estimates for NIBID's future business cannot be realistically based
on the investment targets given in the Greek Development Plan 1968-1972 since
the plan is indicative only. Moreover, the level of investment activity
since the beginning of the plan period, coupled with an evident lack of a
reservoir of large industrial projects near the implementation stage, sug-
gests that the plan is over-optimistic and its targets unlikely to material-
ize. Nevertheless, manufacturing investment has risen in 1968/69.
According to official figures, projects under execution in the first nine
months of 1969 were valued at Dr 7.2 billion, compared with Dr 4.2 billion
for the whole of 1968. Given the present degree of investor confidence,
investment should continue to grow and, given the necessary resources, NIBID
should be able at least to maintain its share of the financing required.
NIBID's share may in fact increase partly because NIBID itself is becoming
better known and is capable of handling a higher volume. During the three
years to 1967, NIBID's disbursements totalled Dr 650 million, approximately
6% of gross private manufacturing investment during that period. Disburse-
ments in 1968 were unusually low, in comparison with the record level of
approvals, because of a backlog of projects awaiting execution of loan
documents late in the year; this situation has been reflected in much
higher disbursements in 1969. Taking 1968/1969 together, disbursements
will total approximately Dr 668 million. This represents between 8%-10%
of manufacturing investment during these two years (excluding shipping).
55.   The level of approvals forecast by NIBID is given in Annex 11.  .
detailed study of the projects currently being processed by NIBID, as well
as the evidence of past growth, suggests that these assumptions are well
founded (particularly so far as 1970 business is concerned). Such approval
levels, taken with projects already approved but not disbursed, would result
in disbursoiqents over the years 1968-72 (the period of the Greek Development
Plan) of Dr 3.2 billion. This represents 7.8% of the total private invest-
ment in manufacturing and mining forecast for the plan; if, as is evident,
the plan figures are overstated, NIBID's disbursements seem likely to amouait,
to nearer 10% of investments which confirms the experience of the most
recent years.
56.   As to the composition of future business between equity and loan
approvals, NIBID hopes that equity operations will become more important as
Greece's industrial base and capital market grow and expand. In absolute
terms, NIBID expects its equity approvals in 1974 to reach an annual level
of Dr 100 million.
57.   Foreign Exchange Component.  Prior to the first Bank loan, NIBID did
not differentiate between the need of a client for domestic currency and hIts
need for foreign exchange since the latter could readily be obtained by
investors and since its own obligations were in drachmas.  In appraising
NIBID's business for the first loan, it was noted that over 50% of the cos'
of the projects financed at that time involved foreign exchange. Experi-rcn.
in 1968 and 1969 confirms that this figure remains valid.  Moreover, on the
lasi3 of use of NIBID's funds, 67% of total 1968 and 1969 approvals were t
be used to finance imported capital goods.



- 17 -
Resource Needs and Sources
58. Needs. Up to December 31, 1969, N IBIDts resources totalled Dr 1,92'.6
million comprising Dr 347.6 million share capital and reserves and Dr 1,5W'
million in loans. In addition, internal cash generation during NIBID's
existence has totalled about Dr 100 million.  Total net approvals by NI1BID
up to the end of 1969 amounted to Dr 2,020.5 million; therefore on the basis
of approvals, NIBID's aggregate resources had been fully exhausted by the
end of 1969.
59.   As noted in paragraph 55, NIBID's forecasts appear reasonable.  The
detailed forecasts are given in Annex 11; the assumptions used in calculating
the projections are given in Annex 13. In the light of its experience in the
past, NIBID should be able to achieve these levels of business. Given the
need to continue pressure on NIBID to seek resources from other sources, th3
Bank considers the period over which the proposed loan should be applied to
be approximately 18 months from the time NIBID fully exhausted its existing
resources. Given this time horizon NIBID's resource requirements to cover
approvals (delays between commitments and approvals are not significant for
the purposes of forecasting resource requirements) during the period
January 1, 1970 to June 30, 1971 will be as follows (Dr million):
Total resource requirements for
approvals during January 1,1970-June 30, 1971    1,250
Of which foreign exchange expenditure
(67% of total)                                      834
(US$ 28 million)
60.   Consequently, NIBID's foreign exchange requirements for the above
period total US$28 million. However, the Bank has never attempted to fully
cover NIBIDts foreign exchange disbursements in recognition of the facts
that (a) as stated above, the Bank wants to encourage NIBID to look toward
other foreign lenders and (b) the drachma is freely convertible as far as
capital imports are concerned and thus NIBID can use local currency to
cover some of its foreign exchange needs.
61.   Sources.  For its local currency requirements, NIBID will use the
Government subordinated loan of Dr 300 million (see para. 65) and additional
loans from NBG  and the Bank of Greece.  Assurances have been obtained from
both banks that further funds will be available. NIBID also hopes to raise
funds by issuing convertible bonds in the local market, but this would not
be until 1972.  At this time, however, the resources NIBID has firmly in
sight are as follows:
Proposed subordinated loan           Dr 300 million
Internal cash generation through
June 30, 1971                       123   "
Dr 423 million
This amount will cover the local currency component of NHBID?s business tF
to mid-1971. Foreign exchange resources present more of a problem.
Ir. Condicas has visited the princpal European capltal ivarkets. as well ns
Net; York, to explore the :pc,sibilities o1 KIB:r' ais.-r  a. Iang--term Ioan.



- 18 -
He found that it was impossible to do so on terms that NIBID could afford.
NIBID was to have received funds from the European Investment Bank at the
time of the first IBRD loan, but EI3 financing was withheld due to the 1967
revolution and is unlikely to resume in the near future.  Although NIBID
should and will continue to seek alternative sources of foreign exchange,
the Bank, at this time, represents its only realistic source.
62.   All things considered, a Bank loan of US$20 million is considered
reasonable. This is well within NIBID's actual foreign exchange expendi-
tures over the forecast period. It means that NIBID will have to line up
additional resources of about Dr 230 million equivalent to cover its
aoprovals over the next 18 months. If it remains difficult for NIBID to
borrow abroad, this resource gap can most likely be covered by additional
domestic borrowing.
Capital Structure
63.   As has been noted above, NIBID's earnings are still modest and its
spread small. There seems little scope for widening the latter. To improvc
the yield on net worth, NIBID will have to increase its leverage, increase
its spread or both. With the present debt/equity ratio limitation of 4:1
and a net spread of less than 2%, the yield on equity could not improve
much over 8%. Moreover, the 4:1 ratio will be exceeded (on a disbursement
basis) by the end of 19701/. Consequently, NIBID faced a situation where
it either had to increase the 4:1 limit or broaden its borrowing base, or
both, if it was to continue to undertake a high volume of business.
6h.   NIBID's Board and management considered an increase in the debt/equity
ratio justified, but they also felt that a reasonable way to achieve
increased leverage on share capital and an improvement in NIBID's margins
would be to obtain additional low cost funds on terms which would permit
their inclusion in NIBID's equity base for the puroose of calculating the
debt limit. NIBID's management, supported by its Directors, believes that
it is appropriate that the private investment banks in Greece should recsivc
a measure of Government assistance in their efforts to help industrial
development. The banks point out that a wide range of incentives is avail-
able to private investors, particularly foreign investors, and that banke
able to mobilize foreign exchange resources should receive similar support.
65.   In February 1970, these discussions resulted in an agreement, in
principle, being reached whereby the Greek Government will provide NIBID
with a loan of Dr 300 million carrying 3.5% interest and repayable in 15
years including a 10-year grace period. The loan will be drawn in two eoi'<1
tranches in 1970 and 1971. The terms of the loan are such that it will rark
subordinated to all other debts and pari passu with net worth in the event
of liquidation. In accordance with the Bank's standard practice, the pro-
portion of the loan maturing after the last maturity of the proposed Bank
loan is eligible for inclusion in NIBID's equity for purposes of determining
the company's borrowing limit. It is estimated that some 50% of the sub-
1/ For purposes of calculating NIBID's net worth, it is reasonable to
include provisions for possible losses in excess of 2% of the port-
folio which are charged for tax reasons (see paragraplt50 and 67 onxd
hrinex 9). The ratios discussed above incorpur xta this adjuetaern.t.



- 19 -
subordinated loan would not be due for pay,ment until the proposed Bank loan
is fully amortised. Accordingly, that portion would qualify for inclusion in
NIBID's equity.
66.   It is also reasonable, given NIBID's performance and the strength of its
portfolio, to increase the debt limit ratio from 4:1 to 5:1. This would
enable NIBID to operate on the basis of its present projections until about rmid-
1973 and to make firm commitments to its clients until the end of 1972. This
borrowing limit would allow a total debt/net worth ratio of 7.5:1, a reasonable
degree of leverage given the experience of NIBID, the quality of its nortfolio
and the environment in which it works.
Projected Financial Position
67.   Profitability.  Projected income statements for the years 1970 through
1974 are included in Annex 10. NI3ID's profits before provisions and taxes
are expected to grow from Dr 31.3 million (9.2% of average net worth) in 1969
to Dr 54 million (14.7% of average net worth) in 1971 and Dr 77 million
(16.2% of average net worth) in 1974. Adjusting net profits to reflect the
excess charges made for provisions (see para. 50), the profit figures for
1970, 1971 and 1972 would be as follows   (Dr million):
1969       1970        1971       1972
(Actual)     ---     - Forecast --------
Net profit as per forecast
income statements          13.3        19.0       22.0        22.0
Profit before provisions    31.3         41.0       5h.o        62.0
Annual provision charges
required to maintain
cumulative provisions
at 2% of year-end
portfolio                   8.5        1h.8       12.4        11.0
Estimated real net profit   22.8         26.2       h1.6        51.0
As % of average net worth    7.0%         7.5%      11.3%       12.4%
As % of share capital         7.6%        8.7%      13.9%       17.0%
68.   Consequently, by 1971 NIBID will be approaching a reasonable level of
earnings on its equity.  Dividends of 5% are forecast for 1969 and 6% for
1970 and 1971 which, on the basis of estimated real earnings, represent a
pay-out ratio of 57, 433% and 35%, respectively. Administrative expenses,
while increasing at an average of approximately 15 per annum in absolute
terms, should decline relative to average total assets to about 0.5% in
1972 from 1.1% in 1968.



- 20 -
69.   Debt Service Coverage.  Projected cash flow statements for the years
1970 through 19Th are given in Annex 12. These and the Projected income
statements (Annes 10) show that the debt service cover would be adequate for
the forecast period. Annual interest payments throughout the period range
from 58% to 75% of NIBID's annual profits before financial expenses.  Prin-
cipal repayments by NIBID in any one year winl at the most amount to 65% of
the collections received by it during the same year.  The over-all debt
service cover was 2.0 times in 1969 and -Till be 1.6 times in 1970-72, and
i.5 times in 1973-74. Debt service cover beyond the period of the forecast
would also remain satisfactory. Principal repayments by NIBID in resnect
of the Government subordinated loan will start from 1980. The cover is
estimated at 1.3-1.4 times during 1975 and 1980. This will decline to
about 1.2 times in 1981 and 1982 and 1.1 times in 1983 and 1984.
70.   Projected Balance Sheets.  Projected balance sheets through 1974 are
shown in Annex 9. As a result of the raDid build-up in business since
1967, NIBID's total assets will more than double from the end of 1969 to the
end of 1971, at which time NIBID will be about a US$88 million (equivalent)
concern. NIBID's debt/equity borrowing ratio (as defined in para. 65) at
the end of 1970 will be 3.6:1; this will increase to 4:1 by 1971, 4.7:1 by
1972 and 5.3:1 by 1973. The total debt/net worth ratio will increase from
1.5 at the end of 1968 to 6.9 at the end of 1973. The rapid build-up of
provisions from Dr 23.4 million at the end of 1968 to Dr 135 million at the
end of 1972 results from the fact that NIBID can now charge an annual amount
of up to 2% of its portfolio as a tax deductible expense. NIBID intends to
maintain its liquid funds in absolute terms at about its present level,
although as a proportion of total assets they will decline.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOM@ENDATIONS
71.   Since the first Bank loan became effective, some 20 months ago, NIBID
has continued to enjoy a fairly high volume of business. This level of
business has been attained despite a cutback in Greek economic growth in
1967-68, particularly a fall in private industrial investment. NIBID has
eaen able to achieve this through a combination of factors. It has gained
the reputation of being an efficient and helpful partner and its management
is resourceful and aggressive in its efforts to find good business. NIBID re-
tains close and beneficial links with NBG, the most important financial insti-
tution in Greece. At the same timej, supported by IFC and its other foreign
shareholders, NIBID's identity as an autonomous institution has been main-
tained.
72.   Some wieaknesses in 1IBID's organization, apparent at the time of the
first loan, have been corrected or improved; others still need further effort.
Technical evaluation of the larger and more technically complex projects haz
teveloped since ADL-Hellas was established.  Follow-up of existing loans has
now been systematically organized. There have been considerable improvementrs
in NIBID's appraisal capability although some aspects of NIBID's written
reports are still in need of improvement. In part this may be caused by con-
straints in revealing confidential information in reports with quite wide
circulation. But the Bank's view has been conveyed to NIBID and, bearing in



- 21 -
mind the difficulty of obtaininig and training staeff, the response has been
satisfactory. Notwithstanding these weaknesses, NIBID's portfolio is basically
sound, the arrearage position satisfactory and no projects give cause for
serious concern in terms of repayment. NIBID has also agreed that a more
explicit analysis of the economic aspects of projects would be beneficial
and such an analysis will be incorporated in NIBID's work in the future.
73.   In purely financial terms, NIBID's impact on the Greek economy has so
far been modest. Nevertheless, it has been making a steady and increasing
contribution to industrial investment, it has been active in assisting joint
ventures, it has introduced higher standards of project evaluation to many
clients and through its efforts a new consulting company has been established.
NIBID has undoubtedly made its mark on the Greek scene. The Bank Group's
initiative in assisting it, both as shareholder and lender, has been a
material factor in this achievement.
74.   NIBID's volume of business will total about Dr 1,250 million (TJS$42
million equivalent) in approvals during the next 18 months. Two thirds of
its operations typically represent imDorts of foreign goods and services.
The recommended loan of US$20 million would be well within NIBID's actual
foreiPn eXchange expenditures.  It would mean that I\BID would still have a
resource gap of about Dr 2h0 million but NIBID should be able to cover the
balance with either additional domestic loans, or if conditions change and
foreign loan sources open up to NIBID on reasonable terms, with foreign loans.
75.   NIBID's forecast of its future operations is realistic and, with
sufficient resources, it should be able to achieve the projected levels.
NIBID's financial position is sound. Earnings will improve in the future.
NIBID remains a creditworthy borrower.
76.   Under the first Bank Loan Agreement, the free limit was US$200,000
equivalent (based on NIBID's total commitment to a prject both in foreign
exchange and local currency). Of the 21 projects totalling US$12.5
million credited to the loan account as of January 31, 1970, 18 projects
amounting to US$12.1 million or 97.2% of the total has been reviewed by
the Bank. In view of the quality of NIBID's management and staff, and of
the improvement in its appraisal and follow-up work, an increase in the
free limit is justified. On the basis of the projects' being processed
by NIBID, it is estimated that with a free limit of US$500,000, 75% of
the loans using Bank funds would go to projects requiring prior approval
by the Bank. It is recommended, therefore, that the free limit be raised
to Us$500,000 equivalent (based on NIBID's total local and foreign currency
commitment) with a limit on the aggregate amount to be used for projects
below the free limit equivalent to 25% of the proposed loan (US$5 million).
The free limit proposed would coincide with the limit given the local
members of the Executive Committee by the full Committee. The other terms
of the loan would conform to those normally applied to development finance
company loans.
IBRD/DFC
March 11, 1970



ANkMX 1
Page 1
NATIOIqAL INVESTMENr BANK FO,?t INDUSTRIAL DEVELO.MENT S.A.
Statement of Policies and Procedures
(Adopted by the Board, June 30, 1965)
I. Objectives of the Bank
(1) Promotion of industrial and related activities by providing
finance for the establishment of new productive enterprises as
well as for the modernization and expansion of existing ones,
all in the private sector.
(2) Development of the capital market in Greece, by underwriting
and distributing issues of shares and bonds and by distribut-
ing its own investments when they mature.
(3) Facilitating contracts and joint ventures of Greek and
foreign entrepreneurs to promote the participation of foreign
capital and technical and managerial skills in the development
of the rGreek economy.
(4) Supply of economic, technical and organizational advice to
enterprises.
The Bank intends in carrying out its objective to adhere to the
following broad policies.
II. Scope and Nature of Operation
A. Eligible Enterprises and Projects
(1) Financing is made available only for projects which will
contribute to the economic growth of the country.
(2) Financing is restricted to private enterprises. The exist-
ence of a minority governmental or semi-governmental participa-
tion will not necessarily preclude an enterprise from being
assisted by the Bank provided such participation does not
result in effective control of such enterprise.
(3) Financing will be provided for the establishment of new enter-
prises, as well as for the expansion and improvement of exist-
ing ones.
(4) Eligible for assistance are productive enterprises engaged in
industry, mining, shipping, tourism, and related activities.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
B.  Investment Policy
(1) Projects of the enterprises requesting financing will be
considered on the basis of their economic, technical and
financial merits and on the soundness of the management.
(2) Projects to be financed will refer to needs of capital for
fixed assets and working capital of a permanent nature. The
Bank will not finance working capital by means of short-
term loans.
(3) The Bank provides finance according to the suitability of
each project in the form of :
(a) direct long-term or medium-term loans with a duration
not less than 5 years;
(b) loans participating in profits and loans with equity
features;
(c) direct equity investments;
(d) guarantees;
(e) undernriting of public issues.
(4) In examining projects the Bank will consider whether the
size of its financing constitutes a reasonable proportion
of the total financing requirement of the project and
whether the form of the financing from all sources will
result in a sound capital structure of the enterprise.
(5) Since the Bank is a financial institution, its object is to
finance productive enterprises, not to manage them. However,
when the Bank considers it necessary, it mey be represented
in the Board of Directors of the enterprise concerned.
(6) The Bank is not seeking a controlling interest with any
enterprise it finances but will leave the management and
control in the hands of the entreoreneurs, except in
special circumstances as those connected with an under-
writing or the necessity of safe-guarding an investment
already made.
C. Development of the Capital Mlarket
(1) The Bank will try to rotate its investment portfolio to a
reasonable extent.
Aiming at the development of the capital market in Greece
and as a means of broadening direct participation of private
savings in economic development the Bank will underwrite and
distribute issues of shares and bonds of its clients and sell
its own investments wholly or certain percentages of it, to



ANNEX 1
Page 3
other private investors whenever it can do so on satisfactory
terms, having due regard not only to its own interest but also
to the interest of other participants in the investment sold, as
well as to the steady and sound growth of the Stock Exchange.
(2) The Bank, in its endeavor to expand the domestic capital
market, will promote public participation in investment through
the issuing of its own bonds.
III. Other Assistance to the Enterprises
(1) The operation of the Bank will not be limited exclusively to
the granting of financial assistance. It will also advise its
clients, when necessary, on the solution of their economic and
financial problems, thus increasing its contribution to the
Greek economy and safeguarding recovery of its own investments.
(2) In connection with the above, the Bank will supply technical,
financial and organizational assistance to enterprises of any
nature for the establishment, organization and operation
thereof.
IV. Financial Prudence
A. Security for Loans and Guarantees
(1) The Bank, in making financings through loans or guarantees,
will, where necessary, seek adequate security or guarantees.
However, recognizing the limitations of conventional security
as a safeguard in industrial investment and recognizing also
that the prestige of the Bank and its shareholders are bound
up in the success of the venture, the Bank will place primary
emphasis in reaching its judgments, not on the adequacy of the
security available, but on the prospective profitability of the
enterprise to cover repayments and making profits.
B. Diversification of Risks - Limits
(1) Financing will be diversified as far as possible regarding the
types of industries and their ownership.
(2) Commitments for equity participation to any single enterprise
will be limited to a sum not exceeding 20% of the Bank's share
capital and surplus accounts. Total commitments to any single
enterprise will not exceed 25% of the Bank's share capital and
surplus accounts. However, this limit may be exceeded temporarily
in special circumstances, such as those connected with an under-
writing or the necessity of safeguarding an investment already
made.
(3) Overall equity investments of the Bank will be limited to 1C(%
of its unimpaired equity (paid-in capital and surplus accounts).



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(4) In case that, by incurring external debt, the Bank must assume
a foreign exchange risk, it will pass the risk on to its ultimate
borrowers or find other suitable means to cover it.
C. Borrowing by the Bank
(1) The Bank, whenever it considers it necessary to broaden its
own facilities for operations, will accept term deposits or
obtain funds locally or abroad by the issue of bond loans and
by entering into loan agreements. In this connection, the
Bank will follow a prudent policy as far as debt acquisition
is concerned. Total debt will not exceed four times the amount
of the Bank's capital and surplus accounts.
(2) The Bank will arrange its borrowings so as to maintain a
proper relationship between the duration of its liabilities and
the duration of its assets, in order to safeguard its liquidity.
D. Profitability of Onerations
(1) Operating costs of the Bank will be left to a minimum consistent
with its purDose and the scope of its operations.
(2) The Bank will levy charges for its financings and services
sufficient to earn profits which yield a satisfactory return
on its investment and will provide for reserves consistent
with sound financial practice.
In providing assistance to enterprises requiring advice in the
formation, execution and operation of their projects, the Bank may
charge its customers with the cost of such services.
E. Reserves and Dividend Policy
(1) In determining its dividends the Bank will give precedence to
the establishment of adequate reserves, following a prudent
reserve policy.
F. Audit
(1) The accounting supervision of the Bank's operations will be
the responsibility of the official Auditors appointed at the
Ordinary General M4eeting. The annual audit of the Bank's
accounts will be made by qualified and independent auditors.
V. Procedures and Organization
(1) The Bank will endeavor to have an efficient and balanced
internal organization and staff which should be adequate to
make the necessary appraisal of investment proposals, to assist
its clients in the formulation and conduct of their projects anid
to follow closely the operations of the enterprises it finances,
in order thereby to safeguard its own investments and to protect
the interest of outside investors.



ANMEX 1
Page 5
(2) When it is more economical to do so, the Bank will use the
services of outside organizations rather than build up an
expensive staff of specialists and technical personnel.
(3) The General IManager will prepare periodically for its Board
of Directors brief reports covering the progress of the Bank's
activities and its financial position.
IBRD/DFC
April 9, 1969



A0JNEX 2
NATIONAL INVESTMNT BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT S. A.
List of Shareholders
(Jecember 31,1969)
Dr million   % of Total
National Bank of Greece                                 165.0        55-.
Banca di Credito Financiario (Mediobanca)                13.5          .5
Banque Lambert                                           6.8          2.3
Banque Nationale de Paris                                 4.5         1.5
Chase International Investment Corp.                     21.1         7.0
Compagnie Financiere et Industrielle S.A.                6.7          2.3
Credit Commercial de France                              4.5          1.5
Credit Lyonnais                                          4.5          1.5
Deutsche Bank                                           13.5          .5
Hambros Bank                                            13.5          4.5
Manufacturers Hanover International
Banking Corp.                                         12.7          4.2
Credit Suisse                                            4.2          1.4
Nordfinanz Bank                                          2.1          0.7
Svenska Handelsbanken                                     6.3         2.1
IFC                                                     21.1          7.0
300.0       100.0
IBRD/DFC
March 4, 1970



ANNEX 3
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT S.A.
Board of Directors and Executive Committee
(December 31, 1969)
Board of Directors
Chairman  -  Achilles Cominos, Governor, National Bank of Greece
IMembers   -  Constantine Eliascos, National Bank of Greece
H. H. Friedl, Deutsche Bank
Bodossakis Athanassiadis, Industrialist
Edvard Brandstrom, Svenska Handelsbanken
Nicholas Dritsas, Industrialist
George Gondicas, General Manager, NIBID
Hcrold F. Linder, InCernetional I'in:nce Corporation
D. --larinopoulos, Industrialist
Sando Lentati, lHlediobanca
John H. Lyons, Chase International Investment Corporation
Gre-ory Livieratos, Industrialist
George Mitsopoulos, National Bank of Greece
Constantine Papacharalambous, National Bank of Greece
J. de Roquefenil, Credit Commercial de Rrance
John Waage, ianufacturers Hanover International Banking Corp.
Michel d'ursel, Banque Lambert
Nicholas Chrissovelonis, Hambros Banc Limited
Executive Cormittee
Chairman  -  Achilles Cominos
Members   -  John lI. Lyons
Edvard Brandstrom
Nicholas Chryssovelonis
Constantine Papacharalambous
John W-Iaage
Observer - Harold. F. Linder
Mlember without vote - George Gondicas
IBRD/DFC
March 4, 1970



AkLss-aX 4
NATIONAL INVESTIYfENT BANK FOR rIDUSTRIAL DEVELOPIMENT S.A.
Organization List as of December 31, 1969
Professional
Staff         Other
Management
General Manager     )
Manager             )                         2
4
Advisers
Legal Adviser       )
Technical Adviser   )                        3
Operations Department (Project Appraisal)
Group I                                      7
Group II                                     6
Engineers                                       1
Legal Staff                                     3
Finance Department (Accounts)                   4             2
Follow-Up Department                            2
Secretarial a Administration Department         2            _
11
Messengers, etc.                                            6
30            17
IBRD/DFC
March h, 1970



iA;ia 5
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK FCR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT S.A.
Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements, January 1, 1964-December 31, 1969
1964     1965     1966      1967     1968      1969
Year by Year
Tho. of projects approved        4        7        24        15       24       47
Value of approvals
(Dr million)                   56.6    123.4    280.8      224.3  522.3   8P132L
Value of commitments
(Dr million)                   56.5     66.5    301.7      239.1   270.2    5C00.
V'alue of disbursements
(Dr million)                   44.8     27.7    263.4      212.1   173.6    494,3
Cinmulative
No. of projects approved         4       11        35        50      74        21'
Value of approvals
(Dr million)                   56.6    180.0    460.8      685.1 1,207.4  2,020.5
Value of commitments
(Dr million)                   56.6    123.0    424.7      663.8   934.0  1-43!hW
'Talue of disbursements
(Dr million)                   44.8     72.5    335.9      548.0   721.6  1215.6
IBRD/DFC
March 4, 1970



ANNEX 6
IATItiAL INVEST1IIT BANX FOR INIDUSTRIAL IEVELOPMENT S.A.
Characteristics of Operations 1/, Janiuary 1, 1964-December 31, 1969
Total as of
1964 - 1967                   1968                      12               December 31, 1969
NO.                 %     No.                        NO.                %    No.              __
A. Analysis by .ize
Below Dr 6 million                    25                 50       6                 25     15                32    46                36
Dr 6 to 15 million                    12                  24      6                 25     18                 386   36               30
Dr 16 to 30 million                    4                   8      7                 2       8                1?    19                16
Dr 30 to 60 million                    8                 16       3                 13      4                 9    15                12
Above Dr 60 million                    1                   2      2                 8       2                 4      5 *s
50                100%    24                100%    47                100%  121               100%
Average size (Dr million)             13.7                       21.8                      17.3                     16.7
Amount                    Amount                   Amount                  Amount
B.   Analysis by_u                          No.  (Dr million)  %      No.  (Dr million) %       No. (Dr million)  %   No. (Dr million)  %
New projects                          15       121.4      17      6      209.5      40      6      193.2     24   29    524.1        26
Expansion of Existing Eiterprises   35         563.7      83     18      312.8     60      32     619.9      76   92  1.L96.8        74
50      685.1    100%    24       522.3    100%    47       813.1    100% 121  2,020.5       100%
C.   Analysis by Industrial Category
Metal Products                         6       110.1      16      1       25.1       5      2      28.0      4      9    163.L        8
Textiles                               9        96.2     14       3       92.0     17       9     153.5    19    21    341.7         17
Paper and Printing                     1        40.0      6       3       13.2      3       2      75.0      9      6    128.2        6
Building Materials                     6       125.2     19       2       34.5      7       5      81.5    10    13    241.2         12
Hotels and Tourism                    10        60.6      9       1        7.0      1       1       8.0      1    12      75.6        4
Electrical Goods                       5        23.0      3       2      10.0       2       4     132.5    16    11    165.5          6
Shipping                               1         3.5       -      -          -       -      -       -        -      1      3.5        G
Chemicals, phlarmaceuticals            4        14.5       3      5     152.0      29       2      17.0      2    11    183.5         9
Food Products                          3        87.0     12       1       20.0      4      10      91.5    11    14    198.5         IC
)ther                                  5      125.0      18       6     168.5      32     12      226.1    28    23    519.6         26
50      685.1    100%    24       522.3    100%    47       813.1    100% 1121  2,020.5      100i%
i). Analysis by Types of Operation
Ordinary S%ares                         5        36.1       5      4       34.2       7      1       2.5        0  10      72.8        L
Preferred Shares                        1         1.1       -      -          -       -      -         -       -    1       1.1        -
Bond Loans                              7       157.5     23       2       15.1       3      -         -       -    9    172.6.-
Straight Loans                         37       490.4      72     18      473.0     90      L6     810.6    100  101  1.774.0         87
50      685.1    100%    24       522.3    100%    47      613.1    100% 121  2,020.5        100%
1/ Based on Executive Committee approvals, net of cancellations.
Loans to and equity participations in one enterprise made during
any calendar year are taken as one operation.
I3RD/DFC
March 4, 1970



Anne 7
- p   v  <        B U L G A R I A
Y U G O S L A V  I A
(,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)~ ~~~~~~~C
314, 500,00~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
t   -     W        f             >       * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SALONICA 
E P I R E        :T H E S S A L Y                                                                 ... ..f
>  271,70,000)S T E R E A    \<>v 
0 0~ ~ ~ ~ ~
fW0f (,i   Apt tS    .a4H i~~~~~~AVi 
P ELOPONNESE   XS. -                                         
., - /     \   - 't;  '  .  1,~~097,800,0 0 - . ,.                       '
GREECE
LOCATION  OF  PROJECTS  FINANCED                                                                                 RHODES
BY NIBID UP TO
DECEMBER  31, 1969
.            TOTAL AMOUNT APPROE A , 2,D2D,N S 0,N   -
NUMBER CF POUECTS 121
0     25     50      75     100 MILLS                             A S0IPPI%:- PRC%EC'  (DR.3.3 M1LLAO-IS) AND A TCUFI ST
CRUISE SHIP PROJECT (DR.10 MIL INO 1AVE BEN OMITTED.
MARCH  1070                                                                                                          IERO - 27-00



ANNEl 8
NATIONAL INVhSTNENT BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMfNT S.A.
Equity Portfolio as of December 31, 1969
(Dr million)
Company and Industry                Date of NIBID  Total Cost % of Total Share  Cost Price  Latest Net P/lt  Last Dividend/Sharel/Current Market Price
Investment   to NIBID    Held by NTRID      Per Share    Per Share _                %             Per Share as of
December 31, 1969
PROFITABLE COMPANIES DISTRIBUTING DIVIDENDS
"Titan" S.A.               Cement                  Dec. 1964 -   40,472,500         10.6%           669.20_/'   36.70                    3.6%                 2,040.00
Dec. 1969
"Etmla"                    Textiles                Apr. 1969 -     7,451,540         2.9%           250.50        16.90                 6.9%                    506.30
Dec. 1969
"Rellenit" S.A.            Cenisnt                 Nov. 1967       2,845,000         1.4%         2,845.00       551.00                 7.0%
"Keramiki-Cedit" S.A.      Ceramics                Apr. 1967 -     3,600,000        20.2%          1,000.00    1,227.60                 6.0%
June 1969
Ach. Couppas & Co. S.A.  Machinery                Mar. 1966       1,155,500          8.7%         1,155.50      249.10                  1.7%
PROFITABLE COMPANIES NOT DISTRIBUTING DIVIDENDS
Hellenic Synthetic        Synthetic Fibers        Dec. 1964       2,184,000         39.0%         1,000.00        -
Fibres S.A.
COMPANIES STARTING UP OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION
ADL-Hellas S.A.           Technical Consulting    June 5, 1968    1,500,000         30.0%           1,000.00
UNPROFITABLE COMPANIES
Panobel S.A.              Fiberboard              Aug. 3, 1964    1,800,000          6.o%           1,000.00    (61.30)
Aspioti-Elka              Printing                June 30, 1969   3,200,000          7.4%           1,000.00    (17.80)
64,208,540
1/ Average cost
Y/ Tear ended December 31, 1968
IBRD/DFC
March 9, 1970



ANNEX 9
NATIONAL INVESTBNT BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVEWP24024T S.A.
Year-End Balance Sheets-Actual Decesber .31. 19614-1969 and Proj~ected Dlecemeber 31. 1970-19714
(Dr million)
December 31                                                             December 31
19614      1965       1966          1967         1968          1969        1970         1971          1972         1973       1974
-( -------------   Audited                     ------------------------------   Projec_ted  ----                          ---
Assets
Cash and short-term deposits            78.3        55.4        1.9          13.7         26.8          36.6        31.0         46.o          61.0         77.0       84.0
Greek Treasury Bills                    60.0        95.0      155.0         155.0        150.0         150.0       150.0        150.0         150.0        150.0      150.0
Receivables, accrued incace,etc.         1.9         1.7        7.9          16.8         17.7          29.4        29.0         39.0          51.0         67.0       87.0
Total Current Assets           140.2       152.1      164.8         185.5        194.5         216.0       210.0        235.0         262.0        294.0       321.0
Loan and bond portfolio:
Dr funded                            29.0        43.1      301.9         497.7        632.6         869.1    1,078.0       1,296.0       1,480.0      1,741.0   2,039.0
Foreign currency funded               -           -          -             -            -           171.0       613.0        954-0       1,242.0      1,515.0    1,764.0
Less: provision for doubtful loans       -          (0.4)      (2.1)        (10.8)       (22.9)        (46.1)      (59.0)       (88.0)       (124.0)       (169.0)    (218.0)
Equity portfolio                        15.7        29.4       33.0          42.2         44.7          64.2       155.0        215.0         295.0        375.0      475.0
Less: provision for doubtful invest-
mets                                _          _         (0.5)         (0.5)        (0.5)         (2.0)       (4.0)        (7.0)         (11.0)       (16.)      (22.0)
Total Loan & Equity Portfolio    44.7       72.1      332.3         528.6        653.9       1.056.2     1.783.0      2,370.0        2,882.0      3,446.o    4,038.0
Fixed assets (net)                       D.2         0.3        0.5           0.7          1.0           1.0        21.0         46.o          46.o         46.0       46.o
Total Assets                   185.1       224.5      19.           714.8        849.4       17 3.02.9 2,651.0                      3 00         2     -    14.405.0
Liabilities and Equity
Tax payable                              _           _          -             3.8          3.8           -           4.0          4.0           4.0           4.0        4.0
Dividends payable                        -           -          -             6.o          9.0          12.0        15.0         18.0          18.0          18.0       18.0
Accounts payable and other
current liabilities                    1.2         4.7       30.8          20.7         17.7          23.6        31.0         38.0          45.0          52.0       62.0
1.2        4-7 0.6.8                05          30.5          35.6        50.0         60.o           67.0         74.0       84.0
Long-term debt:
Mr8 loans                             -           -         90.0         200.0        246.2   )    745.0        872.0      1,004.0        1,114.0      1,276.0   1,462.0
Bank of Greece loanm                  -           -         60.0         165.0        250.0
Other domestic loans                  -           -          -             -            -             -           -           -            130.0         280.0      450.0
Foreign currency loans                -           -          -             -            -           171.0       613.0        954.0        1.242.0      1.515.0    1,764.0
Total Long-Term Debt             -           -        150.0         365.0        496.2         916.0    1,485.o       1,958.0        2,486.o      3,071.0    3.676.0
Government subordinated loan             -           -          -             -            -             -         150.0         300.0         300.0        300.0      300.0
Share capital                          180.0       180.0      300.0         300.0        300.0         30O.0       300.0        300.0          300.0        300.0      300.0
Amount paid on capital increase
and premium                            -          33.4        0.4           0.4          o.4           014         0.4          0.4            0.4          0.4        0.4
Reserves & unappropriated profit         3.9         6.5       16.4          18.9         22.3          21.2        28.6         32.6           36.6         40.6       44.6
Net Worth                       183.9      219.9      316.8         319.3        322.7          321.6       329.0        333.0         337.0        341.o      345.Q
Total Liabilities & Equity      185.1      224.5      497.6         714.8        849.4        1,273.2     2,014.0      2,651.0       3,190.0      3,786.0    4.405.0
Ratios
Debt/equity borrowing ratio *            -           -          0.5            1.1          1.5           2.6         3.6          4.0           4.7          5.3        5.9
Total debt/equity (adjusted for
excess provisions)                     0           0          0.5           1.2          1.5           2.7         3.7           4.1           4.8          5.5        6.o
Reserves plus provisions as %
of year-end portfolio                 8.7%        10.1%       5.8%          5.7%         6.8%          6.3%        5.0%         5.2%           5.7%         6.2%       6.7%
Book value as S of par value          102.2%       103.2%     105.6%        106.6%       110.9%         115.9%      li8.4%       126.2%        137.2%       151.1$     166.5%
*  In calculating the debt/equity ratio and book value, cunmultive provision in excess of 2% of loan and equity portfolio are treated as equity.
Fifty percent of the subordinated loan is treated as equzity and 50% as debt in arriving at the debt/equity ratio.
IBRD/DFC
March 5, 1970



ANNEX 10
NATIONAL INVESTMNNT BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVEIflET S.A.
Income Statements-Actual 1964-1969 and Projected 1970-1974
(Dr million)
1963/64  1/   1965         1966        1967        1968         1969         1970          1971         1972          1973         1974
-__ _---------------------Audited ---------------------------        (---------------------- Projected ----------------------)
Income
Interest on loans                              0.2            2.5        13.4        33.3        45.5         70.9        114.o         161.0        208.0        254.o         300.0
Dividend income                                 -             0.1         1.3         1.6         1.2          1.7          3.0           6.o         11.0          15.0         19.0
Profit participation income                     -              -          0.5         1.4         2.1          3.0          3.0           3.0          3.0           3.0          3.0
Cormission, cormitment fees, etc.              1.5             -          3.4         1.8         o.4          1.2          2.0           2.0          2.0           2.0          3.0
Interest for short-term investments            6.o             4.9        6.o         8.6         8.7          9.6          9.0           9.0          9.0           9.0          9.0
Total Income                      7.7             7.5       24.6        46.7        57.9         86.4        130.0         181.0        233.0        283.0         334.0
Expenses
Interest and other financial charges            -              0.1        6.o        17.8        25.2         45.3         76.0         112.0        154.0        192.0         235.0
Salaries and personnel                         1.8             3.o        3.7         4.0         4.8          5.8          8.0           9.0         10.0          11.0         13.0
Administrative and general expenses             2.0            1.5        2.7         3.8          3.5         4.0          5.0           6.o          7.0           8.0          9.0
Total  apermses                   3.8             4.6       12.4        25.6        33.5         55.1         89.0         127.0        171.0        211.0         257.0
Profit before provisions and tax                  3.9            2.9       12.2        21.1         24.4        31.3          41.0         54.0         62.0          72.0         77.0
Provision for doubtful loans & investments         -             0.3        2.3         8.7         12.1        18.0          22.0         32.0         40.0          50.0         55.0
Corporate tax                                     _                          -          3.8  j/       -           _                          _                         _              _
Net Profit                        3.9             2.6        9.9         8.6        12.3         13.3         19.0          22.0         22.0          22.0         22.0
Appropriation
Dividends                                        -              -          -          6.o          9.0        12.0          15.0         18.0          18.0         18.0          18.0
Reaerves                                        3.9            2.6        9.9         2.6          3.3         0.3           4.o          4.0          4.o           4.0          4.0
Ratios
1.  Gross earnings before interest, tax
and provisions as % of average total
assets                                       2.1%          1.5%       5.0%        6.4%         6.3%        7.1%          7.4%         7.4%          7.5%         7.6%          7.6%
2.  Profit before tax & provisions as %
of average total assets                      2.1%          1.4%       3.4%        3.5%         3.1%        2.9%          2.6%         2.4%          2.2%         2.1%          1.9%
3.   Profit before tax & provisions as %
of average net worth                         2.1%          1.4%       4.5%        6.6%         7.6%        9.0%         12.5%        16.5%         18.5%        21.2%         22.4%
4.   Profit after tax & provisions as %
of average net worth                         2.1%          1.3%       3.7%        2.7%         3.8%        4.0%          5.8%         6.6%          6.6%         6.5%          6.4%
5.  Profit after tax & provisions as %
of year-end share capital                    2.2%          1.4%       3.3%        2.9%         4.1%        4.4%          6.3%         7.3%          7.3%         7.3%          7.3%
1/      December 10, 1963 to December 31, 1964.
2/      NIBID's net earnings record is complicated by its tax position.  Income from Treasury Bills and certain special bonds is tax-free; the remainder is taxable. NIBID
has been trying to obtain a ruling on how expenses related to these two income streams may be apportioned.  In 1966 and 1967, NIBID would have incurred a tax liability
under the then current practice of the tax authorities of allocating the proportion of expenses allowable against tax-free income in the same ratio as tax-free income
bore to taxable income. NIBID claims that expenses should be allocated according to the ccet generating each type of income. This contention has been upheld by the Courts,
but the tax authorities are appealing.  In the meantime, NIBID charged in 1967, the tax which would be payable for 1966 and 1967 in the event that its claim fails.



ANnEX 11
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT S.A.
Projected Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements 1970-1974
(Dr million)
1969     1970     1971      1972     1973      197'l
Actual    ---------------- Forecast --------
Approvals
Loans                       810      740       840      920    1,020    l,1OO
Equity investments            3       60        60       80        80      52.)O
Total Approvals        813      800       900    1,000    1,100    ' 20O
Portion of total
used for imports    545       536      603       670      737       OOhI
Commitments
Loans                       L97      718       815      900       995    1,030
Equity investments            3       60        60       80        80     't00
Total Corumitments     500      778       875      980    1,075    l, x3n
Disbursements
Loans                       474      662       766      858       947    1, t3
Equity investments           20       60        60       80        80      LrQ
Total Disbursements   49l       722       826      938    1,027    1,138
IBRD/DFC
March 11, 1970



BN1X 12
NATIONAi INVESTM4ENT BANK FOR INDUSrR D1 LOPET S.A.
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds,1970-1974
(Dr million)
1969    1970      1971      1972      1973     17174
Actual -Forecast --------------
Sources_
Profit before tax                  J3      19        22        22       22        22
Non-cash charged provision,
depreciation                    16       22        32       40        50        5
Draw-down of foreign currency
loans                          171      356       4)6      395       391       417
NBG-BG loans                      20O    224       251       260      300       3 4
Greek Government loan              -      150       i50         -         -
Other domestic loans               -        -         -      130       150       170
Loan collections:  drachma        70       97       156       244      295       323
foreign        -        -       32        72       118      l6$
Increase in payables               5        6         7         7        7        IC)
557      17,S l,05.,   1,170    1,333    1,505
Increase in fixed assets           -       20        25         -        -         -
Drachma loan disbursements       2X,      357       409      1463      556       (21
Foreign currency loan
disbursements                  171      354 &3             395       391       b17
Equity investments                22       60        60        80       80       100
Repayments (NBG-BG)               40       58        34       115      138       a514
Repayments to foreign
creditors                        -        -        32       72       118       168
Payment of dividend                9       12        15        18       18        13
Increase in receivables            4        7        10       12        16        20
5,      L,72     10143    1,155    1,317    1,496
Cash increase                                 14        15        15        16         Y
(decrease)
IBRD/DFC
March 4, 1970



AIE '13
PCo(e 1
WATIONAL INVESTMENT FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVEJLOPRMENT S.A.
Projection Assumptions
Income Statements (Annex 8)
(a)  Income:             Interest rate on loans, 8.5%.
Interest rate on Treasury bills, 6%.
Dividend yield on average equity portfolio: 3% in
in 1969 and 1970, 4r! in 1971, 51 in 1972, 1973 ancd 197h.
Profit participation as negotiated on existingloans orily;.
(b)  Expenses:          Interest rates on existing loans as charged and on
future loans as folloiws:
NBG Loan (2nd)               -  5% on Dr 150 million
- 5.5% on remaining
-   Dr 150 million
Bank of Greece Loan (2nd)   -  5.5% on Dr 300 million
Gov't Subordinated Loan      -  3.5%
Other Domestic Loans         -  7%
IBRD Loan (2nd)              -  7%
Turnover Tax on Interest:
NBG Loans                    -  3.6%
Bank of Greece Loans         -  none
Stamp Duty:
On interest: NBG Loans       -  1.2%
BG Loans       -  0.3%
On loan
agreements: NBG/BG          - 0.75%
Contribution to export
subsidy fund:                 -  0.4% on local currncey
straight loans
Provision for doubtful loans
and investments calculated as
2% on average gross portfolio
for 1969 and 1.5< thereafter
Personnel and administrative
e,.penses increase at average -  151' p.a.



ANTEX 13
Page 2
Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements (Annex 11)
(a) Approvals:         See paragraph 59
(b)  Commitments:      Commitments for the year will consist of
approximately 75% of loan approvals of the
current year, 25% of loan approvals of the
previous year and 100% of equity approvals
of the current year.
(c)  Disbursements:    Disbursements for the year will consist of
approximately 50% of loan commitments of the
current year, 50% of commitments of the previous
year and 100% of equity commitments of the cur-
rent year.
Sources and Uses of Fund (Annex 12)
(a) For loan collections, it is assumed that NIBID loans will have an
average period of 10 years including a grace period of 2 years,
with equal annual installments starting from the third year.
(b) For repayments to NBG/BG and IBRD, it is assumed that the loans
from these institutions will have an average period of 10 years
including a grace period of 2 years, with equal annual installments
starting from the third year.
(c) The Government subordinated loan will have a term of 15 years,
including a 10-year grace period, and equal annual installments
will be made starting from the eleventh year.
(d) Dividends on share capital at the rate of 4% for 1969, 5% for
1970 and 6% for 1971-1974.
IBRD/DFC
YIrch 4, 1970



