RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY               Report No. P-787
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK
FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE HELLENIC STATE
March 19, 1970



INTMTU,.TIOi0TAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION MND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECCMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE HELLENIC STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S. $20 million to
the National Investment Bank for Industrial Development S.A. (NIBID) to
be guaranteed by the Hellenic State.
PART I. HISTORICAL
2.        Bank lending to Greece was precluded for many years because of
unsettled external pre-World War II debts. Negotiations for settling
these defaults were started in the fifties and the sterling debt, which
constituted over one-half of the total, was settled in 1964. Substantial
further progress in debt settlement was made in the following years, and
the first Bank operation in Greece, a loan to NIBID, was made in March
1968. According to the information available to the Bank, all major
disputes over defaults have now been resolved, andin a few still out-
standing cases a settlement offer has been made by the Greek Government.
3.        The proposed loan would be the second Bank loan to NIBID, and
in fact to Greece. The previous loan of $12.5 million has been almost
fully committed by NIBID. The negotiations on the proposed loan took
place in Washington from February 24 to March 9, 1970. Mr. George Gondicas.
General Manager, and Mr. Ion A. Zaoussis, Legal Adviser, represented the
Borrower and Dr. Haralampos H. Georgiopoulos, President of the State Legal
Council, represented the Hellenic State for the negotiations on the
Guarantee Agreement.
4.        The follawing is the status of the Bank loan made so far to
Greece as at February 28, 1970:
Loan                                             Amount (US$ million)
Number     Year     Borrower     Purpose         Bank     Undisbursed
530 GR     1968       NIBID     Industry         12.5        5.8
Held by Bank                           12.5
Amount undisbursed                                 5.8
The loan is fully committed.



5.        The Bank has one other operation in Greece under advanced con-
sideration, an education project comprising the establishment of five
technical schools, which is scheduled to be submitted to the Executive
Directors in May. A road project is in a preliminary stage of preparation.
6.        IFC has so far made five investments in Greece totalling about
$15 million, including an equity investment in MIBID made in 1965 at a
cost of about $700,000. Other loan and equity investments have been made
in a fertilizer plant ($600,000), two cement companies ($5 million), and,
most recently, Aluminium de Grece ($8.6 million).   IFO has further been
approached about possible chemical and tourism projects and participation
in a proposed mutual fund. These projects are not in an advanced stage
of consideration.
PART II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.
Borrower:                     National Investment Bank for Industrial
Development S.A.
Guarantor:                    The Hellenic State
Amount:                        Various currencies equivalent to $20 million
Purpose:                      To assist the Borrower in financing the foreign
exchange costs of investments by borrowing
enterprises
Amortization:                  The initial amortization schedule provides for
repayment over 15 years in semi-annual install-
ments beginning February 1, 1972, and ending
August 1, 1986. It will be amended from time
to time to conform substantially to the
aggregate of the schedules of sub-loans and
investments financed from the proceeds of the
proposed loan
Interest Rate:                7 per cent
Commitment Charge:            3/4 of 1 per cent



- 3 -
PtLiiT III. THIE PROJECT
8.        A report entitled "Greece - Appraisal of National Investment Bank
for Industrial Development S.A." (DB-59a, dated 1,iarch 11, 1970) is attached.
Background
9.        Manufacturing industry still plays a relatively modest role in
the Greek economy.  ,ieasured by contribution to GDP, it ranks behind
agriculture and is closely followed by trade and banking. However, whereas
agricultural output has been practically stagnant over the past few years,
industrial output grew by 8 percent per year in the five years to 1966 and,
following the general slackening of the economy in 1967, by 7 percent in
1968 and over 10 percent in 1969. Foreign investment has played an impor-
tant role in this development. The recent acceleration of industrial
growth was common to most branches of the sector. 1ost industrial produc-
tion is still predominantly oriented towards the domestic market but the
growth in 1969 was at least partly export led. There were large increases
in exports of aluminium, metal products, textiles, cement and canned fruits
and vegetables.
10.       It is evident, howjever, that without increased efficiency and the
introduction of new techniques, Greek manufacturers will in time be hard
put to compete both in the foreign and in the increasingly vulnerable home
market. This is particularly so since the 1962 Agreement of Association
with the Common Harket provides for a gradual phasing out of tariffs on
imports from the EEC. Heavy capital require±ients, the conservative atti-
tudes of family management and lack of familiarity with modern production
and marketing techniques are among the major obstacles to improvements in
industrial productivity. It is in this context that the role of NIBID
must be viewed. As an internationally-owned private development finance
institution, it is operating in the private sector in Greece, where its
contribution to the industrialization process in terms of providing finance,
promoting joint ventures and giving advice to enterprises is of growing
significance.
The Company
11.       NIBID was formed in November 1963.   Its present share of capital
is Dr. 300 million ($10 million), of which 55 percent is held by the
National Bank of Greece, the country's largest commercial bank, 7 percent
by IFC and the balance by thirteen foreign banks from nine countries. The
Board of Directors is composed of eighteen members, nine of which are
appointed by the National Bank of Greece and nine by the foreign share-
holders, including one nominated by IFC. Since its creation in 1963 to



the end of 1969, NIBID has approved a total of 121 loan and equity ope-
rations amounting to US/67.4 million equivalent. Its investments are well
diversified. The textiles industry has received the largest amount of
financing with 17 percent of the total. Building materials plants account
for 12 percent, closely followed by food products and chemical enterprises.
12.       In purely financial terms, NIBID's impact on the Greek economy
has so far been modest.  Nevertheless, it has been making a steady and
increasing contribution to industrial development. It has been active in
assisting joint ventures, has introduced higher standards of project eva-
luation to many clients, and has been instrumental in establishing a new
consulting company, Arthur D. Little - Hellas, which also renders consulting
services to neighboring countries. The Bank Group's assistance to NIBID
has been a material factor in its achievements and has helped NIBID to
maintain its autonomy as a private financial institution.
13.       NIBID foresees no difficulty in continuing to borrow for its
local currency requirements from its present sources, the NIational Bank of
Greece, its principal shareholder, and from the Bank of Greece, the central
bank. In February 1970 agreement was reached in principle whereby the
Bank of Greece will provide NIBID with a subordinated loan of Dr. 300 mil-
lion carrying 3-1/2 percent interest and repayable in 15 years including
a 10-year grace period. The loan, which is expected to be finalized
shortly, will be drawn in equal tranches in 1970 and 1971. There remains,
however, the problem of obtaining foreign exchange resources. NIBID has
explored the possibilities of raising long-term funds from foreign private
sources, but found it impossible to do so on terms INIBID could afford,
given its effective lending rate of 8.5 percent.  Although NIBID should
and will continue to seek alternative sources of foreign exchange, for the
time being Bank lending represents its only source of foreign exchange at
reasonable terms. NIBID's satisfactory performance justifies continued
Bank assistance.
1.       A large number of projects are presently in the pipeline and
NIBID's commitments during 1970 and the first half of 1971, the period
taken as the basis in considering the second Bank loan, are expected to
reach /42 million equivalent, of which two-thirds or %28 million would be
used for imports of equipment.  Since the first Bank loan was fully committed
before the end of 1969, new foreign exchange funds are needed. The Bank
should not, howqever, fully cover NIBID's foreign exchange requirements in
view of the need to motivate NIBID to diversify its sources of foreign
exchange and in view of the fact that NIBID could convert local currency
into foreign exchange to finance capital goods imports. In this light
a $20 million loan is considered appropriate. Domestic resources firmly
lined up plus other borrowing potentialities should cover NIBID's resource
gap over the forecast period. NIBID's forecast of future operations is
realistic and given sufficient resources, it should be able to achieve the
projected levels.



15.       Given the expected high volume of operation, NIBID's profitability
should improve to the point w,here a reasonable return will be earned on
its equity. Net profits as a percentage of net worth are expected to
increase from 7.6 percent in 1969 to almost 14 percent in 1971. NIBID's
performance, its growing experience and the quality of its portfolio warrant
an increase in the debt/equity ratio from 4:1 to 5:1. Any maturities of
the proposed Dr. 300 million Bank of Greece subordinated loan, which should
fall due after the last maturity of the Bank loan, would qualify for inclu-
sion in NIBID's borrowing base. It is also proposed to raise the limit
below which NIBID can use the proceeds of the Bank loan without the Bank's
prior approval of projects from $200,000 to $500,000 equivalent (based
on NIBID's aggregate lending to a project and not only the Bank's share),
with a limit of $5 million on the amount of the Bank loan that can be
utilized for such projects.
PART IV. LEGAL INSTRULENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the NJational Invest-
ment Bank for Industrial Development S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Hellenic State and the Bank, the Report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and
the text of a Resolution approving the loan are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. The draft Agreements contain provisions usual
to those for loans to development finance companies.
17.       In accordance with statutory requirements of the Bank of Greece,
NIBID has pledged bonds in favor of the Bank of Greece as security for the
funds made available by this institution. As was the case for the first
Bank loan to NIBID, an agreement has accordingly been made under which
the Bank of Greece undertakes to share equally and ratably with the Bank
in the proceeds of any sale, realization or disposal of the NIBID security
held in plege by the Bank of Greece.
PART V. THE ECOOi\IO
18.       An economic memorandum "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Greece" (March 20, 1970) will be circulated to the Executive Directors
shortly.   It points out that the mai difficulties of the Greek economy
are structural. Nfuch production is high cost and not internationally
competitive,and economic reforms as well as additional capital are necessary
to improve the long-term outlook. However, the latest estimates show that
in 1969 GNP in fixed prices increased by more than 8 percent and investment
by about 18 percent. Industrial and agricultural production are estinated
to have risen by 10 percent and 8 percent respectively during the same
period, while tourism receipts increased by 30 percent. Thus Greece has
fully emerged from the recessionary period which started in the second half
of 1966. Some progress has also been made in the preparation and implemen-



- 6 -
tation of the investment program of the Central Government and in
rationalizing agricultural policies, and some effort seems to have been
made to increase public savings and improving revenue collection.    The
business community seems to regard the present situation as favorable for
economic activity and seems to assume that it will persist.
19.       A major consequence of the establishment of the present regime
in 1967 is seen in the capital account of the balance of payments.    Access
to new loans on favourable terms from official sources has been greatly
reduced.   As a result though Greece has been borrowing large amounts abroad
for public purposes the terms of external borrowing hare deteriorated and
external public debt service payments are rising rapidly.   Debt service in
1969, however, did not amount to more than 7 per cent of export and
invisibles earnings.   Debt service will probably not exceed 15 per cent
of current receipts in the next few years.   In view of this fact and of
prospects for further economic growth, Greece can be considered creditworthy
for the proposed loan.   The next economic mission which is planned for the
fall will discuss with the Greek authorities prospects for the balance of
payments and their policies for the management of external debt.
PART VI, COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES CF AGREEMENT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII. RECOMMENDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



