OFFTCIAL SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 39 PAK
DtOCUMENTS
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Third WAPDA Power Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated January 10, 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 39 PAK
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 10, 1980, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special
Action Account established with funds contributed by the MEMBER
STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2, 1978
referred to above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000)
(hereinafter called the IDA Credit);
(D) the Government of Canada, acting through the Canadian
International Development Agency (hereinafter referred to as
CIDA), intends to make, subject to final approval, a loan (herein-
after referred to as the CIDA Loan) to the Borrower in an aggre-
gate principal amount equivalent to approximately fourteen
million five hundred thousand dollars ($14,500,000) to assist in
financing the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement to be entered into between the Government of Canada and
the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as the CIDA Agreement);
(E) the Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau intends to make a
loan (hereinafter referred to as the KfW Loan) to the Borrower in


﻿-2-
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to about eighteen million
dollars ($18,000,000) .to assist in financing the Project on terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into
between the Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau and the Borrower
(hereinafter referred to as the KfW Agreement);
(F) the Asian Development Bank is considering a loan
(hereinafter referred to as the ADB Loan) to the Borrower in an
aggregate amount equivalent to approximately twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on terms
and conditions to be set forth in an agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Asian Development Bank (hereinafter referred to as
the ADB Loan Agreement);
(G) the Project will be carried out by the Water and Power
Development Authority of Pakistan (hereinafter referred to as
WAPDA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assis-
tance, the Borrower will make available to WAPDA the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(H) the Association, the Administrator and WAPDA have
entered into an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Project Agreement) providing for the use of the IDA
Credit and of the Special Action Credit and execution of the
Project as well as other matters relating thereto;
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and
in the Project Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following


﻿-3-
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom;
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Administrator, IDA and WAPDA of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
thereto;


﻿-4-
(d) "Special Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and WAPDA
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Special Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated March 15, 1974, as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to
the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules thereto;
and
(f) "Act" means the Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority Act, 1958, as amended to the date of this Agreement and
all Regulations framed thereunder.
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Cre-
dit Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
forty-two million seven hundred
ninety-three thousand        Belgian francs    (BF42,793,000);
five million three hundred
twenty-seven thousand         Danish kroner      (DK5,327,000);
twenty million five hundred
seventy thousand              Deutsche marks    (DM20,570,000);
twenty-one million seven hundred
forty-four thousand           French francs     (FF21,744,000);
forty-seven thousand four
hundred                       Irish pounds         (Ir947,400);
two billion five hundred
twenty-three million three
hundred four thousand         Iralian lire  (ItL2,523,304,000);


﻿-5-
one million three hundred       Luxembourg
forty-six thousand             francs            (LF1,346,000);
five million six hundred        Netherlands
eighty-six thousand            guilders        (DFl 5,686,000);
and
five million two hundred
forty-three thousand
nine hundred                   Pounds sterling    (E5,243,900).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Action Credit may
be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures (i) in the currency of the Borrower, or (ii) for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, (A) any of the Member
States and (B) any developing country which is a member of the
International Development Association and could be the recipient
of a special action credit, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by
the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the currency
of the United States of America, or in another currency selected
by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph (b) of this Section, after their conversion into such
currency on the basis of exchange rates determined in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions.
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1990
and ending November 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional cur-
rency amounts.


﻿-7 -
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the !'dministrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) above, be deemed to have been withdrawn in the
currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such purchase
in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be a.ting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
Section 2.08. The Chairman of WAPDA or his nominee is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Special Action Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause WAPDA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and The Special
Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable WAPDA to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit to WAPDA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and WAPDA under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator.


﻿-8-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Special
Action Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to accomplish
the purposes of the Special Action Credit, and except as the
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Special Action Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower undertakes that it will take all
such action as shall be necessary to enable WAPDA:
(a) to increase its electricity tariff by at least: (i)
an additional 10% by not later than July 1, 1980; and (ii) a
further 10% by not later than July 1, 1981;
(b) that, by each September 30 of 1980, 1981 and 1982, it
will provide or cause to be provided to WAPDA, such funds which
are required by WAPDA to enable it to finance not less than 30% of
its capital expenditures for electricity operations during the
preceding fiscal year, the said funds to be made available free of
interest or other charges and without any obligation of repayment
on the part of WAPDA; and
(c) to carry out all its other obligations under Sections
4.05 and 4.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause all Federal and
Provincial Governmental agencies and departments to settle all
charges arising out of the supply of electricity by WAPDA within
three months of receipt of such bills.
(b) The Borrower shall cause said agencies and departments
by no later than March 31, 1980, to settle all the charges
owing to WAPDA as of September 30, 1979.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause WAPDA and Karachi
Electric Supply Corporation Limited, together with the Borrower,
to complete a forecast of demand, generation and sales of electric
power based on accepted methodology, and review the results of
the forecast with the Administrator by June 30, 1980.
(b) The Borrower shall, based on the results of the forecast
referred to hereinabove, by December 31, 1980, consult with the
Administrator on the size and composition of its investment
programs in the power sector.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obli-
gation of WAPDA under the Project Agreement;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Act or other
legislation has been enacted or is implemented which materially
and adversely affects the financial condition, responsibilities or
operations of WAPDA; and
(c) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the ADB Loan, KfW Loan, CIDA Loan
or IDA Credit shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the ADB Loan Agree-
ment, KfW Agreement, CIDA Agreement or Devel-
opment Credit Agreement; or
(B) the ADB Loan, KfW Loan, CIDA Loan or IDA
Credit shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
or WAPDA from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and of WAPDA under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿- 10 -
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Adminis-
trator to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) (i) (B) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of WAPDA have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the IDA and Special Action
Subsidiary Loan Agreements on behalf of the Borrower and WAPDA,
respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary corporate and governmental action;
(c) the KfW Agreement has been executed and delivered,
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right
to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(d) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, except only the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Administrator:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by WAPDA, and is legally binding upon WAPDA in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the IDA and Special Action Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and


﻿- 11 -
WAPDA and are legally binding upon the Borrower and WAPDA in
accordance with their respective terms.
Section 5.03. The date April 10, 1980 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division of the Borrower is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECONOMIC                            ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit            % of
Allocated (Expressed         Expenditures
Category         in Dollar Equivalents)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works             6,000,000              100% of foreign
and erection                                  expenditures
of equipment                                  and 95% of lo-
cal expendi-
tures
(2) Equipment and          27,000,000
materials (in-
cluding con-
struction
equipment):
(a) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally                                   100% of local
manufactured                             expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) procured                                  70%
locally
(3) Unallocated             2,000,000
TOTAL       35,000,000


﻿- 14 -
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to *time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
accordingly.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied
from, (i) any of the Member States and (ii) any developing country
other than the Borrower which is a member of the Int.rnational
Development Association and could be the recipient of a Special
Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then


﻿- 15 -
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Transmission Lines
Erection of about 2,700 miles of 220 kV, 132 kV and 66
kV single and double circuit lines.
B.   Substations
Construction and/or erection of about 210 220/132 kV and
132/66/11 kV substations with an aggregate capacity of about
4,800 MVA.
C.   Civil Works
Civil Works with respect to Parts A and B above and construc-
tion of warehouse facilities.
D.   Studies
1.   Study of load dispatch system.
2.   Study of conversion of 220 kV Karachi-Tarbela system to
500 kV operation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
19FS.
FOR SECRETARY


