Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21751
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.3 MILLION
(US$30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
February 27, 2001
Health, Nutrition and Population Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 25, 2001)
Currency Unit = Rupee
Rs. I = US$0.0215763
US$1 = Rs. 46.3
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BBC                      British Broadcasting Corporation
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
Danida                   Danish International Development Assistance
DGHS (LD)                Directorate General of Health Service (Leprosy Division)
DGS&D                    Director General of Supplies and Disposal
DLS                      District Leprosy Society
EA                       Environmental Assessment
EMP                      Environmental Management Plan
GHS                      General Health Services
GOI                      Government of India
IBRD                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                      International Development Association
IEC                      Information, Education and Communication
LEC                      Leprosy Elimination Campaigns
LQAS                     Lot Quality Assurance Sampling
MB                       Multi-bacillary
MDT                      Multi-drug Therapy
MLEC                     Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign
MOHFW                    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NGO                      Non-Governmental Organization
NLEP                     National Leprosy Eradication Project
PAD                      Project Appraisal Document
PIP                      Project Implementation Plan
PB                       Pauci-bacillary
PFMS                     Proiect Financial Management System
SAPEL                    Special Action Projects for Elimination of Leprosy
SLS                      State Leprosy Society
SSL                      Single lesion Pauci-bacillary Leprosy
WHO                      World Health Organization
UT                       Union Territories
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimuzu
Country Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:    Richard Skolnik
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Peter Heywood



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key perforrnance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                       8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          10
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                             11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                           15
4. Institutional                                                                       15
5. Environmental                                                                       16
6. Social                                                                              17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     20
2. Critical risks                                                                     21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            22
2. Other                                                                              22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         32
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis Summary                                         36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary     39
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       40
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     58
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   59
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            64
Annex 11: The Burden of Leprosy in India                                                 66
Annex 12: Methods for Assessing Progress towards Leprosy Elimination                     76
Annex 13: Surveys to Monitor Performance of Leprosy Elimination Program                  81
Annex 14: NLEP Information System                                                        89
Annex 15: Strategy for Tribal Populations                                                93



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASHP
Date: February 27, 2001                           Team Leader: Peter F. Heywood
Country Director: Edwin R. Lim                    Sector Director: Richard Lee Skolnik
Project ID: P067543                               Sector(s): HS - Specific Diseases, including Malaria, TB,
Others
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ Grant      []Guarantee       [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 30.00 (SDR 23.3 million)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      12.20           0.00          12.20
IDA                                                           30.00           0.00          30.00
Total:                                                        42.20            0.00         42.20
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Responsible agency: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
Address: Ninnan Bhawan, New Delhi 110 001
Contact Person: Mr. Javid Chowdhury, Secretary
Tel: 91-11-3018863                Fax: 91-11-3014252                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual   13.00       11.00       5.00       1.00
Cumulative    13.00     24.00      29.00      30.00
Project implementation period: 3 years FY02-FY05
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
X:S PAD F-n,: PN. M, 2X






A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
* Transform the national leprosy control program to an effective and sustainable program through a
decentralized and integrated approach which increases community access to multi-drug therapy. This
transformation would assist India to eliminate leprosy as a public health problem at all levels.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
* Decentralize leprosy control activities to the states over the course of the project.
* Integrate leprosy control activities with general health services.
* Reduce estimated 'actual' disease prevalence to less than 3/10,000 at the national level by the end of
2004.
* Assist India in reducing the recorded national prevalence to less than 1/10,000 by the end of 2004.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17241-IN         Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/18/99
Board Discussion of the last full CAS (Report No. 17241 -IN) was on January 15, 1998 and Board
Discussion of the CAS Progress Report (Report No. 20184-lN) on February 18, 1999.
The proposed operation is fully consistent with the over-riding CAS objective of assisting India to reduce
poverty. Leprosy disproportionately affects the poor and the most socially vulnerable groups including
women, scheduled castes and tribal groups. Not only does leprosy target the neediest, it aggravates the
suffering with devastating social ostracization and the economic burden on the victims through loss of
employment opportunities. Reducing infection and disability from this disease is consistent with the CAS
objective of enhancing equity and accelerating human development of the poor. The decentralization of
leprosy control activities to states and the integration of the vertical program with general health services
will support the CAS strategic objective of strengthening management and planning at the state level.
Moreover, by making available to disadvantaged groups, a highly effective health intervention, the project
would address a key health issue, as proposed in the Comprehensive Development Framework. Finally, the
proposed operation is a follow-up to the recently closed first National Leprosy Elimination Project, also
partially financed by Intemational Development Association (IDA).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The major sector issues are:
* poverty-related health problems, with health indicators (including for communicable disease) below
average for the country's stage of development and income level
* inadequate institutional arrangements and weak program management, including centralized
management of disease control programs
* inadequate framework for engaging private sector participation
* low quality of HNP services in both the public and private sector
* ineffective targeting of public subsidies to the poor and a low overall level of public expenditure on
health
-2 -



The government is addressing these issues as follows:
*   increased investments in economic growth and human development
*   increased efforts since the early 1990s to control the major communicable diseases
*   increased efforts to decentralize disease control efforts to the state and district levels
*   health sector reform to improve implementation capacity at the state and central levels, define the role
of the private sector in the overall health system more clearly, and improve the quality of care in both
public and private sectors
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The international context of leprosy control
When leprosy control efforts began after World War II, the overall outlook was pessimistic due to long
treatment times and the consequent low compliance rates. Treatment times were reduced by the discovery
and evaluation of new drug combinations, but gains made were dented by increasing drug resistance
resulting from monotherapy with dapsone, the drug of choice at the time. The intemational leprosy
community moved to multi-drug therapy (MDT) in an effort to contain the emergence of even higher levels
of resistance. Encouraged by the success of MDT in curing leprosy patients, in 1991 the World Health
Assembly adopted a declaration to 'eliminate' leprosy as a public health problem by the year 2000.
Internationally, efforts were further intensified in 1995 through Leprosy Elimination Campaigns (LEC) and
Special Action Projects for the Elimination of Leprosy (SAPEL).
The Indian response
Leprosy control efforts in India have very much been in step with the international pattern. The National
Leprosy Control Program was launched by the Government of India (GOI) in 1955 using the treatment
strategies of the time. In 1983, based on international recommendations, the treatment strategy was changed
to multidrug therapy. However, coverage remained limited due to a range of organizational issues and fear
of the disease. As in other countries in which leprosy was highly endemic, India committed itself to the
1991 World Health Assembly strategy and goal; as part of this commitment, GOI and the IDA collaborated
on a national leprosy elimination project, which became effective in 1993. The project, which supported the
vertical program structure used by GOI for National Leprosy Eradication Program (NLEP) and instituted
large scale Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaigns (MLEC), achieved notable results: nationally
recorded prevalence has fallen from 24 per 10,000 (in March 1993) to a reported 5 per 10,000; new case
detection increased to reach 600,000 (from 300,000) in 1999; and there is indication that cure rates have
improved. However, despite this impressive effort, progress in reducing the case load was less than
expected - with prevalence settling at significantly above the elimination level of 1/10,000 and higher than
the target for the project (as revised at mid-term) of 3-4 per 10,000. Based on the results of an evaluation
of the NLEP undertaken by GOI, an expert group charged with estimating 'actual' prevalence of leprosy in
the country, arrived at a midpoint estimate of 7 per 10,000 with lower and upper limits, respectively, of 5
and 9 per 10,000 population (see Annex 11 for details of the estimates and the methods used).
The uncertainties surrounding leprosy indicators and trends make it difficult to estimate how long it will
take to reach elimination levels. It appears at this time that the goal of elimination, as measured by the
estimated 'actual' prevalence, can not be reached in 3 years - a more realistic target is an estimate of the'
actual' prevalence rate of 3 per 10,000 for the country as a whole by the end of 2003. The project will
-3 -



assist the GOI in acheiving its goal of reducing the recorded national prevalence rate to less than 1 per
10,000. From the experience to date, treatment strategies are likely to remain as they are now - early
case-finding and treatment with MDT. Due to continued control efforts the workload due to leprosy is
expected to decrease (as it already has in many areas) and there will be increased need to contain costs.
These pressures, together with the need to ensure sustainability and increased state-specificity and
responsibility for disease control activities will require new institutional arrangements - leprosy control
activities will need to be integrated with the general health services (GHS) and responsibility for them
decentralized to the states.
Institutional and design issues:
(i) time frame of the second project. A critical design issue for the second project is the period over which it
will be implemented. On the one hand, it is clear that elimination levels will not be reached quickly,
particularly in those states and districts where prevalence is high. Nevertheless, the total workload in these
areas will be relatively low and cost pressures mean that it will not be feasible to continue with the current
vertical program. The need is to transform the program in a way, which facilitates sustainability rather than
achieves a particular level of prevalence. The time frame for the current project, then, is principally
determined by the time needed for transformation of the program.
(ii) an increased role for, and decentralization of leprosy control activities to, the states. The NLEP strategy
and funding mechanisms provided for a facilitatory role for the state in leprosy elimination. The Program
was centrally sponsored and controlled and implemented through district leprosy societies (DLS), which
received money directly from the central government. As a result, the states have had insufficient
involvement in the program. The direct involvement of the center in program supervision of the districts has
limited development of the technical and supervisory capacity of the states. It is important, during the
project period, to prepare the states to administer and manage leprosy control.
(iii) improved integration of the staff of the vertical program with the GHS. GOI recognizes that separation
of elimination activities from the GHS has hindered implementation - it has led to limited intervention in
some geographical pockets with resulting limited access to MDT, low levels of compliance with treatment
and subsequent re-registering of these cases as 'new'. Further, effectiveness of the vertical system is
challenged by performance criteria which burden workers with annual case detection targets (reinforced by
monetary incentives, since discontinued), and possibly reduce the accuracy of diagnosis, and low
workloads. The maintenance of a vertical component in areas of high prevalence is justified in the short
term only if it ensures integration of leprosy services into the GHS. Although merging activities of the
vertical staff of the Program with the GHS was envisaged in 1993 as occurring once elimination as a public
health problem occurred, very little has been done to achieve this.
Technical issues:
(i) uncertainty about the epidemiology of leprosy. The disease has not behaved as expected - despite large
increases in case detection and a fall in recorded prevalence, new case detection rates have remained high.
Because leprosy has a long incubation period a reduction in transmission may not be evident for some years
after prevalence is reduced. Further, a significant, but uncertain, proportion of the reduction in prevalence
has been due to the shorter treatment schedules and clearing of registers rather than a reduction in
incidence. The MLECs and SAPELs, coupled with an unknown amount of over-diagnosis, have tended to
increase prevalence but due to long incubation periods, the intended effect of MLECs on transmission may
be much less than originally estimated. The relative importance of these conflicting pressures and, thus,
their net effect is unknown. Consequently, fresh doubts have emerged about the value of the case detection
- 4 -



rate as a proxy for incidence and about the extent to which MLECs have contributed to decrease in
transmission. Overall, most leprosy epidemiologists agree that we have little information on incidence.
(ii) improved and more accurate case finding. Even though the prevalence of leprosy has decreased during
the last decade of leprosy control activities the number of new cases detected has remained relatively
constant. This raises questions about the accuracy of diagnosis, extent of re-registering of old cases as new,
and whether the incentive structure (annual targets and incentives for staff), rather than the incidence and
treatment of the disease, have determined the annual case finding rate. In addition, it is important that the
case finding strategies adopted ensure that all locations and social groups are adequately covered.
(iii) determine the priority to be given to disability care and prevention in a new project. Despite its
inclusion as a component, there was little emphasis on this aspect in the first project, the performance of the
public sector was below expectations and disability care was subsequently dropped as a development
objective. This raises the question as to whether the government is the best group to deliver, as distinct
from finance, these services. At the same time, it is important that the balance between elimination and
disability care is such that the overall goal of leprosy elimination is not compromised.
(iv) improved and explicit role for non-goverment organizations (NGOs). Both national and international
NGOs have played an important role in leprosy treatment and rehabilitation, information, education and
communication (IEC) and training. However, their role in the leprosy control efforts of the government has
not been amplified. This has limited their contribution to significantly less than their potential. There is
potential for increased contribution by NGOs to leprosy control.
(v) increased emphasis on, and explicit strategy for IEC activities, including interpersonal counseling skills.
At the present time, the NLEP does not have a clear, well-articulated IEC strategy. However, it is
recognized that the need for effective IEC activities will increase as the prevalence falls and case finding
efforts are intensified.
(vi) improved planning and evaluation of training. Although integration of the leprosy program staff with
the GHS requires considerable training and was envisaged in the first project, it has been limited in its
effect. As with IEC, there was no overall training strategy, little evaluation of efforts, and these activities
received a much lower priority than required.
(vii) strengthening and decentralizing monitoring and surveillance. This will become more critical to
targeting of control activities as the overall number of cases decreases and, at the same time, may become
more concentrated in clusters. In addition, the uncertainty about the epidemiology of leprosy and our lack
of a suitable indicator for transmission means that it will be important to supplement routine surveillance
with new case detection monitoring studies in sub-populations of, at least some, endemic states using
standardized methods and diagnostic criteria. At the same time, validation of elimination will be dependent
on an adequate surveillance system.
In order to address these issues through the project the following strategic choices have been made (see
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) Section D. 1 for a discussion of the reasons underlying the these
choices):
(i) time frame - the project will be implemented over a three year period with emphasis on creation of an
effective, integrated and sustainable program.
- 5 -



(ii) sustainability and effectiveness will be promoted through:
*   decentralization of responsibility for implementation of control activities to the states
*   integration of leprosy services with the GHS
*   emphasis on early case-finding (including ensuring that all locations and social groups are
covered), treatment with MDT and prevention of disabilities
*   involvement of NGOs in leprosy control activities and their coordination with the GOI activities
*   increased emphasis on IEC as an integral part of control activities
*   strengthening human resource development and management
*   monitoring and surveillance, including special studies to assess the effect of the program on disease
prevalence in selected endemic populations.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (sec Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The policy issues addressed under the project would prepare the country to shift from a cost intensive
vertical system of delivery of leprosy to a sustainable system integrated into the general health services of
states while assisting the country in the control of leprosy.
IDA would finance about 71 percent of the incremental requirement of the project over three years. The
Central Leprosy Unit would oversee investments throughout the country in association with state
departments of health, with special attention to the five focus states. Additional support would be available
from international donor NGOs and technical support agencies. No fonnal co-financing with other partners
is planned, but all extemal agencies work under a common leprosy control framework. Specifically:
Intemational Federation of Anti-Leprosy Associations agencies / Danish International Development
Assistance (Danida) / World Health Organization (WHO) would provide management and technical
support to the five highly endemic states and the centre. Danida would also support service delivery in the
states of Orissa and Madhya Pradesh.
Component 1. Decentralization and institutional development
Decentralization is based upon the preparation of state-specific and central plans which redefine the
roles and responsibilities of the center, states and districts; the development of skills and deployment of
sufficient and necessary staff required at each level to implement these roles; central, state and district
plans for the project activities which are consistent with these revised roles and responsibilities.
Successful decentralization will also require complementary, supportive strategies in other areas and
particularly in surveillance, procurement support, fund flow mechanisms and financial management.
Component 2. Strengthen and integrate service delivery
The MDT strategy has been widely implemented in the first project and, together with early case detection,
will form the centerpiece of the technical approach to be used in the second. The service delivery strategy
will emphasize a mix of active and passive case detection, integration of leprosy control activities with the
GHS and attention to hitherto 'un-reached' segments of the populations within states and districts through
special campaigns and drives. The Novartis Foundation will make drugs available free of charge, which
will be procured and supplied by WHO.
Component 3. Disability prevention
This activity achieved only limited success in the first project and the government approach will be
revised in the second to give much greater responsibility to those NGOs who have specific skills in this
- 6 -



area. Thus, the state governments will increasingly provide the funds while the NGOs deliver the
services.
Component 4: Information, education and communication
IEC activities will be strengthened to complement the service delivery strategy, including both active and
passive case detection, reduction in stigma and an emphasis on the availability of safe and effective
treatment.
Component 5: Training
Reorienting staff to an integrated approach and providing the new skills needed by the staff of the GHS will
require a large and coordinated training effort in the second project. For this, a clear training strategy and
timetable, has been developed.
Retroactive financing. As the first project closed on September 30, 2000, there will be retroactive financing
from that date. Retroactive financing to the extent of US$2.9 million equivalent (approximately 6.9 percent
of the proposed Credit) would be provided for expenditures which follow the standard features of
eligibility. This would include eligible project related expenditures accepted as consistent with appraised
standards, procured in accordance with standard Bank guidelines and clearly accounted and subject to
audit.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
CPomponent                  Sector         Costs     % Of    financing    8 nk
Decentralization and institutional  HE                  2.50       5.9       2.36       7.9
development
Strengthen and integrate service   HE                  27.80      65.9      16.50      55.0
delivery
Disability prevention              HE                   3.70       8.8       3.00       10.0
Information, education and         HE                   5.00       11.8      4.94      16.5
communication
Training                           HE                   3.20       7.6       3.20      10.7
Total Project Costs                  42.20      100.0     30.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    42.20      100.0     30.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support five key policy and institutional reforms:
2.1.   Decentralization of implementation and management responsibility for leprosy control
activities to the states and districts. This is explicit in the design of the project as set out in the project
implementation plans furnished by the GOI. In addition, each state will provide a Memorandum of
Understanding indicating their commitment to these state-specific plans and to credible mechanisms for
guaranteeing flow of funds to the states and districts.
2.2.   Integration of leprosy activities with the general health services of the states, with
particular emphasis on case detection, treatment and surveillance. This will also be included in the
Memorandum of Understanding from the states.
-7 -



2.3.   Phasing out of central funding of vertical staff and institutions that are agreed between the
Bank and GOI to be superfluous and/or detrimental to the effort to integrate services. In addition,
commitment by the Center to provide advice to states regarding the continuing need (or otherwise) of
all categories of vertical staff employed by the government for the purposes of leprosy control.
2.4.   Elimination of all incentive payments related to case finding.
2.5.   Institution of independent surveys of program implementation, including progress in
decentralization and integration of leprosy services with the general health services and monitoring and
validating levels of leprosy prevalence in the community.
3. Benefits and target population:
IDA credit extended to India in 1993 has helped make considerable inroads into reducing the leprosy
burden in the country. It is expected that the proposed IDA project would enable India to transform the
national leprosy control effort to an effective and sustainable program through a decentralized and
integrated approach. Beyond the life of the project, this transformation would assist India to eliminate
leprosy as a public health problem. The prevention of disability would alleviate human suffering and
decrease economic loss and the social burden and stigma of the disease. Leprosy control generates high
externalities and the project would have a high social return in terms of healthy life years saved.
The impact of leprosy is highest amongst the poor. The project will reach underprivileged communities and
it is estimated that 60 percent of those reached will be living below the GOI poverty line. With respect to
tribal people, it is expected that the project would reach about 140,000 tribals all over the country with
treatment for leprosy.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project, which will decentralize responsibility for project implementation from the center to the
states, will be implemented over a period of three years. Implementation arrangements will be as
follows:
4.1.   Role of Central Govemnment. The Project would be coordinated by the Central Leprosy Unit of
the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), New Delhi. The Deputy Director General of
Health Services for Leprosy will be the Project Director holding sole charge. S/he will be responsible
for overall implementation of the project and its financial management, central level procurement,
annual work-plans, management and technical support to states and an annual progress review of the
program. GOI will be responsible for ensuring compliance by states with central policies and technical
guidelines and will monitor Project progress.
4.2.   Role of the States. The State Departments of Health through the State Leprosy Officer will be
responsible for managing implementation of the leprosy control activities in conformity with NLEP
guidelines. This officer will hold sole charge of this project. In his/her capacity as Secretary of the
State Leprosy Society (SLS) through which funds for leprosy control will be channeled (of which the
Health Secretary is the Chairperson), s/he will be responsible for financial management of the project
within the state, state level procurement, annual work-plans, management and technical support to
districts and annual progress review of the program in the state. On advice of the center, s/he will be
responsible for reviewing continuation of vertical staff employed by the state for leprosy control
activities. Where leprosy control activities are contracted to NGOs/private sector, this will be done
- 8 -



through the SLS / other designated funding channel in compliance with guidelines agreed with the
center.
4.3.   District Leprosy Societies. Implementation of leprosy control work-plans at district level will
be funded through DLS, under the overall supervision of State Department of Health. The DLS
(through which funds for leprosy control will be channeled), through the District Leprosy Officer, will
be responsible for district procurement and implementation of district annual work-plans and financial
management systems, including review of vertical staff responsibilities as agreed by the State.
4.4.   MLECs. SAPELs and LECs. Large scale MLECs and focused rural SAPELs and urban LECs
will continue to be used. These were introduced in the last project and form an important strategy for
reaching special groups and areas under this project.
4.5.   General health services. States with relatively low prevalence of leprosy, will implement
leprosy control activities through the general health staff and will undertake review of continuation of
vertical staff and institutions established under the leprosy control program in year I of the project.
High endemicity states will continue current rosters of vertical staff and institutions. Review of IDA
funded rosters will be undertaken during the life of the project, with a view to reductions in the overall
complement of vertical staff using agreed triggers.
4.6.   NGOs. As in the past, NGOs will continue to play an important role, which will vary by district
and state depending on capacity and disease burden. Activities that will be carried out by each NGO will be
formalized through an appropriate agreed mechanism with each state. The formal undertaking will include
the description of services to be provided, mechanisms and indicators of achievements and accountabilities
of the NGO and commitments by the state.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Whilst the first project achieved considerable gains, a number of important issues remain. These have been
referred to in sections B.2 and D.3. The main project alternatives considered related, first, to the overall
design; and second, to the length of the project.
With respect to overall design, the first alternative considered was continuation of the same design as in the
first project; and second, a modified design which stressed decentralization of leprosy control activities to
the states, integration of the control activities with the general health services and strengthening
complementary activities such as training, involvement of NGOs, IEC, and monitoring and surveillance.
Experience with other centrally sponsored disease control programs in general, and with the first leprosy
project, in particular, revealed a number of institutional and technical issues and the need for a revised
design. Thus, the alternative of a revised design has been accepted by GOI and the Bank - its main
characteristics (see Annex 2 for a more detailed description) are:
*   Revision of the roles of the center, states and districts as part of an explicit decentralization strategy,
with the states having primary responsibility for project implementation
*   Increased emphasis, including state-specific plans, on integration of leprosy control with the GHS and
decreasing emphasis on campaigns: immediately in low prevalence states and over the course of the
project in high prevalence states
*   Explicit strategies for complementary activities - reaching special groups
*   Involvement of NGOs, IEC, training, financial management and monitoring and surveillance
-9-



* Continue with MDT and supply of drugs by WHO
With respect to the length of the project, a period of three years has been chosen for the following reasons:
first, at this time, it appears that it is not possible to achieve elimination of leprosy as a public health
problem in the next three years (as measured by estimated 'actual' prevalence; see Section B.2 and B.3);
second, and given the longer time frame needed, the goal of the project is now to transform the leprosy
control program to allow these levels to be achieved over a longer period of time than is usual for Bank
projects; and third, given the changes that have occurred under the first project, three years is sufficient to
complete the institutional changes required.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                I (PSR) Ratings
.___ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___   ___________   (Bank-financed  projects  onlY)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
National AIDS Control II          S              S
National Leprosy Elimination      S              S
Cataract Blindness Control        S              S
Malaria Control                   S              S
Tuberculosis Control              U             U
Andhra Pradesh First Referral     S              S
Health System
Second State Health Systems       S             S
Development
Orissa Health Systems             S              S
Development
Maharashtra Health Systems        S              S
Development
India Population Project IX       S              S
Integrated Child Development      S              S
Services II
Reproductive and Child Health     S              S
Project
Women and Child Development       U             U
Immunization Strengthenine        S              S
Other development agencies
WHO                                Assistance to GOI's National
Leprosy Eradication Programl
DANLEP                             Danida-assisted National
Leprosy Eradication Program
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 10 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The lessons learned derive from the experience of the first project and the resulting sector issues as outlined
in section B.2. The main lessons, which are reflected in the revised project design, are:
*   need to include the state level in the project design
*   the campaign approach is not enough and there is a need to integrate leprosy control activities with
the general health services
*   advantages of MDT
*   improve diagnostic accuracy and reporting
*  promote NGO/Private sector involvement
*   patient segregation should be discontinued
*   specific attention to ensuring that all locations and social groups are adequately covered.
The project design also reflects the lessons from more than 20 IDA-supported HNP projects over the last
20 years including:
*   the primacy of good training
*   the need to assure the flow of essential supplies such as drugs
D  the importance of good monitoring and evaluation, especially to increase responsiveness of the
health system to needs at the community level
e   the need for mechanisms to assure timely start-up
*   assured timely flow of funds to the project
3   most important of all, borrower commitment
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There are strong indications of borrower commitment and ownership.
In 1991, India committed itself to the World Health Assembly strategy and goal of elimination of leprosy
and collaborated with IDA in 1993 on the first national leprosy elimination project. Considerable progress
has been made during the first project and by project close the full rupee allocation has been disbursed.
During the life of the World Bank-assisted project, prevalence of leprosy fell from 24 per 10,000 to about
an estimated 'actual' 7 per 10,000, short of the national goal of elimination of the disease as a public health
problem. GOI continues to be strongly committed to this goal and requested IDA for support for a second
project that would enable further progress toward this goal, while instituting important institutional changes
that would permit leprosy to be addressed in a sustainable manner in subsequent years.
The government has taken many steps which exemplify its strong commnitment to the goal of
leprosy control, such as discontinuation of inappropriate staff incentive payments, preliminary
plans to reduce numbers of vertical staff, rationalization of leprosy resources available from all
donors and commitment to introduction of a revised WHO monitoring and evaluation system.
A MOHFW Project Preparation Team drafted the detailed Project Implementation Plans (PlPs)
after extensive consultation with states, donors and technical partners and detailed assessments of
activities in the foregoing project. The preparation team has met regularly with the members of the
Bank Task Team and is committed to the transformation of the leprosy control activities described
in the project documents.
- 11 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA assistance in leprosy control was recommended by a 1992 World Bank health financing study and the
first project commenced in 1993.
Continuing IDA support will add value in three ways: first, it will allow acceleration in the process of
leprosy elimination; and second, collaboration with IDA in this follow-on project will allow emphasis to be
shifted to transformation of the program to an effective and sustainable one through a decentralized and
integrated approach. This shift in emphasis is necessary as it is now evident, that while elimination of
leprosy (measured by estimated 'actual' prevalence) as a public health problem is in sight, it is unlikely to
be achieved in the 3 years of the project period. Therefore, by the end of the project, a structure that allows
the control effort to be sustained for at least a decade should be in place. And third, this project will provide
an example of the way in which the centrally sponsored disease control projects can be decentralized; with
responsibility and authority for implementation moving to the states and, the center taking on the new role
of providing overall policy guidance, technical support, national level surveillance, advocacy, and
facilitating the transfer of lessons learned between states. Given the resources required and the previous
Bank support, the Bank has a critical role to play through this second project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
3 Other (specify)
As a follow-on to an effective project, preparation and appraisal gained from a re-examination of the
economic rationale for the public involvement and an analysis of the roles of the public and privates sectors
in all aspects of the project. Included in the economic analysis were equity analysis of the burden of the
disease and the expected benefits, simple market analysis, and analysis of the cost structure.
Economic Rationale. Based on analysis of public finance criteria, there is a clear economic rationale for
public involvement in leprosy control in India. Specifically, the strongest arguments for a public role in
financing services relate to the poverty orientation and impact of interventions and the existence of public
goods that would not be otherwise provided by the market. A critical and sizable element of the project
relates to providing information to both potential patients and medical providers through information
campaigns and training. These components of the project would not be provided by the private sector due
to the strong characteristics of public goods (non-exclusionary, non-rival). Another form of market failure
associated with leprosy control relates to the public externality due to spread and incomplete courses of
treatment. Unlike other communicable diseases, however, the associated social externality is small.
The most important economic justification for public involvement in leprosy elimination relates to poverty
impact. Analysis of equity found the burden of leprosy to be mostly centered around the poor and socially
vulnerable. Starting at the state level, the five most endemic states for leprosy, contributing 70 percent of
the total patient load, are also five of the poorest states in India (Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Orissa
and Madhya Pradesh). At the individual level, equity analysis in the five endemic states, confirms that the
most socially vulnerable groups shoulder the highest burden of the disease. Project resources will then be
targeted to the poorest states, within states, to the poorer districts, and to the neediest populations within
the districts.
Not only does leprosy target the neediest in India, it also adds a social and economic burden on the victims.
- 12-



Social and economic studies have documented the devastating social effect of leprosy and quantified the
loss of income due to the disease. Detailed analysis of employability and earnings of leprosy patients in
Tamil Nadu found the elimination of the deformity due to leprosy would: (i) raise the probability of gainful
employment from 42 to 78 percent, and (ii) increase annual earnings per employed patient by 119 percent.
The combined effect of increased employment and earnings would triple the annual earnings for all
patients.
Public and Private Roles. Basic market and institutional analysis provided the rationale for some
re-orientation of services delivery responsibilities between the public and private sectors. Driving the
re-orientation were factors relating to the availability of non-governmental providers, location of
underserved populations, existence of specialized skills such as IEC, and the viability of for-profit
operations. The project introduces a larger role for the private sector in a number of ways. While financing
will continue to be primarily public, a number of delivery elements will be contracted out to the private
sector (for and not for profit). Included will be contracting specialized NGOs for disability prevention, care
and rehabilitation; contracting for the development of training materials; and, contracting professional
media and IEC agencies to assist in developing and implementing and integrated IEC and involving NGOs
and neighborhood committees of women for conmmunity mobilization and sensitization campaigns.
Costs and Effectiveness. Project costs were analyzed with an eye for balance between inputs and for the
breakdown by project outcomes. Outreach, information campaigns and training make up a large share of
the total costs. Moreover, health services delivery focuses on interventions that have been identified
internationally as highly cost effective and have a proven track record in India in the first project.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Financial analysis considered the fiscal impact of the project and reviewed sustainability, incrementally,
absorptive capacity, recurrent cost implications, and financial flows.
Fiscal Impact:
Taken in the context of a relatively smaller follow-on to an on-going project, little budgetary impact is
expected in the short-run. Moreover, detailed analysis of the cost structure confirms that most investments
are in human capital through training and information. With no new large investments, the main elements
of recurrent costs relate to addressing the long-term placement of existing staff. This issue is linked to the
shifting of the service delivery model from vertical to horizontal as more leprosy services shift to GHS in
the states. Assisting project design on this issue is the on-going experiences from states that have
successfully eliminated the public health threat of leprosy.
A related issue is financial sustainability. Since the objective of the project is to assist GOI with the
elimination of leprosy as a public health threat, there is little need for a sustainable structure. In fact, an
important difference between the new and existing project is the institutional changes taking place in the
states that are no longer endemic.
Absorptive capacity for new expenditures is also not a critical issue in this project. The existence of an
on-going project and the shrinking size and scope of the project minimize the risk of capacity problems. A
remaining risk, however, is relatively weak implementation capacity of some of the endemic states.
Management attention and technical assistance on issues relating to the procurement of contracted services
is critical for mitigating these risks. Another small risk relates to incrementality of IDA financing. Project
- 13 -



supervision will pay special attention to the sources of financing for the project. Financial reporting on the
shares of the government, IDA, and other partner funds (WHO and Danida), should ensure that external
funding does not substitute for domestic funds.
While the move to the integration of service delivery at the state level and the new fund flow mechanisms
strengthen the role of state implementing agencies, the basic funding roles of the center and states are not
changed. As long as leprosy represents a public health concern, the center will continue to finance the bulk
of the recurrent costs. In other words, the financial burden in not shifted to the states.
Project Financial Management System
Financial management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 6. The project will be budgeted
under a single identifiable line item in the budget of the MOHFW, GOI. The implementing agency for the
Project is the MOHFW Directorate General of Health Service (Leprosy Division) the finance and
accounting department of which, headed by a Deputy Secretary who will function ex-officio as the Project
Financial Coordinator will consolidate the Project accounts. DGHS(LD) will be supported in the execution
of the project by the participating states. The flow of funds form DGHS(LD) will be to SLS and from SLS
to DLS and financial reporting from DLS to SLS and from SLS to DGHS (LD).
An integrated project computerized financial management system (PFMS) is being developed for the
project. Consultants have been appointed to design, develop and institute a computerized financial
management system. The key tasks that will be carried out to implement the integrated financial
management system are: (a) procurement of hardware expected to be completed by March 31, 2001; (b)
design and development of a PFMS software, expected to be completed by June 30, 2001; (c) appointment
of accounting staff at SLS expected to be completed by July 31, 2001; and (d) training of the staff in the
implementation of the PFMS, expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
The PFMS is expected to be fully operational by October 1, 2001.
Disbursements: Disbursements from IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system
(reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and would be converted to
the Project Management Report based disbursements after the successful implementation of the
computerized PFMS. The target date for this conversion is October 1, 2002.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$ 2.9 million (SDR 2.25 million
equivalent) would cover eligible expenditure for implementing activities after October 1, 2000 based on a
Statement of Expenditure. Retroactive financing would support procurement of equipment, supportive
medicines, materials and supplies, training and workshops, IEC, consultant and contractual services, and
vehicle operation.
Audit: DGHS(LD) accounts will be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The SLS will
be audited by firms of Chartered Accountant and the audit would include a statement on the audit status of
the DLS in the state based on Chartered Accountant audits of the DLS. An audited annual project financial
statement will be submitted by DGHS(LD) and all the participating states within 6 months of the close of
GOI's fiscal year. All these audit certificates, i.e. that of DGHS (LD) and the SLS and the special account
audit report will be monitored in Audit Reports Compliance System.
Special Account: A Special Account will be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and will be operated
- 14 -



by the Department of Economic Affairs of GOI. The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be
US $ 2.5 million that represent about 6 months of initial estimated disbursements from IDA Credit. The
Special Account will be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies.
3. Technical:
Experience in India is consistent with that in other countries and indicates that MDT is highly efficacious in
the treatment and control of leprosy.
The main technical issues are epidemiological. Leprosy has a long incubation period (usually 2-5 years, but
up to 20 years), and we know relatively little about leprosy transmission or its interruption. One implication
is that leprosy will continue for many years (hopefully at low levels of endemicity), and that we need to
sustain leprosy control efforts in India over the long term, most feasibly done through the GHS.
4. Institutional:
The institutional assessment is based on knowledge derived from the long-standing relationship between
IDA and the MOHFW, especially in relation to implementation of leprosy control activities. This included
missions to supervise the first project; experience with other disease control projects; an identification
mission for the second project; detailed discussions at the central, state and district levels with a wide range
of stakeholders (including managerial and technical personnel, beneficiaries, community representatives
and NGOs); and the findings of a number of reviews and studies by multilateral and bilateral agencies. The
institutional assessment forms the basis for the following project response:
9   Continue a mix of campaign and routine case detection with emphasis on active case detection
activities targeted to the high endemicity areas and states.
i   Continue and intensify efforts directed to special groups which have been missed so far - this will
involve concentrating on the high endemnicity states and the use of SAPELs/LECs.
*   Dismantle the vertical structure and integrate with the GHS and proscribe re-institution of the incentive
system.
e   Change the role of the state - it will be the "unit of account" and funds will flow through the state to
the districts; the states will be responsible for program planning at the state level and for provision of
supervision and technical support to the districts; districts' ability to respond to local needs
strengthened through decentralized procurement of such goods and services which have less predictable
patterns of requirement.
*   Strengthen state capacity to manage the prograrn. The states currently have limited management and
technical capacity - therefore the center must play an important role in strengthening management and
technical capacity at the state level and in becoming a source of technical expertise itself.
*   Stimulate a reciprocal change in the role of the center which will become primarily responsible for
technical assistance to the states, monitor the elimination on a country and state basis, provide policy
guidance and set goals for the country in the international context.
*   Introduce some separation of funding and provision as the state and district contract NGOs to deliver
reconstructive surgery and, in some cases, the full leprosy control package
*   Support greater participation of NGOs in the path to full-scale integration of leprosy services with
general health care services in India. In turn, NGOs will become more accountable through service
contracts with the states and districts.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Not applicable.
4.2 Project management:
- 15 -



Not Applicable.
4.3 Procurement issues:
1. Procurement. The "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995,
Revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999 )" shall apply to all Goods
and Works financed under the project. The "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999)" shall apply
to all Consultants' services financed under the project.
Based on the experience of NLEP I and other health projects, decentralization of implementation
including procurement is proposed under this project. Hence, the SLS /DLS would be responsible for
procurement of most goods, equipment and services. Most of the contracts are of small value; therefore
National Shopping method of procurement will be adopted for most goods and equipment. Since
Intemational Competitive Bidding t National Competitive Bidding procedures are not involved, the
DLS / SLS will be able to procure goods and services without much change in the existing
capacities/capabilities. Items to be procured, services to be hired and procurement schedules for all the
three years of the project have been prepared and are attached in the PIP of the Borrower. The
procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex 6 which summarizes the NLEP II elements and
their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.
4.4 Financial management issues:
There are two major issues: (i) the timely flow of funds to the project implementing entities (viz. state
society and district societies) and a quick turnover in submission of statements of expenditure to the
GOI from these entities will be a crucial challenge. This will be specially important as this is a
relatively short duration project; and (ii) timely submission of acceptable audit reports for all project
implementing entities in time will be critical. Audit reports from all the participating states will need to
be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of the GOI fiscal year. Execution of the project
through a society should considerably ease the flow of funds to the implementing agencies. It should
also help in timely submission of audit reports as the audit reports for Societies will come from
Chartered Accountancy firms instead of State Auditor Generals. A financial coordinator at the Central
level and an effective financial management system should ensure that the expenditure reporting from
the states is regular and timely and audit arrangements for the DGHS(LD) and SLS are properly set
up.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The overall incremental medical waste generated due to this project is very limited. There are no significant
environmental issues.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Nevertheless, a simple medical waste management plan has been developed by GOI and consists of the
following actions:
1. The volume of leprosy related medical waste generated at each facility is expected to be very low.
Leprosy related medical waste will be disposed of according to the existing Government of India
Bio-medical Waste (Management and Handling) Rules (1998). These rules provide for
incineration/autoclaving/microwaving of solid waste and disinfection/autoclaving/microwaving and
mutilation/shredding for sharps. The Gazette of India notification provides that the occupier of an
- 16 -



institution generating medical waste shall be responsible for handling of such waste without harmful effect
to human health and environment.
2. At home, patients will be counseled on first contact with health workers, to burn cloth that they have
used for dressings, and to wash and sun dry cloth that they use for dressing before re-use.
The compliance with this plan by health workers and facilities will form part of the routine project
supervision.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not Applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not Applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social issue to be addressed by the project is the physical and social access of poor and
marginalized populations, particularly women, tribal groups, scheduled castes, the urban poor and
migrants, to leprosy diagnostic and treatment facilities. The social development objectives of the project
are to (i) improve information and encourage health seeking behavior and increased demand for reliable
and effective leprosy services; and (ii) overcome social/cultural barriers and gender discrimination in
access to diagnostic and treatment facilities. Through decentralizing and integrating leprosy services into
the general health service, the project is expected to increase coverage and provide regular access to
leprosy detection and treatment. State Implementation Plans have identified hard-to-reach groups and
developed strategies to reach them with special interventions such as the Special Action Projects for the
Elimination of Leprosy and the Leprosy Elimination Campaigns.
Women: Women are particularly vulnerable to the myths and stigma associated with leprosy and suffer
higher social costs of leprosy owing to fewer options open to them. Though women constitute 25 percent
of the leprosy patients, it is more difficult for the service providers and public health information
campaigns to reach them. The project seeks to address this by (i) case finding and treatment strategies
with specific focus on reaching women through 'female searchers' in all areas, (ii) IEC plan for the
project would specifically address the gender perspective, including the "what", "to whom" and "when"
questions regarding the content, targeting and timing of the IEC campaign to most effectively address the
needs of women, (iii) one-on-one counseling will address challenges faced by women in accessing
services, and (iv) training programs planned under the project will be adequately "gendered" so as to
sensitize field level staff to the special needs of women.
Scheduled Tribes: There is evidence that tribal populations are less likely to access diagnostic and
treatment services in a timely manner. Approximately 75,000 tribal persons are to be treated under the
project from Uttar Pradesh, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal (70 percent of
total) apart from other states. Focal active detection campaigns with trained tribal youth along with IEC
- 17-



efforts using locally adapted models and formats and SAPEL, would be adopted. The project's tribal
strategy that seeks to reach tribal populations in remote areas will be finalized by negotiations (annex
15). Health workers of primary health centres and sub-centers in tribal sub-plan areas would be trained
to act as first point of referral for patients referred by tribal youth.
Scheduled Castes, Urban Poor, and Migratory Groups: Mass active case detection strategies will be
applied through out the country and to areas with high endemicity, through mobilization of departmental
staff of several government departments and local volunteers. These campaigns will be supported by
directed mass media and local publicity.
Social Exclusion: The project's IEC plans have identified the key audiences and specific strategies to
increase awareness and demand among the key target groups. IEC activities will be aimed at improved
community awareness and at counseling to ensure that the information leads to (i) appropriate health
seeking behavior through one-on-one communication, and (ii) greater social acceptability of leprosy
patients. It is expected that the project would put in place an effective and sustainable program of
detection and treatment that will assist India in eliminating leprosy as a public health problem. Early
case detection and treatment, as well as the treatment of disability, would alleviate human suffering and
decrease the social burden of the disease. Since an estimated 60 percent of those reached will be below
the poverty line, the positive impact of the project in terms of healthy life years saved will be the highest
among the poor.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project preparation paid special attention to fostering a sense of ownership and commitment among
stakeholders of the project. These include: (i) central and state governments, who have played a
proactive role in project preparation and development. The states have increasingly taken ownership of
the program by preparing individual PIPs, particularly the high-endemic states. Since an important
initiative under the project is decentralization of implementation, both state- and district-level
administrations have been included in the preparation process; (ii) beneficiaries and communities, who
have been consulted to assess the outreach of the program and its impact, and to gain insight into the
social factors influencing decisions to seek diagnosis and treatment; (iii) NGOs, which will now be more
fully included as partners in implementation; and (iv) international donors, such as the WHO and
Danida, who have provided technical assistance and will be involved in the implementation of the
project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The evaluation of the first NLEP indicated that NGOs have played an important role and have the
potential to increase their involvement in all aspects of the program, particularly in remote and
underserved areas. Active case detection through a mix of strategies will be a priority to increase the
access of underserved groups to diagnostic and treatment services. The SAPEL and LECs, set up
specifically to implement the project in endemic tribal/hard to reach areas, will be continued and
intensified. SAPELs implemented during Phase I were able to successfully involve community based
organizations such as Mahila Swasthya Samitis, Panchayati Raj Institutions, Development of Women
and Children in Rural Areas groups, etc. Community Based Organizations and NGOs will be involved
in service delivery in various ways: for IEC activities, disability care, detection, rehabilitation and
surveillance. The National and State PIPs for the five focus states have been reviewed with key NGOs.
They provide information regarding the availability, level of involvement of NGOs and opportunities for
involving NGOs in several areas, including case finding and treatment, monitoring, training and IEC.
The role played by the NGOs will vary by state and district depending on NGO capacity and disease
- 18-



burden. There are increasing consultations with NGOs on program design and implementation. NGOs
are also a key partner of the Global Alliance for Elimination of Leprosy which is currently chaired by
India.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project emphasizes two key institutional initiatives which would improve coverage of vulnerable and
excluded groups and elimination of leprosy among them.
(i) decentralization of planning and implementation to the state and district levels. This would increase
the involvement of states and then build capacities to manage and administer the leprosy program over
the long term. Guided by local needs, states will prepare and implement state-specific annual plans with
emphasis on the needs of special groups. This includes carrying out increased number of SAPELs and
LECs to reach target groups; and
(ii). integration of leprosy diagnosis and treatment facilities into general health services. This would lead
to improved geographical coverage and increased access to MDT, particularly for poor areas.
Both these initiatives will be supported by appropriate capacity building efforts, for government
administrations to plan and manage such activities, and for staff to undertake case finding, treatment and
rehabilitation programs.
In addition, the project proposes to:
(i) increase the outreach of health workers through training and other inputs, and also provide training
to other field workers, such as Anganwadi workers to increase the availability of diagnosis and treatment
channels for leprosy patients;
(ii) increase involvement of NGOs, particularly to reach poor and marginalized groups and underserved
areas;
(iii) enhance IEC capacity by engaging professional media agencies;
(iv) enhance capacity at state and district levels to monitor and track the disease burden of target
groups, and thus strengthen capacity to respond in a timely and appropriate manner.
Lessons from the first leprosy project and recommendations from the social and institutional assessments
called for the project to include capacity building measures and close partnerships with Danida, WHO and
NGOs. Danida has developed experience in SAPELs and gender sensitization, while WHO would assist in
building capacity for monitoring project impact on the target groups. See C.4 and Annex 2 for details.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
In order to increase the responsiveness of the health system to needs at the community level, the
monitoring and evaluation mechanism will include assessments of program coverage of different social
groups differentiated by age, sex, rural/urban location, and scheduled caste/tribe. Information collected
will include the number of cases under treatment, number of new cases, number of cases cured and
coverage. Special studies are planned to assess treatment completion rates, quality of diagnoses, and
quality of care.
In addition to information on case finding and treatment, the monitoring and evaluation mechanism will
collect data on the progress of activities on the ground, status of logistics and drug supply, and funds
flow and expenditures. This will become an integral part of the project monitoring and evaluation
mechanism, repeated at reasonable intervals, and will facilitate monitoring of the impact of the project
on socially disadvantaged groups.
- 19 -



Baseline information on underserved areas and special groups has been collected for the five high
endemic states and similar independent surveys will provide end-line data for impact evaluation.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the proiect?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project specifically aims to benefit vulnerable groups and indigenous (i.e. tribal) populations. The
national and state-level PIPs identify tribal populations as a target group with unique problems of
physical and social access, requiring special culturally-sensitive strategies. The project's tribal strategy
(detailed in Annex 15) is aimed at increasing the demand for leprosy services and include the following
measures: detailed mapping of tribal groups, providing culturally compatible IEC to promote health
education and publicize leprosy services, training volunteers in tribal communities, utilizing tribal youth
as community mobilizers and communicators, and conducting SAPELs with the help of tribal leaders,
community members and trained volunteers. Partnerships are being developed with the Tribal
Development Departments for better information on these groups and channels to expand outreach.
Population specific information will be used to develop culturally sensitive IEC materials for both the
public and providers.
The revised monitoring mechanism will provide data on provision of services to tribal groups. Additional
data, qualitative and quantitative, will be obtained from SAPEL reports and special studies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Leprosy control activities will be sustained beyond the life of the project because
*   the GOI and the states are strongly committed to the project
*   the GOI and states are moving to a structure that will reduce the load on the exchequer due to
rationalization of staff
*  the project enjoys support from all key stakeholders
- 20 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk 1atin9             Risk Mitigationt Measure-
From Outputs to Objective
GOI and the states not willing to             S         Continuing discussion with states and center or
undertake changes in roles and                          roles; Memorandums of Understanding
responsibilities under proposed
decentralization and integration, and/or
not have the capacity to do so.
Leprosy cases will not come for               M         IEC campaigns, active case detection and follow
treatment.                                              up
District level staff inadequately diagnose    M         Training and supervision from state level
and treatment leprosy.
Inadequate/irregular supply/distribution      N         Experience from first project and continuing
of drugs.                                               WHO involvement
GOI/states not willing to support NGO        M          Memorandums of Understanding, project
participation in rehabilitation, IEC or                 supervision
training activities.
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate financial managment and            S         All states will be required to establish a state
audits at SGHS (LD) level and irregular                 society through which funds will flow. This has
funds from GOI to state level                           proved effective in other disease control
projects.
Delays in procurement                         M         Procurement plans; relevant necessary
procurement actions as condition of negotiations
Overall Risk Rating                           M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
- 21 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Nil.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
To fulfill the Conditions of Negotiations, the following actions have been taken:
a) Project Implementation Plans for the Centre, 5 endemic states and other states and UTs have been
completed and provided to the Association.
b) The project has been cleared by the Expenditure Finance Committee of the Government of India.
c) Memorandums of Understanding have been received from key participating states confirming their
intention to implement the project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plans.
c) The procurement plans for each year of the project have been satisfactorily prepared. The GOI confirms
that it will use agreed quarterly procurement monitoring formats.
d) The Bank has cleared procurement actions for the first year.
e) Donor coordination mechanism has been initiated.
At negotiations, Government of India provided assurances that it would:
a) Undertake a mid-term review of the project by September 30, 2002 in accordance with terms of
reference agreed with the Bank, using data from agreed surveys.
b) Ensure adequate budgetary allocations at the centre, and release project funds in a timely manner to the
states through agreed channels of funding, only after adequately trained accounting staff are in position, in
order to carry out agreed project activities.
c) Submit biannual project progress reports.
d) Undertake annual financial and procurement audit under Terms of Reference agreed with the Bank.
e) Reduce the numbers of regular and contract 'vertical' staff in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plans.
f) Ensure that incentives based on case finding shall not be instituted.
g) Carry out routine reporting, independent third party surveys, validation of elimination surveys and
end-line leprosy prevalence survey in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
h) Organize biannual meetings of the donor coordination committee.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
! 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 22 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
LI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Peter F. Heywood                  Richard Lee Skoln                  dwin R. Lim
Team Leader                       Sector Director                   Country Director
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
Key Performnce
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve access to and     Increased coverage and       *  CAS discussions         *  Early detection and
quality of health services    utilization of national leprosy                        cure/disability care will
elimination project                                       improve the quality of
life and earning capacity
of those affected by
leprosy
*  GOI household surveys    * Prevalence of the
disease is mainly among
the poor, its elimination
as a public health
problem will impact
poverty as well
* Various Bank sector
reports
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Transform the national   Decentralization of leprosy   Reports of the NLEP,      *  GOI and state
leprosy control program to   control activities from the  observations and reports of  governments support in
an effective and sustainable  center to the states  Bank supervision missions       overcoming
program through a                                                                   administrative and
decentralized and integrated                                                        managerial problems
approach which increases                                                            during decentralization
community access to MDT.                                                            and integration
Integration of leprosy control Reports of NLEP,        *  Continued inter-agency
activities with the general    independent surveys,       (specifically GOI and
health services           observations and reports of     WHO) support for
Bank supervision missions      NLEP, including supply
of drugs
State progress reports, surveys
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1 -
Decentralization and
institutional development
Increased state role in, and    Number of project related  Quarterly progress reports,  *  States have required
responsibility for, leprosy  activities under state control  reports of Bank supervision  managerial and
control activities which where and in state level reporting on missions              technical capacity
previously under central  project progress e.g
control                   monitoring and supervision,
and financial
reporting/auditing
- 24 -



Increased support and       Number of technical staff at   Bank supervision reports     *  GOI willing to adopt
technical assistance from   the center with specific                                        new roles
center to states            responsibility to ensure
continued assistance to states
and/or holding workshops to
address state-specific
technical requirement.
Component 2 - Strengthen
and integrate service
delivery                    Number of vertical structure   Supervision reports,         *  Center has capacity to
Integration of leprosy control  staff; out-reach of program    independent surveys          provide support and
with GHS at the state and   through GHS and sustained                                      technical assistance to
district levels             program achievements                                            states
Improved extent and accuracy Improved sensitivity and    Mid-term review and            *  States willing to
of detection and successful    specificity of diagnoses  evaluation reports,               integrate leprosy
administration of MDT to all                             independent surveys                services with GHS
confirmed cases
Service statistics, supervision    *  District level staff has
reports, independent surveys      adequate diagnostic
skills for detection and
cure of disease
*  GOI and states willing
to eliminate case
detection incentives
Service statistics, supervision    *  WHO willing to
Adequate procurement and    Supply and distribution of    reports, independent surveys      continue supply of drugs
distribution of drugs       drugs in all states                                            to the project
*  GOI and states able to
improve distribution of
drugs
Component 3 - Prevention of
Disability.
Support for disability,     Proportion of new cases with  Service statistics            *  Willingness of states to
particular those drawing on    deformity grade II and above                                 promote increased
the substantial experience of  receiving adequate care                                      involvement of NGOs in
NGOs                                                                                        disability prevention
Component 4 - Information,
Education and
Communication               Community awareness and    Social assessments, surveys,
Greater community awareness participation in case detection supervision reports         *  States willing to
of leprosy and possibility of   and disability prevention                                   contract out/increase
prevention; less negative   resulting in timely treatment,                                  own capacity for IEC
image of the disease         and fewer disabilities                                      *  States willing to involve
NGOs in promoting
community awareness
and participation
Component 5 - Training
Reorienting staff to an     Proportion of staff                                          *  Willingness of states to
integrated approach and     appropriately trained                                           draw on NGO training
provision of new skills                                                                     experience in leprosy
control
-25 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-com ponents:          component)                                           Outputs)
Decentralization and                 2.50            Quarterly progress reports    Adequate and timely flow of
institutional development                                                      funds from GOI to state
project
Strengthening and integrating       27.80            Supervision reports       Timely assignment of staff
service delivery                                                               and consultants
Disability care                      3.70            On-going social assessments  Timely procurement
IEC                                  5.00            Mid-term review and
evaluation reports
Training                             3.20
- 26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDIA: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
Leprosy is also called Hansen's Disease (the Norwegian physician G. Arrnauer Hansen discovered
Hansen's bacillus in 1874). Leprosy is a chronic slow developing bacterial disease of humans caused by
Mycobacterium leprae affecting mainly peripheral nerves and skin. The suffering of leprosy is caused by
damage to the peripheral nerves, which leads to sensory loss, paralysis and loss of function of the hands,
feet and eyes. It is feared because of its potential for crippling and disfigurement. The resulting deformities
are the main cause of social stigma attached to the disease.
* See PAD Section B.2 for discussion of the main sector issues and government strategy
* See PAD Section B.3 for identification of the sector issues to be addressed by the project and
strategic choices
[The preparation of this project has, and the implementation will, involve collaboration between GOI,
IDA, WHO, Danida and International Federation ofAntileprosy Associations (ILEP)]
As summarized in Sections B.2 and B.3, this project (a follow on from the first IDA-supported project),
aims to transform the national leprosy control program into an effective and sustainable program through a
decentralized and integrated approach and to reduce the national prevalence of leprosy to less than 3 per
10,000 at the end of the project.
The long term goal is to reach elimination levels in all states within the next 6-8 years - while this is much
beyond the project period, reaching elimination levels in all states will be heavily dependent on
transformation of the program, the immediate goal of the project described here.
Leprosy control involves
*   Finding individuals who have leprosy by actively searching for them (active case detection) or
encouraging them to self-report (passive case detection)
*   Treating diagnosed individuals with effective drugs
* Provision and distribution of drugs
- Prevention of disability
* Monitoring the amount of leprosy in the community and the implementation of control activities
The Leprosy Control Program in India commenced in 1955. Multiple drug therapy replaced the inadequate
single drug regimen in 1983. At the commencement of the first IDA project in 1993, although low levels of
leprosy had been reached in a few states, endemicity remained high in many states including the states of
Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Orissa. The first IDA project implemented as a
centrally sponsored and controlled endeavor, reduced overall recorded prevalence of leprosy, greatly
expanded the availability of MDT, assisted active (and continued passive) case detection, supported
prevention of disability and placed greater emphasis on reducing stigmatization and increasing awareness
that the disease could be treated. As the first project closes, technical capacity of the states to implement
leprosy control remains low. Endemicity has been remarkably reduced in many states. But prevalence
remains high in these 5 states (Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Orissa) and
elimination levels at the national level have not been reached.
Consequently, the design of this project involves decentralization of project implementation to the states
and preparation of state-specific plans. This design is consistent with the move to increased state
- 27 -



responsibility and responds to recognition that central management of programs in a large diverse country
has not been able to deal effectively with the local situation.
Decentralization in this project is based on preparation of state-specific plans and plans for central control
activities which
*   Re-define the role of the center, state and district
*   Strengthen management capacity all levels
*   Delineate a mix of active and passive case finding strategies (voluntary reporting, campaigns, general
health service, and attention to special groups) considered appropriate to the state and district situation
*   Support leprosy control activities with high quality social marketing stressing that leprosy can be
treated, treatment is available and effective, and disability is avoidable and may be corrected.
*   Propose integration of leprosy control with the general health services immediately in low endemic and
in a phased manner in high endemicity states and districts.
*   Include plans for re-deployment of staff from the vertical program, including to other parts of the
health system
*   Ensure availability of drugs at the local level (donated by Novartis and procured and supplied by
WHO)
Particular emphasis will be placed on the five high-endemicity states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya
Pradesh, West Bengal and Orissa.
The project will contain the following components:
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.50 million
Decentralization and institutional development
The main purpose of this component is to promote revised roles for the center, states and districts in
implementing the new project; the new roles are spelled out in the PIPs. In general, the center will be
responsible for an annual plan for central activities; technical assistance to the states; review of annual
state plans; release of funds to state societies; supervision of progress in training and IEC plans and
evaluation; coordination of financial monitoring and expenditure and disbursement reports and claims
under the project; overall management of the drug supplies; overall coordination of monitoring and
surveillance activities and special cross-state surveys; and dissemination of lessons learned across states.
In turn, the states will prepare and implement state-specific annual plans and strategies with emphasis on
the needs of special groups (including SAPEL, LEC projects); channel funds to district societies; provide
technical assistance to the districts; monitor implementation; support the DLS in implementing district level
activities; manage state level IEC and training; drug supplies; and preparation of physical and financial
monitoring of project implementation; and coordination within the state.
The district will prepare and implement annual plans which ensure financial monitoring, management of
local level activities including IEC, drug supply, training, monitoring and surveillance and coordination
with other sectors.
The project will finance training and workshops, consultants, incremental staff, equipment and furniture.
- 28 -



Project Component 2 - US$27.80 million
Strengthening and integration of service delivery
The MDT strategy was implemented widely in the first project and will form the centerpiece of the
technical approach to be used in the second. The service delivery strategy will emphasize integration with
the GHS from the start of the project. For the service delivery strategy, each state will determine the
appropriate mix of active and passive case finding through voluntary reporting, campaigns, GHS and
emphasis on special groups. While it may be necessary in some areas to continue mass campaigns, this is
not a sustainable strategy and will, as soon as possible, give way to an integrated model of service delivery.
Patient segregation will be discontinued. NGOs will be contracted to provide services; where feasible this
will include provision of all leprosy control activities in a district. The actual mix of activities and their
timing are shown for each state in the PIPs.
The project will finance incremental operating costs, drug delivery, campaigns, training, activities to target
special groups, service delivery by NGOs.
Project Component 3 - USS 3.70 million
Prevention of Disability
Without the disability that is associated with longstanding leprosy infection, leprosy would be a somewhat
unusual and infrequent skin disorder. However, the occurrence of disabilities resulting from nerve damage,
makes leprosy a dreaded disease with significant social stigma and socio-economic consequence to
individuals and families.
Under this component major responsibility for service delivery will rest with general health services and
NGO partners. NGOs will be responsible for taking up prevention of disability work in defined
populations, training of general health staff in these activities, IEC activities in this respect and in carrying
out re-constructive surgery for serious deformities.
The project will finance purchase of services from NGOs, consultant services, training, purchase of
equipment and operating expenses.
Project Component 4 - US$5.00 million
Information, education and communication
The objective of this component is to carry out political advocacy, change society's attitude to leprosy and
to increase demand by affected individuals for leprosy control services. An overall IEC strategy has been
developed. In general, planning these activities will take account of the declining prevalence as elimination
is approached, the need to support the campaign activities at specific times and encourage voluntary
reporting as leprosy control is integrated with the general health services. The strategy will differ by state
according to level of endemicity. In the moderate/low endemic states the main objective is to encourage
early voluntary self-reporting. In the high endemicity states the LEC activities will, initially, also support the
campaigns through general awareness of the signs and symptoms of leprosy. The IEC will build on the
experience of the BBC World Service Trust whose campaign is coming to an end. The BBC mass media
- 29 -



campaign aimed at improving voluntary self-reporting during the mass case finding and treatment
campaign in 1999 carried out in all states of the Indian Union. The BBC campaign used materials produced
by local producers of the state owned Doordarshan TV company and supported by BBC. A post campaign
evaluation showed high viewership and impact. In addition to the media campaign, the BBC also worked
with the Song and Drama division of the Ministry for Information and Broadcasting to carry out local and
group forms of communication in these selected states.
A professional agency/agencies will be appointed to manage the media campaign and political advocacy at
the center. At the district level the District Leprosy Officer will be responsible for local IEC activities
which will be coordinated with state and national efforts.
The project will finance consultant services, workshops, training, technical assistance, IEC materials and
media space and operational expenses.
Project Component 5 - US$3.20 million
Training
Reorienting staff to an integrated approach and providing new skills needed by staff in the general health
services and those who will be re-deployed will require a large and coordinated training effort. The training
strategy (details given in the PIP) is based around the need for improved management at all levels, and the
need for technical re-orientation of various categories of health workers (including those in the general
health services as integration progresses). The training will be based on the specific problems faced by each
state, needs and competency based, and include explicit evaluation activities. A core team for training will
be established in each state and will be charged with detailed planning and implementation of training
activities, and production/adaptation of appropriate training materials. Where feasible training activities
will be contracted to outside agencies, including qualified NGOs.
The project will finance workshops, review meetings, training activities, contractual services and
operational expenses.
In addition, there are a number of issues which cut across all of these components and have influenced
project design. They are:
Drugs will be donated by Novartis and procured and supplied by WHO.
NGOs: the GOI plan for involvement of NGOs is spelt out in detail in the PIP. In summary, GOI's NGO
strategy allows for increased involvement of NGOs in a range of leprosy control activities while increasing
accountability for specified outcomes.
Manpower: in the course of the project the GOI will significantly reduce the number of vertical staff in
leprosy control. The details are shown in the PIP.
Special groups: GOI recognizes that reaching the goal of this project will be dependent on reaching groups
for whom access is currently limited for social, economic or geographic reasons. The GOI plan for reaching
these special groups includes the following: use of local volunteers organized and trained during SAPELs
and LECs, training and networking with private and other providers of health related services e.g.:
Registered Medical Practitioners and local doctors, use of teachers, village health guides, forest guards etc.,
provision for accompanied MDT.
- 30 -



Monitoring and surveillance: as discussed above, in Section B.2 of the PAD, while incidence is the
preferred method of measuring trends in disease occurrence, it is not feasible to do so for leprosy. To date,
programs have used case detection rate but it is becoming increasingly clear that it is flawed as a proxy for
incidence rates; despite this and in the absence of an altemative, it will continue to be used as a program
indicator. However, it is then important that monitoring and surveillance efforts supplement their use of
case detection rate with:
a)     Baseline Data and Changes at the End of the Project (Annex 11). The estimated prevalence as of
March 2000 with all available data is 7.2 per 10 000 and the most probable situation at the end of 2004
will be around 2 to 3 per ten thousand.
At the end of the project, the same method will be used to estimate the prevalence of the disease.
To achieve this, surveys will be conducted to collect information on:
* Proportion of 'recycled cases';
* Proportion of examined cases among suspected and referred cases;
* Proportion of confirmed cases among cases evaluated; and
* Population coverage.
WHO has agreed to assist GOI in undertaking this exercise.
b)     Methods for Assessing Progress towards Leprosy Elimination (Annex 12). Rapid assessment
based on Lot Quality Assurance Sampling will be used to assist States to determine whether they have
reached elimination level or not.
c)     Surveys to Monitor Performance of Leprosy Elimination Program (Annex 13) to assess levels of
integration, quality care including cure rates, and availability of MDT drugs.
Leprosy Elimination Monitoring has been designed to supplement routinely collected information on
disease distribution with more detailed information on program performance and levels of integration. This
exercise will be undertaken at the beginning of the project and at least every year thereafter in each of the
priority States, and WHO has agreed to assist GOI to carry out these surveys. The last of these surveys
will constitute the end-line leprosy prevalence (evaluation) survey.
d)     Collection and Analysis of Essential Indicators (Annex 14). Essential indicators will be collected at
the local level and aggregated at district, state and national level. They include prevalence, detection by
type of leprosy, by age groups, by sex, by scheduled caste and scheduled tribe, disabilities among newly
detected cases, and cure. The already existing leprosy information system is to be modified to take into
account the distribution of the disease in various population groups such that data is available at a national
level on a quarterly basis. Patient cards and reporting forms will be adapted. WHO has agreed to assist
GOI in adapting the system and computerizing it at State level.
- 31 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
Local       Foreign        Total
Projec Cost By Component                 US $million   US- $million   US $million
1. Decentralization and Institutional Development         2.30          0.00         2.30
2. Strengthening and Integrating Services                25.70          0.00        25.70
3. Disability Prevention and Care                         3.30          0.00         3.30
4. IEC                                                    4.50          0.00         4.50
5. Training                                               3.00          0.00         3.00
Total Baseline Cost                                      38.80          0.00        38.80
Physical Contingencies                                   0.90          0.00         0.90
Price Contingencies                                      2.50          0.00         2.50
Total Project Costs             42.20          0.00        42.20
Total Financing Required              42.20         0.00         42.20
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $million   US $milllon
Goods*                                                      3.60          0.00          3.60
Works                                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Services                                                   25.60          0.00         25.60
Operating Costs                                            13.00          0.00         13.00
Total Project Costs    42.20           0.00        42.20
Total Financing Required     42.20          0.00         42.20
* Drugs for the project of a value US $10.4 million (approximately) are being donated by Novartis
Foundation through WHO.
INDIA NLEP II                               2001     2002      2003    Total
Projects Components by year (US$million)                  I
Decentralisation & Institutional Development  1.19    0.57     0.56      2.32
Strengthening & Integrating Services       10.41      9.44     5.83    25.68
Disability Prevention & Care                 1.12     1.19     1.03      3.34
IEC                                         2.63      1.44     0.45      4.51
Training                                    1.58      1.32     0.06      2.96
Total BASELINE COSTS                       16.93    13.96      7.93    38.82
Physical Contingencies                      0.41      0.32     0.18      0.91
Price contingencies                         0.75      0.96     0.79      2.49
Total PROJECT COSTS                        18.09    15.23      8.90    42.22
- 32 -



INDIA NLEP IV                               2001     2002      2003   :Total
Projects Components by year (INRmillion))
Decentralisation & Institutional Development  55.98    26.83  26.23    109.04
Strengthening & Integrating Services      489.15   443.81    274.05   1207.02
Disability Prevention & Care               52.71    56.05    48.37    157.13
IEC                                       123.51    67.52     20.98   212.01
Training                                   74.26    61.89      3.01    139.16
Total BASELINE COSTS                      795.61   656.10   372.65  1824.36
Physical Contingencies                      19.33    14.81     8.54    42.68
Price contingencies                        26.08    64.71     60.22    151.01
Total PROJECT COSTS                       841.02   735.63   441.40  2018.05
BIHAR NLEP II                               2001     2002      2003  - Total
Projects Components by year (US$million)
Decentralisation & Institutional Development  0.06    0.02     0.02      0.10
Strengthening & Integrating Services        2.02      1.80     1.15      4.97
Disability Prevention & Care                0.18      0.18     0.15      0.51
IEC                                         0.38      0.15     0.07      0.60
Training                                    0.24      0.24     0.00      0.48
Total BASELINE COSTS                        2.87      2.40     1.39      6.67
Physical Contingencies                      0.06      0.05     0.03      0.14
Price contingencies                         0.13      0.16     0.14      0.43
Total PROJECT COSTS                         3.07      2.61     1.56      7.24
WEST BENGAL NLEPl 1                         2001     2002      2003    Total
Projects Components by year (US$million)
Decentralisation & Institutional Development  0.05    0.02     0.02      0.08
Strengthening & Integrating Services         1.13     1.03     0.61      2.77
Disability Prevention & Care                0.10      0.10     0.08      0.28
IEC                                         0.34      0.17     0.05      0.56
Training                                    0.17      0.17     0.00      0.34
Total BASELINE COSTS                        1.78      1.49     0.76      4.04
Physical Contingencies                      0.04      0.03     0.01      0.08
Price contingencies                         0.08      0.10     0.08      0.26
Total PROJECT COSTS                         1.91      1.61     0.85      4.38
- 33 -



MADHYA PRADESH NLEP Il                      2001     2002      2003    Total
Projects Components by year (US$million)
Decentralisation & Institutional Development  0.05    0.02     0.02      0.09
Strengthening & Integrating Services        1.26      1.23     0.77      3.25
Disability Prevention & Care                0.14      0.14     0.12      0.40
IEC                                         0.35      0.13     0.06      0.54
Training                                    0.16      0.14     0.00      0.30
Total BASELINE COSTS                        1.95      1.66     0.96      4.58
Physical Contingencies                      0.05      0.05     0.02      0.12
Price contingencies                         0.09      0.11     0.10      0.30
Total PROJECT COSTS                         2.09      1.81     1.08      4.99
UTTAR PRADESH NLEP II                       2001     2002      2003    Total
Projects Components by year (US$million)
Decentralisation & Institutional Development  0.06    0.02     0.02      0.10
Strengthening & Integrating Services        2.19      1.99     1.28      5.45
Disability Prevention & Care                0.21      0.22     0.18      0.61
IEC                                         0.45      0.21     0.08      0.74
Training                                    0.25      0.22     0.00      0.47
Total BASELINE COSTS                        3.17      2.66     1.55      7.38
Physical Contingencies                      0.08      0.07     0.04      0.18
Price contingencies                         0.14      0.18     0.15      0.48
Total PROJECT COSTS                         3.39      2.89     1.74      8.02
ORISSA NLEP II                              2001     2002      2003    Total
Projects Components byyear (S$million)
Decentralisation & Institutional Development  0.04    0.02     0.02      0.08
Strengthening & Integrating Services        0.59      0.55     0.34      1.48
Disability Prevention & Care                0.06      0.06     0.05      0.16
IEC                                         0.29      0.12     0.04      0.45
Training                                    0.13      0.12     0.00      0.26
Total BASELINE COSTS                        1.10      0.87     0.45      2.43
Physical Contingencies                      0.03      0.02     0.01      0.06
Price contingencies                         0.05      0.06     0.05      0.16
Total PROJECT COSTS                         0.18      0.95     0.51      2.65
-34 -



27 STATES NLEP It                             2001     2002      2003     Total
Projects Components by year (US$million)
Decentralisation & Institutional Development  0.78      0.35      0.35      1.48
Strengthening & Integrating Services          3.22      2.85      1.68     7.75
Disability Prevention & Care                  0.44      0.48      0.45      1.38
IEC                                           0.39      0.22      0.11     0.71
Training                                      0.60      0.37      0.01      0.98
Total BASELINE COSTS                          5.43      4.28      2.60    12.31
Physical Contingencies                        0.11      0.10      0.06      0.27
Price contingencies                           0.24      0.29      0.26      0.80
Total PROJECT COSTS                           5.79      4.65      2.92     13.36
GOIICLU NLEP II                               2001     2002      2003     Total
Projects Components byyear (US$million)
Decentralisation & Institutional Development  0.15      0.13      0.11     0.39
IEC                                           0.43      0.42      0.04     0.90
Training                                      0.03      0.05      0.04      0.13
Total BASELINE COSTS                          0.62      0.60      0.20      1.42
Physical Contingencies                        0.02      0.02      0.00     0.05
Price contingencies                           0.03      0.04      0.02     0.09
Total PROJECT COSTS                           0.67      0.67      0.22      1.56
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 42.2 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 71.09% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 35 -



Annex 4
INDIA: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
Economic and Financial Analysis Summary
I.    Introduction
To assist in project preparation and appraisal, a number of basic economic and financial studies and
analyses were conducted following World Bank guidelines [see Operational Manual OP/BP 10.04 (1994)].
Specifically, analyses focused on expected benefits, links to poverty reduction, sustainability, risks, and
extemalities. Since this is a follow-on to a successful project, the analysis focused on ensuring the
continued rationale for investments and appropriate adaptation to the shrinking burden of leprosy in India.
At issue are long-term sustainability and risk issues of re-organizing interventions from a vertical to a
horizontal approach and the shifting of responsibility from the center to the states.
II.    Economic Justification
Public finance economics provides a simple framework for analyzing the economic rationale for public
involvement. The framework is based on the market's failure to provide a socially optimal quantity of a
good or a service. Typical market failures are due to the nature of the good (public goods or extemalities)
or the nature of the demand for the goods (e.g. low demand due to poverty or asymmetric information).
The rationale for public involvement in leprosy control has both elements of market failure. A substantial
element of the project relates to the provision of information to potential patients and providers. This takes
the form of information campaigns and training. Such project components, especially IEC campaigns
would not be delivered without public involvement because of strong public good characteristics
(non-exclusionary and non-rival). Like most communicable diseases, there are some elements of
extemalities involved in disease control that also result in less than optimal provision of services. Unlike
most other communicable diseases, however, the social extemality related to leprosy is limited.
The strongest argument for public involvement in leprosy control relates to the nature of demand for
services and the burden of the disease on the most vulnerable in the population. Analysis of equity found
the burden of leprosy to be mostly centered around the poor and socially vulnerable. Starting at the state
level, the five most endemic states for leprosy, contributing 70 percent of the total patient load, are also five
of the poorest states in India (Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Orissa and Madhya Pradesh). Project
Resources were then targeted to the poorest states.
Individual level equity analysis in the five endemic states, confirms that the most socially vulnerable
groups, scheduled Castes, and women below the poverty line, shoulder the highest burden of the disease. In
Bihar for example, prevalence rates for leprosy were 50 percent higher for men and women below the
poverty line than the state average. The prevalence rate for scheduled castes were even higher, at twice the
state average. In Uttar Pradesh and Orissa, prevalence rates for scheduled castes were 2 to 2.5 times that
of the state average. And in West Bengal, prevalence rates for women below the poverty line were 4 times
the state average.
Not only does leprosy target the neediest in India, it also a social and economic burden to the victims.
Social and economic studies have documented the devastating social effect of leprosy and quantified the
loss of income due to the disease. Detailed analysis of employability and eamings of leprosy patients in
- 36 -



Tamil Nadu found the elimination of the deformity due to leprosy would: (i) raise the probability of gainful
employment from 42 to 78 percent, and (ii) increase annual earnings per employed patient by 119 percent
The combined effect of increased employment and earnings would triple the annual earnings for all
patients.
III.    Public and Private Roles
Economic rationale for public involvement need not necessarily mean that the public sector finance and
deliver services. Project appraisal reviewed public and private roles as identified in project documentation
and reviewed changes in the responsibilities between the center and the states. Due to the nature of the
market failures (public goods and low demand) and the concentration of the disease in economically
vulnerable population groups in the poorest states, it is important to maintain the financing role of the
public sector.
Provision of health services need not necessarily be completely delivered by the public sector. The project
introduces a larger role for the private sector. A number of delivery elements will be contracted out to the
private sector (for and not for profit). The list of contracted activities includes:
*   contracting specialized NGOs for disability prevention, care and rehabilitation;
* contracting for the development of training materials;
* contracting professional media and IEC agencies to assist in developing and implementing and
integrated IEC and involving NGOs and neighborhood committees of women for community
mobilization and sensitization campaigns; and
3 a larger reliance on contracted technical staff in management and service delivery roles.
IV.    Budgetary Impact
Typical concerns about the budgetary impact of externally financed projects relate to how budgetary
processes are influenced by, and adapt to, injections of external funds. A function of the appraisal process
is the review of issues of sustainability, absorptive capacity, incrementality, and flow of funds mechanisms
in order to minimize distortions and ensure that project objectives are aligned to, and are supported by,
long-term program budgetary directions. Since this project is a follow-on of an existing project, appraisal
was assisted by the available evidence on budgetary outcomes.
Sustainability
Analysis of the expenditure estimates by input categories for the new project confirmed that most
investments are in disseminating information and human capital. The recurrent cost implications of such
investments are minimal, especially as leprosy is eliminated as a public health risk. With no new large
physical capital investments, the main elements of recurrent costs relate to addressing the long-term
placement of existing staff. This issue is linked to the shifting of the service delivery model from vertical to
horizontal as more leprosy services shift to GHS in the states.
The largest component of recurrent costs in the new project is salaries of regular staff, representing 18
percent of estimated total project costs. Detailed analysis of budget plans for the 5 endemic states finds the
wage bill distributed between regular and contracted staff with regular staff accounting for 79 percent of
positions. Of the regular staff, paramedical workers account for 74 percent of the positions. The critical
issue with recurrent staffcosts is the ability of the states to absorb staff into general health services. Since
the objective of the project is the elimination of leprosy as a public health threat, there is little need for a
- 37 -



sustainable structure beyond elimination. In fact, an important difference between the new and existing
project is the significantly increased emphasis on institutional change.
Table 1: NLEP staffing plans for the 5 endemic states
Position       Regular Staff    % of Total   Contract Staff   % of Total   % Contracted
Medical Officers        435           4.5%            117           4.5%           21.2%
NMS                    1489           15.3%           120           4.6%            7.5%
Paramed Workers        7245           74.5%          2085           79.9%          22.3%
Lab Tech                417           4.3%            43            1.6%            9.3%
Other non-med.          139           1.4%            244           9.4%           63.7%
Total                  9725          100.0%          2609          100.0%          21.2%
Absorptive capacity
Absorptive capacity for new expenditure is also not a critical issue in this project. The existence of an
on-going project and the shrinking size and scope of the project minimize the risk of capacity problems. A
remaining risk, however, is relatively weak implementation capacity of some of the endemic states. The
size and scope of contracting for services highlights the need to strengthen implementation capacity.
Management attention and technical assistance on issues relating to the procurement of contracted services
is critical for mitigating these risks.
Incrementality of IDA Funds
Another small risk relates to incrementality of IDA financing. Trend analysis over the last 7 years of the
NLEP shows the share of domestic spending (GOI funds) currently accounts for about 20 percent of total
costs with IDA financing and contributions from WHO and Danida completing the expenditure picture.
Project supervision will pay special attention to the sources of financing for the project. Financial reporting
on the shares of the government, IDA, and other partner funds (WHO and Danida) should ensure that
extemal funding does not substitute for domestic funds.
- 38 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
Years Ending
Year 1| Year2  | Year3         Year4         r Year 5    Year6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          12.9       10.6        5.8       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             5.2       4.6        3.1        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         18.1       15.2        8.9       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             18.1       15.2        8.9       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  13.0      11.0        6.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 5.1       4.1        3.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    18.1       15.1        9.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 39 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
Procurement
The procurement arrangements to be undertaken in the project will be the responsibility of the
implementing agency - Directorate General of Health Services (Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,
Government of India) and the State and District Societies - in accordance with the Bank Procurement
Guidelines and Procedures. The project would be nation wide. The focus of this project is on
decentralization of leprosy control activities to States through the transfer of financial and administrative
authority to State governments by forming SLS. There will be DLS also. The process of decentralization is
being adopted so that the States own the project and take active part in meeting the objectives of the
project. Most project activities will be in five major States which are Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Uttar
Pradesh, and West Bengal. Activities in the other 27 States/Union Territories (UTs) will comparatively be
at a very small level. Total number of districts in these States are: 53 in Bihar, 58 in Madhya Pradesh, 20
in Orissa, 81 in Uttar Pradesh, 18 in West Bengal and 300 in 27 States/Union Territories (Overall 530
districts). Major procurement will be in the above five major states. State/District Leprosy societies would
be responsible for procurement of most goods, equipment and services.
A. Civil Works. There are no civil works under this project.
B. Goods. Procurement of goods (equipment, furniture, drugs and supplies) would be phased on an annual
basis in accordance with the requirements of the project activities.
Furniture IUS$178,5001: Fumiture involves procurement of tables, chairs, steel almirah and other items
to equip the State Leprosy Societies, Sample Survey Assessment Units, and Regional Leprosy Training
Institutions etc. There will be 216 packages ranging from US$156 to US$1445 and one package of
US$6,930 approximately. Contracts for these packages will be awarded under national shopping
procedures by the above mentioned organizations and at national level by MOHFW, GOI.
Equipment [US$121,5001: This involves (i) procurement of minor and major reconstructive surgery
instruments to equip District Hospitals and Medical colleges; and (ii) Computer systems for Sample Survey
Assessment Units and SLS. There will be 530 packages for minor reconstructive surgery equipment, each
costing US$110 and 111 packages for major reconstructive surgery equipment each costing US$160
approximately. Similarly there will be 24 packages of computer systems each costing US$1670
approximately. These items will be procured by DLS following national shopping procedures.
Vehicles IUS$400,0001: The only vehicles to be procured under this project are four wheel drive jeeps
(about 42 vehicles) for all SLS and Sample Survey Assessment Units. Procurement would be done by SLS
through National Shopping procedures (DGS&D rate contracts are acceptable under National Shopping)
with 5 packages of US$19,050 each and 32 packages of US$9,525 each.
Supportive Medicines IUS$700,0001: These are required for use of patients at the time of reconstructive
surgery. Cost of these supportive medicines per district per year will only be US$440 approximately and
would be procured by DLS and SLS under National Shopping or Direct contracting procedures to meet the
demand. Total number of packages are 530 per year.
Multi Drug Therapy drugs in this project will be donated by Novartis Foundation and supplied by WHO
free of charge.
Materials & Supplies 1US$2,200,0001: These include Micro-cellular rubber and other footwear, splints
and crutches, lab reagents, patient case cards, training manual and patient welfare items (like blankets etc.)
- 40 -



and will be provided to the patients as and when the need arises. However, total number of packages and
value of each package is indicated in Attachmnent I to this Annex 6. Each of these items/packages will be
procured through National Shopping procedures and/or by direct contracting by DLS.
C. Services. Procurement of services is planned for a range of project activities which include medical &
surgical services, information, education and communication, training and workshops, campaign for case
detection, contractual services, research & studies including thesis support and other consultant services.
Medical and Surgical Services [US$300,0001: These services are required for performing reconstructive
surgery and shall be procured by the DLS under contracts awarded to designated healthcare centers
selected for their suitability to perform such services on sole source basis. Provision has been made for 50
operations per year in each of the 31 centers in endemic areas during the project period of three years at a
flat rate of US$65 approximately per surgery. Total cost per center per year will be US$3,250
approximately.
Information, Education and Communication [US$5,000,0001: Production and implementation of mass
media activities in educating the people through Television, Radio, Newspapers etc. will be carried out by
hiring the services of an agency following Quality and Cost Based Selection procedures. Total estimated
cost of this consultancy service is US$2.45 million approx.
Outdoor IEC services i.e. hoarding, painting/hoarding on bus shelters, kiosks, etc., will be carried out by
each district separately on sole source basis value of each contract being small. Total value of these
services per State per year in 5 major states will be in the range of US$6,770 to US$19,150. In each of the
other 27 States/Union Territories cost per year will still be much lower. Total cost of these services is
estimated at US$354,000 approximately.
Rural activities i.e. wall paintings, leaflets, posters, etc., will also be carried out by each district on the
same basis as for Outdoor activities. There will be at least two packages per district per year - one
package for wall paintings and the other for leaflets/posters. Total number of districts are 530. Value of
these services per state per year in 5 major States will be in the range of US$34,670 to US$97,280
equivalent. In the other 27 States/UTs cost per state per year will be much lower. Total cost of these
services is estimated at US$1.651 million approximately.
Production of spots for radio and television will be arranged by MOHFW at the national level. This
activity will be for the first two years of the project only and will cost US$118,000 per year. Since
contracts will be awarded for radio and television spots separately, value of each contract will be less than
US$100,000 equivalent and therefore these services will be procured under sole source method of selection.
Political advocacy efforts would comprise activities like publicity services for Asian Leprosy Congress in
year 2000 and Gandhi Jayanti on 2 October and Martyr's Day on 30 January every year against
stigmatization of those affected by leprosy. In addition meetings will be held with members of the State
legislatures to sensitize them about the leprosy program. Total cost of this activity at national level will be
US$47,000 and in all the 32 States/UTs put together at US$250,000 approximately with cost in any
State/UT not exceeding US$11,800. These services will also be procured on sole source basis, value per
contract being very small.
Consultant Services: These services will be hired at national level and will include (i) development,
installation and training in computerized financial management system to be procured under sole source
costing US$47,000 approximately; (ii) individual consultant to be appointed for developing strategic plan
for IEC including advertisement and publicity at a cost of US$11,790 approximately per year; (iii)
individual training consultant for second and third year of the project costing US$11,790 approximately
each year; (iv) hiring of an agency for independent survey during year one and two of the project costing
US$47,000 each year; and (v) hiring of an agency for independent final evaluation in the third year of the
-41 -



project at a cost of US$47,000 approximately following Quality and Cost Based Selection procdures.
Consultancy services for Research and Studies which includes (i) data validation at a cost of US$25,950
per year for all the three years of the project; (ii) study on organizing model camps for prevention of
disability at a cost of US$9,400 in the second year of the project; and (iii) operations research on general
health services staff at a cost of US$13,900 in the second year of the project shall be procured following
sole source method of selection, value of each contract being small.
As part of research and studies, the project also intends to support thesis of scholars (individuals doing
MD/Ph.D in the field of leprosy) at a total cost of US$26,100 approximately @ US$235 per student over a
period of three years under the project.
Tenrs of Reference, irrespective of value, would be subject to prior review by the Association.
NGO services: NGOs will provide services and technical support in training, monitoring and surveillance,
independent assessment, operations research, disability prevention and care and rehabilitation. NGOs shall
be provided grant-in-aid by the GOI which will not be financed under this project (Mostly NGOs will be
selected on the basis of terms of reference agreed to by the Association).
Training and workshops LUS$3,200,0001: This includes expenditure on (i) training of health staff,
Anganwadi Workers and other community workers, Panchayati Raj members etc. for MLEC, IEC,
Prevention of Disability, Community Participation and Orientation. Cost pertains to arranging meetings,
training materials, expert services and related fees; (ii) co-ordination workshops with State Officers and
NGOs; (iii) workshops for review of the performance of program districts every year; (iv) review meetings
at regional level with District Leprosy Officers, Chief Medical Officers, etc.; and (v) training of trainers.
The training and workshops will be arranged at State and District level on sole source basis, value of each
contract being less than US$100,000.
Contractual Staff 1US$10,500,0001: Large number of individuals such as medical officers, para medical
workers, non medical supervisors etc. for deliver of services on a contract basis shall be hired to manage
the works of newly formed State / Districts Leprosy Societies and Sample Survey Assessment Units in all
the 32 States and Union Territories. At the beginning of the project these will number 3500 which will get
reduced to 1800 by the end of the project period. Each contract will be less than US$10,000. The job
description, minimum qualifications, terns of employment, range of remuneration payable and selection
procedures shall be agreed with the Association. Letter of agreement for short term assignments for
individual consultants to be entered by the project authorities will follow the Bank's model format.
Campaigns for Leprosy Case Detection [US$ 5,500,000: These services include MLEC, SAPEL, and
LEC in each year of the project for leprosy case detection in tribal endemic pockets and in relatively
inaccessible areas, including urban slums of the districts in the States/UTs. For this large numbers of
individuals (searchers, helpers, and confirmators for a limited period of 6 days or so and volunteers) will be
hired on contract basis with aggregate counseling fee of US$4,750,000 approximately. The job
description, minimum qualifications, terms of employment, range of remuneration payable and selection
procedures shall be agreed with the Association. Letter of agreement for short term assignments for
individuals to be entered by the project authorities will follow the Bank's model format.
This activity also includes other services like procurement of diagnostic cards, learning materials, patient
travel cost, supportive medicines and mobility support at a total cost of US$750,000 approximately. Value
of these items for each of the five major States and 27 States/UTs are indicated in Attachment I to this
Annex 6. Diagnostic cards and mobility support required for MLEC and Voluntary Reporting Centers will
be procured during first and second year of the project whereas leaming materials, patient travel cost, and
supportive medicines under SAPEL/LEC will be procured during all the three years of the project. These
items will be procured every year as mentioned above under sole source (by direct contracting) by the
- 42 -



SLS/DLS and value of each item per State/District per year will be less than US$30,000.
D. Miscellaneous. This involves operational expenses for all the components of the project and would
include honoraria (awards) for health workers, office operations, vehicle operation (maintenance of
vehicles, vehicle hire and mobility support) and consumables. These would be procured on the basis of
direct contracting, or three quotations depending upon the situation.
E. Since all the contracts for goods, equipment, medicines, vehicles etc. shall be below US$30,000 and
contracts for consultancy services shall also be of small value except one contract of IEC, prior reviewed
by the Association will be for this IEC contract and the terms of reference for all consultancy services.
For National shopping Bank's New Delhi Office model document E-5 and format of letter of agreement for
short term assignments of individual consultants given in Bank's New Delhi Office model documents C-10
(Time-Based) or C-8 (Lump Sum) shall be adopted.
For supportive medicines, furniture and other items to be procured under national shopping and/or direct
contracting, the norms for such procurement i.e. acceptable range of prices and acceptable/preferable
brand names shall be clearly indicated either in the PIP or in the guidelines to the States/UTs so that these
are followed by the SLS/DLS while procuring these items.
F. Cost estimate of the items to be procured, estimates of Bid packages for procurement of goods/
equipment/consultancy services, details of value of goods/equipment/consultancy services for each year and
Procurement Schedule of goods/equipment!consultancy services for all the three years of the project
including Retroactive Financing are attached with the PIP of the Borrower.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
IDA financed works and goods will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines - Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999). IDA financed services will be procured using Bank Guidelines - Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, (January 1997, Revised September 1997 and
January 1999). For procurement under the project, the Bank's standard bidding documents shall be used.
Attachment II to this Annex 6 summarizes procedures for undertaking procurement on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding.
Specific Procurement arrangements summarized in table 'A' are as follows:
* Contracts for the purchase of goods/equipment valued at more than US$200,000 equivalent each would
be procured through Intemational Competitive Bidding.
* Contracts valued more than US$30,000 but less than US$200,000 may be awarded on the basis of
National Competitive Bidding procedures acceptable to IDA.
Items or groups of items valued US$30,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured on the
basis of national shopping procedures.
Other items or small groups of items such as supply of fumiture, equipment, medicines, materials and
other supplies valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through direct
contracting.
- 43 -



*    Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or less per contract for maintenance of
vehicles, hiring of vehicles and consumables may be awarded through:
- Direct Contracting; or
- National Shopping.
Prior Review Thresholds (See Table B)
*    All contracts for goods/equipment except vehicles with an estimated value of more than US$200,000
equivalent.
*    All contracts of procurement for vehicles with an estimated value of more than US$ 100,000.
*    The first National Competitive Bidding contract for goods / pharmaceuticals regardless of the value.
*    Consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more for firns and US$50,000 or
more for individuals.
Procurement methods (Table A)
TaJeA: Proec Cosa byvPrvcuremenrArranRement&
(US $ million eamv'nt_
ICB   NCB  Other        N.B.F   Total Cost
1     Goods
Furniture and Equipment                  -           0.30                 0.30
=     =    (0.24)          (0Q24)
Vehicles                                 -            0.40                0.40
(0.32)               (0.32)
Supportive Medicines                     -            0.70                0.70
(056                (0-*
Materials & Supplies                     -            2.20                2.20
=  =_  (1.77)              (1.77)
2     Services                                                            ._.
IEC & Carnpaign for case detection       -            10.50                10.50
_ ___________________________________         ______ (10.50)               (10.50)
Training & Workshop, Research & Studies  -            3.30                3.30
=  =__ (3.30)              (3.30)
Consultant Services & Contractual Services    -       10.70                10.70
(10.70)             (10.70)
Medical/Surgical Services                   -         0.30                 0.30
__________________________________   (0.30)  (0.30)
NGO services                                -         -           0.80     0.80
3     Operatinng Costs
Salaries etc                                -         -           7.30    7.30
Honoaria                                 -            0.40                0.40
__________ _  =__ (0.16)          (0.16)
Velicle opeation                         -            4.60                4.60
(1.84)              (1.84)
Office operation and consumables         -            0.70                0.70
_____ _____ _____ _____ _____   (0.30)  _ (030)
Total                                                30_  -       &10 . Z20
_____   ____________________________________           .____   (30.00)            (30.00)
Note: Figures in the Parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA/IBRD.
"Other method of procurment includes Direct Contracting, Comparison of price quotations(Shopping) and Consulting services.
- 44 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million Equivalent)
Consultant                                          Selection    Method
Services
Expenditure     QCBS         QBS          SFB         LCS          CQ         Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category______
A. Firms           2.57        0.00        0.00         0.00         6.91       0.00       0.00       9.48
(2.57)     (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (6.91)      (0.00)    (0.00)    (9.48)
B. Individuals     0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00       15.32      0.00      15.32
(0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)     (15.32)    (0.00)     (15.32)
Total    2.57         0.00        0.00        0.00         6.91       15.32      0.00       24.80
1  (2.57)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (6.91)     (15.32)    (0.00)     (24.80)
I\Including contingencies
Note:   QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices,
etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 45 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR / POST REVIEW
Expenditure           Value per Contract        Procurement method       Contracts Subject to Prior    Value of Prior
Category               (Threshold)                                           / Post Review             Review
1. Civil Works        There are no civil works
under this project
2. Goods
(a) Equipment,        (a) US$30,000 or less per
Furniture, Supportive    contract, up to an aggregate
Medicines, Materials    amount not exceeding
& Supplies.           US$2,400,000 equivalent as
under:
(i) Furniture up to an     National Shopping          Post review only.
aggregate not exceeding    Procedures (includes
US$160,000                 DGS& D Rate Contracts)
(ii) Equipment up to an    National Shopping          Post review only.
aggregate not exceeding    Procedures (includes
US$ 110,000                DGS& D Rate Contracts)
(iii) Supportive medicines  National Shopping         Post review only.
up to an aggregate not     Procedures (includes
exceeding US$150,000.      DGS& D Rate Contracts)
(iv) Materials & Supplies up   National Shopping      Post review only.
to an aggregate not        Procedures (includes
exceeding US$1,980,000     DGS& D Rate Contracts)
(b) Less than US$]0,000 per   Direct Contracting      Post review only.
contract up to an aggregate
not exceeding US$800,000.
(c) More than US$30,000    National Competitive       First goods NCB contract    None
but less than US$200,000   Bidding                    from any one State estimated    anticipated at
per contract.                                        to cost more than US$30,000   this stage.
but below US$200,000
equivalent and each contract
of goods estimated to cost
more than US$200,000
equivalent each by prior
review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix-] to the
Guidelines.
- 46 -



(d) Above US$200,000       International Competitive  Contracts valued at more than   None
equivalent per contract.   Bidding                    US$200,000 equivalent each    anticipated at
by prior review in accordance   this stage.
with paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix- I to the
Guidelines.
All others: By post review.
(b) Vehicles          US$ 100,000 equivalent or   National Shopping         Post review only.
less per contract, up to an  Procedures (includes
aggregate not exceeding    DGS& D Rate Contracts)
US$400,000 equivalent.
Above US$ 100,000          Intemational Competitive   All ICB contracts of vehicles    None
equivalent per contract    Bidding                   irrespective of value by prior    anticipated at
review in accordance with   this stage.
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix-I to the
Guidelines.
3. Services
(a) IEC Services      Above US$200,000            Quality and Cost Based    Prior review of all consultant    US$2.45
equivalent per contract up to   Selection             contracts shall be govemed by   million
an aggregate of                                      the provisions of paragraphs
US$2,450,000                                          (i), (ii), and (iii) below:
(b) Professional                                  Quality and Cost Based    (i) With respect to each
Services Contract,    US$200,000 or less per      Selection with Short List  contract for the employment    None
Mass Media/lEC,       contract                    (may be comprised entirely   of consulting firms estimated    anticipated at
Training & Workshops                              of national consultants)  to cost the equivalent of    this stage.
and MedicallSurgical                                                        US$100,000 or more,
Services.                                                                   procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 [other than
the third sub-paragraph of
paragraph 2 (a)] and 5 of
Appendix I to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply.
- 47 -



(c) Training &         US$100,000 equivalent or     (i) Quality and Cost Based    (ii) With respect to each
Workshops, Mass        less per contract up to an   Selection with Short List   contract for the employment
Media/IEC, Research    aggregate amount not         (may be comprised entirely    of individual consultants
and Studies,           exceeding US$7,030,000       of national consultants);   estimated to cost the
Evaluation,            equivalent.                  and                         equivalent of US$50,000 or
Medical/Surgical                                                                more, the qualifications,
Services and Financial                                                          experience, and terms of
Management Services.                                                            employment of the
consultants shall be furnished
to the Association for its prior
review and approval.
(ii) Single Source         (iii) Terms of Reference
Selection in accordance    (TOR) in all cases.
with paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11
of the Consultant          All Other Cases: Post
Guidelines.                Review.
(d) Service delivery   US$10,000 equivalent or      (i) Selection in accordance    Job description and
contractors for        less per contract up to an   with paragraph 3.19 of the    experience, minimum
campaigns for case     aggregate amount not         Consultant Guidelines; and    qualifications, terms of
detection, contractual    exceeding US$15,320,000                               employment and selection
and individual                                                                  procedures shall be agreed
consultants                                                                     with the Association.
(ii) Selection of Individual    Job description and
Consultants in accordance  experience, minimum
with paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3    qualifications, terms of
of Consultant Guidelines   employment and selection
procedures shall be agreed
with the Association.
4. Miscellaneous
Incremental            Incremental operating costs,
Operational Costs,     vehicle hire, maintenance of
vehicle operation and    vehicles and consumables
consumables            estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 10,000 or
less per contract, up to an
aggregate not exceeding
US$4,840,000 may be
executed by:
(i) direct contracting up to  Direct contracting        Post review only
an aggregate not exceeding
US$1,000,000; or
(ii) on the basis of        Solicitation of three bids  Post review only
comparison of price
quotations obtained from at
least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the
guidelines.
- 48 -



Disbursement
The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C.
The disbursement will initially be made in the traditional system (reimbursement with full documentation
and against statement of expenditure) and will be converted to Project Management Report based
disbursement after the financial management system has been demonstrated to be operating satisfactorily.
The target date for this conversion is September 1, 2002.
Financial Management
Current Financial Management System
The project is a follow-on project to the on-going National Leprosy Elimination Project (Cr. 2528) which
closed on September 30, 2000. The implementing agency for both the Projects is Directorate General of
Health Service (Leprosy Division) in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. DGHS(LD) will be
supported in the execution of the project by participating states. DGHS(LD), which has considerable
experience of running the NLEP in India has the following strengths: (i) a budgeting and accounting
system has been established and is operational (ii) staff are trained to carry out basic accounting functions;
and (iii) a system of periodic financial reporting from the districts to DGHS(LD) is operational.
However, it must be emphasized that although DGHS(LD) has experience in the project management, the
State Leprosy Societies who are going to be key partner in the project are at an initial stage of inception. In
fact, out of the 24 SLS proposed to be created, only 15 have been established so far. Nonetheless, at the
district level, the District Leprosy Societies are already in place. Considerable effort will need to be made
by DGHS(LD) to build capacity quickly in the State Societies on financial management.
Specific areas to be strengthened:
The following aspects need to be addressed to ensure that a satisfactory financial management system
commensurate with the size and scope of the project is established:
(a)    satisfactory staffing and training: Financial functions should be staffed by suitably qualified
accounts professionals. DGHS (LD) should be supported by a full-time financial controller who can
actively aid in setting up the financial management system in the project. The SLS also need to be suitably
staffed with accounts staff. At the district level, there is a need to identify accounts personnel who will be
working exclusively on the project. The entire financial staff at Central and state level needs to be trained in
the operation of the computerized financial management system. Project managers and financial staff need
to be sensitized to the importance of financial management for effective project management.
(b)    there is a need for a good financial monitoring system at the GOI level. Currently the financial
monitoring of the districts is poor and the review of district audit reports not focussed. There is not much of
a concept of funds management. Funds to the districts are released once in a year and there is no
mechanism designed to track the amounts advanced to and expenditure reported by the DLS.
(c)    the need to analyze financial information and use it as a decision making tool: Financial reports
which provide timely and quality information on the financial performance of the project should be
prepared.
(d)    ensuring satisfactory audit arrangements including timely submission of audit reports.
(e)    ensuring linking of physical progress with the financial progress.
- 49 -



(f)    need for enhanced clarity and consistency of activities and expenditures which are being charged as
project expenditure
DGHS(LD) will develop and implement a comprehensive computerized financial management system
which will address all these issues in detail.
The project financial management system (PFMS) would, inter alia, include: (i) funds flow process; (ii)
detailed accounting system (including the Chart of Accounts; formats of financial reports; linkages between
the Chart of Accounts and financial reports; inputs of budget and other data; data capture, information
flow and processing;) (iii) internal control mechanisms; (iv) budgeting and forecasting system; and (v)
auditing arrangements. The Financial Management System will be supported by an operations manual
which would serve as a reference document for all project staff.
Budgeting and Flow of Funds
The funding to DGHS(LD) would be through the Ministry of Health Budget with project funds as a special
allocation.
Flow of funds from DGHS(LD) to SLS will be on a semi-annual basis through banking channels. The
initial allocation will be based on the cash flow forecasts of SLS (which in turn would be based on their
work programs and budgets). The funds from the SLS to the DLS will also be transferred on a half yearly
basis Subsequent funding will be based on performance of key indicators and the projected funds
requirement of the SLS / DLS respectively.
Accounting and Internal Controls
The overall framework of the system is given below:
* The PFMS would cover all project-related transactions, i.e., all sources of funds would be accounted
for and reflected in the project financial statements; and similarly all project expenditures would be
reflected in the project financial statements.
* A chart of accounts will be developed. The chart of accounts will enable the expenditure data to be
captured and classified by project components and expenditure categories. The chart of accounts will
have linkages to: (i) government budget heads/categories; (ii) disbursement categories and (iii) project
components.
* The financial management system is being computerized. The computerized system will be installed
and operated at DGHS(LD) and the participating SLS. The participating DLS in the states will be
expected to feed the SLS with the financial information on a manual basis.
* The consolidation of accounts will be done first (i) at the SLS level by consolidating the expenditure of
the SLS and all the DLS in the state and then (ii) at DGHS(LD) in MOHFW by consolidating the
accounts of DGHS(LD) and all the SLS.
* Standard books/records of accounts (cash and bank-books, joumals, ledgers, trial balance, etc.) will be
maintained at the DGHS(LD) and SLS using an integrated computerized accounting system. A
register of fixed assets, indicating assets created through the project or acquired under the project, will
also be maintained using the computerized system.
- 50 -



Transaction Information Flow and Accounting
DGHS(LD), SLS and DLS will generate and maintain the transaction vouchers for their various receipts
and expenditures made at DGHS(LD), SLS and DLS levels respectively.
Data transfer would be handled through: (i) an integrated computer network; or (ii) periodic data transfer
through Electronic Mail or floppy diskettes.
Internal Controls
Internal control mechanisms would include the following:
I .    the establishment of appropriate budgeting systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial
performance with budgets and targets;
2.     development and adoption of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management and accounting for the project. These policies and procedures
would include identification of expenditures which can be charged to the project, and the categories
under which the expenditures would be charged; the policies and procedures for transfer of funds
and accounting of expenditures; etc.
3.    at the transaction level, the establishment of procedures and systems for ensuring standard internal
controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of authorization,
segregation of incompatible duties, periodic bank reconciliation, physical verification, etc.
Staffing
The finance and accounting department at DGHS(LD) would be headed by the designated Deputy
Secretary who will function ex-officio as the Financial Coordinator for the project. His team will include
two finance officers and 3/4 accountants/data entry operators.
The Finance and Accounting Department at large SLS (viz. Bihar, MP, Orissa, UP and West Bengal) will
comprise of a Budget and Finance officer, 1 data entry operator and 1 accountant. In the other 19 SLS, the
financial and accounting staff will comprise of 1 Budget and Finance Officer supported by a data entry
operator. The funds wil be transferred to the state only after the accounting staff is in position and
has been adequately trained. At the DLS level, for the 300 societies which are in high endemic region, the
accounting will be done by an accounts supervisor supported by an accounts clerk, where as in the 250 low
endemic societies, the accounting function will be assigned to an existing staff in the department who will
maintain accounts for the DLS.
An intensive training program will be developed to ensure that the staff at all the levels are adequately
trained in the computerized PFMS. The initial training will be imparted by the consultants developing the
computerized PFMS.
- 51 -



Financial Reporting
Quarterly Financial Management Reports will include:
*   comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including on aspects such
as sources of funds (indicating separately funds from beneficiaries) and application of funds (classified by
components, sub-components, summarized expenditure categories, etc.);
*   comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances on key physical
parameters;
*   forecasts for the next 2 quarters; and
* information on procurement management for major contracts.
Project Financial Statements and Financial Management Reports would be generated from the
computerized financial management system. DGHS(LD) would generate quarterly financial management
reports from the integrated computerized PFMS for the whole project. The SLS will also have the
capability of generating these reports for their own monitoring needs. These reports and the Withdrawal
Application (which would be based on the financial forecasts and actual expenditures classified by
disbursement category) would also be used by the Bank for quarterly disbursements in accordance with the
disbursement procedures under Loan Administration Change Initiative.
The reporting from DLS to the SLS and from SLS to DGHS(LD) will be quarterly.
Auditing Arrangements
DGHS(LD) Accounts will be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The SLS will be
audited by firms of Chartered Accountant and the audit would include a statement on the audit status of the
DLS in the state based on Chartered Accountant audits of the DLS. An audited annual project financial
statement will be submitted by DGHS(LD) and all the participating states within 6 months of the close of
GOI's fiscal year.
Thus the following audit reports will be monitored in Audit Reports Compliance System:
Implementing Agency        Audit                Auditors
DGHS(LD)                   SOE/Project Audit    Comptroller and Auditor General
All SLS                    SOE/Project Audit    Chartered Accountant firms
Department of Economic     Special Account      Comptroller and Auditor General
Affairs/GOI
In accordance with the World Bank's Operational Policies, the Terms of Reference of the firm of Chartered
Accountants auditing the SLS should be reviewed by the World Bank. The firms of Chartered Accountants
would be appointed before the start of the project.
Under the previous project there were lapses on the part of DGHS(LD) on timely submission of audit
reports to the Bank which was a cause for suspension of Statement of Expenditure disbursements.
DGHS(LD) will need to ensure that in the upcoming project, special attention is paid to this aspect of the
- 52 -



project and the audit reports are submitted in time.
Time Table for implementation of Project Financial Management System and next steps
The proposed computerized PFMS will be developed for DGHS(LD) with the help of consultants
specifically appointed for the purpose of designing, developing and instituting the computerized project
financial management system in the project.
The following key activities will need to be completed to successfully implement the computerized PFMS:
Activity                                                  Target Date
Procurement of computers                                          March 31, 2001
Development and installation of the
Project Financial Management System software                      June 30, 2001
Appointment of accounts personnel at SLS                          July 31, 2001
Training on financial management system in the PFMS software      September 30, 2001
Implementation of the computerized financial management system    October 1, 2001
Conversion to PMR-based system of disbursement                    October 1, 2002
- 53 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
I      Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million J        Financing Percentage
1. Goods:                                  2.90                         80%
Includes:
US$0.24 million: Fumiture&Equipment
US$0.32 million: Vehicles
US$0.56 million: Supportive medicines
US$1.77 million: Materials & Supplies
2. Services:                               24.80                        100%
Includes:
US$5.00 million: IEC
US$5.50 million: Campaigns
US$3.20 million: Training
&Workshops
US$0.10 million: Research & Studies
US$0.20 million: Consultant Services
US$10.50 million: Contractual services
US$0.30 million: Medical & surgical
services
3. Incremental Operating Costs             2.30          60% of local expenditures incurred until
July 31, 2002; 40% of expenditures
Includes:                                                incurred from August 1, 2002 until July,
US$0.16 million: Honoraria                                  2003; 20% of expenditure incurred
US$1.84 million: Vehicle hire &                                thereafter, i.e. 40% overall.
maintenance.
US$0.30 million: Office operation &
consumables.
Total Project Costs                        30.00
Total                                      30.00
Note: Amounts are inclusive of contingencies
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
- 54 -



The Bank may require withdrawals from the credit to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for:
(a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding US$ equivalent;
(b) services under contracts not exceeding US$ equivalent for employment of consulting firms and US$
equivalent for employment of individual consultants respectively;
(c) training and fellowships
(d) incremental operating expenses
Special Account: A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be
operated by the Department of Economic Affairs of Government of India. The authorized allocation of the
Special Account would be US $2.5 million which represents about 6 months of initial estimated
disbursements from the IDA Credit. The Special Account would be operated in accordance with the Bank's
operational policies
- 55 -



Attachment I
A.    Materials & Supplies:
Item           No. of Packages  Approximate Cost per package
Footwear                 530 per year                US$285
Splints and Crutches     530 per year                US$145
Lab Reagents             530 per year                US$285
Patient Welfare Items     530 per year               US$285
Training Manual          530 packages                US$955
Patient Case Cards       230 packages                US$335
Patient Case Cards       300 packages                US$110
B.     Campaign for Case Detection:
[Cost in US$1
Madhya    Orissa       Uttar      Bihar      West      27 States/
Pradesh              Pradesh                Bengal        UTs
Diagnostic Cards*      5,940       1,660      14,220    13,760      5,990     -
(Year I & 2)
Learning material **   15,590      12,240    37,840     34,500      17,810    42,290
(Year 1, 2 & 3)        _
Patient Travel **      15,590      12,240    37,840     34,500      17,810    42,290
(Year 1, 2, & 3)
Supportive Medicines**   31,170   24,480     75,690     69,000     35,620     84,580
(Year 1, 2 & 3)
Mobility support       8,140      2,940       16,630    11,020      3,610     -
(POL)* (Year I & 2)              1                    1                      I            I
* Under modified Leprosy elimination campaign (MLEC) and voluntary reporting center (VRC).
** Under Special Action Plan for Elimination of Leprosy (SAPEL)
- 56 -



Attachment II
With reference to the procedures for undertaking procurement on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding referred to in Part C of Section I, Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement, all
National Competitive Bidding contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999 (the Guidelines). In this regard, all NCB contracts to be financed from the
proceeds of the Credit shall follow the following procedures:
[1]    Only the model bidding documents for National Competitive Bidding agreed with the
Government of India Task Force [and as amended from time to time], shall be used
for bidding.
[2]    Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
[3]    No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign
bidders, state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any
given State.
[4]    Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association, there shall be no
negotiation of price with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
[5]    Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond control of Ministry of
Health & Family Welfare, Government of India and State / District Leprosy
Societies, extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence
of the Association [i] for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight
weeks; and [ii] for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period.
[6]    Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the
Bank/Association. The system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or
"bracket" of prices shall not be used.
[7]   Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for
NCB procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under
National Shopping procedures.
- 57 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                     11
First Bank mission (identification)                                            11/22/99
Appraisal mission departure                      09/30/2000                     11/15/2000
Negotiations                                     02/19/2001                    02/20/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/01/2001
Prepared by:
Directorate General of Health Services (Leprosy Division), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,
Government of India
Preparation assistance:
WHO: Denis Daumerie, Vijay Pannikar, Mika Kawano
Danida: Bouwedjin Peters
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Peter Heywood                      Lead Health Specialist (Team Leader)
Suneeta Singh                      Senior Public Health Specialist
David Peters                       Senior Public Health Specialist
Mam Chand                          Senior Procurement Specialist
Rajat Narula                       Senior Financial Management Specialist
Abdo Yazbeck                       Senior Economist
Rashmi Sharma                      Social Development Specialist
Shreelata Rao-Seshadri             Consultant
Supriya Mukherji                   Consultant
Mohammad Nawaz                     Consultant, LEGOP
Nina Badgaiyan                     Consultant
Nira Singh                         Office Administrator
- 58 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan Part-A: National Plan, Part-B: Plans for Five High Endemic States,
Part-C: Plans for 27 Low Endemic States: National Leprosy Eradication Program for Phase II of World
Bank support, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, Dec 5, 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
IDA. Identification Mission: Second National Leprosy Elimination Project. Aide Memoire, Nov 1999.
IDA. Second National Leprosy Elimination Project: Project Information Document.
IDA. Second National Leprosy Elimination Project: Environmental Data Sheet, Dec 2000.
Heywood, P. and Singh, S., Institutional Assessment, Sept 2000.
Sharma, R. and Rao-Seshadri, S., Social Assessment, Oct 2000.
Yazbeck, A., Economic Assessment, Sept 2000.
C. Other
NLEP Phase II: Review of Contracting Mechanism for NGOs: PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Sept 2000.
Action Plans for 2nd Phase Project, National Leprosy Elimination Program: Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, MP,
Maharashtra, Aug/Sept 2000.
Report on Independent Evaluation of National Leprosy Eradication Program, India: National Institute of
Epidemiology, Chennai, Aug 2000.
Leprosy Elimination: Track Records and Prospects: Ed. David K. Wamdorff, Tropical Medicine and
Intemational Health, Vol.5, Jun 2000.
Mycobacterium Leprae - Millennium Resistant Leprosy Control on the Threshold of a New Era:
Visschedijk et al, Tropical Medicine and International Health, Vol.5, No.6, Jun 2000.
Leprosy After the Year 2000: Ben Naafs, Tropical Medicine and International Health, Vol.5, No.6, Jun
2000.
NLEP PHC Synergy, Process & Impact of Integration of Leprosy with Primary Health Care - An
Evaluation: Community Health Department, Christian Medical College, India, Jun 2000.
Working Together for Better Results - Integration of Leprosy with Primary Health Care Services:
DANLEP, Orissa, Mar 2000.
The Source of Infection: An Unsolved Issue: Symposium Paper, Indian J Lepr, Vol. 72(2), 2000.
Impact Evaluation of the Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign (BBC): ORG Centre for Social
Research, Nov 1999.
The Final Push: The Global Alliance for Leprosy Elimination, WHO, Nov 1999.
Minutes of Annual Conference of Voluntary Organizations involved in Leprosy (RLTR Raipur),
Directorate of Health Services, Government of India, Jul 1999.
Report on the Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign under NLEP: Directorate General of Health
Services (LD), Nirman Bhawan, New Delhi, 1999.
Gender and Health, A Handbookfor Health Workers: Directorate of Public Health and Preventive
Medicine, Chennai, 1997.
*Including electronic files
- 59 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
20-Sep-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA         SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P045051        1999 2ND NATL HIVIAIDS CO                                 0.00     191.00                              0.00     166.81       3.17       0.00
P049301        1997 A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                                 50.00     100.00                              0.00      95.50      93.05       0.00
P010407        1993 ADP - RAJASTHAN                                      0.00     106.00                              0.00      13.57      16.86       0.00
P010503        1995 AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                                 0.00      59.50                              0.00      17.38      20.53       0.00
P010489        1995 AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                                 0.00     133.00                              0.00      43.01      20.14       0.00
P045049        2000 AP DPIP                                              0.00     111.00                              0.00     106.85       0.00       0.00
P049385        1998 AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                               301.30     241.90                              0.00     401.16      92.44       0.00
P010449        1994 AP FORESTRY                                          0.00      77.40                              0.00       5.97       6.97       0.00
P035158        1997 AP IRRIGATION III                                  175.00     150.00                              0.00     232.16      83.13       0.00
P049537        1999 AP POWER APL I                                     210.00       0.00                              0.00     147.82      48.16       0.00
P010522        1995 ASSAM RURAL INFRA                                    0.00     126.00                              0.00      80.02      50.79       3.13
P010455        1994 BLINDNESS CONTROL                                    0.00     117.80                              0.00      68.58      51.93       0.00
P010480        1996 BOMBAY SEW DISPOSAL                                167.00      25.00                              0.00     103.01      96.58       0.00
P043310        1996 COAL ENV& SOCIAL MITIGATION                          0.00      63.00                              0.00      35.04      25.93       0.00
P009979        1998 COAL SECTOR REHAB                                  530.00       2.00                            268.70      36.67     139.94     139.94
P009870        1994 CONTAINER TRANSPORT                                 94.00       0.00                             15.00      42.81      57.81      53.54
P010464        1995 DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                                  0.00     260.30                              0.00      94.27      63.77       0.00
P035821        1996 DPEP II                                              0.00     425.20                              0.00     204.77      18.65       0.00
P038021        1998 DPEP III (BIHAR)                                     0.00     152.00                              0.00     122.69      61.46       0.00
P036062        1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                                       0.00      28.00                              0.00      19.11      11.20       0.00
P043728        1997 ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                                 0.00      50.00                              0.00      39.46      24.47       0.00
P010563        1995 FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV PROJ. (FSDP)                  700.00       0.00                            301.30      88.43       0.00       0.00
P010448        1994 FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                                 0.00      47.00                              0.00      11.66      30.67       0.63
P010566        2001 GUJARAT HWYS                                       381.00       0.00                              0.00     381.00       0.00       0.00
P035160        1998 HARYANA POWER APL-I                                 60.00       0.00                              0.00      28.06      23.40       0.00
P010485        1996 HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                    0.00     142.00                              0.00      71.85      72.47       0.00
P009977        1993 ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                                 0.00     194.00                              0.00      96.41     100.83     100.18
P039935        1996 ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                                200.00       5.00                              0.00     178.79     153.86       0.00
P067330        2000 IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHENING PROJECT                   0.00     142.60                              0.00     139.54       0.00       0.00
P010463        1995 INDUS POLLUTION PREV                               143.00      25.00                              1.64     141.63     129.85       4.00
P010418        1993 KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S                                 0.00      92.00                              0.00       0.43       1.04       0.00
P049477        1998 KERALA FORESTRY                                      0.00      39.00                              0.00      27.79       1.22       0.00
P010461        1995 MADRAS WATSUPII                                    275.80       0.00                            189.30      34.27     215.85       5.84
P050651        1999 MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                                  0.00     134.00                              0.00     122.96     130.75       0.00
P010511        1997 MALARIA CONTROL                                      0.00     164.80                              0.00     137.38      68.11       0.00
P009946        1992 NAT. HIGHWAYS II                                   153.00     153.00                              0.00      74.85      60.30      21.56
P009869        1989 NATHPAJHAKRIHYDRO                                  485.00       0.00                              0.00      80.50      80.50      18.29
P009972        2000 NATIONAL HIGHWAYS III PROJECT                      516.00       0.00                              0.00     516.00       0.00       0.00
P010561        1998 NATLAGR TECHNOLOGY                                  96.80     100.00                              0.00     185.33      63.65       0.00
P010424        1993 NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA                                 0.00      85.00                              8.70      13.32      23.70      14.22
P009982        1990 NOR REG TRANSM                                     485.00       0.00                             35.00     105.16     140.16       0.00
P010496        1998 ORISSA HEALTH SYS                                    0.00      76.40                              0.00      70.37       17.86      0.00
P035170        1996 ORISSA POWER SECTOR                                350.00       0.00                              0.00     261.10     154.44       0.00
P010529        1996 ORISSA WRCP                                          0.00     290.90                              0.00     121.51      38.58       0.00
- 60 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                      IRD          IDA          SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P010416        1993 PGC POWER SYSTEM                                 350.00      0.00                            75.00     37.46     112.46       0.00
P010457       1994 POPULATION IX                                       0.00     88.60                            0.00      39.25      28.81       0.00
P009963       1992 POPULATION Vil                                     0.00     79.00                            0.00      40.82      42.76       0.00
P045050       1999 RAJASTHAN DPEP                                      0.00     85.70                            0.00      78.83      14.04       0.00
P010505       2000 RAJASTHAN DPIP                                      0.00    100.48                             0.00     97.21       0.36       0.00
P049770       2000 REN EGY II                                         80.00     50.00                             0.00    127.93       0.00       0.00
P010410       1993 RENEWABLE RESOURCES                                75.00    115.00                             0.00     64.67      94.26       0.00
P010531       1997 REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                                0.00    248.30                             0.00    169.10      85.47      45.76
P009959       1993 RUBBER                                              0.00     92.00                           36.61      13.22      50.70       4.22
P044449       1997 RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT                           0.00     19.50                            0.00      16.07      12.02       0.00
P009921       1992 SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                                0.00     85.00                            50.02     14.58      62.95      14.34
P035825       1996 STATE HEALTH SYS II                                 0.00    350.00                            0.00     188.14     153.53       0.00
P009995       1997 STATE HIGHWAYS l(AP)                              350.00      0.00                            0.00     267.98      76.32       0.00
P045600       1997 TA STS RD INFRADEV                                 51.50      0.00                            0.00      1B.65      14.49      15.65
P059501       2000 TA for Econ Rerorm Project                          0.00     45.00                            0.00      43.55       0.00       0.00
P010476       1995 TAMIL NADU WRCP                                     0.00    282.90                            0.00     142.20     113.47       0.00
P050637       1999 TN URBAN DEV II                                   105.00      0.00                            0.00      87.72      18.24       0.00
P010473       1997 TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                                0.00    142.40                            0.00     111.79      76.64       0.00
P055456       2000 Telecommunications Sector Reform TA               62.00       0.00                            0.00      62.00       0.00       0.00
P050638       1998 UP BASIC ED 11                                     0.00      59.40                             0.00     12.85      11.05       0.00
P009955       1993 UP BASIC EDUCATION                                  0.00    165.00                             0.00      9.48       4.88       0.00
P035824       1998 UP DIVAGRC SUPPORT                                 79.90     50.00                            0.00     116.17      47.74       0.00
P050667       2000 UP DPEP III                                        0.00     182.40                            0.00     164.86      -7.50       0.00
P035169       1998 UP FORESTRY                                         0.00     52.94                            0.00      36.59      11.97       0.00
P050657       2000 UP Health Systems Development Project               0.00    110.00                            0.00     105.82       1.18       0.00
P035172       2000 UP POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT             150.00      0.00                            0.00     145.88       0.00       0.00
P010484       1996 UP RURAL WATER                                     59.60      0.00                            7.20      37.60      25.90       0.00
P050646       1999 UP SODIC LANDS It                                   0.00    194.10                             0.00    171.88      28.40       0.00
P009961       1993 UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                                0.00     54.70                             0.00      2.36       2.35       0.00
P009964       1994 WATER RES CONSOLID H                                0.00    258.00                             0.00    100.01      82.30       0.OC
P035827       1998 WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                               0.00     300.00                            0.00     282.91      15.58       0.00
P041264       1999 WTRSHD MGMT HILLS II                              85.00      50.00                            0.00     119.34       4.25       0.01
Total:    6820.90     7370.22                          988.47    7891.94    3678.62     441.30
- 61 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
20-Sep-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997              20TH Century                   8.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              20th Century                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989              AEC                            6.76    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.76    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Ambuja Cement                 2.67    4.94    0.00    0.00    2.67    4.94    0.00    0.00
1992/93           Arvind Mills                   0.00   10.18    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.18    0.00    0.00
1997              Asian Electronic               0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1984/91           Bihar Sponge                   0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1997              CEAT                          19.80    0.00    0.00    0.00   19.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92           CESC                          21.00    0.00    0.00   46.90   21.00    0.00    0.00   46.90
1995              Centurion Bank                 0.00    4.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.67    0.00    0.00
2000               Chinai                        1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Chowgule                      12.63    4.58    0.00   19.38   12.63    4.58    0.00   19.38
1997              Duncan Hospital                7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              EEPL                           0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-City Mills                 0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-STG                        0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              EXIMBANK                      11.37    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              GE Capital                     6.25    5.00    0.00    0.00    6.25    4.39    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94     GESCO                          0.00    1.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.86    0.00    0.00
1988/94           GKN Driveshafts                0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00
1994/97           GVK                            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
0                Gesco Corp. Ltd               0.00    1.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.18    0.00    0.00
1994/98/00        Global Trust                   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.78    0.00    0.00
Gujarat Ambuja                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              HDFC                           0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93     HOEL                           0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00
1990              Hindustan                      0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987              IAAF                           0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00
1998              ICICI-IFGL                     0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00
1990/94           ICICI-SPIC Fine                0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00
1990/95/00        IDFC                           0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00
1998              IL & FS                        0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00
1990/93/94/98     IL&FS Venture                  0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1992/95           ITW Signode                    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00
1981/86/91/93/96    India Direct Fnd             0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.29    0.00    0.00
1996              India Equipment                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95     India Lease                    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
1984/90/94        Indo Rama                      0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00
1993/94/96        Indus 11                       0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00
1996              Indus Mauritius                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Indus VC Mgt Co                0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1992              Indus VCF                      0.00    0.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    0.00    0.00
1992              Info Tech Fund                 0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00
1992              Ispat Industries               0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1992/94/97
Total Portfolio:      188.28   151.33    5.00   75.28   154.77  135.27    5.00   75.28
- 62 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000              APCL                          7100.00     0.00   1900.00     0.00
1999              Carraro                     10000.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2001              GTB SME Facility             20000.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              IndAsia                         0.00      0.00  15000.00     0.00
2001              Internet Express                 0.00     0.00   5000.00     0.00
2001              Jetair                          0.00  15000.00      0.00     0.00
2000              SREI 11                      10000.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1999              Sarshatali Coal             30000.00      0.00   5000.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   77100.00  15000.00  26900.00     0.00
- 63 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
POVERTY and SOCtAL                                               South       Low-
India      Asia  tnCome        Development dlamond
1999
Population. mid-vear Wt'ilbns)                         997.5      1.329     2.417                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atfes method, US$I                       440        440       410
GNP lAtis method, USS btlions)                        441.8       58t        98S
Averag, annual growth, 19S3i99
Population f(%                                          1t7         1.9        1.9     G 
Labor force I%)                                          21         2.3        2.3      GNP r                            Grosa
per    I                            primary
Most racent estimat, Ilatest Vwar availaIle.  391,                                     capita          '    ,        enrollment
Poverty (% of populetfin below national poverty line0i    3$
Urban oopulation I% oft0otlDpopulation)                   28         28        31
Life expectancy at birth Ivears)                          63         62        60
Infant rmortality (per 1,000 five bifths)                 70         75        77
Child malnutrition e% of children under 5)                53         51        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% Of QpuotiPW*n)         81         77        64
Illiteracy (% o population seo 15-)                       44         48        39
Gross primarv enrollmnte  1% Of schooNae-e 0orulellon)   100        100        96       - India -          Low-income group
Mae                                                    109        110       102
Female                                                  90         90        86
KEY ECONOMtC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
179      1 198      1998      1999
Economic ratloas
GDP (U$ billions)                             150.1    290.5      419.1     447,3
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                 22.S      24.1       21.8       22.9                      Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGOP               6.7      7.3       11.3       12.1
Gross domestic savinoelGDP                     20.7     21.8       19.2      20.0
Gross national savings/GDP                     22.2     21t4       20.8      22.1
Current account balance/GOP                    -0.5     -18        40.8       4.8      Domestic                      Inveatment
Interest pavments/GQP                           0.3      1.1        11         1.2     Saings
Total debtlGDP                                 11.9     26.0       23.4      22.9       aviga
Total debt servicelexvota                      10.1     28.6       17.0       15.6
Present value of debt/GOP                                          20.1
Present value of debtexoorts                                      143.3
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      19S9       199    t999-03
laverage annual Growth)
GDP                                   5.7       5.8      6.8        o.5        64        -     India    - --Low-income group
GtNP ver apita                        3.3       3,9      4.9       4*9        4                  a
ExPortt of oods and services          4.9      11.8     12.5        1.7        7.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
I% of GDP)                                                                             30
Aqriculture                                    36.8     31.6       29.1       27.7
Industrv                                       25.0     27.6       25.7      26.3      1s
Manufacturinq                                17.4     17.4       15.6       15.9
Services                                       38.3     40.8       45.2      46.0        f     4      5           9,7   9S   go
Private consumDtion                            69.2     66.1       68.6       68.0     .s
General aovernment consumption                 10.0     12.2       12.3       12.0              -GDI            _   GDP
Imports of aoods and services                   8.7      9.6       14.0       15.0
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(averaae annual orowth)
Agriculture                                     3.4      3.3        7.2        1.3     4
Industry                                        6.6      6.5        4.0       8.8    30
Manufacturing                                 7,0       7.0       3.6        8.5    20
Services                                        6.7      7.5        8.3       7.9    10
Private consumDtion                             5.5      5.2        3.2        2.9  o   0                    _           _
General qovernment consumption                  7.8      5.9       14.5       10.3            94   95   98   97
Gross domestic investment                       5.7      6.2        4.3       11.5    10
Imports of qoods and services                   6.5      8.8       -2.5       -3.6            -     Exports     a  Imports
Gross national Product                          5.5      5.8        6.7        6.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrV (in bold) comDared wilth its income-qroup average. If data are missinq. the diamond will
be incomplete.
-64 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 ..     6.2       13.2      4.6
Implicit GDP deflator                        15.8      8.3       8.9       3.3
Governmentfinance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                ..    23.5       21.8      23.6             94   95   96   97   9S    9
Current budget balance                         ..      0.4       -1.7    -0.01              --GDP deflator    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -12.5      -10.6    -11.4
TRADE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  16,613    33,667   38,326       60.000
Tea                                          ..    550         547       564
Iron                                         ..    557         380       374     40 000
Manufactures                                 ..  12,730    26,870   31,314
Total imports (cif)                            ..  21,219    41,858   55,385                  mm
Food   er                                            714      2,543    2,459    20.000
Fuel and energyV.    3,768                                    6,435    1 0,662
Capital goods                                 .. 5,288        9,122    10,192        0     A
93  94  99  96  97  98  99
Export prce index (1995=100)                   ..    113          94        92
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      89         92        90                 1 Exports    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    128         102       102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               9,980   21,201    47,484   54,047 
Imports of goods and services              13,120   27,934    58,565   67,250
Resource balance                           -3,140   -6,733   -11,081   -13,203
Net inoome                                   527    -798    -2,955    -3,133
Netcurrenttransfers                         1,852    2,281    10,587    12,638     -'
Current account balance                      -761   -5,249    -3,449    -3,699
Financing items (net)                        985    4,400      7,382    9,487
Changes in net reserves                      -224     850    -3,933    -5,788    12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      7,581    4,582    33,584   38,150
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              8.1     16.7      42.1      43.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       17,898   75,407    98,232   102,626
IBRD                                       728    6,615      7,993    7,879
IDA                                       4,505   12,521    18,562   18,984                  G:4,329    A: 7,879
Totaldebtservice                            1,282    6,955    10,001    10,527                           _18984
IBRD                                       127      881      1,627     1,415                                   6:19,994
IDA                                         43      188      1,372      458               /
Composition of net resource flows                      |F 42,241                                     _             C: 26
Official grants                            717      698        476      300
Official creditors                         646    2,489      1,727     1,701                                    D:4.503
Private creditors                           13    2,870      -1,433     414
Foreign direct investment                   49      252      2,635    2,155
Portfolio equity                             0      168        342     3,026                               E: 24,864
World Bank program
Commitments                                766    2,987      2,055      909      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              695    2,011      1,421     1,592    B-IDA    D - Other multilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                        77      450      2,193     1,211     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                   619    1,561       -772       381
Interest payments                           93      619        806      663
Net transfers                              525      942    -1,578       -282
Development Economics                                                                                               08125/00
- 65 -



Additional
Annex 11
THE BURDEN OF LEPROSY IN INDIA
METHODS FOR ESTIMATION OF PREVALENCE IN INDIA AS OF MARCH 2000
Principles
The information available from the national programme was analysed to provide the best possible estimate
of the leprosy burden in India in a short period of time and in a very cost effective manner.
Data Sources
Most of the data available on the leprosy burden in India are based on information collected from detailed
registers kept by the leprosy workers in the field and compiled at the district level. These reports are further
compiled at the State level and sent to the National programme.
The available data for the year 1999-2000 are as follows:
(a) Health Management Information System data available through NLEP:
(b) Data collected from 5 major endemic states (Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh and West
Bengal).
(c) Data collected in areas where MLEC- 1 and MLEC-2 were conducted, collected by the GOI
(d) Independent Evaluation/validation of Indian Leprosy Programme conducted by the World Bank, WHO
and GOI for the whole country, with special emphasis on MLEC-2.
Factors considered
1. In light of information available at present, there is no need for sample survey to establish leprosy
prevalence for the country.
2. Effort was made to establish the prevalence from available data and accept certain limitations.
3. Basis for the estimates is reported prevalence (State-wise) as of March 2000, provided by the NLEP.
4. MLEC-2 data for five major endemic states was analysed and revealed that MLEC coverage for various
sections of the community - caste, gender, age, sex, urban/rural are similar.
Grouping of the States
For the purpose of estimation at the national level, the States/UTs are divided into three groups according
to the data available and the magnitude of the burden according to the reported prevalence:
Group 1: Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal
Group 2: Andhra Pradesh, Kamataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu
Group 3: All remaining States/UTs (prevalence 10 000 or less)
Group 1 and 2 covers 94 percent of the reported prevalence, while Group 3 contributes about 6 percent to
the prevalence pool. Therefore no correction was made for Group 3. For Group 1 and 2, correction factors
used are proportion of recycled cases, proportion of examined cases among suspected cases, proportion of
wrongly diagnosed cases and coverage. These factors are gained from the evaluation/validation exercise
- 66 -



carried out during MLEC-2. According to data availability for these factors, there are minor differences in
calculations between Group 1 and 2. Details are described below.
Steps and correction factors for calculations
Basic conceptfor calculations
a. Data reported on prevalence by the NLEP, Gol as of 31 March 2000 was used. (Table 1)
Assumption
 Data provided by NLEP, GOI is reliable.
Table 1. Prevalence as of 31 March 2000 report d by NLEP, GOI
State              Population (in         Reported        Reported Prevalence
100,000s)          Prevalence         Rate (per 10,000)
Andhra Pradesh                        746.16               36930                     4.9
Arunachal Pradesh                      11.55                 191                     1.7
Assam                                 258.77                3573                     1.4
Bihar                                 981.74              149220                    15.2
Goa                                    15.47                 449                     2.9
Gujarat                               475.57                8556                     1.8
Hariyana                              195.46                 673                     0.3
Himachal Pradesh                       65.45                 283                     0.4
Jammu Div                              87.99                 687                     0.8
Kashmir                                  9.9                 210                     2.1
Karnataka                             514.36               13706                     2.7
Kerala                                319.82                2812                     0.9
Madhya Pradesh                        783.39               35440                     4.5
Maharashtra                            901.2               35374                     3.9
Manipur                                24.41                 243                     1.0
Meghalaya                              23.59                  99                     0.4
Mizoram                                 9.22                  66                     0.7
Nagaland                               16.29                  64                     0.4
Orissa                                355.34               40717                    11.5
Puniab                                232.84                1415                     0.6
Rajasthan                             526.39                5949                     1.1I
Sikkim                                  5.41                  44                     0.8
Tamil Nadu                            612.55               31280                     5.1
Tripura                                36.65                 174                     0.5
Uttar Pradesh                        1664.04               99754                     6.0
W. Bengal                             779.72               42429                     5.4
A & N Islands                            2.8                  78                     2.8
Chandigarh                               8.6                 317                     3.7
Dadar & Nagar Haveli                    1.84                 219                    11.9
Daman &Diu                              1.35                  43                     3.2
Delhi                                 134.18                4705                     3.5
Lakshadweep                             0.69                  12                     1 .7
Pondicherry                            10.76                 350                     3.3
Total                                 9813.5              516062                     5.3
b. Proportions gained through MLEC-2 for recycled cases, cases examnined among cases suspected,
specificity and coverage are applied to prevalence data A.
- 67 -



Assumption
 Proportion of these factors for detection are equally reflected in prevalence and therefore these figures
are applicable to prevalence as well.
Steps and Correction factors usedfor Group I (forfive states)
a. Point prevalence as reported by NLEP as of 31 March 2000 (Table 1-A)
Assumption
a. Data of prevalence provided by NLEP is the basis of the whole calculations.
Table 1-A. Point Prevalence as reported by NLEP as of 31 March 2000 for Five States
State              Population (in 100 000s)  Reported Prevalence  Prevalence Rate per 10 000
Bihar                               981.74              149220                      15.2
Madhya Pradesh                      783.39               35440                       4.5
Orissa                              355.34               40717                      11.5
Uttar Pradesh                      1664.04               99754                       6.0
W. Bengal                           779.72               42429                       5.4
Total                              4564.23              367560                       8.1
b. Correcting for proportion of recycled cases: This data is gained from the Validation / Evaluation
exercise. Recycled cases was defined as cases already on treatment or having completed treatrnent who
were re-registered as new cases or cases appear on register for more than once.
Assumption
b. The proportion of recycled cases among cases detected during MELC-2 is applicable to cases detected
by routine activities (Table 1-B).
Table 1-B. Correction for proportion of recycled cases for five states
State         Reported   Recycle   Recycle       Recycle       Recycle     Recycle
Prevalence           Lower Limit Upper Limit  Corrected   Corrected
with Upper with Lower
_  Limit       Limit
Bihar             149220      5.3%         3.2%          7.4%      138173       144449
Madhya             35440      3.6%         1.5%          5.7%       33420        34909
Pradesh
Orissa             40717     26.1%        22.4%         29.8%       28566        31614
Uttar Pradesh      99754     37.8%        32.7%         42.9%       56913        67181
W. Bengal          42429     82.4%        78.8%         86.0%        5924         9011
c. Correction for proportion of cases examined among cases suspected:
Assumptions
c. This reflects the cases suspected by teamns but were missed for examination and registration.
d. The proportion of suspects examined is applicable to the cases detected both by routine activities and
during MLEC-2.
- 68 -



Table 1-C. Correction for proportion of cases examined among cases suspected
State               Recycle       Recycle        Proportion    Examined    Examined    Examined        Examined
Corrected     Corrected     Examinedl    Lower         Upper        Corrected     Corrected
with Upper   with Lower   Suspect         Limit        Limit        with Upper   with
Limit         Limit                                                 Limit         Lower
Limit
Bihar                      138173        144449        50.9%        47.7%        54.1%         255415       302771
Madhya Pradesh             33420         34909         94.6%        92.8%        96.4%          34655        37613
Orissa                     28566         31614         97.3%        96.3%        98.3%          29070        32837
Uttar Pradesh              56913         67181         72.5%        69.3%        75.7%          75231        96900
W. Bengal                   5924           9011        74.1%        71.4%        76.9%           7703        12624
Assumptions
d. Correcting for proportion of cases confirmed as cases among cases evaluated: (Table 1-D)
e. Proportion of cases confirmned as cases among cases evaluated reflects specificity of diagnosis.
f. Proportion of wrongly diagnosed cases is applicable to both patients detected during MELC 2 and
routine activities, as this indicates the capacity of health workers.
Table 1-D. Correction for  roportion of cases confirmed as cases amon  cases evaluated
State          Examined       Examined        Specificity    Specificity    Specificity   Specificity   Specificity
corrected      corrected                    Lower         Upper         corrected    corrected
with           with                         Limit          Limit        Lower        Upper
Upper          Lower                                                    Limit        Limit
Limit          Limit
Bihar               255415          302771         92.2%         89.8%        94.6%       229255       286414
Madhya               34655           37613         86.8%         83.2%        90.3%        28841        33980
Pradesh
Orissa               29070           32837         91.4%         89.1%        93.7%        25894        30753
Uttar                75231           96900         93.9%         91.5%        96.4%        68825        93406
Pradesh      I_I_I                                                                                I            I
W. Bengal             7703           12624         87.7%         84.8%        90.6%         6530        11443
e. Correcting for population coverage: (Table 1-E)
Assumption
g. Population coverage is the sarne for MELC-2 and routine activities.
- 69 -



Table 1-E. Correction for population coverage
State        Specificity   Specificity   House-hold   House-hold   House- hold   Coverage  Coverage
corrected    corrected    Coverage  Coverage    Coverage     Corrected Corrected
Lower Limit Upper Limit             Lower Limit  Upper Limit  Lower    Upper
Limit    Limit
Bihar           229255      286414       76.8%        74.3%        79.3%    289252   385265
Madhya           28841       33980        62.6%       59.8%        65.4%    44129    56781
Pradesh
Orissa           25894       30753        79.3%       77.0%        81.6%     31740    39929
Uttar            68825       93406       51.3%        48.5%        54.1%    127153   192702
Pradesh    _             _
W.Bengal          6530       11443       71.9%        69.3%        74.5%     8769    16503
Based on these calculations, the estimated prevalence in these five states are shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Esti mated prevalence of five states
State      Reported   Proportion  Proportion  Specificity  House    Estimated   Estimated   Estimated
Prevalence  of Recycled Examined/           hold      Prevalence  Prevalence  Prevalence
Cases      Suspect               Coverage Lower       Upper      Mean
Limit      Limit
Bihar          149220       5.3%      50.9%     92.2%    76.8%       289252     385265      337258
Madhya         35440        3.6%      94.6%     86.8%     62.6%       44129      56781       50455
Pradesh                           __ _ _ _    _  __ _    _ _ _     __ _ __I_     __  _    _ _ _ _
Orissa         40717      26.1%       97.3%     91.4%    79.3%        31740      39929       35835
Uttar          99754       37.8%      72.5%     93.9%     51.3%      127153     192702      159927
Pradesh__                            _ _ _   __ _ _ ___                         _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _
W. Bengal      42429       82.4%      74.1%     87.7%    71.9%         8769       16503      12636
| Total        367560                        I lIl  501043                       691180      596112
Steps and Correction factors usedfor Group 2 (forfour states)
a. Point prevalence as reported by NLEP as of 31 March 2000(Table 2-A)
Assumption
h. Data of prevalence provided by NLEP is the basis of the whole calculations.
Table 2-A. Prevalence reported by NELP as of 31 March 2000 for four states
State                Population (in 100       Reported            Prevalence Rate per
OOOs)                    Prevalence          10 000
Andhra Pradesh                        746.16               36930                     4.9
Karnataka                             514.36               13706                     2.7
Maharashtra                            901.2               35374                     3.9
Tamil Nadu                            612.55               31280                     5.1
Total                                2774.27              117290                     4.2
b. Correcting for proportion of recycled cases (Table 2-B): This data is gained from the
- 70 -



Validation/Evaluation exercise. Recycled cases was defined as cases already on treatment or having
completed treatment who were re-registered as new cases or cases appear on register for more than once.
Assumptions
i. Though sample size from which this proportion was gained was small, it reflects the total picture of the
four states.
j. Proportion of recycled cases among cases detected during MLEC-2 is applicable to cases detected by
routine activities.
Table 2-B. Correction for proportion of recycled cases
State         Reported       Proportion   Recycling    Recycling   Recycling    Recycling
Prevalence    of Recycled  Lower Limit Upper          Corrected    Corrected
Cases                     Limit        Lower Limit Upper
Limit
Andhra                36930        40.0%        27.1%        52.9%         17377      26939
Pradesh
Karnataka             13706         6.2%         -1.9%       14.3%         11745       13967
Maharashtra           35374        40.0%        26.3%        53.7%         16372      26077
Tamil Nadu            31280        68.9%        56.8%        81.0%          5936       13521
c. Correction for proportion of cases examined among cases suspected:(Table 2-C)
Assumptions
k. This reflects the cases suspected by teams but were missed for examination and registration.
1. Though sample size from which this proportion was gained was small, it reflects the total picture of the
four states.
m. This factor is applicable to cases detected by routine activities and cases detected during MLEC-2.
Table 2-C. Correction for cases examined among  ases suspe ted
State         Recycling   Recycling   Proportion   Examined   Examined   Examined   Examined
Corrected   Corrected   Suspect/   Lower       Upper       Corrected   Corrected
Lower      Upper       Examined    Limit       Limit       Lower      Upper
Limit      Limit                                           Limit      limit
Andhra            17377      26939        93.4%      89.3%       97.6%       17808       30173
Pradesh
Karnataka         11745       13967      100.0%      100.0%     100.0%       11745       13967
Maharashtra       16372      26077        92.0%       86.9%      97.0%       16879       29997
Tamil Nadu         5936      13521        98.4%      95.3%      101.5%        5847       14195
Assumption
a. This is regarded as reflecting the capacity of health workers, i.e. specificity of diagnosis
b. Though sample size from which this proportion was gained was small, it reflects the total picture of the
four states.
c. The proportion of suspects confirmned applies to the cases detected both by routine activities and
MLEC-2.
- 71 -



d. Corrections for proportion of suspects confirmed: (Table 2-D).
Table 2-D. Correction for aroportion of suspects confirmed
Examined  Examined    Specificity  Specificity  Specificity  Specificity  Specificity
Corrected  Corrected               Lower       Upper      Corrected   Corrected
Lower      Upper Limit             Limit       Limit      Lower       Upper
Limit                                                     Limit       Limit
Andhra            17808        30173      100.0%     100.0%      100.0%       17808      30173
Pradesh                              I           I          I           I_I
Karnataka         11745        13967      94.1%       86.2%      100.0%       10125      13967
Maharashtra       16879        29997       81.6%      70.8%       92.5%       11948      27740
Tamil Nadu         5847        14195      80.4%       70.0%       90.8%       4090       12883
e. Correcting for coverage was attempted. As no coverage data for these four states were not available,
based on epidemiological pattern, population awareness, infrastructure and expert opinion, a correction
factor of 1.2, around 80n percent coverage, was applied (Table 2-E).
Assumptions
q. Coverage in these states are around 80%.
Table 2-E. Correction for cove rage
State          Specificity     Specificity     Coverage       Coverage         Coverage
corrected      corrected       correction      corrected       corrected
Lower Limit   Upper Limit    Factor            Lower Limit    Upper
_ _ _ ____ _                    Limit
Andhra                 17808           30173              1.2          21369        36208
Pradesh
Karnataka              10125           13967              1.2          12150        16761
Maharashtra            11948           27740              1.2          14338        33288
TamilNadu               4090           12883              1.2           4908        15460
Based on these assumptions, estimated prevalence in these four states were calculated and shown in table 3.
Table 3. Estimated prevalence for four states
State      Reported   Proportion  Proportion  Specificity  Coverage  Estimated   Estimated   Estimated
Prevalence  of Recycled  Suspect/        Correctio  Prevalence  Prevalence  Prevalence
Cases     Examined            n Factor   Lower     Upper     Mean
Limit     Limit
Andhra         36930      40.0%     93.4%    100.0%       1.2     21369      36208      28789
Pradesh   I_I_I
Karnataka      13706       6.2%     100.0%    94.1%       1.2      12150     16761      14456
Maharashtra    35374      40.0%     92.0%     81.6%       1.2      14338     33288      23813
Tamil          31280      68.9%     98.4%     80.4%       1.2      4908      15460      10184
Nadu
Total         117290                       __ __ __               52766    101717       77241
- 72 -



Steps and Correction factors usedfor Group 3
For this group, which contributes 6 percent of the total prevalence, no attempt is made to apply any
correction factors and the prevalence as reported by NLEP is accepted.
Assumption
r. True prevalence of these states, if calculated, does not have a significant impact on the magnitude of
disease burden at the national level.
Conclusion for baseline data
Based on the calculation above, the estimated prevalence is 704 565 (7.2 +/- .2 per 10 000) as shown in
Table 4.
- 73 -



Table 4: Estimated prevalence
State              Population (in   Reported        Reported           Estimated      Estimated         Estimated        Estimated
100 ODOs)      Prevalence       Prevalence Rate    Prevalence      Prevalence       Prevalence       Prevalence Rate
Population                      (per 10 000)       Lower limit                      Upper Limit       (per 10 000)
data provided
by NLEP/GOI
Andhra Pradesh             746.16            36930                4.9          21369             28789            36208              3.9
Arunachal                   11.55              191                1.7            191               191              191               1.7
Pradesh
Assam                      258.77             3573                1.4           3573              3573             3573               1.4
Bihar                      981.74           149220               15.2         289252            337258           385265             34.4
Goa                         15.47              449                2.9            449               449              449              2.9
Gujarat                    475.57             8556                1.8           8556              8556             8556               1.8
Haryana                    195.46              673                0.3            673               673              673              0.3
Himachal Pradesh            65.45              283                0.4            283               283              283              0.4
Jammu Div                   87.99              687                0.8            687               687              687              0.8
Kashmir                       9.9              210                2.1            210               210              210              2.1
Karnataka                  514.36            13706                2.7          12150             14456            16761              2.8
Kerala                     319.82             2812                0.9           2812             2812              2812              0.9
Madhya Pradesh             783.39            35440                4.5          44129             50455            56781              6.4
Maharashtra                 901.2            35374                3.9          14338            23813             33288              2.6
Manipur                    24.41              243                 1.0            243              243               243              1.0
Meghalaya                  23.59               99                0.4              99               99                99              0.4
Mizoram                     9.22                66                0.7             66                66               66              0.7
Nagaland                   16.29               64                 0.4             64               64                64              0.4
Orissa                    355.34            40717                11.5          31740            35835            39929              10.1
Punjab                    232.84             1415                0.6            1415             1415              1415              0.6
Rajasthan                 526.39             5949                 1.1           5949             5949              5949              1.1
Sikkim                      5.41               44                 0.8             44               44                44              0.8
Tamil Nadu*               612.55            31280                 5.1           4908            10184            15460               1.7
Tripura                    36.65               174                0.5            174              174               174              0.5
Uttar Pradesh            1664.04            99754                6.0          127153           159927           192702               9.6
W. Bengal                 779.72            42429                 5.4           8769            12636             16503              1.6
A & N Islands                 2.8               78                2.8             78                78               78              2.8
Chandigarh                    8.6              317                3.7            317               317              317              3.7
D & N Haveli                 1.84              219               11.9            219               219              219             11.9
Daman &Diu                   1.35               43                3.2             43                43               43              3.2
Delhi                      134.18             4705                3.5           4705              4705             4705              3.5
Lakshadweep                  0.69               12                1.7             12                12     _         12               1.7
Pondicherry                 10.76              350                3.3            350               350              350              3.3
Total                      9813.5           516062                5.3         585020            704565           824109               7.2
Prevalence rate                                                                   6.0              7.2              8.4
'The prevalence in Tamil Nadu may be higher than is estimated. Validation of this calculation may be needed by an independent exercise.
- 74 -



Biases and limitations
Estimates are derived mainly from registered figures and the primary data are subject to many biases:
standardization, information systems coverage, sensitivity and specificity of the diagnosis. Special efforts
are made to standardize definitions and reporting systems, including validation of the quality of the
information from most of the major endemic areas.
The estimates do not give separate information by various community sub-groups (scheduled tribes,
scheduled cast, urban, rural etc.) mainly because evaluation/validation data suggests that coverage of
special populations is not significantly different from other groups. (Table 5, 6)
Table 5. Households visited by Rural/Urban
State       Total Households               Rural                  Urban
No.         %visited    No.          %visited     No.        %visited
Bihar              1133        76.8         991          84.3       142       72.5
MP                 1184        62.6          984         61.4       200       68.5
Orissa            1211         79.3         1092         77.7       119       94.1
UP                 1200        51.3          960         50.4       240         55
W.Bengal           1185        71.9          824         69.4       361       77.6
Total             5913         68.3        4851          68.9      1062       71.9
Table 6. Households visited bv Caste
State      Scheduled   Caste        Scheduled   Tribe        Others
No.          %visited    No.          %visited    No.        %visited
Bihar              295         70.5           54        85.2       784        78.6
MP                 210         66.2          233        46.8       741        66.5
Orissa             238         79.0          341        63.9       632        87.5
UP                 299         48.5           20        70.0       881        51.9
W.Bengal           357         70.0          108        74.1       720        72.5
Total             1399         66.5         756         61.8      3758        70.3
Prevalence rate among uncovered population
There are some data that indicate that prevalence rate among uncovered population can be different from
that of covered population. The data is now under compilation and analysis, and currently not available in
the form which can be used for estimation of prevalence among uncovered population.
-75 -



Additional
Annex 12
Methods for Assessing Progress towards Leprosy Elimination
Introduction
There is a need to identify whether progress towards the goal of elimination of leprosy is satisfactory,
particularly at the state level. There are no standard methods to assess low levels of prevalence in a
population. WHO and its Technical Advisory Group have proposed several methods that will be validated
in different parts of the world. As part of the project, the following protocol will be pilot tested in two states
of India, namely Meghalaya and Himachal Pradesh. The protocols and results of the pilots carried out in
India and elsewhere in the world will be discussed by the Technical Advisory Group of the WHO.
Recommendations on the best possible approach will be made before the end of the first year of the project.
The terms of reference of future 'validation of elimination' surveys will be based upon the Technical
Advisory Group recomrnendations.
Estimation of leprosy prevalence of I per 10,000 with the precision of  10 percent through a conventional
sample survey requires a large sample size (of the order of 4 million) and will be expensive and time
consuming. The alternative to the conventional survey, as described below, is a Rapid Assessment
Procedure at the state/regional level, the details of which vary according to the initial level of endemicity.
After application of MDT, leprosy prevalences decline very rapidly and leprosy distribution continues to
follow the samne geographical patterns as immediately before the intervention. The key factors in testing
these methods are: i) adequate sampling taking into account the uneven distribution of the the disease and
ii) high specificity of diagnosis of cases identified during the survey. Consequently, the following strategy
for assessing leprosy elimination is to be pilot tested. This approach is not a one time activity - to be
meaningful it should be undertaken periodically (say, each two years) until it is certain that elimination has
been achieved.
Approach
(a)    States with very high levels (prevalence above 50 per 10,000) of endemicity before introduction of
MDT, e.g. Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa. In these states, as the distribution of leprosy is likely to
be relatively even, a Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS) exercise can be performed without inflating
sample size to account for the design effect.
(b)    States with medium level of endemicity before introduction of MDT (prevalence between 10-50 per
10,000) e.g. Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal, UP, Bihar, MP. In these states the distribution
of leprosy is likely to be relatively uneven and this will have to be taken into account by increasing the
sample size (Modified LQAS) - the extent of the increase is the design effect.
(c)    Low endemic states before MDT introduction (prevalence below 10 per 10,000), Snowball
sampling is suggested.
Methodology
(1)    Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (see Example 1 below)
LQAS can be used for initially highly endemic areas like Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, parts of Orissa and
- 76 -



West Bengal. The method is described briefly below:
Suppose the true prevalence of leprosy in the region/state is above 3 per 10,000 and the prevalence of 3
per 10,000 and above (baseline) is considered as non-achievement. A sample of 'n' individuals from the
region/state as advocated in LQAS is to be taken and examined for disease status of the individuals. If the
number of cases in the sample is more than the acceptable number i.e. "critical value"('d'), then it is
considered that leprosy prevalence in the region/state is at or above 3 per 10,000. In this process, some
samples may be wrongly classified as below 3 per 10000. Therefore an extra precaution is taken to see that
those samples wrongly classified as below 3 per 10,000, should not be below 0.5 per 10,000 - Alternative
prevalence.
Defining the sample size:
From Table 1 below, the sample size and the corresponding critical values are 22,600 and 2, respectively.
Selecting the sample units:
A complete sampling frame of individuals in the community, such as an up-to-date listing of individuals in
a district, may not be available. In such a situation, it is pragmatic to suggest households consisting of 4 to
5 individuals as sampling units. Selection of the households by simple random sampling is not operationally
convenient. The following method is suggested:
i.     Select the region/state for which you want to examine the prevalence
ii.    For the state prepare a list of 'villages/towns' including approximate households/population
iii.    Select 30 villages/towns using Probability Proportional to Size Linear Systematic Sampling (PPS
LSS)
iv.    From each village/town selected, prepare a list of households with the help of village President /
village administrative officer / Panchayat Assistant and divide the village into 4 quadrants
v.     In the selected village, select 44 households from each of the 4 quadrants and examine every
individual from the selected households.
For each household visited, examine all the individuals for leprosy. If the total number of leprosy cases
exceeds the 'critical value' 2 then discontinue the survey, otherwise continue.
Table 1: Lot Quality Assurance Sampling: Sample size and 'd'
Prevalence                   Below              Below                Below
3 per 10,000       5 per 10,000        1o per 10,000
Alternative prevalence     Above or at      Above or at 1 per      Above or at
0.5 per 10,000        10,000            3 per 10,000
Samnple size without         22,600             15,500               11,500
design effect
d _   _    _ _   _2 _           _ _   _3                               5
Sample size with design      45,200             31,000               23,000
effect of 2
d                              7                   9                   15
- 77 -



(2) Modified Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (Modified LQAS) (see Example 2 below)
For moderately endemic areas like Bihar, UP, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and most of Orissa, the
distribution of cases is expected to be uneven. To carry out LQAS for assessing elimination standards, the
required sample size needs to be increased by applying correction factor (design effect) and the details are
given below.
We assume that the design effect (correction factors) will be 2 in estimating the sample size required for
examining the baseline prevalence at or above 3 per 10,000 with the altemative prevalence below 0.5 per
10,000, respectively. The corresponding sample size and critical value (d) are 45,200 and 7, respectively
(see Table 1 above).
The design is the same as the one proposed for high endemic regions except for the number of households
to be included for examination in each selected village/town. To be specific, the design includes 50
villages/towns from the region/state and 208 households (52 per quadrant) subsequently from each selected
village/town for examining the prevalence at or above 3 per 10,000, with an alternative prevalence below
0.5 per 10,000.
(3) Snowball sampling (see Example 3 below)
Distribution of cases is expected to be highly uneven and patchy in very low endemic regions such as
Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana, etc. In low endemic regions we have to cover more households to
have a single case, which means more travel, more manpower, and higher cost. Further we cannot increase
the cluster size because the size of the village/town is fixed. For operational convenience and logistic
reasons LQAS is not proposed for this situation - snowball is an appropriate sampling method.
Denominators are available from census or health survey data and can be used for working out prevalence
rates. The approach is to identify a few known leprosy cases and to ask each of them to identify other
leprosy cases, to contact those so identified and ask them to identify others, and so on. The common
approach is to continue the snowballing process until a 'sufficient' number of leprosy cases have been
found for the survey. (We will add careful examination and confirmation of diagnosis to avoid any
possibilities for wrong diagnosis and recycling.)
Example I
Suppose we want to assess Leprosy Elimination Level of 3 per 10,000 say for Tamil Nadu. The sample
size required will be 22,600 with critical value as 2. There are 15,840 villages and 260 towns/cities
comprising a population of 55,638,318 in Tamil Nadu as per census 1991. A village or a town or a city is
considered as the first level sampling unit. Prepare the list of villages/towns/cities as shown in Table 2
below. (Lists for villages and towns/cities will need to be merged with each other.)
- 78 -



Table 2: Sample Format
Serial        Village/        Population        Cumulative        Location of
Number       Town/City                           Population     Village/Town/City
i  I          Vi              12,000            12,000
2             V2              2,500             14,500
3             Ti              55,000            69,500
4             V3              3,500             73,000               1
5             Cl             270,000           343,000
6             V4              1,500            3,44,500
7             V5              7,000            351,500
8             C2             325,000           676,500
9             C3             1,265,000         1,941,500            2
...           ....              ....              ....
..._     _ __._ __._                    _....._    _ _ _ _2 0
...           ....              .......2
...           ....              ....              ....
16100         V15840            11,000          55,627,318
55,638,318
55,638,318
Sampling interval    = (Total population)/(number of villages to be included in the sample)
= 55,638,318 / 30
= 1,854,610
Select a seven digit random number between 1 and 1854610 say 0072000.
Locate the sampling unit (village/town/city) from the list where the cumulative population equals or
exceeds the random number. Write I besides this sampling unit. We see from the table above that V3 is
selected as the first sample unit.
Add 1,854,610 to 72,000 which is equal to 1,926,610. This falls within the cumulative population
1,941,500. Then C3 is selected and so on till we select 30 villages/towns/cities. The total sample of 22,600
individuals will be drawn from these 30 sampling units, by selecting the required number of households.
(Household size in Tamil Nadu is expected to be on an average 4.5.)
(a) Determination of households to be visited in each village
1.    Visit the village and make approximately equal quadrants.
2.     Number the households in the village.
3.     Suppose there are 500 households in the village, then there are approximately 125 households in
each quadrant.
4.     We have to select 44 households in each quadrant.
5.     Calculate the sampling interval 125 - 44 = 2.8 (rounded to 3)
6.     Select a random number between 1 and 3, say 3.
7.     Select the household number 3. Then select every 3rd (i.e. a sampling interval of 3) household i.e.
6, 9, 12, etc. till we get 44 households.
- 79 -



(b) Selection of households in Towns/Cities
1.    Select the enumeration block by random selection.
2.    Divide the block into four approximately equal quadrants.
3.    From each selected quadrant, select 44 households.
The rest of the procedures is the same as that explained for villages.
Example 2
Modified Lot Quality Assurance Sampling
Suppose we want to assess leprosy prevalence in Bihar. The sample size required will be 45,200 with
critical value as 7. There are 67,550 villages and 211 cities/towns in Bihar comprising a total population of
86,338,853 as per census 1991. We select 50 villages/towns/cities similar to the procedure done for LQAS
for highly endemic areas. From each of the sampling unit 904 individuals are to be examined.
The procedure of selecting households from the sampling units is similar to that given for LQAS in
Example 1.
Example 3
Suppose we want to assess the Leprosy Elimination Level of 1 per 10,000 for Punjab. There are 12,345
villages and 120 townis in Punjab comprising a population of 16,788,915 as per census 1991. The sample
frame of leprosy cases is generally not available. The advisable approach without construction of the frame
is as follows:
A sample of villages or enumeration blocks in urban areas covering 1 percent of the population (i.e.
16,800) is required.
Identify a few known leprosy cases from the selected area. Examine them and confirm the diagnosis of
leprosy as a case of leprosy. Ask these patients whether they can identify some more cases. Proceed to
these newly identified cases. Examine and confirm the diagnosis of leprosy. This procedure is continued till
we exhaust/no further identification of cases from the selected village/census block. Let these total
confirmed cases be 'm'.
The prevalence of leprosy can be estimated to be approximately
m   x 10,000
16,800
We thus can assess the prevalence level of leprosy in Punjab.
- 80 -



Additional
Annex 13
Surveys to Monitor Performance of Leprosy Elimination Program
The main purpose of these surveys is to assess the performance of MDT services and their level of
integration at the national, sub-national and peripheral levels. The term MDT Services refers to
comprehensive health activities, including: diagnosis, classification, prescription of treatment, delivery of
MDT, case-holding and cure of leprosy patients. As recycling of known and 'already on record' cases has
been identified as a major problem it will also be assessed in these surveys. These surveys can also help in
identifying areas where special initiatives are needed.
The methods described are intended to measure specific aspects of leprosy elimination programmes. They
are meant to complement existing information systems and other methods for reviewing elimination
programmes. The techniques for collecting indicators will be implemented in a standard way by
independent contractors, in collaboration with NLEP and WHO.
The surveys will collect key information on the following issues:
1 .    Case-finding and diagnosis - this will be based on the analysis of existing information and
review/updating of leprosy registers.
2.   Integration of MDT services within GHS: Availability of MDT blister-packs and geographic
coverage of MDT services: this will be based on a cross-sectional survey of randomly selected
health facilities;
3.    Quality of MDT services (case-holding and treatment). This will be based on a review of
individuals' records and leprosy registers. The quality of MDT services will be reviewed on the
basis of cohort analysis.
Overview
Only a limited number of indicators will be collected. These are well standardized, have been in use for
several years. Most of the required data will be collected from existing patient records, leprosy registers,
reporting forms and MDT stock bin cards. Information will be collected at a limited number of health
facilities to show the situation prevailing in a specific geographical or administrative area at a given point
in time. Proper selection of the sample and adequate sample size will be essential for extrapolating the
findings. The monitoring will have to be repeated in order to ensure optimum level of MDT services
implementation.
In each state the surveys will be carried out annually by a team of independent contractors using the
methods outlined below. The findings will be reported to the States and NLEP. The monitoring should be
quick and the complete cycle (from design to report) should not exceed four weeks.
- 81 -



Basic information to be cotlected by MDT Monitors
Key indicators
The list of key indicators is given in the following table. These indicators are the minimum set of measures
to be calculated.
Key indicators                 Indicators
Group I                        1.  Diagnosis of leprosy
1.1 Proportion of new cases with disabilities
Case-finding and diagnosis     1.2  Average delay in diagnosis
1.3 Proportion of children
1.4 Proportion of multi-bacillary cases (MB)
1.5 Proportion of single lesion paucibacillary cases (SSL)
1.6 Proportion of male / female
1.7 Proportion of scheduled castes / scheduled tribes
1.8 Proportion of scheduled castes& scheduled tribes population
1.9 Proportion of recycled cases in the new cases
2.  Prevalence: absolute numbers and rate
2.1 Reported prevalence
2.2 Prevalence after applying standard definitions (case, cure and defaulters)
Group II                       1.  Proportion of health facilities supposed to provide MDT.
2.  Proportion of existing Primary Health Centres / health facilities
Integration indicators             providing MDT services out of those supposed to provide MDT.
3.  Accessibility to MDT
3.1 Average distance
3.2 Estimated costs for the patients
Group III.                     1.  Proportion of patients treated with MDT
Quality of services indicators   2.  Case holding
(case holding and treatment)   2.1  Cure rate
2.2 Defaulter rate
2.3 Proportion of patients continuing treatment after completing fixed
duration
3.  Quality of blister-packs
Steps in organising and conducting a monitoring exercise
In order to produce results that are reliable and comparable across the country, the indicators should be
measured in a standardized way. The following list outlines the sequence of steps to carry out such an
exercise. In collaboration with the State Leprosy Officer / District Leprosy Officer:
* Select a sample of health facilities as described below;
* Implement field work;
- 82 -



*   Record data for indicators;
* Prepare summary tables;
* Report to participating state and national authorities and WHO;
*   Follow-up by state authorities.
Qualifications and activities of MDT monitors
Monitors should have some background in public health and leprosy control and preferably be fluent in the
language of the area or region in which they are working. They should be able to analyze a situation and be
familiar with drug supply issues. The monitors will visit health facilities in randomly selected areas and
gather and collate information on key indicators.
Survey implementation
It is initially proposed to introduce these exercises in the 5 most endemic states (Bihar, Madhya Pradesh,
Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Orissa) on an yearly basis. The proposed key indicators (modified) are
given below:
Group I: Case-finding and dia2nosis
Indicator 1 - Diagnosis of leprosy
Purpose
To assess the effectiveness of case-finding activities.
Definition
Diagnosis will be evaluated through a set of nine indicators, describing the status of a sample of patients
diagnosed during the past one year and who have never been treated for leprosy before diagnosis.
1.1 Proportion of newly detected cases with grade 2 disabilities
The number of patients newly diagnosed with disability grade 2 divided by the number of newly
detected patients for whom the disability status is recorded.
1.2 Average time between awareness of the onset of disease and diagnosis
Based on the individual records and/or interviews of a sample of patients, this is the average time (in
months) between the awareness of the first symptom and the date of diagnosis.
1.3 Proportion of children
The number of newly diagnosed patients below 15 years divided by the number of newly detected
patients for whom the age is recorded.
1.4 Proportion of multi-bacillary (MB) cases
Clinical classification: The number of newly diagnosed patients classified as MB patients divided by
the number of newly detected patients for whom classification is recorded.
1.5 Proportion of single lesion pauci-bacillary (SSL) cases
The number of newly diagnosed patients showing a single patch at the time of detection divided by the
number of newly detected patients for whom the number of lesions is recorded.
- 83 -



1.6 Proportion of male/female among newly detected cases
1.7 Proportion of Scheduled Castes/Tribes
The number of Scheduled Castes/Tribes among newly detected patients for whom Scheduled
Castes/Tribes is known.
1.8 Proportion of Scheduled Castes/Tribes population
1.9 Proportion of recycled cases in the new cases
Recycled cases are the old and known cases to the program. This information is to be collected from
the patients as well as from the registers wherever possible.
Please note that for indicators from 1.1 to 1.9 complete information will be collected from registers
and by interviewing patients when indicated.
Indicator 2 - Prevalence
Purpose
To measure progress towards the elimination of leprosy at the national and sub-national levels.
Definition
Monitors will have to report on information as reported by programs and 're-analyze' prevalence indicators
after applying standard definitions. The main issues are: the definition of a case of leprosy, the definition
of defaulters and the definition of cure and duration of treatment prescribed. For the purpose of the study,
monitors will adhere to the following definitions:
o   Calculation of prevalence indicators at a given point in time;
o  A case of leprosy is a person presenting clinical signs of leprosy (with or without bacteriological
examination) who has yet to complete a full course of treatment.
*   A patient who has completed a full course of MDT (6 doses PB and 12 doses MB) is cured.
3   A patient who has not collected treatment for more than 12 consecutive months is a defaulter and
should be removedfrom the prevalence.
Monitors will collect information on these 2 prevalence indicators at the state and district levels:
2.1 Reported prevalence: absolute number and rates
2.2 Prevalence after applying standard definitions
The data for the above indicators is to be collected from registers after scrutiny (particularly for 2.2).
Group II: Inteuration indicators
(Information to be obtained by direct interview with the patients)
1. Proportion of Health Facilities supposed to provide MDT.
2. Proportion of existing Primary Health Centres/Health Facilities providing MDT services out of
those supposed to provide MDT.
Purpose
To estimate the geographic coverage of MDT services.
- 84 -



"MDT services" refers to comprehensive health activities, including: diagnosis, classification, prescription
of treatment, delivery of MDT, case-holding, cure of leprosy patients and providing information, education
and communication(IEC). Quantitative aspect of MDT services is monitored through these indicators (see
Group III).
Definition
Proportion of health facilities where MDT is available among all existing health facilities in a given area.
The definition of 'health facilities' should be given prior to monitoring according to the State integration
plan.
Indicator 3 - Accessibility to MDT
Purpose
To evaluate the extent to which patients have easy access (geographical, financial and technical) to MDT
services.
Definition
Accessibility will be estimated through a set of 3 indicators collected in a sample of patients diagnosed and
treated during the year.
3.1 Average distance
Average distance traveled is obtained based on the interview of patients.
3.2 Estimated costs for patients
MDT is free but for cost factors like transport in terms of loss of wages and time spent to procure tablets
will be assessed.
Group III: Quality of services indicators
Indicator 1 - Proportion of patients treated with MDT
Purpose
To measure the extent to which MDT is given to leprosy patients.
Definition
Proportion of leprosy patients treated with MDT among all patients registered for treatment at a given
point in time.
Indicator 2 - Case holding
Fixed duration MDT should lead to the cure of leprosy patients in a relatively short period of time. It is
essential to collect reliable information on the outcome of the treatment. This might not be easy through
routine information systems, therefore the role of monitors will be to evaluate treatment outcome indicators
through the analysis of cohorts of sample patients.
Purpose
To measure the outcome of case-holding activities.
Definition
Treatment outcome will be evaluated through a set of three indicators that can be collected by analyzing
cohorts of patients having started treatment during a given year.
- 85 -



2.1 Cure rate: proportion of patients cured
The number of patients cured divided by the number of patients supposed to have been cured in the
same cohort (PB and MB).
2.2 Defaulter rate:
The number of patients who have not taken treatment for 12 consecutive months divided by the number
of patients supposed to have been cured in the same cohort. (PB and MB).
2.3 Proportion of patients continuing treatment after having completed:
Proportion of patients continuing treatment after having completed fixed duration treatment of MDT, 6
doses for PB and 12 doses for MB, among all patients supposed to have been cured in the same
cohort.
Indicator 3 - Quality of blister-packs
Purpose
To identify potential problems in drug supply management.
Definition
Proportion of blister packs showing acceptable physical condition out of a total number of blister packs
checked by the monitor.
STEPS IN THE MONITORING EXERCISE
Sampling plan
From each commissionerate register randomly select one district. From the selected district randomly select
10 health facilities. From each health facility randomly select 10 patients for interview. If a health facility
has less than 10 patients all will be interviewed. In those health facilities with more than 10 patients on
treatment registers a random sample of 10 patients will be selected.
Selection of sample units
For selecting the districts in a given state listed above:
1.    List out the commissionerate areas in a given state
2.     Prepare the list of districts (may be five or six) for each of the commissionerate areas
3.     Select one district proportional to the size of the population of the district
4.     Using the rural/urban proportion, list the number of health facilities (definition of health facility:
Primary Health Centre, Taluk Hospital, District Hospital, where MDT is supposed to be available)
5.     Select a total of 10 health facilities in the district using rural/urban proportion using simple random
sampling.
6.     Check all the patients in the register and interview all or a sample of them. (If the number of
patients is less than 10, "interview" all. If the number exceeds 10, select 10 following random
procedure).
Example
We want to conduct a Leprosy Elimination Survey in one endemic state.
Suppose there are 10 commissionerate areas.
List them. Suppose there are six districts in a commissionerate area
- 86 -



Selection of one district in a commissionerate area
District          Population     Cumulative
(OOOs)         population
(OOOs)
A                 2500           2500
B                 3200           5700
C                 2800           8500
D                 2200            10700
E                 3100            13800
F                 2600            16400
Select a random number between 1 and 16,400,000 say 6,250,000 which means district 'C' is selected.
Similar procedure is done for the remaining commissionerate areas.
Study district'C'gets selected
Selected district 'C' - Rural area
Health facilities  Registered      Cumulative
patients       number
1                  5               5
2                  4               9
3                  2               11
4                   3              14
5                  4               18
100                2               250
Suppose the rural/urban proportion in the district is 70:30. Then seven health facilities in rural area and
three health facilities in urban area will be selected.
In the rural areas, select seven random numbers between 1 and 250, say 009, 017, 045 etc. Then the
selected health facilities are 2nd, 5th, etc.
- 87 -



In the urban areas, a similar procedure will be adopted for selecting three health facilities.
In each selected health facility, the required data will be collected from the existing patient records, leprosy
registers, stock bin cards and patient interviews. A descriptive summary form describing the key indicators
as calculated in the selected health facility will be prepared and reported.
- 88 -



Additional
Annex 14
NLEP INFORMATION SYSTEM
As part of intensified strategy for leprosy elimination, India is introducing a computerised information system.
It has a great possibility to become a robust tool that streamlines the decision making process and programme
management. However, if it is not simple enough, it also has a possibility of becoming just an additional work
load for health workers who collect data that are not useful for the programme.
Attributes Reguired for the Information System
In view of limited duration of the project, and the magnitude of the problem in India, the following are the
required attributes of the information system to be developed:
Programme oriented: it is very important that data collection by the information system for public health
purposes is not confused with that for research purposes. The system should assist the programme, and not the
programme assists the data collection.
Simple: the number of indicators to be collected through this information system should be minimum, which
will reduce the work load of those who will collect and analyse the data. Overloading health workers with data
collection and analysis could even paralyse the leprosy elimination activities and delayed feed back of the result
of analysis to the programme becomes meaningless. Data available from other information source, such as
census statistics for denominators, should be utilised as much as possible.
Speedy: data will be collected, analysed and then reflected in the programme activities based on the feed back,
such as taking corrective actions. This cycle should be fast enough to make the feed back, and thus, information
system itself, meaningful. At the national level, one-year delay between data collection and its analysis and
feedback should be a maximum. At state and district level, this should be quarterly reporting with three months
delay of feedback should be a maximum.
There will be useful indicators to evaluate the programme that may have to be dropped in order to make the
system meet these requirements. Such indicators will be collected by other evaluation exercise such as LEM.
CASE DEFINITIONS
Case of leprosv: is defined as a person having clinical signs of leprosy and who has yet to complete a full course
of MDT.
Multi-bacillarv: is a case of leprosy with more than five skin lesions.
Pauci-bacillarv: is a case of leprosy with one to five skin lesions.
Single lesion PB case: is a case of leprosy with one skin lesion.
- 89 -



Disability 0 1 2:
Hands and feet:
Grade 0 No anaesthesia, no visible deformity or damage
Grade 1 Anaesthesia but no visible deformity or damage
Grade 2 Visible deformity or damage present
Eyes:
Grade 0 No eye problems due to leprosy; no evidence of visual loss
Grade I Eye problem due to leprosy present, but vision not severely affected as a result (vision 6/60 or better;
can count fingers at six metres).
Grade 2 Severe visual impairment (vision worse than 6/60; inability to count fingers at six metres),
lagophthalmos, iridocyclitis and comeal opacities.
Essential Indicators
Prevalence: is the number of cases registered for treatment at a given point of time. It reflects the tum-over of
the leprosy system: dynamic exchange between the input cases (newly detected cases mainly) and the output
cases (mainly cured) according to time. The prevalence of cases registered for treatment reflects both the
operational and epidemiological situation of leprosy.
Prevalence helps in planning, setting priorities and estimating the resources required to eliminate the disease.
From the epidemiological point of view, it helps to evaluate the trend of the disease and when presented as rate,
to show geographical or other differences. However the epidemiological value of the prevalence is relatively
low on its own, and should be analysed in conjunction with detection and programme coverage.
Prevalence rate: is defined as the number of cases registered for treatment at the end of the year divided by the
population in which the cases have occurred. The prevalence is expressed by absolute numbers and rate per 10
000.
This indicator reflects the magnitude of the problem and helps in planning and evaluating control measures. Its
limitation is that it is an outcome indicator and needs careful attentions to case detection activities (recycling,
specificity of diagnosis, special case detection activities, i.e. LEC) and the duration of the treatment regimen.
Detection: is the number of cases newly detected never treated before during a year who have not taken
treatment before. This has sub-components as follows:
A. Absolute number and proportion of female patients among new cases: is defined as the number of female
cases divided by the total number of new cases for whom gender is recorded. This indicator is supposed to help
identify potential gender problems in terms of operational (e.g. number of female health workers) and social
barrier in seeking diagnosis and treatment for female patients.
B. Absolute number of scheduled caste among new cases and specific detection rate
C. Absolute number of scheduled tribes among new cases and specific detection rate
D. Absolute number and proportion of patients classified as MB among newly detected cases: is defined as the
number of newly detected patients classified MB among the number of newly detected cases during a given
year. Classification for this indicator is based on the clinical signs irrespective of bacteriological findings. This
indicator is supposed to reflect the effectiveness of the programme in terms of early case-finding and the level of
- 90 -



community awareness of the disease to some extent. The specificity of diagnosis, inappropriate classification
and recycling of patients may affect the proportion and could mislead the interpretation.
E. Absolute nunber and proportion of children under 15 years of age among newly detected cases: is defined
as the number of newly detected patients under 15 years of age among the newly detected cases in a given year.
This indicator is believed to reflect the transmission in recent years, and could be useful in interpreting the trend
of transmission. Intensified case finding activities targeting this age group, such as school survey, will increase
the proportion and needs careful attention in interpretation.
F. Proportion of patients with disabilities grade 2 among new cases: is defined as the proportion of newly
detected cases with grade 2 disability among the total number of newly detected cases during the year for whom
disabilities status are recorded. This indicator is supposed to reflect the effectiveness of the progranmme in terms
of early case-finding and the level of community awareness of the disease.
Detection Rate: is defined as the number of new cases detected during a year divided by the population in
which the cases have occurred. It should always be related to the prevalence, and should be expressed using
absolute numbers and rate (per 10000).
Specific detection rates by gender, age-group, scheduled caste and scheduled tribe.
Cure Rate: is defined as the proportion of registered cases cured of leprosy among all registered cases. It can be
calculated using cohort reporting, the cohort being defined as a group of patients starting their treatment at the
same given time (or over the same period of timne).
This data can be compiled at district level as the number of health facilities in three categories (facilities with
cure rate below 50 percent, 50-75 percent and above 75 percent) to gain a total picture of activities at the field
level and for supervision purposes.
Relapse: is defined as the number of individuals who were cured of leprosy and then show new signs of the
disease. The relapse rate has to be expressed in person/years of follow-up and the relapse risk as an annual
likelihood for each cured patient to relapse. This type of follow-up is not practicable as a routine measure and,
for this reason, absolute numbers of relapses are used.
Data Required to Calculate Indicators
Data source: The data on cases registered for chemotherapy are available using individual clinical files, patient
identification forms or special registers for leprosy patients. This information has to be collected from all health
units dealing with leprosy, including specialised institutions, hospitals, local NGOs and private practitioners.
Wherever the control programme is integrated or partially integrated, there is a need to simplify the recording
and to use clear definitions. The timing of recording is continuous.
Data flow: The collection of data from peripheral level to upper level is the key point of the surveillance
system. This will be done by supervisors and at this stage the use of standardised procedures is essential.
Whatever information is collected to manage individual cases, the relevant data will have to be summarised
using a simple form. This formn should be simple but comprehensive and should meet the needs of the requested
information. Calculation of rates should, as much as possible, be avoided at this stage. Quarterly reporting is
sufficient at the state level, who will be responsible for the data collection, compilation, analysis and feed-back,
and annual reporting is sufficient at national level.
- 91 -



Attachment: Sample reporting form (any level)
SAMPLE REPORT FORM (Any level)i
District/State/National:              Period2:
NEW CASES DETECTED DURING THE PERIOD
TOTAL Single Lesion PB3        PB       MB        Unknown
Cases   Cases       Cases    Cases   Cases       Cases
Number of female amone new cases                                                         Cases
Number of cases with grade 2 disability among new cases                                  Cases
Number of children under 15 years of age among new cases                                 Cases
Number of Scheduled Caste among new cases                                                Cases
Number of Scheduled Tribe among new cases                                                Cases
THE NUMBER OF CASES              Number of cases        Number of Relapses after MDT during
REGISTERED AT THE END            cured during the       the period (cases)
OF THE PERIOD (cases)            period
SSL PB MB
1 Denominators for each population group should be known
2 The period can be a quarter or a year
3 Only for states collecting single lesion PB data
- 92 -



Additional
Annex 15
Strategy for Tribal Populations
Project Objectives and Components
This annex describes the project's approach to meeting the requirements of the Bank's O.D. 4.20, i.e.; how
it would ensure that (a) indigenous people in the project areas receive culturally-compatible benefits and (b)
there are no adverse effects on them.
The project's main objective is to transformn the national leprosy control program into an effective and
sustainable program through a decentralized and integrated approach which increases community access to
multi-drug therapy. Beyond the life of the project, this transformation would assist India to eliminate
leprosy as a public health problem. For tribal populations this means (a) improving the reach of detection
and treatment services into the remote areas in which tribal people usually live, (b) ensuring that they have
no social and economic impediments to completing treatment, and (c) that leprosy patients remain socially
and economically integrated in their communities and are not ostracized in any way.
The project covers the entire country while focusing efforts on five main states viz., Uttar Pradesh, Bihar,
West Bengal, Orissa and Madhya Pradesh where more than 70 percent of the leprosy burden of the country
is found. The project's components are:
i.     Decentralization and institutional development through the strengthening of state leprosy units with
technical, organizational and epidemiological inputs
2.     Strengthening and integration of service delivery through inclusion of mass and focal campaigns
and assistance to general health services to treat cases of leprosy.
3.     Disability prevention through the govermment and non-government services.
4.     Information, education and communication which encourages voluntary reporting of leprosy,
increases case detection during mass and focal campaigns and promotes attitudinal change among
general health services staff.
5.     Training which equips community volunteers and health staff to takes up their new responsibility.
To provide commensurate and culturally-compatible benefits to tribal people, the project would ensure that:
* Focal active case detection drives are undertaken in tribal areas.
* Local tribal volunteers are trained and employed during mass and focal active case detection
campaigns.
* Appropriate training in leprosy control and disability prevention is designed and provided to health
service staff working in tribal sub-plan health facilities.
* Advocacy for leprosy control is undertaken with tribal leaders and tribal panchayat members.
* Culturally-compatible IEC material is designed and utilized in the tribal areas, both for campaigns and
for routine information on leprosy.
* Data disaggregated by tribal status and gender are collected during routine monitoring as well as
independent surveys to allow tracking of leprosy prevalence and trends among this group.
- 93 -



Project Beneficiaries and Benefits
Project beneficiaries would consist of:
1.     Persons having leprosy: The total number of patients expected to be identified and treated under
the project is 925,000 spread throughout the country. Of these, it is expected that 70 percent would be in
the five focus states.
2.     Persons affected by leprosy who would need (a) education on prevention of disability and (b)
re-constructive surgery: It is expected that the current trend of approximately 30 percent of all cases being
identified at the single lesion stage would hold over the next three years. Such patients would receive single
dose treatment, and are not expected to be at special risk of disability. Thus, about 650,000 patients would
require counseling during their first contact with health workers on the identification of early signs of onset
and prevention of disability. In addition, estimates suggest that about 0.8 - 1 percent of these patients may
require reconstructive surgery.
3.     Communities: The project's IEC programs are designed to inform and educate the general
community on the occurrence of leprosy and the availability of free, good quality treatment at all health
facilities. The issue of stigma, as it applies to the leprosy patient, will be specifically addressed through
general and local advocacy campaigns planned under the project.
Thus, the benefits of the project for general as well as tribal populations would include:
*   the identification and treatment of persons afflicted with leprosy;
* education on prevention of disability;
* re-constructive surgery for all those who require it;
* increased awareness of free, good quality facilities for leprosy treatment; and
* the reduction of stigma associated with leprosy.
Baseline Data
Population, leprosy prevalence and trends
There are 635 tribes in India located in five major tribal belts across the country. Based on 1991
Census data, they constitute approximately 8 percent of the country's population (68 million out of 846
million). 7 Indian states account for more than 75 percent of the tribal population. 2 of these 7 states
which have tribals constituting more than 20 percent of the state population and also have high burdens
of leprosy (Orissa and Madhya Pradesh). The other three states with high leprosy burden (Uttar
Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal) have relatively lower tribal populations.
State              1991 Pop           % of State Pop        Tribal Population    % of National
(million)          Tribal               (million)             Tribal Pop in State
Bihar              86.37              7.66                  6.6                   9.8
Orissa             31.66              22.21                 7.0                   10.3
M.P.               66.18              23.27                 15.4                  22.7
- 94 -



Maharashtra        78.94              9.27                  7.3                   10.8
Gujarat            41.31              14.92                 6.1                  9.1
Rajasthan          44.01              12.44                 5.5                   8.1
AP                 66.51              6.31                  4.2                   6.2
Meghalaya          1.77               85.53                 1.5                   2.2
Arunachal P.       0.86               63.66                 1.2                   1.7
Nagaland           1.21               87.7                  1.1                   1.5
Mizoram            0.69               94.75                 0.6                   0.9
The rate of leprosy among tribals is comparable to the rate among the general population, and it is expected
that the distribution of leprosy afflicted tribals follows a similar pattern. Using data on the tribal
populations of these five states, it is expected that approximately 75,000 tribal persons would be identified
with leprosy and treated during the project. Of these, over 55,000 are expected to be in Madhya Pradesh
and Orissa. In addition, in these five states, over the three years of the project, 55,000 tribal persons with
leprosy would be provided education on the prevention of disabilities, and about 400 are likely to require
and receive reconstructive surgery.
The project would also address the leprosy problem in other states. Another 65,000 tribal patients are
expected to be detected and treated in the other parts of India in same period, and 200 or so tribal persons
are expected to require re-constructive surgery.
Gender
The rate of leprosy among women is less than that among men. Women constitute 1 in every 3 or 4 patients
on leprosy registers in India. This ratio has persisted despite the deployment of 'female searchers' during
the second countrywide active case detection drive (Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign), which aimed
to improve detection among women. This finding supports the reported international experience that
leprosy is more common among men than women. To ensure that this is the case and that women are not
missed in detection and treatment efforts, the project will continue to use female searchers in every team.
Women are particularly vulnerable to the myths and stigma associated with leprosy. There is widespread
belief that women will pass the disease on to the children they bear. This leads to delay in the diagnosis and
treatment of girls, since parents dread the discovery that a daughter may be suffering from leprosy. The
social costs for women of leprosy are higher as they have far fewer familial and occupational options open
to them than men. Due to their absence from the public domain, women may be less exposed to infection,
but this also makes it more difficult for service providers and public health information campaigns to reach
them. At least two studies confirm that women are likely to face many more restrictions than men if
diagnosed with leprosy.
Cultural Aspects
The propensity of sub-groups such as tribals and women to seek the necessary treatment is low for various
reasons:
- 95 -



*   their knowledge regarding symptoms is inadequate;
*   myths, superstitions and stigma associated with the disease are widely prevalent;
*   there are widespread misconceptions about the cause and method of spread;
*   there is low awareness of availability of MDT, and greater reliance on indigenous medical practices.
Data indicate that tribal populations are less likely to access diagnostic and treatment services in a timely
manner. Tribal populations have been assessed to be particularly at risk, and in Madhya Pradesh and
Orissa especially, the project will need to implement a specific strategy to reach tribals in remote areas.
Settlements and Migration
Tribal settlements tend to be small and isolated and difficult to reach with facilities and services. Even
when rural tribal people live in larger villages, they may be separated in hamlets. However, there are some
tribal people who are relatively well integrated into the communities and access and utilize facilities as
other sub-groups do. Some tribal groups are nomadic and undertake seasonal migration in response to the
need for livelihood or employment. In addition, economic development is forcing out-migration from
traditionally tribal areas into cities, and often to the margins of such agglomerations. The ways in which the
project would reach these different residential situations are outlined in the sections on Institutional
mechanisms and Implementation and Local Participation below.
Legal Framework
The Fifth and Sixth Schedules of the Indian Constitution provide protection to tribal populations on
account of their disadvantages. The Fifth Schedule designates 'Scheduled Areas' in large parts of central
India in which the interests of the 'Scheduled Tribes' are to be protected. The "scheduled" or "agency"
areas have more than 50 percent tribal population. The Sixth Schedule applies to the administration of the
states of Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram in the North-East. This schedule provides for the
creation of autonomous districts, and autonomous regions within districts as there are different Scheduled
Tribes within the districts. The broad strategy that evolved from the constitutional mandates was the
adoption of the Tribal Subplan since the Fifth Five Year Plan of the Government of India and the
Integrated Tribal Development Approach, adopted and implemented with some modifications by
subsequent government programs.
Articles 46 and 47 of the Constitution of India provide a framework for tribal policy. Article 46, for
example, provides the following directive: "The State shall promote with special care the educational and
economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation". Article 47
states that it is the duty of the State to raise the level of nutrition and the standard of living of the people, as
well as to improve public health.
The National Health Policy of 1983 states that first priority in provision of organized services should be
accorded to those residing in tribal, hilly and backward areas, and to populations affected by endemic
disease.
In response to these Constitutional provisions, the health sector has generally treated tribal areas as
requiring higher health facility : population or are norms and are provided service accordingly. There are no
laws or statutes that would prevent or constrain tribal access to health care. And on the basis of available
data, it does not appear that either traditional or modem laws affecting tribal livelihood patterns (e.g.; land
tenure, access to forest produce) mobility or other aspects of social or economic status would in any way
- 96 -



cause tribal people to suffer more from leprosy or deny them participation in, or the benefits of, this
project.
Institutional Mechanisms
The Government of India's special provisions in tribal sub-plan areas include additional health facilities. In
tribal areas, one Primary Health Centre caters to 20,000 persons instead of 30,000 and one sub-centre to
3000 instead of 5000 people. Tribal areas are also provided with more mobile clinics, allopathic,
homeopathic, ayurvedic, unani and siddha dispensaries. In the project, the health workers at these facilities
will be trained to perform leprosy confirmation, treatment and counseling activities and will form the first
point of referral for patients referred by local tribal volunteers.
The National and state-level Project Implementation Plans identify tribal populations as a target group
with unique problems of physical and social access requiring culturally sensitive strategies. The project
emphasizes two institutional initiatives which would address the needs of the tribal people:
(i) Decentralization of planning and implementation to the state and district levels. This would increase
the involvement of states and build capacity to manage and administer the leprosy program over the long
term. Guided by local needs, states will prepare and implement state-specific annual plans with emphasis
on the needs of special groups. This includes carrying out increased numbers of special area projects and
campaigns in urban slums to reach target groups; and
(ii) Integration of leprosy diagnosis and treatment facilities with the general health services. This will
lead to improved geographical coverage and increased access to MDT, particularly for disadvantaged
areas such as tribal areas.
Both these initiatives will be supported by appropriate capacity building efforts, for the government to
plan and manage such activities, and for the implementing agencies to undertake case finding, treatment
and rehabilitation programs.
In addition, the project proposes to:
(i) increase the outreach function of health workers through training and other inputs, and provide
training for local tribal volunteers other field workers such as female Anganwadi workers to increase the
availability of diagnosis and treatment channels for leprosy patients;
(ii) increase the involvement of NGOs, particularly to reach poor and marginalized groups and
underserved areas;
(iii) enhance IEC capacity by engaging professional media agencies; and
(iv) enhance capacity at state and district levels to monitor and track the disease burden of target
groups, and thus strengthen capacity to respond in a timely and appropriate manner to those affected.
The project will coordinate with other health activities being carried out by the State Health Directorates
for tribal areas, such as immunization. Partnership will be developed with the Tribal Development
Departments who would assist in providing mapping and group-specific socio-cultural information on
tribal groups and channels to expand outreach. They could also play a role in the participation of tribal
groups. Population specific information will be used to develop culturally sensitive IEC materials for both
public and providers.
The government will also work in close partnership with Danida and WHO. Danida has developed good
experience in carrying out SAPELs, particularly in tribal areas, while WHO would assist in building
capacity in monitoring project impact on target groups.
- 97 -



Implementation and Local Participation
The project proposes active and passive case detection strategies. Focal active case detection strategies or
SAPELs (rural/ tribal) and LECs (urban) propose to carry out detection, treatment and education activities
in geographically limited, presumed highly endemic or unreached pockets. In this, these are similar to the
MLECs, but are more focused and are limited in scope. The project proposes to reach remote
As leprosy occurs largely among poor and marginalized groups with little access to health care services,
tribal people are a key target group of the project. Marginalized groups vary across states and include:
tribal populations, scheduled castes, those living in remote and inaccessible areas, urban and peri-urban
slums, nomadic groups, migratory labor and refugee populations. The project aims to reach these groups
with SAPELs in rural areas while the urban poor will be covered by the LECs.
SAPELs have been successful in identifying "hidden" cases in difficult and hard-to-reach areas. For
example, in Madhya Pradesh, a state with a tribal population of 23 percent and groups scattered across a
large and difficult terrain, SAPELs contributed to identifying and treating 822 cases during the NLEP I
project period. The Government of India is proposing to extend this intervention in this project in the five
high-endemic states: Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh.
A SAPEL is an intense exercise of short duration which seeks to provide information on leprosy and
services to reduce stigma, increase self-reporting, detection and treatment through early confirmation and
start of treatment. It is generally conducted over a period of 5-7 days by a multidisciplinary team of 3-4
persons which would include health and leprosy staff, local volunteers and NGO representatives. SAPELs
would train and employ local (tribal) youth to act as 'searchers' of leprosy cases. Teams include a female
worker and/or local female volunteers from the selected areas to overcome barriers in identifying female
patients. Field workers of various other government agencies (such as Women and Child Development,
municipalities/corporations concemed with development work in urban areas) are also involved. These
campaigns will be strengthened by IEC efforts using locally adapted models and formats previously tested
by Danida in its ongoing leprosy control project. SAPELs/LECs may be mediated by local NGOs if they
exist in that locality. In addition, NGO facilities in such areas will be supported under GOI's SET scheme
and re-constructive surgery schemes.
Typical activities in a SAPEL would include:
*   identification of local leaders and volunteers in the selected community;
*   door-to-door survey to prepare list of members in each household;
*   IEC activities through a variety of folk and other media (wall paintings, street plays, banners, slide and
video shows, distribution of health education materials);
*   examination of suspect cases for diagnosis;
*  registration of new cases and providing MDT treatment;
*   counseling to the diagnosed patients on prevention of disability, need for regularity of treatrnent and
sources for obtaining treatment.
To ensure regularity of treatment by migratory populations (e.g. urban workers, tribals), patients would be
given the full course of treatment instead of the usual one month supply. For difficult to access groups,
other strategies would be explored such as identifying on-site MDT depots and accompanied MDT
(counseling the patient together with a companion).
Experience with SAPELs indicates that they are an important mechanism for promoting leprosy awareness
- 98 -



in hard-to-reach groups, to identify "hidden" leprosy patients and reach out to them with diagnostic services
and treatment. However, village members who are missed during a SAPEL (for example, agricultural
workers who leave their homes very early and return only after SAPEL activities are over and male
members of tribal groups who go to cities for work for extended periods) and therefore, SAPEL activities
would be supplemented with routine activities to ensure these missed persons are covered.
Mass active case detection strategies or MLECs will be applied throughout the country in the first year of
the project, and to likely areas of high endemicity in the subsequent two years. These are intended to enter
particularly difficult to reach areas as well as to address the issue of groups which might in the usual
course be 'left out' (for example; marginal slum and industrial areas, hamlets of scheduled tribes or castes).
MLECs utilize the services of staff of several government departments and local volunteers, and are
supported by directed mass media and local publicity.
In addition, the project proposes to strengthen passive case detection through (i) IEC campaign designed to
encourage early self-reporting and reduce the stigma of leprosy through education and advocacy and (ii)
strengthening and creating incentives for the general health system to undertake leprosy confirmation and
treatment activities and support prevention of disability. These will be supported by close referral links
between the local tribal volunteers and health facilities.
Cost estimate and financing plan
No separate costing or financing plan has been prepared for tribal populations, because the project as a
whole addresses the issue of leprosy control among marginalized groups such as tribals, women and slum
dwellers.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Disaggregated data showing the prevalence and treatment rates among tribal people, women and scheduled
castes would be generated from a revised routine monitoring system. These would be cross-checked using
yearly independent third party surveys, 'validation of elimination' surveys in states that are candidates for
leprosy elimination and in the final year of the project, a survey of leprosy prevalence. These data would
demonstrate the extent to which tribal people have participated in and benefited from the project.
In order to increase the responsiveness of the system to the needs of target groups such as tribals, the
monitoring and evaluation mechanism has been revised with the help of WHO. The monitoring and
evaluation mechanism will include assessments of program coverage of tribal groups and women as well
as by different age groups and rural/urban location. Information to be collected includes the number of
cases under treatment, number of new cases, number of cases cured, and coverage. Special studies are
planned to assess treatment completion rates, quality of diagnosis, and quality of care.
In addition to information on case finding and treatment, the monitoring and evaluation mechanism will
collect data on the progress of activities on the ground, status of logistics and drug supply, and funds
flow and expenditures. This information will facilitate monitoring of the impact of the project on these
socially disadvantaged groups.
- 99 -



