Report No. PID9363
Project Name                     India-Leprosy Control II (@)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Other Population; Health & Nutrition
Project ID                       INPE67543
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Implementing Agency
Address GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
Nirman Bhawan, New Delhi 110 001
Contact Person: Mr. Javid Chowdhury, Secretary
Tel: 91-11-3018863
Fax: 91-11-3014252
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                July 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 30, 2000
Projected Board Date             February 25, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The International Context of Leprosy ControlWhen leprosy control efforts
began after WWII, the overall outlook was pessimistic due to long
treatment times and the consequent low compliance rates. Most control
programs adopted a vertical structure in the name of improved
implementation; nevertheless, overall performance remained poor. As
treatment times were reduced by the discovery and evaluation of new drug
combinations, optimism increased and central control was maintained to '
ensure' that the new approaches were implemented. Some gains were made but
the initial optimism was dented by increasing drug resistance resulting
from monotherapy with dapsone, the drug of choice at the time. The
response of the international leprosy community was to move to multi-drug
therapy (MDT) in an effort to contain the emergence of even higher levels
of resistance. Optimism was restored with the advent of MDT, provision and
distribution of adequate amounts of the required drugs and the resulting
shorter treatment times and increased compliance. Encouraged by the
success of MDT in curing leprosy patients, in 1991 the World Health
Assembly (WHA) adopted a declaration to 'eliminate' leprosy as a public
health problem by the year 2000. A global elimination strategy was
formulated based on early case-finding and widespread administration of
MDT, the underlying assumption being that these measures would, in time,
reduce the number of infectious cases to a level where transmission would
be decreased. Internationally, efforts were further intensified in 1995
through Leprosy Elimination Campaigns (LEC) and Special Action Projects
for the Elimination of Leprosy (SAPEL).The Indian ResponseLeprosy control
efforts in India have very much been in step with the international
pattern. Launched by the GOI in 1955, they had only limited impact as
inputs were inadequate and the drugs available not very effective. In
1983, based on international recommendations, the treatment strategy was
changed to multidrug therapy (MDT); and the program renamed the National
Leprosy Elimination Program (NLEP). However, coverage remained limited due



to a range of organizational issues and fear of the disease and the
associated stigma. As in other countries in which leprosy was highly
endemic, India committed itself to the 1991 WHA strategy and goal; as part
of this commitment, and within the Leprosy Control Program, GOI and the
IDA collaborated on a Leprosy Elimination Project which became effective
in 1993 and will close in September 2000. The project, which supported the
vertical program structure used by GOI for NLEP, achieved notable results:
the number of registered leprosy cases fell from more than 1.1 million to
0.5 million; about 4 million cases were cured with MDT during the project
period - as a result, important strides have been made towards the
development objective of leprosy elimination. However, despite this
impressive effort, progress in reducing the case load has been less than
expected - the national prevalence has fallen from an estimated 24/10,000
(1991) to approximately 7/10,000 today, significantly above the
elimination level of 1/10,000 and still higher than the target for the
project (as revised at mid-term) of 3-4/10,000.In sum, the caseload at the
end of the first project is higher than originally expected. This can be
explained by our incomplete understanding of the epidemiology of leprosy,
and consequent limitations of indicators used for its surveillance,
incomplete coverage of routine leprosy services and the increased case
finding resulting from implementation from LECs and SAPELs. The indicator
used for measuring the burden of leprosy in the community and progress
toward the elimination goal is point prevalence. This indicator is
dependent on detection and cure rates. Before the first project detection
was stable around 300 000 cases per year and cure rates were not known.
During the first project detection increased to reach 600 000 in 1999 and
there is some indications that cure rates improved. Time trends in new
case detection rates (NCDR) are difficult to interpret as they reflect
incidence rates only if a stable proportion of existing cases are notified
and case definitions remain the same. In fact, both have changed: the LECs
and SAPELs increased the proportion of existing cases detected and
registered (and the NCDR), but to an unknown extent; at the same time the
duration of MDT treatment for multi-bacillary leprosy was shortened in
1998 from 24 months to 12 months with the result that the number of such
patients registered was halved; and single lesion cases no longer appear
on the registers, again reducing the prevalence. Thus, even though NCDR
has remained relatively stable in India, there is uncertainty about the
degree to which it is a proxy for incidence (new cases per year) of
leprosy and, therefore, the extent to which transmission is being reduced.
What we can be sure about is that the goal of elimination has not been
reached (the best estimate of the current PR is 7/10,000 - see Annex 11
for details of the estimates and the methods used), that MDT is an
effective strategy and that continued efforts to control leprosy by
increasing community access to diagnosis and treatment are needed.
However, the uncertainties surrounding indicators and trends make it
difficult to estimate how long it will take to reach elimination levels in
those areas where they have not already been reached - the emerging
international consensus is that it will take at least 10 years.
Consequently, leprosy control activities should not be exclusively
directed to the magic target of elimination but rather toward building
leprosy control efforts which can be sustained for a period of at least a
decade. The treatment strategies are likely to remain as they are now -
early case-finding and treatment with MDT. Due to continued control
efforts the workload due to leprosy will decrease (it already has in many
areas) and there will be increased need to contain costs. These pressures,
- 2 -



together with the need to ensure sustainability and increased
state-specificity and responsibility for disease control activities will
require new institutional arrangements - leprosy control activities will
need to be integrated with the general health services and responsibility
for them decentralized to the states.Institutional and design issues:(i)
time frame of the second project. A critical design issue for the second
project is the period over which it will be implemented. On the one hand,
it is clear that elimination levels will not be reached quickly,
particularly in those states and districts where prevalence is high.
Nevertheless, the total workload in these areas will be relatively low and
cost pressures mean that it will not be feasible to continue with the
current vertical program. The need is to transform the program in a way
which facilitates sustainability rather than achieves a particular level
of prevalence. The time frame for the current project, then, is determined
by the time needed for transformation of the program and not the deadline
for elimination.(ii) an increased role for, and decentralization of
leprosy control activities to, the states. The NLEP strategy and funding
mechanisms have permitted only a facilitatory role for the state in
leprosy elimination. The Program was centrally controlled and sponsored
and implemented through district leprosy societies which received money
directly from the central government. As a result, the states had little
incentive to become actively involved in the program and the direct
involvement of the center in program supervision of the districts limited
development of the technical and supervisory capacity of the states. It
is important, during the project period, to prepare the states to
administer and manage leprosy control. (iii) improved integration of the
staff of the vertical program with the general health services (GHS).
This was envisaged when the NLEP was initiated in 1983 and was an explicit
strategy of the first project as prevalence decreased to low levels.
Further, GOI recognizes that separation of elimination activities from the
GHS has actually hindered implementation - it has limited geographical
coverage with resulting limited access to MDT, unsatisfactory levels of
non-compliance with treatment and subsequent re-registering of these cases
as 'new'. Further, effectiveness of the vertical system itself is now
questionable given the performance criteria which burden workers with
annual case detection targets (reinforced by monetary incentives), and
possibly reduce the accuracy of diagnosis. Overall, maintenance of the
vertical structure is now inefficient as staff have low workloads. The
maintenance of a vertical component in areas of high prevalence is
justified in the short term only if it ensures integration of leprosy
services into the GHS. Although merging activities of the vertical staff
of the Program with the GHS was envisaged in 1983 as occurring once
elimination as a public health problem occurred, very little has been done
to achieve this.Technical issues:(i) uncertainty about the epidemiology of
leprosy. Underlying all the technical issues is the uncertain epidemiology
of the disease. The disease has not behaved as expected - despite large
increases in case detection and a fall in prevalence, the new case
detection rates have remained high. Because leprosy has a long incubation
period a reduction in transmission may not be evident for some years after
prevalence is reduced. Further, a significant, but uncertain, proportion
of the reduction in prevalence has been due to the shorter treatment
schedules and clearing of registers rather than a reduction in incidence.
The MLECs and SAPELs, coupled with an unknown amount of overdiagnosis,
have tended to increase prevalence. The effect of MLECs on transmission
may be much less than originally estimated as infectious people may have
-3 -



transmitted infection long before they develop clinical signs. The
relative importance of these conflicting pressures (and, thus, their net
effect) is unknown. Consequently, fresh doubts have emerged about the
value of the case detection rate as a proxy for incidence and about the
extent to which MLECs have contributed to any decrease in transmission.
Overall, most leprosy epidemiologists agree that we have little
information on incidence.(ii) improved and more accurate case finding.
Even though the prevalence of leprosy has decreased during the last decade
of leprosy control activities the number of new cases detected has
remained relatively constant. This raises questions about the accuracy of
diagnosis, extent of re-registering of old cases as new, and whether the
incentive structure (annual targets and incentives for staff), rather than
the incidence and treatment of the disease, have determined the annual
case finding rate. In addition, it is important that the case finding
strategies adopted ensure that all locations and social groups are
adequately covered.(iii) determine the priority to be given to disability
care and prevention in a new project. Despite its inclusion as a
component, there was little emphasis on this aspect in the first project,
the performance of the public sector was below expectations and disability
care was subsequently dropped as a development objective. This raises the
question as to whether the government is the best group to deliver, as
distinct from finance, these services. At the same time, it is important
that the balance between elimination and disability care is such that the
overall goal of leprosy elimination is not compromised. (iv) improved and
explicit role for NGOs. Both national and international NGOs have played
an important role in leprosy treatment and rehabilitation, IEC and
training. However, their role has been unclear and this ambiguity in the
government's attitude to them has effectively limited their contribution
to significantly less than their potential.(v) increased emphasis on, and
explicit strategy for, Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
activities, including interpersonal counseling skills. The need for
effective IEC activities will increase as the prevalence falls and case
finding efforts are intensified. In effect, the NLEP does not have a
clear, well articulated IEC strategy.(vi) improved planning and evaluation
of training. Although integration of the leprosy program staff with the
GHS requires considerable training and was envisaged in the first project,
it has been limited in extent and effect. As with IEC, there was no
overall training strategy, little evaluation of efforts to date have taken
place, and these activities received a much lower priority than
required.(vii) strengthening and decentralizing monitoring and
surveillance. This will become more critical to targeting of control
activities as the overall number of cases decreases and, at the same time,
may become more concentrated in clusters. In addition, the uncertainty
about the epidemiology of leprosy and our lack of a suitable indicator for
transmission means that it will be important to supplement routine
surveillance with new case detection monitoring studies in sub-populations
of, at least some, endemic states using standardized methods and
diagnostic criteria. At the same time, validation of elimination will be
dependent on an adequate surveillance system which, nevertheless, is
decentralized and owned by the states and implemented through the GHS.
2. Objectives
Transform the national leprosy control program to an effective and
sustainable program through a decentralized and integrated approach which
increases community access to MDT. (Beyond the life of the project, this
- 4 -



transformation would assist India to eliminate leprosy as a public health
problem at all levels).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA assistance in leprosy control was recommended by a 1992 World Bank
health financing study and the first project commenced in 1993. Continuing
IDA support will add value in three ways: first, it will allow
acceleration in the process of leprosy elimination, effectively reducing
case detection rates from about 7/10,000 to 3/10,000 by 2003. Second,
collaboration with IDA in this follow-on project allows the effort to be
sustained at a time when elimination of leprosy as a public health problem
is in sight. And third, this project will provide an example of the way in
which the centrally sponsored disease control projects can be
decentralized with responsibility and authority for implementation moving
to the states and, at the same time, the center takes on a new role of
providing overall policy guidance, technical support, national level
surveillance and advocacy, and facilitating the transfer of lessons
learned between states.
4. Description
The project will have five components:
* Decentralization and institutional development
* Strengthen and integrate service delivery
* Disability care
* Information, education and communication
* Training
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               11.93
IBRD
IDA                      29.67
Total Project Cost       41.60
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a period of three years through
central and state governments together with international and national
NGOs.
7. Sustainability
the GOI and the states are strongly committed to the projectsince the aim
of the project is to assist GOI to reach elimination levels there will be
little need for a sustainable structure beyond eliminationthe project
enjoys support from all key stakeholders
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The lessons learned derive from the experience of the first project and
the resulting sector issues as outlined in section 1. The main lessons,
which are reflected in the revised project design are:Include the state
level in the project design.The campaign approach is not enough and there
is a need to integrate leprosy control activities with the general health
servicesAdvantages of multidrug therapy (MDT)The need to improve
diagnostic accuracy and reportingPromote NGO/Private sector
involvementPatient segregation should be discontinuedSpecific attention to
ensuring that all locations and social groups are adequately covered
- 5 -



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   There are no significant environmental issues.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Peter F. Heywood, The World Bank, 70 Lodi Estate, New Delhi 110
003, India
Telephone: 5785-187 (tie-line); 91-11-4619491/4617241; Fax: 91-11-4619393
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-0546
Fax: 202-522-2955
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
27, 2000.
-6-



