                 Document of
               The World Bank




                                               Report No: 32044

      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  (IDA-34820)

                     ON A

                    CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.3 MILLION

                      TO

                    INDIA

                     FOR
THE SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT




                 June 23, 2005

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective January 25, 2001)

                             Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (INR)
                                      INR 1 = US$ 0.0215763
                                     US$ 1 = INR 46.3
                        These are rates prevailing at appraisal
                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                 April 1 -   March 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANM          Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
BLAC       Block Leprosy Awareness Campaign
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CDMO         Chief District Medical Officers
CLD        Central Leprosy Division
DANIDA       Danish International Development Assistance
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DLO        District Leprosy Officer
DTST         District Technical Support Team
FMS          Financial management system
GHS          General health system
GIS          Geographic information system
GOI          Government of India
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, education and communication
ILEP         International Federation of Anti-Leprosy Associations
IMA          Indian Medical Association
LEC          Leprosy Elimination Campaigns
LEM          Leprosy Elimination Monitoring
MB           Multibacillary
MDT          Multi-drug therapy
MDG          Millenium Development Goals
M&E          Monitoring and evaluation
MLEC         Modified leprosy elimination campaigns
MOHFW        Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NCDR         New Case Detection Rate
NGO          Non-government organization
NLEP I       First National Leprosy Elimination Project
NLEP II    Second National Leprosy Elimination Project
OPD          Out-patient department
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PB           Paucibacillary
PHC          Primary health center
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
POD          Prevention of Disability
PR           Prevalence Rate
PSR          Project Status Report

RCS                   Reconstructive surgery
RTF                Released from Treatment
SAPEL                 Special action projects for the elimination of leprosy
SC                    Scheduled Castes
SET                   Survey, education and training
SIS                   Simplified Information System
ST                    Scheduled Tribes
TOR                   Terms of reference
VRC                   Voluntary reporting centers
WHO                   World Health Organization


                                             DEFINITIONS

Leprosy               Also called Hansen's Disease, leprosy is a slow developing bacterial disease
                      caused by Mycobacterium Laprae, affecting nerves, skin, muscles, eyes, bones,
                      and internal organs. The disease causes damage to the peripheral nerves, leading
                      to sensory loss, hypopigmented patches, thickened nerves, and at an advanced
                      stage, it could cause the loss of fingers/toes, nodules, lumps, ulcers in the feet,
                      nasal depression and other deformities.

Grade II Deformity    Visible deformity or damage to hands, feet or eyes. Severe visual impairment,
                      lagophthalmos, iridocyclitis, and corneal opacities.

Paucibacillary
Leprosy               Leprosy case showing 1 to 5 patches on the skin and/or one thickened/tender nerve
                      trunk.

Multibacillary
Leprosy               Leprosy case showing 6 or more patches on the skin and/or more than one
                      thickened/tender nerve trunk.

Prevalence Rate       Number of cases of a disease or condition at a given point in time as a proportion
                      of the total population.

Leprosy Elimination   A Prevalence Rate of leprosy of less than 1 case per 10,000 population.

                                    Vice President:        Praful C. Patel
                                  Country Director         Michael F. Carter
                                   Sector Manager          Anabela Abreu
                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan

                                            INDIA
               SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27

Project ID: P067543                                                  Project Name: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY
                                                                     ELIMINATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan                          TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: SECOND NATIONAL LEPROSY                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-34820
                            ELIMINATION PROJECT
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (91%); Other social services (5%); Central government
                            administration (2%); Sub-national government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Other communicable diseases (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Gender (S); Indigenous peoples (S);
                            Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/22/2000                                     Effective: 08/28/2001
     Appraisal: 09/20/2000                                         MTR: 01/15/2003                  11/22/2002
      Approval: 03/27/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF INDIA/Government of India and all the State Governments
                      Other Partners:      World Health Organization and the International Federation of Anti-Leprosy
                                           Associations

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:                 Anabela Abreu                                  Richard L. Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:             Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan                 Peter F. Heywood
ICR Primary Author:             Shreelata Rao-Seshadri;
                                Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective was to transform the national leprosy program to an effective and
sustainable program through a decentralized and integrated approach which increases community access to
multi-drug therapy. This transformation was to assist India to eliminate leprosy as a public health problem
at all levels.

The above objective was to be measured in terms of the following four key performance indicators:
l Decentralize leprosy control activities to the states over the course of the project
l Integrate leprosy control activities with general health services
l Reduce estimated 'actual' disease prevalence to less than 3/10,000 at the national level by the end of
    2004
l Assist India in reducing the recorded national prevalence to less than 1/10,000 by the end of 2004.


The stated objective and the strategy for achieving it were appropriate to the epidemiological, technical and
social situation in India. The project, which covered all the states in India, was set in the context of a
national program, and thus all its objectives were designed to contribute to the goals and targets of the
program. Following the achievements of the First National Leprosy Elimination Project (NLEP-I), the
need to decentralize management of the leprosy control program to the State level and the benefits of
integrating it into the general health services became obvious (the first two performance indicators above).
The rationale for integration was stronger considering the progress made in reducing the public health
burden of this disease; but the continuing need to maintain sufficient program efforts was also recognized,
since the disease has a long incubation period. Due to India's strong commitment to elimination (defined as
a prevalence rate of <1/10,000), the project sought to contribute to that goal (measured in terms of the third
and fourth indicators above).

The performance indicators could have been articulated better (i.e., not as activities but as clear measurable
end-points by a specified time), especially in the case of the first two, which call for a subjective
assessment of the degree of decentralization and integration; the second two do include quantitative
end-points and time deadlines, but entail a different set of challenges.

Prevalence rate (the total number of cases present in a population at a given point of time, divided by the
number of individuals in the said population) is the preferred indicator for chronic illnesses like leprosy
(while incidence, which counts only the new cases - typically per year - is the more appropriate indicator
for acute or episodic illnesses like malaria). But as the 'actual' prevalence cannot be measured without
robustly designed surveys of representative samples of the general population, the project had identified
methods to estimate it using statistical techniques combined with limited surveys. Due to the difficulties
and expenses involved in conducting population surveys for leprosy prevalence, the common practice in
many countries has been to use 'recorded prevalence' (often referred to simply as the Prevalence Rate or
PR), which is based on service statistics (and captures only those cases who report to the health facilities
run by the public sector); the Government of India (GOI) has been using a similar methodology. The
program did include active case-finding efforts through five Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaigns
(MLEC) and also validation exercises such as Leprosy Eliminating Monitoring (LEM), carried out on an
annual basis since 2002. In addition, other initiatives such as Block Leprosy Awareness Campaigns
(BLAC) and a total of 891 Special Action Projects for Leprosy (SAPEL) were also carried out. But the
methodology in these initiatives was varied and while the recorded prevalence surely came closer to the
actual situation, strictly speaking it cannot be called a prevalence rate (due to the risk of under-counting,
selection bias and the lack of an accurate population denominator).



                                                       - 2 -

Though GOI was keen on achieving 'elimination' by the end of the project, realism prevailed and the project
set the target for (actual) prevalence rates at 3/10,000 by the end of 2004. Additionally, a target of
reducing the 'recorded prevalence' to less than 1/10,000 by the end of 2004 was also set, thus implying a
correspondence between these two levels. Subsequently, by using 'recorded prevalence' and 'prevalence
rate' synonymously, the definition of 'elimination' appears to have been changed as a 'recorded prevalence'
rate of <1/10,000; this milestone is expected to be reached by the end of 2005.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable

3.3 Original Components:

The Project had five components, with a total project cost estimated at appraisal of US$42.20 million
(including contingencies):

Component 1: Decentralization and Institutional Development (US$2.50 million including contingencies;
5.92% of the total) to ensure sustainability of project benefits by re-defining of roles of the center, states
and districts; development of plans at each of these levels consistent with their revised roles; and capacity
building and re-deployment of staff;

Component 2: Strengthening and Integrating Service Delivery (US$27.80 million including contingencies;
65.87% of the total) by increasing active and passive case detection; expanding coverage of the Multi-Drug
Therapy (MDT); integrating leprosy control activities with the general health system (GHS); and focusing
on previously underserved populations, including women and tribals;

Component 3: Disability Prevention (US$3.70 million including contingencies; 8.76% of the total) mainly
through the GHS and partnerships with non-government organizations (NGOs). Activities included
training GHS staff in disability prevention activities, Information, Education and Communication (IEC),
and carrying out reconstructive surgery as necessary;

Component 4: Information, Education and Communication (US$5.00 million including contingencies;
11.84% of the total) focused on political advocacy, reduction of stigma and increasing demand for services;
and

Component 5: Training (US$3.20 million including contingencies; 7.58% of the total) in order to re-orient
program staff to the integrated approach, and provide GHS staff with new skills to detect and treat leprosy.
Monitoring and surveillance efforts were also strengthened.

At appraisal, it was planned that the International Development Association (IDA) would finance about
71% of the total project cost over a three year period, with the Government of India (GOI) financing the
remainder. While there were no formal co-financing partners, several agencies contributed to the overall
leprosy elimination program under a common framework. The International Federation of Anti-Leprosy
Associations (ILEP), Danish International Development Assistance (DANIDA), and the World Health
Organization (WHO) provided management and technical support to the eleven highly endemic states.
DANIDA also supported service delivery in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu. The
Novartis Foundation provided free drugs (valued at approximated US$10.4 million), supplied through the
WHO.




                                                      - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision of the components. However, based on a request made at the Mid-Term Review
(November 2002), funds from Categories 1 (Goods) and 3 (Operating Costs) were reallocated to Category
2 (Services), where spending had increased due to the increased pace of implementation. In addition, owing
to the observations of the Planning Commission and the ban on the purchase of vehicles in many states, the
Credit proceeds available for purchase of vehicles were reallocated towards the renting of vehicles.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Highly Satisfactory. The project was in keeping with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
reducing poverty and increasing equity by detecting and curing a debilitating illness that disproportionately
affects the poor and marginalized, and excludes them from full participation in both economic and social
spheres. The CAS objective of strengthening health systems to provide effective and efficient care was
supported by the strategy of decentralization and integration of leprosy control services. Bank assistance
for this project added value by (i) helping India to consolidate and expand the benefits yielded by NLEP I;
and (ii) it provided an opportunity to improve the design of the national program by decentralizing program
management, and integrating it into the GHS. Several policy, institutional and technical issues were
considered when designing the project:

Policy Reform: A package of policy reforms was agreed between IDA and GOI to support project
interventions. These included measures to (i) facilitate decentralization of program management through
signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with State Governments indicating their commitment
to State-specific plans, putting in place an effective mechanism for the flow of funds; (ii) integrate leprosy
services into the GHS and phase out central funding to staff and institutions under a vertical program; (iii)
stop the financial incentives to staff for case finding (which had at times resulted in spurious cases,
over-diagnosis, and re-registrations); and (iv) strengthen the monitoring function through independent
surveys.

Institutional: An institutional assessment was conducted, and the recommendations were incorporated into
project design. These included: (i) dismantling the vertical structure, and integrating leprosy control efforts
into state-level GHS; (ii) making states the "unit of account", and changing the role of the center, which
would now primarily provide technical assistance to the states, monitor prevalence across the country and
provide overall guidance to the program within the international context; (iii) leveraging the private sector
more effectively, particularly the potential of both national and international NGOs; and (iv) continuing
Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaigns (MLECs) and Special Action Projects for the Elimination of
Leprosy (SAPELs) in high endemicity states and among special groups to increase program coverage.

Technical: The MDT strategy supported by the Project is well accepted internationally as the most
effective method for eliminating leprosy. In addition to expanding coverage of this strategy, the Project
plugged several gaps in technical quality that had become evident when evaluating NLEP I: (i) a training
strategy was put in place for improved and more accurate case finding as well as to re-orient program and
GHS staff to the decentralized management of the program; (ii) monitoring and surveillance were
strengthened, with the technical assistance of WHO, in order to track and target the program effectively;
and (iii) an IEC strategy was developed to support project interventions.




                                                       - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Progress on the Project Development Objective is rated Satisfactory. The rating is based on progress with
the following key performance indicators as listed in the PAD:

Decentralization of leprosy control activities from the center to states: The progress on this ambitious
objective has been commendable. Leprosy Societies have been formed in all states and districts, including
the three new states and 42 new districts formed during the life of the project, and the 17 districts that were
formerly part of a project supported by DANIDA. District Technical Support Teams (DTSTs) have been
set up in 277 districts, compared with the originally planned 231 districts in highly endemic states.

Integration of leprosy control activities with general health services: This target has been partially
achieved. The process of functional integration of leprosy services into GHS has been completed in all
states, albeit with varying degrees of success at different levels of the health system. In several states, the
complex process of structural integration of the cadre of leprosy workers with general health staff has also
been completed. In some states this process has run into difficulties because of resistance from affected
personnel. This objective pertains to a fundamental reform of mindset, and will naturally take some more
time to take hold. As planned, 75% of the regular staff working on leprosy have been either integrated into
the GHS or retrenched, and 25% of the cadre have been retained at the district level, to form the district
nucleus. The DTSTs have also contributed to the integration process.

Reduction of 'actual' prevalence of leprosy to less than 3/10,000 by the end of 2004: As 'actual' prevalence
has not been measured, it is not possible to rate the achievement of this target. The final IDA supervision
mission of December 2004 raised this issue, and suggested the conduct of robust, scientifically designed
surveys of representative sample populations to estimate the 'actual' prevalence rates. The ICR suggests
that GOI may like to consider such a survey before the declaration of 'elimination'. Currently the Ministry
of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) is targeting the achievement of 'elimination' of leprosy by the end
of 2005, based on 'recorded prevalence'.

Reduction of recorded national prevalence to less than 1/10,000 by the end of 2004: This target was not
met, but the decline of 'recorded prevalence' from 5.28/10,000 in 2000 to 1.99/10,000 in December 2004
(and 1.34/10,000 at the time of writing the ICR) is commendable. Annual New Case Detection Rate
(NCDR) has declined from 5.45/10,000 in 2001 to 3.3/10,000 in 2004 and to 2.3/10,000 in 2005. As of
March, 2005, twenty-four States and Union Territories and 337 districts have a 'recorded prevalence' of
<1/10,000. In order to achieve the current target of a 'recorded prevalence' of less than 1/ 10,000 by the
revised deadline of the end of 2005, GOI has developed a special strategy for the districts and sub-districts
where prevalence continues to be high.

Reduction of Deformity to less than 2% of the recorded cases by the end of 2004: Though not included in
the PAD, this new target was introduced in the PSRs: this target has been achieved. The proportion of
cases with grade II deformities was reduced from 2.31% in 2001 to 1.6% in 2004.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Decentralization and Institutional Development: Progress on this component is rated
Satisfactory. The process of decentralization has been largely completed, and states are taking
responsibility for implementing and managing the program. There were, however, problems in completing
the staffing of some state and district level units, delaying implementation. Moreover, during field visits, it



                                                       - 5 -

was observed that some districts were complaining about delays in funds-flow; this was later explained by
central and state level officials who attributed it to delayed receipt of accounts from the districts. In
addition to decentralization, institutional strengthening took place in terms of improved information
systems. The new Simplified Information System (SIS) was designed to reflect a change in mindset,
moving away from targets/incentives for case detection and focusing instead on outcomes. The Leprosy
Elimination Monitoring (LEM) report (2004) indicates that the SIS is being implemented in almost 95% of
the facilities visited. More than 80% are now sending in complete information in a timely manner. All the
data are computerized, and a detailed block-level geographic information system (GIS) has also been
implemented as a management tool.

Component 2: Strengthening and Integrating Service Delivery: Progress on this component is Satisfactory.
Functional integration of the leprosy control program into GHS has been completed in all states with
varying degrees of success; the more difficult process of structural integration through merging of cadres is
on-going and has yet to be achieved in several states. This is largely due to issues relating to differences in
status, salaries and benefits of the cadres involved; and will need to be resolved by each state in accordance
with their service rules. GHS workers have been oriented towards leprosy work, though in many instances
it was found that leprosy work still falls on the person who was doing it under the vertical program; the
main exception to this statement is the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM), the key frontline worker in the
health system, who is now contributing significantly to case detection, treatment and follow-up. The LEM
(2004) indicates that diagnosis and treatment of leprosy were being undertaken by GHS staff in about 80%
of the facilities visited. But there was a wide variation among states, with Andhra Pradesh and Chattisgarh
reporting successful integration in less that 60% of facilities, and states such as Bihar, Jharkhand,
Karnataka, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal reporting it in more than 85% of facilities visited.
Leprosy services are now being offered through the general out-patient departments (OPD); and almost
90% of facilities provided MDT services on all working days, up from 77% in 2002. Access to MDT
services has increased in all states surveyed, and the proportion of cases detected routinely through the
GHS has increased from about 57% of all cases detected in 1998-99 to 84% in 2003-04.

Leprosy treatment registers and drug registers are being maintained by GHS staff in almost all the facilities
visited. Availability of MDT drugs is good. The latest evaluation (LEM, 2004) found that between 95 and
100% of all drugs were of good quality. However, the distribution of drugs in accordance with local
caseload needs to be improved; for example, in Tamil Nadu, despite having an excess of drugs in all
categories, less than 50% of the visited facilities had a 3-month buffer stock of certain categories.
Adequate storage facilities for anti-leprosy drugs and the proper disposal of expired drugs also appear to be
continuing challenges.

Issues related to poor referral, counseling and follow-up remain, particularly among difficult to reach
populations, such as migrants. The guidelines state that "accompanied MDT" should be provided as an
option to all patients who have a high risk of being irregular, either due to migration, social stigma or other
reasons. The provision of accompanied MDT has increased from 38% of facilities in 2002 to about 60%
of facilities in 2004. While accompanied MDT as an option increases access to MDT, it does carry an
increased risk of non-compliance and warrants more intensive follow-up, which is not always easy to do.

Public-private partnerships, especially between GOI and ILEP agencies were an additional source of
support for strengthening and integrating service delivery. Workshops were organized to redefine the role
of NGOs in the context of integration, and guidelines were developed. Workshops were also organized to
discuss urban leprosy, and guidelines were developed and distributed, though urban leprosy remains a
continuing challenge.




                                                       - 6 -

Component 3: Disability Prevention: Progress on this component is rated Satisfactory. During the project
period, 13,789 reconstructive surgeries (RCS) have been conducted, 160,369 pairs of Micro-Cellular
Rubber footwear have been distributed, 6,179 Prevention of Disability (POD) camps were held and 67,820
patients were taught self-care. Across the country, 1,592 GHS staff were given master's training in dealing
with disability, who in turn provided orientation training to over 80% of GHS staff. These achievements
were made possible by partnerships with ILEP agencies; 35 NGOs were recognized as having adequate
capacity to provide RCS services. During field visits it was observed that each RCS center had met or
exceeded the informal target of 50 cases per year.

While these are substantial achievements, some issues that require further attention include: (i) Capacity
for RCS in the NGO sector: There is a backlog of cases yet to be dealt with. The resources currently
available are insufficient to meet the need; and the services are still concentrated in urban areas; (ii)
Availability of RCS in GHS: Though it was not specifically a component under the project, in order to
increase access to RCS services, doctors within the GHS have been given training in RCS and POD. Being
a specialized technique, a few doctors from Government hospitals have received the training in the Central
Leprosy Training and Research Institute, Chegalpattu. However, very few RCS are being conducted in
government hospitals because government doctors and staff appear to be reluctant to treat people with
disability; the GOI has signed an MOU with ILEP agencies, who will be providing further training to
facilitate RCS in 5 medical colleges every year, who in turn will transfer this skill to other hospitals in their
respective States; (iii) Socio-economic issues: RCS requires about six months of pre-operative and
post-operative physiotherapy. Given that almost all patients requiring RCS are poor, the financial impact
of lost wages for such a long period of time is severe. An analysis of needs and a review of the program
would be helpful in the future planning of RCS activities.

Component 4: Information, Education and Communication: Progress on this component is Highly
Satisfactory. IEC activities appear to have been taken seriously and due emphasis was given to "getting it
right". The focus was on the following messages: (i) leprosy is curable; (ii) treatment is available free of
cost at government health facilities; and (iii) there should be no discrimination against people suffering
from leprosy. The program benefited from technical support provided by an external agency, SOMAC, in
the preparation of prototypes and messages. Service providers formed an important client group for IEC
and were reached through mass media, training and campaign participation. A participatory approach was
taken, with planning workshops to design local IEC strategies; and teams were motivated by awards
instituted for performance. The project also provides an example of effective international advocacy efforts
through the Global Alliance for the Elimination of Leprosy. Local advocacy formed an important part of
the MLECs and continues to be an important part of the national program.

Extending the program to the community level through the ANM has provided many opportunities for
interpersonal communication; this has also increased community involvement in the program, and
contributed to reduced stigma and increased voluntary reporting. Anganwadi workers, Self-Help Groups
and Mahila Swasthya Samitis have been involved in the IEC program.

Close supervision of planning and implementation has been critical. The final impact evaluation of IEC
activities indicated that 93% of those surveyed were aware of the signs and symptoms of leprosy, 80%
were aware that it was curable and 86% were aware that the treatment was available free of cost. The
increasing proportion of females of total cases detected is one indication of the success of IEC in reducing
stigma and changing health seeking behavior among a previously underserved group. The Block Leprosy
Awareness Campaigns (BLAC) for the 836 blocks in 170 districts of 13 states that have a recorded
PR>5/10,000, including 119 with a PR>10/10,000 have also been successful in increasing voluntary
reporting.


                                                       - 7 -

Component 5: Training: Progress on this component is Satisfactory. The Training Plan of the project has
been completed. However, the quality of training still needs to be improved, as indicated by continuing
problems with wrong diagnosis, misclassifications and incomplete attitudinal change among GHS staff
towards leprosy activities in many areas. GHS staff have been re-oriented and received technical and IEC
training for leprosy elimination activities. In collaboration with the Indian Medical Association, training
was given to private practitioners to increase program coverage. On-going training and follow-up need to
be sustained, due to turnover in staff and new recruitment; refresher training is needed to keep up with new
guidelines and standards which have been developed.

Overall, the quality of MDT services has steadily improved, in part due to the training provided.
Treatment completion (Released from Treatment or RFT) rates for multibacillary (MB) and paucibacillary
(PB) tuberculosis are at about 84% and 94% respectively, with a combined RFT rate of about 90%.
However, there are still areas in which continued capacity building is required. CLD has undertaken two
rounds of Validation of Leprosy Diagnosis. Wrong diagnosis of leprosy, and wrong classifications have
serious consequences for the type of treatment provided, as well as affecting the service statistics based on
which the 'recorded prevalence' is calculated. While some experts focus on the problem of over-counting
caused by such problems, under-counting is equally possible. Such issues are being taken up by CLD
through the state units.

The DTSTs, at the state level in all states except the north-east, and at the district level in eleven states,
have provided valuable support to the training function. Funded by the ILEP, the DTSTs have done
needs-based training in the field, helped disseminate new guidelines and standards, and monitor quality of
services. Their services will be continued until March 2007, and revised guidelines for their functioning
have been developed and disseminated. A cadre of core trainers has been developed in each state for POD
activities; and an IEC module has been provided by CLD to the states. CLD is taking on board a training
consultant, to be retained until March 2007, to address future re-training needs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project has been Substantial. Decentralizing program
management to the state-level has had two important outcomes: (i) States are now responsible for providing
funding, medicines, supervision and technical assistance to the program as needed. While state-level
capacity to manage and monitor the program has been built, this needs to be further strengthened.
Currently, states continue to require guidance and support from the CLD in sorting out management
problems. (ii) The role of the CLD at the center has changed. With the State Leprosy Societies taking on
day-to-day implementation, the CLD is now able to function as a strategic planning body, undertaking
analyses and monitoring the overall program. Routine analysis of program data is undertaken by the CLD
to better target efforts to areas most in need of help. Analysis includes: contribution of high endemicity
states to total burden of leprosy in the country; district- and block-wise PR for high endemicity states;
categorization of districts and blocks by PR (<1, 1-2, >2-5, >5); percentage change from previous year and
so on. This is complemented by the LEM, which provides data on PR, availability and quality of services.
CLD has also developed detailed guidelines on a variety of technical topics. Partnership with the WHO has
contributed to institutional development: the CLD and eleven high and medium endemic states have



                                                       - 8 -

benefited from the technical assistance of a WHO consultant in monitoring program performance. This
assistance will continue until end-2005, after which it will be re-evaluated and extended as necessary.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
        Variations in disease prevalence across states: While the overall goal of reducing (recorded) PR to
<1/10,000 is likely to be achieved at the national level (albeit one year later than was envisaged under the
project), it is likely that there will be several pockets where reaching this PR will take somewhat longer;
even after state level 'elimination' is achieved, there would be districts or sub-districts where higher
prevalence rates would continue. This is due to historically high PRs in some areas. In Chattisgarh, for
example, it is estimated that the PR in the 1980s was between 500 and 700 per 10,000 population. It is
commendable that it is now down to 4.56/10,000 and would be quite an achievement if it goes down to
1/10,000 by the end of 2005. In comparison, Andhra Pradesh started the project with a (recorded) PR of
3.3 per 10,000 population, and reached 1/10,000 on March 15, 2005.

        Cadre issues: While all states have achieved varying degrees of functional integration of leprosy
services into the GHS, some states are facing political problems around structural integration. In some
states, the leprosy workers had better salary and status than their counterparts in the GHS. This has led to
legal battles, which are bound to stall the process.

        Availability of Partners: The program benefited substantially from the availability of strong
partners in the NGO sector: the ILEP agencies, as well as other dedicated NGOs in the field, with strong
commitment and long experience in leprosy control, have contributed significantly to the success of the
program.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
        Continued political commitment to leprosy elimination: With the goal of leprosy elimination in
sight, commitment to the goal is extremely high at all levels of government. There is a real determination to
ensure that elimination is reached at state, district and block levels; and this has been facilitated by the
close tracking of PR under the project at block, district and state levels.

        Continued commitment to integration of leprosy services into GHS: Despite political hurdles in
integrating services, efforts are underway to ensure that this happens as soon as possible. Sensitization of
staff, mediating with political leaders, and discussions with high level functionaries of the Health
Department are underway to ensure that integration is achieved at all levels.

        Efforts to build partnerships with civil society: The fact that the Government engaged with the
existing NGOs and other partners is commendable. While other programs also may have such
opportunities, these are not always necessarily pursued.

        Staff vacancies: Despite repeated flagging of the issue by the Bank, staffing of state and district
leprosy societies continue to fluctuate due to administrative reasons. The same is true of CLD, e.g., the
position of IEC consultant remained vacant for extended periods. Besides affecting the pace of
implementation and quality of services, it has implications for sustainability.




                                                        - 9 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
        Delays in implementation: Several activities were delayed or could not be completed due to
decisions not being made in a timely way, e.g., the endline evaluation.

        Timely provision of inputs: There were no reported problems about the flow of funds from center
to state, and about the availability of inputs at the facility level. Expired drugs were replaced and stocks
replenished as and when requisitions were received from the health facilities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$42.2 million equivalent, of which US$30 million were
to be financed by an IDA Credit (of SDR 23.3 million), and the rest by GOI. Due to exchange rate
fluctuations, the IDA Credit ended up being the equivalent of US$32.126 million. The Credit has been
fully utilized. This is commendable, given that this "short" project of 3 years and 4 months was
implemented without any extensions, compared with the usual norm of 5-year projects, most of which
require extensions to complete. The total project cost at completion is estimated at US$42.88 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as Highly Likely.

Financial Sustainability: The program runs a negligible risk of lack of funds. GOI is committed to
maintaining the National Leprosy Eradication Program with its own resources until the end of the 10th.
Plan viz. March, 2007. A Project Implementation Plan has already been prepared, outlining activities to be
undertaken from April 2005 to March 2007 (GO No. M12014/39/2003, dated 7 March 2005). The
number of patients requiring treatment and care will continue to decline from now on, and the GHS will
conduct these activities from within its own budget. The National Rural Health Mission, launched in April
2005, has included leprosy elimination as one of its components. Partner agencies like ILEP and WHO
will also continue their financial and technical support to the program (ILEP support will continue through
DTSTs and care of POD, while WHO will procure and supply the necessary drugs).

Institutional Sustainability: Despite variable success with integration of leprosy control activities into the
GHS, enough has been done in this regard to make it irreversible. The Health Department is now fully
involved in leprosy elimination efforts: the Health Secretary at the State level reviews the leprosy program
along with all other health programs; at the district level, Chief District Medical Officers and other health
personnel review the SIS and GIS data and provide feedback to the PHC level. A district level nucleus has
been developed to ensure adequate surveillance, as well as the quality of interventions.

Creating an Enabling Environment: Project interventions have played a part in reducing stigma, and thus
increasing the willingness in communities to address leprosy in a positive manner. Detecting patients early,
at an early stage (with milder symptoms) has helped remove the negative impact of the disease, especially
on women who faced severe stigma. Married women reported having received support from their husband
and his family; and led a normal life both during and after treatment. The challenge now is to reduce
stigma against those who bear visible signs of deformity.

Since the project has largely achieved its objectives, and 'elimination' in terms of 'recorded prevalence' is
likely at the national level by December 2005, keeping the program on track in the future will be a
challenge. However, it must be borne in mind that 'elimination' does not imply the end of the road; leprosy
will continue to be a public health problem for some time to come. It will require continued financial and
institutional support and vigilant monitoring without complacency. Moreover, there are pockets of the



                                                       - 10 -

country where populations continue to have problems of access, for example, the proportion of women
accessing services is still low in certain districts and blocks. Urban leprosy control is a nascent initiative
and is a special challenge due to the different type of institutional arrangements that prevail in urban areas
This issue is being addressed by MOHFW.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Leprosy elimination activities have already been incorporated into the regular operation of the GHS at the
state level, as a core intervention of the Project. The following factors increase the likelihood that the
program will continue as part of regular operations of the health sector:

Operating systems in place: The integration of leprosy services into the GHS has been supported by the
development of systems that are simple to maintain and monitor. For example, the SIS has now been
implemented across the country; and training on this system has been completed. The supply and
distribution of drugs has been streamlined.

Continued availability of inputs: In addition to the training already provided to GHS staff, continuing
support will be provided by the DTSTs. The Novartis Foundation, in partnership with the WHO, will
provide free drugs until 2010 as of now, and this will likely be extended if the need arises.

Long-term partnerships: The value of the partnership between the CLD (GOI), WHO and ILEP was
emphasized by all partners. They also cited the value of inputs provided by the World Bank. This
partnership is longstanding: partners are committed to its continuation well into the future, as long as is
necessary. The WHO provides technical assistance and works closely with the Government on several
disease control programs, as part of its regular operations. The ILEP is in the process of expanding RCS
centers, through medical college hospitals of five states initially, later expanding to other states. The ILEP
NGOs are also committed to providing services to the poor and support to the leprosy elimination program.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance was Highly Satisfactory. The Bank team, consisting of Bank staff and
consultants, with support from representatives from partner agencies, provided detailed analysis of the
technical and operational challenges facing the MOHFW in its goal of leprosy elimination. The Bank team
along with other partners were able to provide evidence on the negative impact of the payment of incentives
on NCDR and PR; MOHFW discontinued these payments as a result.

The Bank facilitated the government's efforts to develop the technical framework and build consensus
among the center, states and private/NGO sector on project objectives and design. The team also provided
insights into interventions that had been successful internationally in eliminating leprosy. Thus, the main
areas of institutional change became decentralization and integration of leprosy services into the GHS.
Programmatic areas of emphasis were increasing community awareness and reducing stigma through well
designed IEC. Lessons from the predecessor project were incorporated into this project's design. For
example, analysis of NLEP I interventions and their impact helped MOHFW develop a mixed strategy of
active and passive case finding by implementing MLEC/SAPEL, Voluntary Reporting Centers (VRC), and
strengthening the capacity of the GHS to detect and treat leprosy. Apart from this, technical assistance was
also provided by the Bank team in areas such as development of systems for management information,
surveillance, financial management, and drug management.

The one area of weakness in the project's design, as indicated in Section 2, was the manner in which


                                                       - 11 -

indicators and targets were defined; the key performance indicators in the PAD do not fully match with
those listed in the logical framework. The positive aspect of the Bank team's contribution to target-setting
was that it helped bring a dose of realism by arguing for an 'actual' PR of 3/10,000 by the end of the
project, and emphasized the difference between 'actual' and 'recorded' prevalence rates. However, knowing
that the MOHFW was using 'recorded prevalence' as the only measure of prevalence, thus equating it to
'actual' prevalence, the Bank team could have strived for greater clarity in this regard.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was Satisfactory. Having task management based at the New Delhi
office facilitated the partnership between the Bank and government teams, and allowed the Bank to be more
responsive in resolving day-to-day problems faced during implementation. The procurement and
disbursement specialists based in the New Delhi Office provided on-going support and guidance on these
issues. The mid-term review was held as scheduled, and appropriate measures were discussed to
re-allocate the proceeds of the Credit to make more efficient use of available resources. Project Status
Reports (PSRs) were filed in a timely manner; and management comments are found to be complete in all
but a couple of PSRs, where either Sector Management or Country Management comments are missing.
This may be explained by the fact that consistently the project was performing satisfactorily with few
serious issues that required management attention. The Bank provided on-going technical assistance with
regard to the financial management and IEC components. However, more assistance could have been
provided to address some of the persistent management problems relating particularly to decentralization
and integration, though these issues were discussed extensively by the Bank team with the government.
The inclusion of a management specialist as a mission member might have assisted in taking up-front
action in these areas. Similarly, more assistance could have been provided in streamlining the long-term
strategy for addressing disabilities and in dealing with the urban leprosy problem (which remains a
challenge till date).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance of the Bank is rated Satisfactory. This rating is derived based on a combined
assessment of the Bank's performance during lending and supervision. Such a combination would yield an
overall rating which falls betweeen S and HS. But one would have to attribute the fact that the project did
not achieve all its targets fully (notwithstanding the fact that the results were remarkable nonetheless), to
implementation difficulties in some parts of the country. Thus the ICR team decided to give a heavier
emphasis to supervision, and as there is no possibility of giving a rating between S and HS, the rating of S
has been chosen.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's project preparation is rated Highly Satisfactory. GOI's commitment to project objectives
was high from the start. Although decentralizing leprosy control activities and integrating them into GHS
involved a difficult institutional change from the government's standpoint, GOI took all necessary measures
to make a smooth transition possible by holding detailed discussions on this issue with states on several
occasions; as well as by closely involving all partners, such as DANIDA, WHO and ILEP in project
preparation. GOI took the initiative to rationalize the use of all resources available from national and state
governments, multilateral and bilateral donors and national and international NGOs. A specific plan for
harnessing and coordinating all available resources was also prepared.

Comprehensive technical and social assessments of previous leprosy control activities were conducted,
including: (i) an assessment, with assistance from the WHO, of the current burden of leprosy at national



                                                     - 12 -

and state levels; (ii) a comprehensive state-wise evaluation of leprosy control activities in the last year,
focusing specifically on difficult to reach populations; (iii) a detailed state-wise assessment of the MLEC
2000 by the ILEP agencies through DTSTs; and (iv) reports on the SAPELs and recommendations for
strengthening them. In addition, state-specific Project Implementation Plans were prepared, and Letters of
Undertaking were provided by each state to implement the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).

By Negotiations, specifications of goods; terms of employment, qualifications and experience of
contractual staff; staffing plans for financing and accounts function in State Leprosy Control Societies; and
various terms of reference (TORs) were agreed with the Bank, so as to expedite procurement.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance is rated as Satisfactory. The project got off to a good
start: important initial actions to facilitate decentralization were taken, including release of funds to state
societies/district headquarters societies; sensitization of key health officials to the new approach; and
development of state plans for the MLEC. With the creation of three new states, two of which had a high
endemicity of leprosy, the government took early action in creating State Leprosy Societies and appointing
the necessary staff. Coordinating mechanisms with WHO/ILEP/NGOs were set up to provide technical
assistance in the agreed states. A consultant to manage IEC activities was contracted, and the process for
contracting a media agency was quickly put into motion. Training plans were developed for all types of
staff, and were on track for the duration of the project. Many of these early actions contributed importantly
to the overall positive outcome of the project.

However, there were persistent implementation problems: contracts for evaluation studies, including the
end-line study, were delayed (the end-line evaluation report was not available until four months after
project closing). There were delays in the implementation of the computerized financial management
system (FMS); finally, it was abandoned due to serious technical problems, and the project reverted to the
paper-based system. The proposal to reallocate funds between components could not be finalized for
almost a year following the MTR, as a result of which the financial management rating for the project was
downgraded to Unsatisfactory. Finally, better targeting of capacity building efforts might have helped
more states reach the goal of elimination.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the State Leprosy Societies and District Leprosy Societies is Satisfactory. The
decentralization process left the state level responsible for the implementation of leprosy control activities,
and the relative success of the project is due to the satisfactory performance of these entities. Timely
provision of funds, training, and other inputs, as well as regular monitoring and follow up were carried out
by the state level. There were, however, persistent problems of staffing and implementation capacity which
impeded implementation initially, and continued to be stumbling blocks through the life of the project.
However, good systems have been put in place at the state level, and this should help in sustaining project
benefits.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance of the Borrower is rated as Satisfactory. This is based on a combined assessment of
the performance during preparation and implementation. Though the project was well-prepared, some
implementation problems resulted in delays and difficulties; and some aspects of the project targets were
not fully met. The ICR team is of the view that in most projects, effective implementation is even more
important than the design. Hence a greater weight is given to rating of implementation, which brings the
overall rating to Satisfactory.




                                                        - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned

Overall, the project provided the Bank with an opportunity to gain valuable experience in shifting
ownership and responsibility for vertical disease control programs to the states, increasing state-level
capacity to take on the new role, and strengthening central capacity for policy guidance, technical support,
surveillance and advocacy. Specific lessons include:

8.1 Institutional:

Decentralization can transform the program by shifting ownership and responsibility to the states.
However, this needs to be backed up with a strong capacity building component. Establishing sustainable
systems and maintaining quality at the state level require a strong central hub, providing overall support on
several fronts: (i) accessing and disseminating best practices; (ii) setting standards and developing
appropriate guidelines; (iii) mustering a group of advocates; (iv) monitoring the disease at the national
level; and (v) brainstorming about future strategies and sustainability. Such support is particularly
important when state-level capacity is weak. Unfortunately, some of the highly endemic states are also the
ones with the poorest capacity, such as Bihar and West Bengal. In NLEP II, building capacity in such a
situation has required partnerships, at least in the short term: with CLD in the driver's seat, determining
areas in which technical assistance was required, additional resources were provided by WHO and ILEP
agencies. Identifying potential partners early on and setting up clear terms of reference for their inputs is
essential.

8.2 Technical and Social:

An internationally established end-point serves as a rallying point. The NLEP II had the advantage of a
well-recognized, internationally accepted outcome: 'elimination of leprosy' defined as PR <1/10,000.
Though an element of confusion was evident in the issue of whether this would be 'actual' prevalence or
'recorded' prevalence, GOI essentially interpreted it to mean the latter, as is apparently the internally
accepted practice. That meant a strong commitment to aspire towards this end-point, regardless of the
technical issues surrounding the use of 'recorded' prevalence. Such a commitment to an outcome goal, as
distinct from the service delivery targets which are often set for national programs, was a strong factor in
the success so far achieved, as well as the high likelihood of sustaining the leprosy program in the future.

Involving all stakeholders from early on is essential. For example, while the process of integrating leprosy
services into GHS was smoothly accomplished in most states, it would have benefited from more
widespread consultation among those most affected: the vertical leprosy control staff, and their
counterparts in the GHS. Some of the cadre problems encountered in pockets across the country could
have been avoided by adopting a more participatory approach.

8.3 Operational:

Stringent monitoring is a must. This aspect has been one of the most important contributors to the success
of the program. Close monitoring is required at all levels: state, district and block. Simple evaluation
mechanisms are the most effective: the SIS and registers can be filled out and updated quite easily by field
level workers. Tracking and analyzing data by gender and SC/ST categories has been a very useful tool for
targeting inputs. Project M&E has adopted a problem-solving approach; for example, detecting and
treating leprosy in urban areas has been problematic, due to migrant populations and lack of the type of
health network available in rural areas. Guidelines have now been developed for urban leprosy services,
and state-level proposals have been prepared for urban interventions, to be implemented shortly. Program



                                                      - 14 -

managers have been clear on the outcomes expected from their interventions, largely because measurable
indicators of progress towards those outcomes had been agreed early on in the program.

IEC can be done well. An effective IEC program, coupled with enhanced quality of services, has boosted
voluntary reporting and early diagnosis of cases by reducing fear and stigma, and provided clear
information regarding the availability of services. NLEP II has shown that successful IEC depends upon:

        The use of communication professionals to plan and implement the IEC strategy and produce
quality material;
        A well-planned strategy that identifies and prioritizes objectives and target groups;
        A multi-layered campaign that tailors messages to the needs of varied target groups;
        An on-going campaign, interspersed with intense bursts of activity; and
        Close supervision of IEC planning and implementation at state, district and sub-district levels.

Further analysis of what aspects of the IEC interventions actually made the difference in terms of reduction
of stigma would be a valuable lesson for other disease control programs as well. For instance, it would be
useful to know whether it was the education per se or the availability of effective treatment that made a
bigger contribution. Analysis has been done by LEM and end-line survey and the results should be
appropriately utilized for refining the IEC strategy for future targeting.

Public-Private Partnerships need to be well defined. As a departure from the previous practice of funding
NGOs to detect and treat cases in selected geographic areas, NLEP II determined functional areas of
partnership where NGOs had a comparative advantage, such as RCS, IEC and capacity building. In urban
areas, where there is a flourishing private sector, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has been brought
into the fold, increasing coordination with private practitioners; this needs to be expanded and sustained.

Having one umbrella organization as the intermediary  ILEP  has made managing and monitoring the
partnership with NGOs simpler. Such an approach may be a viable alternative to contracting of individual
NGOs by project authorities, since the capacity for management of such contracts tends to be poor.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments from Government of India on Implementation of the Project

The first National Leprosy Elimination Project with World Bank assistance which started in the year
1993-94 ended on 30th September 2000. The Second National Leprosy Elimination Project was initially
proposed for a period of 3 years, i.e. from 1st April 2001 to 31st March 2004, with the period between
1.10.2000 to 31.3.2001 covered under retroactive financing. But the project was formalized and the DCA
was signed on 19th July 2001. The project however finally ended in December 2004, i.e. a full period of 4
years and 3 months. The expenditure planned under the project was fully met and reimbursed by the Bank.

Components under the Second National Leprosy Elimination Project were as below :-
a)       Decentralization and institutional development
b)       Strengthening and integration of service delivery
c)       Disability care and prevention
d)       Information, Education and Communication
e)       Training



                                                      - 15 -

When the project started leprosy services were provided through the vertical set of leprosy workers.
Conversion of leprosy services from vertical to an integrated one through the General Health Care System
was one of the main strategies of the project. As a first step, contractual leprosy staff except drivers were
laid off in the first year itself in 27 low and moderate endemic state/UTs. In the remaining 8 high endemic
states, the leprosy contractual staff were allowed to be kept during the project period and were laid off on
31st March 2004. During the project period these vertical contractual staff worked along with the General
Health Care staff and helped in building up their confidence to undertake leprosy diagnosis and treatment
skill. It is now seen that functional integration of leprosy services has been found to be better established in
these 8 states.

However the project helped in involvement of the Primary Health Centres and hospitals in delivering
leprosy diagnosis and treatment services on all working days from the Medical Officer. Involvement of the
subcentres in providing the second MDT doses onwards helped in better case holding and follow up of
cases. As the leprosy patients can now go to the Medical Officer as any other patient and are not required
to go to specified clinic for leprosy on a particular day and time, the stigma attached to the disease
decreased and more persons came out for voluntary reporting.

During the project period 3 Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaigns (MLEC) were conducted. These
were known as 3rd, 4th and 5th MLEC. These campaigns were highly successful in spreading awareness
about leprosy in the villages. Media coverage through the local newspapers in the districts during these
campaigns was quite wide which helped in the awareness development. Thanks to these campaigns that the
voluntary reporting of leprosy cases in India has now increased to a great extent. However it is accepted
that some numbers of cases of inconsequences (early PB) or old cases were registered during these
campaigns, which resulted in keeping the PR high for some time.

The project also helped in developing a systematic financial management procedure. Although the idea of
electronic transfer of accounts data from state to centre could not be established due to various reasons, the
system itself is well accepted and may be in place in the years to come.

IEC during the Second NLEP was carried out at a much higher level than originally budgeted. Therefore,
there was a mismatch of whatever IEC activities were designed as per PIP and the budget earmarked.
During implementation it was considered necessary to spend more than the budgeted amount which the
Government spent and later on re-appropriation on budget head was agreed to by the Bank. For the first
time during the 2nd Project a central Media Agency, M/s. SOMAC, was hired for developing and
implementing the Mass Media Activities under leprosy. The experience was quite good for the programme.
The material developed are good and will be of use for few more years. Support of the IEC Consultant
hired by the World Bank was also quite useful for better implementation of IEC activities particularly at
the district level and below. World Bank also supported the cause of IEC during 2nd NLEP, through
number of workshops held at New Delhi and on regional basis. These efforts are well appreciated.

Training of General Health Care staff was a major challenge during the 2nd NLEP to make them confident
in handling leprosy programme independently after integration. 56426 Medical officers, 77481 Health
Supervisors and 283583 Health Workers, i.e. multipurpose workers (male and female) received 3 days
technical training in leprosy during the 4 year period. 1 day IEC training was also imparted to 13327 Mass
media staff/Health educators/selected Health Supervisors to enable them to propagate messages in a better
way. In addition 580387 volunteers including Anganwadi workers, village health guides, teachers, etc. also
received useful training for conducting MLECs, which is also helping the programme subsequently through
their interaction with the public for motivating them to report voluntarily in Health Centres for leprosy-like


                                                      - 16 -

skin conditions.

When the project started the management information system was a bit complicated and cumbersome. The
project needed to evolve a suitable Simplified Information System (SIS) which can be easily understood
and used by the General Health Care System. This has been completed and the new SIS has been well
accepted at all levels.

Collecting disaggregated data to look into the marginalized population group like female, SC, ST, was
planned during the second project. These data are now being collected regularly through the monthly
reports and have helped the States/Districts to take specific measures to cover any underserved population
groups to good results. The project thus helped in starting social equity in leprosy service delivery in a
more systematic way.

The Second NLEP also ensured a sense of ownership and commitment among different partners working
for leprosy in India. WHO provided a special package support to the Central and State HQ units with
man, materials and finances. International Federation of Anti-leprosy Associations (ILEP) also provided
strong support in the form of District Technical Support Teams, Capacity building of GHC staff and also
of specialists in Reconstructive Surgery and Reaction Management. ILEP supported institutions also
provided good support in RCS and other POD care services. DANLEP (till Nov. 2003) also supported the
programme in the states of Tamil Nadu, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. All this support
helped in better monitoring and programme management from the centre. Also this support is helping the
programme in developing a sustainable leprosy service even after the project ends and elimination goal is
achieved by December 2005.

The role of other smaller NGOs in a number of states for rendering services to the leprosy affected persons
is also very encouraging. These NGOs worked in difficult, far away places diagnosing and treating leprosy
patients. After integration of leprosy services with General Health Care, the areas given to such NGOs had
to be withdrawn. However during the project period, GOI developed a Modified Survey, Education and
Training (SET) Scheme for such NGOs who can still help the leprosy affected persons in a number of other
ways like POD care, IEC, drug intake monitoring, rehabilitation, etc.

Special Action Plan for Elimination of Leprosy (SAPEL) and Leprosy Elimination Campaign (LEC) were
provided under the project for inaccessible rural population group (SAPEL) and for urban poor and
migratory population groups in urban localities (LEC). These were of much use wherever the routine
programme could not cover a certain population group. However number of SAPEL/LEC utilized were
about 50% of the provision made. This did not mean underutilization of a provision. This was mainly
because the need was less because of the MLECs held, during each year of the project which covered the
entire population groups repeatedly.

Guidelines for urban leprosy control strategy have been developed during the project period, and the same
are now under implementation in about 422 identified towns and cities. The aim is to develop a sustainable
leprosy service integrating all the organizations available in the urban locality. Involvement of the private
practitioners and training of all participating unit officials are to be given priority. A committee is to be
formed in each urban area for operationalization and management of the programme.

The project was very successful so far as achievement of its objective were concerned. More could have
been done but for unavoidable changes at the project manager level at the centre, as well as many State
Governments, and also in the Bank, towards the later stages of the project.




                                                      - 17 -

The project received excellent support from the World Bank whenever needed, which helped in proper
implementation of the programme.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments from the International Federation of Anti-leprosy Associations (ILEP) - consisting of
16 member organizations of which 10 members are supporting NLEP.

l The second PIP was well prepared after a lot of discussions and inputs from states and all
    NLEP partners
l The document PIP was distributed to states but not well disseminated and understood by the
    DLOs. Most of the DLOs and district magistrates were looking for guidelines for utilization of
    funds
l The project has provided a better platform for creating stronger partnerships
l All the needs of the programme were well addressed.
l Strategy of Integration has increased access to leprosy patients
l The best contribution in the second project was made in the form of MLECs which by some
    experts was labeled as not very cost effective for detection of cases, while these MLECs have
    been effective in multiple ways
        i)       Lot of propaganda and IEC during MLEC has created mass awareness which lead
        to substantial decrease in stigma
        ii)      It has generated lot of political commitment and given momentum for elimination
        of leprosy
        iii)     It has led to sensitization of GHC staff to prepare them for integration
        iv)      It has lead to detection of backlog and hidden cases of consequences
l Through POD camps, the project has not only provided care to disabled leprosy patients but
    also training to GHC staff in POD and participation of the community
l Through series of trainings, all the GHC staff including pharmacists, Anganwari workers,
    ANMs etc have been trained which are contributing to NLEP and has increased access to
    leprosy patients
l Medical college students were encouraged through contribution on their thesis writing
l Mid term review of the project was well thought off and because of this corrective measure
    could be taken in time

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Decentralization of leprosy control activities Decentralized in all states                      Decentralized in all States
from the center to the states.

Reduction of leprosy cases with Grade II       <2%                                              1.6%
deformity

Integration of leprosy control activities with Regular staff reduced by 75% of orginal          Regular staff reduced by 75% by absorbing
the general health services                    number and contract staff reduced to nil in all them in the general health cadre; but contract
                                               states                                           staff extended for one more year, as the
                                                                                                program continues.*
'Recorded prevalence' rate of leprosy cases    <1 / 10,000 populationn                          1.99 / 10,000 population
'Actual' prevalence rate of leprosy cases at   <3/10,000 population                             Not measured
the national level

The contract staff who have been retained were mostly support staff, except in the States where dedicated
leprosy staff positions had not been sanctioned.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Project related activities under state control All states report progress in project activities All States reporting
reporting on project progress


Increased community awareness                  95% awareness about curability of the            80% awareness about curability; 86% about
                                               disease and facilities for treatment among       free treatment
                                               women


Training of general health staff on leprosy    All health care staff trained on routine leprosy 100%
control activities                             activities


1End of project




                                                                   - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Decentralization and Institutional Development               2.30            2.37          103.04
Strengthening and Integrating Service Delivery              25.70          24.16               94
Disability Care and Preventions                              3.30            2.66            80.6
IEC                                                          4.50            7.16          159.11
Training                                                     3.00            3.13          104.33

Total Baseline Cost                                         38.80          39.48
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.90            0.80
 Price Contingencies                                         2.50            2.60
                          Total Project Costs               42.20          42.88
                  Total Financing Required                  42.20          42.88




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00         3.60         0.00          3.60
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (2.89)         (0.00)       (2.89)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00        24.80         0.80         25.60
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (24.80)        (0.00)      (24.80)
4. Operating Cost                    0.00           0.00         5.70         7.30         13.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (2.30)         (0.00)       (2.30)
5.                                   0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                             0.00           0.00        34.10         8.10         42.20
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (29.99)        (0.00)      (29.99)




                                                - 20 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              2.10             0.00              2.10
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.52)            (0.00)           (1.52)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             30.94             1.04             31.98
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (28.73)            (0.00)           (28.73)
   4. Operating Cost                        0.00               0.00              5.06             3.74              8.80
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.87)            (0.00)           (1.87)
   5.                                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00             38.10             4.78             42.88
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (32.12)            (0.00)           (32.12)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Decentralization and            2.36         0.14                     2.29         0.28                  97.0     200.0
Institutional Development

Strengthening and              16.50        11.30                    17.50         9.10                  106.1     80.5
Integrating Service
Delivery

Disability Care and             3.00         0.70                     2.06         0.84                  68.7     120.0
Prevention

IEC                             4.94         0.06                     7.14         0.37                  144.5    616.7

Training                        3.20         0.00                     3.13         0.16                  97.8      0.0

   Bank financing: Out of the approved credit amount of SDR 23.3 million, the total disbursed amount
   was SDR 23,294,460.28 and the remaining amount SDR 5,539.72 was cancelled. In US $ terms, the
   planned amount of US$ 30 million (Rs.143.60 crores) equivalent at appraisal, amounted in the end to
   US$ 32.126 million (Rs. 150.77 crores) due to changing exchange rates. Thus, the utilization was
   more than 100% in US dollar terms, though the appreciation of SDR against the US Dollar has
   meant the cancellation of a small amount.




                                                           - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not analyzed.




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              November                    9    3 Public Health Specialists
              22-December 8,                   5 Technical Specialists
              1999                             1 Procurement Specialist

              September                 12     2 Public Health Specialists
              25-October 16,                   5 Technical Specialists
              2000                             1 Procurement Specialist
                                               1 Financial Management
                                               Specialist
                                               1 Social Development Specialist
                                               2 Operations Analysts

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              November 15-29,             5    3 Public Health Specialists
              2000                             1 Procurement Specialist
                                               1 Financial Management
                                               Specialist

              February 1-5, 2001          4    2 Public Health Specialists
              (Post-Appraisal                  1 Procurement Specialist
              Mission)                         1 Financial Management
                                               Specialist

 Supervision
              August                      6    2 Public Health Specialists         HS              S
              24-September 11,                 1 Procurement Specialist
              2001                             1 Financial Management
                                               Specialist
                                               1 IEC Specialist
                                               1 Program Assistant

              May 20-June 12,             5    1 Public Health Specialist          S               S
              2002                             1 Procurement Specialist
                                               1 Financial Management
                                               Specialist
                                               1 IEC Specialist
                                               1 Program Assistant

              November 5-22,             10    1 Public Health Specialist          S              HS
              2002                             2 Technical Specialists
              (Mid-Term                        1 Procurement Specialist
              Review)                          2 Financial Management
                                               Specialist
                                               1 IEC Specialist
                                               1 Social Development Specialist
                                               1 Operations Analyst




                                                - 23 -

                                             1 Program Assistant

               October                  8    1 Public Health Specialist          S    S
               11-December 5,                2 Technical Specialists
               2003                          1 Procurement Specialist
                                             1 Financial Management
                                             Specialist
                                             1 IEC Specialist
                                             1 Social Development Specialist
                                             1 Program Assistant

               May 11-July 5,           7    1 Nutrition Specialist              S    HS
               2004                          1 Public Health Specialist
                                             1 Procurement Specialist
                                             1 Financial Management
                                             Specialist
                                             1 IEC Specialist
                                             1 Social Development Specialist
                                             1 Program Assistant


 ICR
               December 13-23,         8     1 Technical Specialist              S    S
               2004                          1 Financial Management
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Procurement Specialist
                                             1 Procurement Analyst
                                             1 IEC Specialist
                                             1 Social Development
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Program Assistant

                                                                                      HS



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             30.0                          153.27
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  25.2                          110.47
  Supervision                            66.7                          173.26
  ICR                                      3.5                          32.67
  Total




                                             - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Partnerships with civil society




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Report No. 21751. Project Appraisal Document: Second National Leprosy Elimination Project; Health,
Nutrition and Population Unit, South Asia Region, World Bank; February 27, 2001.

Report No. 21931. Implementation Completion Report: Second National Leprosy Elimination
Project; Health, Nutrition and Population Unit, South Asia Region, World Bank; April 26, 2001.

Aide Memoire, Identification Mission. World Bank. December, 1999
Aide Memoire, Preparation Mission. World Bank. November, 2000.
Aide Memoire, Appraisal Mission. World Bank. December, 2000.
Aide Memoire, Post-Appraisal Mission. World Bank. February, 2001.
Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission. World Bank. September, 2001.
Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission. World Bank. July, 2002.
Aide Memoire, Mid Term Review Mission. World Bank. December, 2002.
Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission. World Bank. November, 2003.
Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission. World Bank. August, 2004.
Aide Memoire, Final Supervision Mission. World Bank. January, 2005.

Leprosy Elimination Monitoring in India (2004). GOI, WHO and National Institute of Health and Family
Welfare (NIHFW) in collaboration with International Federation of Anti-Leprosy Associations.

Leprosy Elimination Monitoring in India (2003). GOI, WHO and NIHFW in collaboration with
International Federation of Anti-Leprosy Associations.

Validation of Leprosy Diagnosis in India (2004). GOI, WHO and NIHFW in collaboration with
International Federation of Anti-Leprosy Associations.

Validation of Leprosy Diagnosis in India (2003). GOI, WHO and NIHFW in collaboration with
International Federation of Anti-Leprosy Associations.

Report on the Third Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign (2001-2002). Central Leprosy Division,
Directorate General of Health Services, New Delhi.

Report on the Fourth Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign (2002-2003). Central Leprosy Division,
Directorate General of Health Services, New Delhi.

Report on the Fifth Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign (2003-2004). Central Leprosy Division,
Directorate General of Health Services, New Delhi.

National Leprosy Elimination Project II  Implementation Report. Union Territory of Pondicherry, March
2005.

National Leprosy Elimination Project II  Implementation Report. Chhattisgarh, March 2005.

National Leprosy Elimination Project II  Implementation Report. Andhra Pradesh, March 2005.

National Leprosy Elimination Project II  Implementation Report. Delhi, March 2005.




                                                  - 27 -

National Leprosy Elimination Project II  Implementation Report. Bihar, March 2005.

Working Together for a World Without Leprosy: ILEP Strategy 2005-2010. ILEP Publication.

Mukherji, Supriya. Communication in Public Health Programs: the case of the Leprosy Project in India.
HNP Discussion Series, World Bank; 2004.

In addition, information was gathered from the following websites:

www.mohfw.nic.gov.in

www.who.int




                                                   - 28 -

- 29 -

