Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3482 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second National Leprosy Elimination Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 19, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3482 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 2001, between INDIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project in part will be carried out by SLSs and DLSs with the 
assistance of the Borrower and the Participating States, and  as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to SLSs and DLSs part of the proceeds of 
the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries" ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"center/central" means  at the level of Government of the Borrower;
(b)
"District/district" means an administrative unit of a State of India, 
including any successor or successors thereto, and in its plural form the term refers 
to more than one such administrative unit; 
(c)
"District Leprosy Society" or "DLS" means any society established under 
the Borrower’s Societies Registration Act, 1860, with the predominant objective of 
carrying out NLEP;
(d)
"IEC" means information, education and  communication component of the 
Project described under Part D of the Project;
(e)
"endemicity" means usual presence of a disease within a geographic area 
or population group;
(f)
"FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, which begins on April 1 each 
year and ends on March 31 of the following year;
(g)
"GHS" means general health services in a Participating State;
(h)
"Leprosy" means a chronic, slow developing bacterial disease of man 
caused by mycobacterium leprae affecting the skin and peripheral nerves;
(i)
"Memorandum of Understanding" means an undertaking executed and furnished 
by a Participating State to the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(j)
"MOHFW" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Family Welfare;
(k)
"MDT" means multi drug therapy under the Project and referred to in Part 
B of the Project;
(l)
"NLEP" means the Borrower’s National Leprosy Eradication
Program;
(m)
"Participating State" means any State of the Borrower or Union Territory, 
including any successor or successors thereto, which participates in the carrying out 
of the Project, or in any part thereof, and from which the Borrower obtains a 
Memorandum of Understanding. In its plural form the term refers to more than one 
Participating State;
(n)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan of the Borrower and of a 
Participating State, as such PIP may be amended, from time to time, with the prior 
approval of the Association;
(o)
"SLS" means the State Leprosy Society and in its plural form it means 
more than one SLS;
Page  3
(p)
"State or state" means a State of the Borrower or any successor or 
successors thereto which is a Participating State. In its plural form the term refers 
to more than one State;
(q)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(r) 
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and
(s)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,300,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 1 and September1 commencing September 1, 2011 and ending March 1, 2036. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2021 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
Page  4
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon any provision of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause each Participating State to carry out its portions of the Project and 
ensure that the portions to be implemented through SLS and DLS shall be carried out in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the 
State’s Memorandum of Understanding, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and health practices, provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project; and necessary or appropriate to enable SLS and DLS to perform such 
obligations, and the State shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to 
each: 
(i) 
Participating State for the portions of the Project as are to be 
carried out by such State in accordance with the Borrower’s 
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of 
India; and 
(ii)
SLS and DLS for the carrying out its portions of the Project, in 
accordance with the arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and 
the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that obligations set 
forth in Section 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Page  5
shall be carried out respectively by the Participating State pursuant to the terms of 
its Memorandum of Understanding.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that prior to the Project being carried 
out in a Participating State, such State shall duly execute and deliver to the 
Borrower and the Association a Memorandum of Understanding with form and content 
agreed with the Association, including actions set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of NLEP; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the generality of any other provision of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall review biannually with the Association progress in 
Project implementation over the preceding six months and shall prepare and furnish to 
the Association during such review a work plan for the six months following such 
review.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower as 
well as of each SLS and DLS, responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
Page  6
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01  in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
October 1, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Participating State shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations under this Agreement, or the Memorandum of Understanding, as 
the case may be.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any Participating State will be able to perform its respective 
obligations under this Agreement, or the Memorandum of Understanding, as the case may 
be.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or 
Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of 
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
ECOFAIRS 
953-3166175
91-11-3016075
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Adarsh Kishore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods:
   1,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100% of
Page  8
(a) Furniture and
local expenditures (ex-
     equipment 
factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures
(b) Vehicles
for other items procured
(c) Supportive medicines
locally
(d) Materials and supplies
(2)
Services
  13,000,000
100%
(3)
Incremental operating
   6,100,000
60% of local
costs
expenditures until
July 31, 2002;
40% of expenditures
from August 1, 2002
until July 2003; and
20% of expenditures
thereafter
(4)
Unallocated
   2,700,000
TOTAL
  23,300,000 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) 
the term "services" means IEC, campaigns, training and workshops, 
research and studies, consulting services, contractual services, medical and surgical 
services.
(d) 
the terms "incremental operating costs" mean the honoraria, costs 
incurred for hire and maintenance of vehicles, and for office operation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 2,250,000, on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
October 1, 2000.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) goods under contracts 
costing $200,000 equivalent or less each; (ii) services under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each in the case of firms and $50,000 equivalent each in the 
case  of individuals; and (iii) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a separate special deposit 
account in the Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further
withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
Page  9
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR6,000,000.
Page  10
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit  minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the  
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the  Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to transform the national leprosy eradication 
program to an effective and sustainable program through a decentralized and integrated 
approach which increases community access to MDT. The Project will assist the Borrower 
in eliminating leprosy as a public health problem at all levels in India. 
The Project  consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications as 
may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association from time to time:
Page  11
Part A: 
Decentralization and Institutional Development
(a)
To define and promote the role and responsibilities at the levels of the 
Borrower, the States and Districts, so as to enable the Borrower, each Participating 
State and District to carry out its responsibilities for the Project implementation 
effectively at its level.
(b)
Provision of skills and staff required at each level to carry out the 
Project activities consistent with the role and responsibilities of each entity 
participating in the Project execution. 
(c)
Provision for training and workshops, consultants’ services, incremental 
staff, equipment and furniture.
Part B: 
Strengthening and Integration of Service Delivery
(a)
Strengthening of services for the delivery of MDT with emphasis on case 
detection and integration of leprosy control activities with GHS from the start of the 
Project, by each Participating State through voluntary reporting, campaigns, and with 
emphasis on special groups.
(b)
Provision of incremental operating costs, drug delivery, campaigns, 
activities to target special groups, and service delivery by NGOs.
Part C: 
Disability Prevention
(a)
Service delivery by GHS and NGO partners for the prevention of disability 
work in defined populations and reconstructive surgery facilities for deformities.
(b)
Provision of consultants’ services, equipment and operating expenses for 
prevention of disability work.
Part D: 
Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
(a)
Strengthening of IEC activities to complement service delivery strategy, 
including both active and passive case detection, and an emphasis on the availability 
of safe and effective treatment. 
(b)
Support for campaign activities at specific times and encourage voluntary 
reporting as leprosy control is integrated with GHS, advocacy, change society’s 
attitude to leprosy and to increase demand by affected individuals for leprosy control 
services. In each Participating State, the extent of support will be determined 
according to the level of endemicity in the State. 
(c)
Provision of consultants’ services, workshops, training, technical 
assistance, IEC materials and media space and operational expenses. 
Part E: 
Training 
(a)
Provision of staff training for reorientation  to an integrated approach 
and  to provide skills needed by staff in GHS. The staff training, inter alia, to be 
based on the need for improved management at all levels, and the need for technical 
reorientation of health workers including those in GHS. 
(b)
Provision of workshops, review meetings, training activities, contractual 
services and operational expenses. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
Page  12
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods  shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and vehicles shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 and $100,000, respectively, equivalent or more 
each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 but more than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
National Shopping
Goods except vehicles estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,400,000 equivalent, vehicles estimated to 
cost $100,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 
equivalent, and contracts for hiring and maintenance of vehicles and consumables 
estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate not to 
exceed $3,840,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Contracts estimated to cost less than $10,000 per contract for (i) Goods except 
vehicles up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent; and (ii) hiring 
and maintenance of vehicles and consumables up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods except vehicles estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (b) each contract for vehicles awarded in 
accordance with procedures of paragraph B.1 of this Schedule; and (c) the first 
contract for goods from any State estimated to cost more than $30,000 but less than 
$200,000 equivalent procured in accordance with procedures of Part C.1 of this 
Page  13
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Consultants’ services for IEC and final Project evaluation shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and 
cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services referred to in Part B.1, estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract for IEC, training and workshops, and 
medical/surgical services, and less than $100,000 equivalent per contract for other 
services, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for training and workshops and other services which are estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract respectively, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $6,910,000 equivalent, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by medical personnel under Part D of the Project and 
social workers for State Leprosy Societies estimated to cost less than $10,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,250,000 
equivalent, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.19 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
Page  14
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by October 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2.
The Central Leprosy Unit of MOHFW will be responsible for coordinating the 
Project implementation activities. The Deputy Director General of Health Services for 
Leprosy of MOHFW as the Project Director will be responsible for overall 
implementation of the Project and its financial management, central level procurement, 
annual central work-plans, management and technical support to the Participating 
States and an annual progress review of the program. The Project Director will ensure 
compliance by the entities participating in the Project implementation with central 
policies and technical guidelines and will monitor Project progress. 
3. 
At the Participating State level, the State Departments of Health through the 
State Leprosy Officer (SLO) will be responsible for managing implementation of the 
leprosy control activities in conformity with NLEP guidelines. SLO, holding exclusive 
charge of the Project, will be responsible for financial management of the Project 
within the State, State level procurement, annual work-plans, management and technical 
support to districts and annual progress review of the program in the Participating 
State. On advice of the center, SLO will be responsible for reviewing continuation of 
vertical staff employed by the State for leprosy control activities. Where leprosy 
control activities are to be contracted to NGOs/private sector, this will be 
accomplished through the State Leprosy Society (SLS) or any other designated funding 
channel in compliance with guidelines agreed with the center. 
4. 
At the district level, implementation of leprosy control work-plans will be 
funded through DLS, under the overall supervision of State Department of Health 
through SLS. The DLS will be responsible, through the District Leprosy Officer, for 
Page  15
district procurement and implementation of district annual work-plans and financial 
management systems, including review of vertical staff responsibilities as agreed by 
the State.
5. 
Large scale Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaigns (MLECs) and focused rural 
Special Area Projects for Elimination of Leprosy (SAPELs) and urban Leprosy 
Elimination Campaigns (LECs) will continue to be used as an important strategy for 
reaching special groups and areas under the Project.
6. 
Participating States with relatively low prevalence of leprosy, will implement 
leprosy control activities through the general health staff and will undertake review 
of continuation of vertical staff and institutions established under the leprosy 
control program in year 1 of the Project. High endemicity states will continue current 
rosters of vertical staff and institutions. Review of  rosters funded from the 
Association’s financial assistance will be undertaken during the life of the Project, 
with a view to reductions in the overall complement of vertical staff using agreed 
triggers.
7. 
NGOs continuing role in the Project implementation will be determined by taking 
into account capacity and disease burden in district and Participating State. 
Activities that will be carried out by each NGO will be formalized through an 
appropriate agreed mechanism with each Participating State. The formal undertaking 
will include the description of services to be provided, mechanisms and indicators of 
achievements and accountabilities of the NGO and commitments by the Participating 
State.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
reduce the number of regular and contract ‘vertical’ staff in accordance 
with PIP;
(b)
ensure that incentives based on case finding shall not be instituted; and
(c)
carry out routine reporting independent third party surveys, validation 
of elimination surveys, based on initial pilot survey and subject to recommendations 
of the technical and Advisory Group on Leprosy of the World Health Organization, and 
final leprosy prevalence survey (evaluation), in accordance with terms of reference 
agreed with the Association.
9.
In addition to the provision of this Schedule and elsewhere in this Agreement, 
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the PIP.
