Document of
The World Bank
FOl OFEICIAL USE ONLY
Reo N..
}BPORT AiD 1ECOnD ON
OP THEE
PRESENT OF THE
- IllTElTION    BANK POR RECONISTRUCTION AND DVELOPN
TO THE
3CUTIVS DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN Al ANOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
USS25.0  LION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUTIY
POR A
SEviNT  LIVESTOCK DEVEOPENT PROJECT
December 13, 1983
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by reeipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUENCY EQUIVALETS
Local Currency Unit            Guazani (G)
Official Exchange Rate USS1    G 126 1
G1                          =  USS0.08
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBRE7VIATIONS
BUF          - National Development Bank
CAR         -  Small Farmer Rehabilitation Credit Agency
CB           -  Central Bank
CNCA         -  French National Savings Bank for Agricultural
Credit
CRMEDICOOP   -  National Credit Cooperative, Ltd.
DIAP         -  Department of Agricultural and Forestry Research
FECOPROD     -  Federation of Producers Cooperatives
PG           -  Livestock Fund
FOIPLATA     -  Fondo Financiero para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca
del Plata
TBR         -  Institute of Rural Welfare
NAG          - Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
OPEC Fund    -  Development Fund of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
GOV3RN I  OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ The exchange rate applicable .to-this project by decision of the
Government of Paraguay is G 160 to USSt.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrover:        The Republic of Paraguay.
Beneficiaries:   Livestock Fund (FG).
Loan Amount:     US$25.0 million a/
Loan Terms:      17 years, including four years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending:       The local currency equivalent of the Loan proceeds vould be
on-lent to FG at an interest rate of 0.5% above the Bank rate
for repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace.
The Government of Paraguay would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project
Description:    The project aims to increase livestock output, for which the
country has a comparative advantage, thereby increasing the
incomes of agricultural producers and the export earnings of
the country; and strengthen the administrative and technology
transfer capabilities of FG. It would provide subloans to
about 350 large-scale ranchers with holdings in excess of
2,500 ha; about 700 medium-scale ranchers with 250 to 2,500 ha
of land; about 225 specialized small-scale livestock
producers, especially dairy farmers, with holdings up to 250
ha; and some 445 cattle fatteners. Funds would be provided
for purchase of feeder steers and on-farm investments in:
(a) pasture establishment, improvement and subdivision;
(b) provision of watering points; (c) infrastructure in
livestock handling facilities; (d) purchase of breeding
cattle; (e) destumping of arable land; and (f) purchase of
machinery and equipment. The project is expected to have an
important impact on increasing production and productivity of
the livestock industry and augmenting the export earnings of
the country. It is expected that aggregate production of beef
would be increased by 121,000 tons and that of milk by 10.4
a/ A "B" Loan for US$15 million is being considered.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
million liters. (It is estimated that three fourths of the
incremental meat products would be exported). The technical
and administrative capacity of FG would also be strengthened.
Previous Bank experience in the sector with FG, as well as the
market prospects for live cattle in Brazil and the recent
increase in export of processed beef to countries in Latin
America and Europe, would indicate that risks are minimal;
however, given the importance of international markets for
establishing farm-gate prices, a significant drop in prices in
these markets could reduce demand for term credit.
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign     Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Investment Program           61.8       52.3       114.1 a/
Technical and Administrative
Services                     5.4        1.6         7.0
Total                67.2       53.9 b/   121.1 c/
Local    Foreign     Total
luSs million equivalent)
Project Financing
Plan
Bank Loan                     -         25.0        25.0 c/
FONPLATA                      1.1       13.9        15.0
"B" Loan                      -         15.0        15.0
Livestock Fund               41.1        -          41.1
FG Borrowers                 25.0        -          25.0
Total               67.2        53.9      121.1
Estimated
Disbursements: d/
Bank FY:                         1985   1986   1987    1988
-----. CUSs million) …---
Bank Loan
Annual                          7.9    7.5    6.3      3.3
Cumulative                      7.9   15.4   21.7    25.0
a/   This includes about US$10.1 million in taxes and duties.
bi   A conversion rate of G 160 = US$1 is used for all calculations from the
original Guarani costs obtained at appraisal. To insure that there would
be no overdisbursement of foreign exchange by the Bank and cofinanciers,
the foreign exchange cost has been reduced and the local costs increased
by 26%. This reflects the difference between the Bank disbursement rate
of G 160 = US$1 and the computed average exchange rate costs of project
inputs of G 210 = US$1.
c/   Includes front-end fee of $0.06 million.
d/   Based on effectiveness in June 1984.



- iii -
Economic Rate
of Return:        27Z to 39% (range of farm models' ERRs).
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 4697-PA dated November 21, 1983
Map:                IBRD No. 17309



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR A
SEVENTUl LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$25 million (including
capitalized front-end fee) to assist in financing a Seventh Livestock
Development Project. The Loan would have a term of 17 years including four
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. FONPLATA has agreed
in principle to co-finance the project with a Loan of US$15 million
equivalent with a term of 18 years, including four years of grace at 8% of
interest p.a. Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (ONCA) has expressed
interest in syndicating a loan of US$15 million under a "B" Loan arrangement
in which it would take a US$5 million participation. The proceeds of the
foreign financing would be onlent to the Livestock Fund (FG) at 0.5% above
the cost to the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report (3569-PA, September 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in February 1982. An economic mission visited Paraguay
in May 1983. Its report is in preparation. The following discussion is
based on the findings of this mission. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex 1.
Economic Performance
3.        Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fishing, is the
mainstay of Paraguay's economy. Between 1976 and 1981, these activities
directly accounted for about 30% of GDP and nearly 50% of employment;
directly and indirectly, they provided over 95% of merchandise export
earnings. Most of Paraguay's manufacturing industry consists of the
processing of agricultural materials, both for home consumption and for
export. Although no significant mineral resources have been found, the
country has ample land suitable for farming and livestock raising, as well as
large areas of forest land.
4.        During the 1960s, the real growth of agricultural output and of
total GDP was slow, averaging 1.8% and 4.3% per year, respectively. The
introduction of soybean cultivation in 1970 accelerated growth, and both
crop production and forestry exploitation expanded substantially. Livestock
production also increased, albeit at a slower pace. The joint construction
with Brazil of the Itaipu hydroelectric dam on the Parana river, which was
started in the mid-1970s, gave a strong new impulse to the economy, in
combination with favorable world market conditions for cotton and soybeans,
Paraguay's main export crops. In response to these developments, Paraguay's
GDP grew at an average annual rate of 10% during 1975-1981.
5.        Growth was accompanied by improvements in the standard of living,
reflected in increased life expectancy, higher literacy rates and declining
child mortality.   Nutritional levels now are comparable to those in



- 2 -
countries with higher per capita incomes. Agricultural growth has raised the
real incomes of those living in rural areas, who make up about three-fifths
of the population. A significant share of cotton and soybean output, which
accounts for most of the recent expansion, is grown by small farmers, many of
whom have received land under government and privately sponsored colonization
programs. Despite some lags, rural wages have generally been rising in real
terms.
6.        The rapid growth of Paraguay's agricultural production has been
associated with a significant expansion of the area under cultivation
principally through colonization. This process was carried out largely by
small farmers, who, particularly at the beginning, migrated from the
minifundia area around Asuncion. Settlement programs initially were
organized by the government but later became massive and largely spontaneous;
recently, expansion has been further stimulated--and to some extent
guided--by the construction of roads into new areas and the improvement of
the existing road network.
7.        This decade of sustained economic growth came to an abrupt halt
in 1982. After decelerating towards the end of 1981, GDP fell by 2% in 1982,
value added in the agricultural and industrial sectors declining by 3% and
5%, respectively. GDP is expected to fall a further 5% in 1983.
Unemployment jumped from 3% to 12% between 1981 and 1982, and underemployment
began to rise. Although still low compared to other countries, the fiscal
deficit has widened; a deficit of 2.5 to 3.0% of GDP is expected for 1983.
Domestic capital formation dropped by 10%, without taking into account the
large drop in activity at Itaipu. The Central Bank lost US$120 million (15%)
of reserves in 1982, a further loss of US$170 million is foreseen in 1983.
8.        Several factors have contributed to the recession, most of them
exogenous. Beginning in mid-1981, the large devaluation of the Argentine
peso, and later of the Brazilian cruzeiro, reversed the direction of border
trade. Thus, Paraguay's exports to its neighbors and Argentinian tourism to
Paraguay ceased almost completely. Construction of Itaipu is in its final
stages, while the Yacyreta project, which is proceeding at a slower pace than
programmed, has failed to pick up the slack. Direct capital inflows from
both projects, and hence direct demand for Paraguayan goods and services,
fell from US$470 million in 1981 (8% of GDP) to US$345 million in 1982, and
are projected to fall to US$225 million (3% of a reduced GD?) in 1983.
9.        The world recession caused a large deterioration in Paraguay's
terms of trade.  While the prices of Paraguay's imports remained steady, the
prices of its main exports declined steeply. Between 1980 and 1982 the
prices of cotton and soybeans fell by 22% and 17%, respectively.  By the end
of 1982 their prices in real terms were at their lowest level in almost a
decade. The situation in the agricultural sector has been aggravated by the
recent flooding of extensive agricultural areas, destroying crops and leaving
thousands of families homeless. These factors have had a strong negative
effect on investor activities and expectations.



-3-
10.       A significant endogenous factor contributing to the recession was
the progressive real appreciation of the Guarani, which reduced the demand
for Paraguay'a exports and increased its demand for imports. The official
exchange rate of the Guarani vis a via the U.S. dollar has been maintained at
the same level since 1962. A large spread between the official exchange rate
and the fluctuating free market rate developed after 1981. The Central Bank
has responded by successively establishing preferential rates for the main
export commodities, increasing the rate for most private imports and
introducing administrative requirements for surrendering foreign exchange to
importers.  More recently, the Central Bank has curbed the availability of
foreign exchange to the private sector (which has, consequently, turned
increasingly to the parallel market for financing). The adjustments in the
exchange rate have improved prospects for exports and reduced the demand for
imports. The ad hoc nature of the measures, however, has resulted in a
complex system of n1ultiple exchange rates which is likely to distort resource
allocation without fully offsetting the appreciation of the Guarani.
Authorities at the Central Bank are considering rationalizing the system by
gradually moving towards a unified exchange rate.
11.       Until 1979, Paraguayan authorities pursued a cautious fiscal
policy, achieving successive current account surpluses with overall surpluses
in some years. During the period 1979-82, however, revenues grew at an
average annual rate in nominal terms of 16% while exrenditures grew at 30%.
Although part of the increase in expenditures can be explained by the
Government's efforts to expand productive and social services, there was also
a marked increase in salaries and transfers to the private sector. The
stagnation in revenues, moreover, resulted not only from lower economic
activity during 1982 but also from an inadequate tax structure.
12.       In 1983, revenues are expected to fall by almost 10%, and, if
expenditures are maintained at their 1982 level, the deficit will surpass 3%
of GDP. Accordingly, the authorities have taken successive steps to curb
expenditures and to raise revenues. Expenditure cuts have fallen mainly on
non-contractual obligations (materials, travel) and on investments. Selected
sale and stamp tax rates and taxes on oil subproducts have been adjusted.
Additional measures under consideration are a tax on the profits of selected
public enterprises and tax increases on motor vehicles, gambling, sales and
cattle slaughtering and improvements in tax administration. Congress is also
considering the introduction of a personal income tax.
13.       The fall in aggregate demand initially resulting in a slowing of
inflation, which fell, as measured by the consumer price index, from 22% in
1980 to 13% in 1981 and 7% in 1982. However, the inflationary effects of the
de facto devaluation and the fall of the Guarani in the parallel exchange
market are becoming manifest. By August of 1983, the CPI was rising at an
annual rate of 17%.



-4-
Economic Prospects
14.       The short-term outlook for the Paraguayan economy is not
encouraging. As a consequence of the recent floods, falling receipts from
the Binational Entities, private investor pessimism and a reduction in public
investment, GDP may fall by 5% in 1983. To a large extent excess capacity
and unemployment are localized in areas or industries linked directly or
indirectly to the construction of the dams, which makes relief through
compensating expenditures difficult.
15.       Nevertheless, in spite of the current difficulties and the
likelihood of slow short-term growth, Paraguay's economic prospects for the
medium term are reasonably favorable. Measures to restore equilibriua in the
fiscal and external areas have been taken, and additional measures are under
consideration by the authorities. Reservos amount to about eight months'
worth of reported imports, and the total debt service ratio is estimated at
about 24% of reported exports, reflecting a highly favorable debt maturity
structure. (If unregistered exports were included, the debt service ratio
would be only about half as high).
16.       The country has enough unutilized agricultural land to sustain for
many years the recent expansion of production, though greater attention will
need to be paid to increasing agricultural productivity. Less immediate, but
also of significance, are the revenues that will be forthcoming when Itaipu
starts producing electricity. The eventual entry of Yacyreta into full
construction will also be an important factor in reactivating the economy.
It is projected that GDP will resume growth in 1984 at a slow pace (2-3%),
accelerating gradually to about 4% by 1988. These rates are substantially
lover than those achieved in the past, reflecting the changed external
environment.
17.       Assuming the above-projected GDP growth rate and the adoption of an
adequate exchange rate policy, exports are conservatively projected to show a
gradual recovery from a 2% growth rate during 1983 to some 4% in real terms
by 1986. Exports and imports attributable to the binationals are projected
according to the projects' construction schedules. The growth of domestic
imports is projected to fall to an average rate of 3% a year, as a result of
the lover GDP growth rate and maintenance of the current higher exchange rate
for imports.
18.       Under these conditions, Paraguay, including its share in the
ownership of the binationals, would require a total net capital inflow of
about US$5.4 billion over the 1983-86 period. Of this total, some US$4.0
billion would represent half of the planned expenditures for the Tacyreta
and Itaipu Hydroelectric Projects; some US$0.35 billion would come



from long-term public loans already contracted; US$0.35 billion from direct
investment and private loans; and US$0.1 billion from the compensation
payments related to the dams. Paraguay would thus need additional net
capital inflows totaling about US$0.6 billion - or US$150 million per year,
on the average - to cover the gap. This additional borrowing is within the
country's debt service capacity, and Paraguay continues to be creditworthy
for lending on conventional terms in the orders of magnitude outlined above.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
19.       To date, Paraguay has received Bank and IDA credits (net of
cancellations) totalling US$467.3 million. Of this amount, US$417.5 million
has been lent through 25 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million has been provided by
eight IDA credits. As of September 30, 1983, Paraguay's indebtedness to the
Bank and IDA totalled US$438.6 million, including US$227.8 million of
undisbursed funds. As of December 31, 1981, the obligations held by the Bank
and IDA were equivalent to about 22% of Paraguay's external debt, with a
blend of about 15% IDA and 85% IBRD; this share is not expected to change
significantly. The service on this debt amounted to 16% of total debt
service in 19B1 or about 1.4% of exports of goods and non-factor services.
On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay to date has been 48%
for agriculture, 26% for transportation, 10% for industry, 9% for education,
5% for water supply and 2% for preinvestment studies in various sectors.
Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory, as has the
loan/credit disbursement record, except for the last year or so, when
disbursements have been affected adversely by lack of counterpart funding.
20.       IFC has had four operations in Paraguay viz., a US$4.4 million loan
with US$1.0 million equity participation for a wood processing project
(FINAP) (1974); a US$1.2 million hotel operation in the city of Encarnacion
(1980); a US$5.0 million loan with US$2.0 million equity participation for an
agricultural project in southeastern Paraguay (1982); and a US$2.5 million
loan with US$0.9 million equity participation for a hotel operation in
Asuncion (1982). The FINAP project experienced critical financial and
managerial problems, and efforts to restructure it did not succeed. IFC is
in the process of divesting itself of the assets involved. Weakened market
conditions have affected the performance of the hotel projects. Progress on
the agricultural project has been satisfactory. Annex II contains a sunmmary
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983.
21.       Current and planned Bank Group lending to Paraguay is designed to
help the Government achieve three interdependent and complementary
objectives, which are: (a) to expand output and exports by direct and
indirect support for programs that raise production and employment; (b) to
improve the management of the economy, and particularly to strengthen public
institutions and financial intermediaries; and (c) to distribute the benefits
of growth more widely, and especially to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank and the Government of Paraguay on
development strategy and the macro-economic management of the country.



- 6 -
22.       Bank Group support for industrial, agricultural and livestock
development projects in Paraguay is aimed at increasing value added and
diversifying exports of agricultural products, at expanding marketing
outlets, particularly for small farmers and at increasing productivity.
Lending for education, rural development and rural water supply programs is
designed to help ease the country's rural poverty problem and to improve the
living conditions in the rural areas. Loans for transport are designed to
help improve the road infrastructure and policies and institutions in the
sector, which provides vital support to productive activity in agriculture
and industry. Finally, pre-investment projects are aimed at supporting
programs to help overcome institutional constraints, in particular in the
areas of planning, economic management, and project preparation and
execution. Preparation work Is underway for projects In dairy development,
rural development, transport and education.
III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
23.       Agriculture is the most important economic activity in Paraguay,
accounting for about 30% of GDP, over 95% of the country's total exports, and
nearly half of the employment. Seventy percent of the total population of 3
million lived in rural areas in 19BO. The sector supplies most of the
products needed for domestic consunption except for wheat, dairy products and
fruits, which are imported mainly from neighboring countries. The Eastern
region, with good soils and well distributed rainfall, is the principal crop
production area and accounts for over 97% of the population and GDP and
comprises pasture, crop and forested areas. The Chaco area, to the west of
the Paraguay river, generates only 1.5% of the agricultural production,
mostly from extensive livestock ranches.
24.       Much of Paraguay's land area is most suitable for livestock
production. In some areas such as the lower Chaco and the south-central part
of the country, low soil fertility and/or low, poorly distributed rainfall,
only allow extensive livestock raising. In other areas, where soil fertility
is high, extensive livestock production is now practiced due to the low
rainfall. In the extreme southeast, there are areas with crop potential for
production but the investment costs to drain frequently flooded lands would
be prohibitively expensive under present conditions. Parts of eastern
Paraguay remain in livestock production for lack of adequate transport
infrastructure.
The Livestock Subsector
25.       Cattle is the most important class of livestock in Paraguay.
Smaller species such as poultry, swine and sheep have relatively little
importance although the country is generally self-sufficient in eggs, poultry
and pork. It is estimated that the average annual growth rate of the
livestock subsector has been between 3 and 4% dturing the 1970s. Reliable



- 7 -                                                 I
data on total beef production however, are not available because of
non-registered slaughter for consumption in the interior and the
non-registered sale of live cattle to Brazil for fattening or slaughter.
Local trade estimates indicate that up to 300,000 head may have been marketed
to Brazil in peak years, such as those from 1978 to 1980.
26.       The potential of the subsector by far exceeds present production
levels. The incorporation of better, already tested and known management and
technological practices could rapidly increase production in the medium-term
with economically feasible investments. However, any signiflcant increame
will require a change in attitude of the tradltional producers; relatively
stable export demand for cattle or processed beef at attractive viable
prices; and the availability of financing, research data and technical
assistance.
Marketing and Prices
27.       In general, the marketing of agricultural products in Paraguay has
been free from Government regulations, and the prices for most products are
determined by domestic supply and demand and external market conditions,
especially in Argentina and Brazil. The only exceptions are the guaranteed
price for wheat, payable at the mills, and reference, but not guaranteed,
prices for sugar and cotton.
28.       Domestic beef cattle prices have Improved since the mid-1970s
because of increased internal demand, installation of live cattle auction
markets, improved quality and high demand from Brazil. Since the late 1970.,
exports of processed meat have been declining, in part because of the
overvaluation of the exchange rate. Registered exports of meat almost ceased
at the exchange rate of G 126 - US$1, since exporters could not compete with
the prices paid in the internal market or prices that could be obtained for
unregistered live cattle sales to Brazil. Beginning in July 1982, Government
approved a preferential exchange rate for processed beef exports, which in
March 1983 was about G 190, increasing further to G 205 in May 1983. At
these exchange rates, the exporting industry is becoming competitive and
exports of processed beef are increasing.
29.       Total milk production is insufficient even for Paraguay'- low per
capita consumption and is marketed mainly in the raw form through individual
consumer distribution. The lack of an organized processing industry and
competition from imported processed and dry milk have an important negative
impact on prices to producers. Commercial milk production has been based on
a temperate climate model using dairy breeds, mainly Holstein cattle, which
requires costly feeding and management inputs. Recent investments in a milk



processing plant by a Hennonite cooperative will provide pasteurized milk to
Asuncion and there are plans to modernize one of the milk plants in
Asuncion. The Ministry of Agriculture has requested funds from the Second
Preinvestment Project (Loan 1780-PA) to conduct a complete study of the milk
industry, including production, processing and marketing. This study, in
addition to the cooperative investments and further technical assistance
should lead to a rationalization of the industry.
30.       Prices for pork products are low because of the lack of a
significant processing industry and the low quality of animals produced. The
production and marketing of poultry is controlled by a small number of
producers and it is well organized.
31.       The Government places high priority on the development of the
livestock subsector in view of the comparative advantage vis-a-vis crop
production in most parts of the country and the potential for increasing
foreign exchange earnings.
32.       Agricuiture is suDjecr to a uax on rarm properry o. ±&. .-ne valuc
is established periodically w;i;:1   *Lp'mLt . Li Large Properties.  I
transfer tax of G 1,000 (US$6.25) is levied on each head of cattle sold;
also, slaughterhouses and meat processing industries are subject to a tax of
G 1,025 per head. Agricultural inputs and products are free from sales taxes
but import duties are significant and range from 59% on the c.i.f. price of
generating equipment to 24% for most machinery.
Research and Extension
33.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (HAG) is responsible for
policy formulation and for administering support services. Its most
important activities are research, extension and marketing aud collection of
agricultural statistics. There are two centers and six substations for
agricultural research and three livestock research substations with a total
staff of 73 professionals. While there have been some successes in crop
research, there has not been much progress in the livestock sector because of
limited funds and lack of trained scientists as well as inappropriate
research directions. In part, lack of funding is the consequence of the
long-term nature of livestock research as compared to crop research which
gives almost immediate results.  With the possible exception of pasture
research, this deficiency would only be critical in the long term. The Bank
is presently conducting a sector study which will consider the need for
possible assistance in the area of research. The experience gained by
Argertina and Brazil in livestock research could prove to be very useful to
Paraguay. Improved technology has been imported, mainly from Brazil, and is
incorporated haphazardly on a trial and error basis. This applies
particularly to livestock and soybean production. The extension service,
with some 300 technicians, also suffers from lack of adequately trained staff
and insufficient funding. The National Development Bank (BNF), with 93
agricultural technicians, also provides some extension services. Neither of
these agencies has significant programs for livestock production. Private
middlemen and suppliers are also sources of technology transfer, especially
in the principal export crops and for disease prevention and control in
livestock. The National University of Asuncion provides most of the advanced
level agricultural education and some research. The Livestock Fund,
strengthened by credit support from the Bank, maintains a task force of



- 9 -
technicians for credit and technical assistance.  They provide limited
technical assistance, besides helping ranchers prepare investment plans and
loan applications, supplemented by contracted private technicians. It is the
only significant source of assistance to the livestock sector.
Agricultural Credit
34.       Institutional agricultural credit in Paraguay is provided by the
general banking system and certain specialized entities. The banking system
consists of the Central Bank, the Government-owned Naiional Development Bank
(BNF), 22 private commercial banks and the specialized public credit entities
comprising the Livestock Fund (FG) and the Small Farmer Rehabilitation Credit
Agency (CAH). Farmer associations and cooperatives which are affiliated
either with the National Credit Cooperative, Ltd. (CREDICOOP) or the
Federation of Producers Cooperatives (PECOPROD) also act as credit
intermediaries. Non-institutional sources are important in providing
seasonal production credit and consumption credit to smallholder producers of
cash crops.
35.       BNF is by far the most important source of institutional credit to
crop and mixed crop/livestock farmers in Paraguay. In 1981 it accounted for
51% of the USS200 million total agricultural institutional lending in
Paraguay serving about 15% of the farmers and financing 30% of the area under
cash crops. Over 80% of its borrowers were small-scale farmers. In spite of
the importance of BNF, FG is basically the only source of term lending in the
livestock sector. FG was established with Bank assistance in 1969 and became
an independent branch of the Central Bank in 1974 and it has developed into
an expanding source of investment credit for livestock. Of the six
credits/loans from the IDA/Bank primarily for financing investment programs
for livestock production, the last three have been implemented by FG as an
autonomous institution. FG has provided credit assistance to a total of
about 8,500 producers, of which 2,000 received subloans under the most recent
loan (1979-PA).
36.       The beneficiaries of FG lending are, in general, commercially
oriented livestock producers. Traditionally they have been classified into
small, medium and large categories based on physical farm size, which is not
always an appropriate indicator of the production potential of the farm.
Under the most recent project (Loan 1979-PA), the typical "large-scale ranch"
had an average of 4,000 ha with 1,900 head of cattle and a net income before
project of about USS12.000. The average size of investment loans approved
was US$62,400.  The "medium-scLle ranch" had 1100 ha, 330 head of cattle and
about US$3,000 net income. The average subloan size was US$28,400. The
"small producer" had 54 ha and 14 cattle but almost all of his cash income
was from sale of cotton and soybeans. The average loan size was US$10,600.
Hence, the large producers benefitting from the project were not among the
bigger cattle ranchers which typically have more than 10,000 ha and more than
5,000 cattle. These very large producers do not work with FG, because of
restrictions on subloan size, and have other sources of financing. In recent
years, these large landholders have been primarily foreign investors.
37.       Policy-making and loan approval functions in FG are vested in a
coordinating committee which operates as a Board of Directors; it consists of
a senior staff member from CB as President, a senior staff member from BNF,



- 10 -
and FG's Technical Director. There are two in-line Directorates--
Administrative and Technical--and one in-line Evaluations Division. The
Directorates are assisted by specialized Divisions and Sections with
headquarters in Asuncion. There are three branch offices in the interior
operatiug as extensions of the Technical Directorate (in Concepcion, San
Ignacio, and Ciudad Presidente Stroessner).
38.       FG has operated since its inception with funds provided from World
Bank credits/loans. In the initial years, CB provided counterpart funds, but
in the last four projects these have been generated within FG by roll-over
funds from earlier Bank/IDA projects. In the sixth project (1979-PA), the
OPEC Fund provided US$10.0 million of cofinancing. Total Bank/IDA support
since 1963 has been US$72.45 million, with total project costs of US$136.4
million. Between 1973 and the end of 1982, F&, with its own funds, has
provided subloans, additional to Bank projects, for a total of US$28.0
million. These subloans have been for periods of oae to five years,
primarily for supplementary investments and purchase of breeding stock.
Because of the rapid disbursement of 1979-PA and the resulting demand for
counterpart funds, FG now has very limited funds available for non-Bank
financed lending.
39.       FG has maintained a strong financial position throughout its
history. Average revenues from lending operations has been almost twice the
average borrowing costs of FG and operating expenses have been maintained at
under 2% of the average loan portfolio. Average cost of borrowing has ranged
between 4 and 5%, while average revenue from loans has ranged from 8% to 9%.
FG has been characterized by a strong management and emphasis on careful
selection of beneficiaries, preparation of detailed investment plans, close
supervision of investments, a history of applying positive interest rates,
and prompt collection of subloans. FG's gross disbursed and outstanding loan
portfolio as of December 1982 was equivalent to US$98.0 million. This
portfolio accounted for over 95% of total assets, and it was funded by
external loans (70%) and equity (30%). PG has kept the amount of principal
debts in arrears below 5% except in 1982, when it reached 5.8%. As of
December 31, 1982, the number of loans granted was 6,855, with an aggregated
principal amount close to US$155 million equivalent.
40.       The past association of IDA/Bank has been of great importance in
the institutional development of FG. The earlier IDA credits allowed the
institution to strengthen its financial position rapidly through the large
spread between costs of borrowing and lending and, while this margin has
decreased with Bank loans, it has still been sufficient to permit continued
improvements in the financial position of FG. The allowance for this spread
reflects a Government decision to provide for the capitalization of FG, to
assist in making it self-financing instead of relying on budgetary
allocations for this purpose.
Bank Group Involvement
41.       The proposed project would be the thirteenth Bank Group-supported
agricultural project in Paraguay. The first was a general-purpose project in
1951, followed by five livestock projects, four rural development projects, a



- 11 -
livestock and agricultural development project, and an agricultural credit
project, which has recently been approved to provide investment subloans to
small- and medium-sized crop producers throughout the country. In general,
the experience with these projects has been satisfactory, and, despite
implementation delays, they have contributed to increased agricultural
production and hence general living standards of the rural population.
42.       The Bank has supported the livestock subsector lending since 1963.
The first three operations (Credits 47 and 86, Credit/Loan 156-PA and
620-PA), were implemented by BNF in conjunction with FG which was a
coordinating committee established in the CB. In 1974, with the
implementation of the Fourth Livestock Project (1037-PA), FG was given full
legal and administrative autonomy and has since successfully implemented the
livestock components of Loans 1674 and 1979-PA. The Project Performance
Audit Report (PPAR) of Credit 156-PA and Loan 620-PA by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) indicated that beef production and productivity
fell short of the appraisal projections as a result of less efficient ranch
management, more limited technical assistance than had been expected and, to
a lesser degree, insufficient progress in expanding improved pastures. The
financial rate of return to sub-borrowers was calculated to be 18Z while the
economic rate of return was 11% compared to appraisal estimates of 24Z-302
and 29% respectively. 1, The most recent PPAR on a livestock project (Loan
1037-PA) indicated that the project had brought about increases in
productivity, but most of the increase in production (56.5 m tons live weight
of beef and 31.5 million liters of milk) resulted from increases in
production area. The project economic rate of return was estimated at 23%
compared to the appraisal estimate of 24X.2/
43.       The Livestock and Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1674-PA)
included credit and technical assistance components for FG. An extension
unit was established to provide improved technical assistance, primarily to
smaller producers, and an expatriate co-director was employed for three years
under a cost sharing UNDP technical assistance project for which the Bank was
the executing agency. In this project, most medium- and all large-scale
ranchers, who were not themselves technicians, were required to contract an
FG-approved private technician to assist in ranch planning and management
improvement. The credit portion is fully disbursed and the technical
assistance project will be completed in December 1983. The Livestock
Development Project (Loan 1979-PA) which became effective in December of 1981
is 902 disbursed. Under this project, FG provided free technical assistance
to small- and lower level medium-scale producers. This project included an
important component (45% of project funds) for small producers based on the
assumption that mixed farms (livestock/crops) but predominantly based on
1/ -Project Performance Audit Report: Paraguay - Third Livestock Project
(Credit/Loan 156-PA and 620-PA). OED Report Sec M78-2428 of March 28,
1978.
2/ -Project Performance Audit Report: Paraguay. Fourth Livestock Project
(Loan 1037-PA)".  OED Report Sec M81-3457 of May 26, 1981.



- 12 -
livestock would be established. In actual practice, these producers were
primarily interested in investments for crop production. Swine production,
which had been expected to be the primary livestock component for the mixed
farms did not prosper because of lack of demand for the product. Moreover,
FG was not equipped to provide specialized technical assistance to this type
of producer and it considered that such lending was in direct competition
with the area of responsibility of BNF. The subloan recovery rate for these
producers has been lower than for livestock investments, because of climatic
factors and reduced prices to producers because of international market
conditions. Although physical production achievements have been lower than
appraisal estimates, they have generally continued to improve in the last few
years since most of the earlier investments were in the provision of water
points and fencing of native pastures and these do not result in immediate
increases in productivity.
44.       The Bank's past association with FG has helped substantially in
terms of institution building and has assisted in the establishment and
maintenance of a beef pricing and marketing system essentially free of
distortions and restrictions. However, despite significant progress over the
years, more remains to be done.
IV. THE PROJECT
Background
45.       The proposed project was prepared by FG and the Preparation Report
was received by the Bank in January 1983. A Bank mission appraised the
project in April 1983. A report, entitled Staff Appraisal Report - Livestock
Development Project (No. 4697-PA) is being circulated separately. A Loan and
Project Summary is attached to this report. Negotiations with the Borrower
took place in Washington in November 1983. The Paraguayan delegation was
headed by Dr. Cesar Romeo Acosta, President of the Central Bank of Paraguay.
A supplementary project data sheet is included as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The main project objective is to provide the financial and
technical assistance required for realizing the country's potential for
livestock production and exports. The proposed project aims to expand
livestock production throughout the country, thereby increasing income to
producers and strengthening the balance of payments through exports of beef
and reduced imports of milk. The proposed project would assist in the
expansion of term lending through FG; improve the quality and intensity of
the technical assistance available to the livestock industry through a
well-integrated system of technical appraisal, supervision of subloans and
extension; strengthen the institution to meet the requirements of a rapidly
expanding number of clients and portfolio size and reduce the reliance of FG
on the World Bank by diversifying its sources of financing.
The Investment Program
47.       The proposed project is expected to finance, over a four-year
investment period, about 1,700 subloans. The beneficiaries would be
small-scale (up to 250 ha), mainly dairy producers, medium- (from 250 to



- 13 -
2,500 ha) and large-scale (above 2,500 ha) beef producers (paragraph 36). It
is estimated that there would be about 225 subloans for small-scale
producers, 700 for medium-scale and 350 for large-scale producers. In
addition, there would be 445 subloans for cattle fattening, mostly for small-
and medium-scale producers. The proportion of subloans assigned to large-
and medium-scale producers reflects the emphasis placed by Government on the
critical need to increase exports and foreign exchange earnings, and the fact
that these are the farmers who mainly contribute to the production of beef
which is one of the four major exports of the country.  Besides, the number
of small producers principally engaged in livestock production is relatively
small. Many of these are mixed farmers whose activity is, predominantly,
crop production, and whose credit needs can be adequately attended by the BNF
from the resources available to it from its external credit lines which are
mainly designed to serve such beneficiaries. Medium- and long-term subloans
would finance on-farm investments consisting of land destumping, purchase of
equipment, seeding of improved pastures, construction of livestock handling
facilities, provision of water points and purchase of improved breeding
stock. A supplemental short-term loan line financed by the "B" Loan and
local funds would be available for the purchase of feeder steers to more
efficiently utilize improved pastures developed with this or previous
subloans from PG.
Institutional Development
48.       The proposed project would provide for the preparation and
implementation of a reorganization program for the administrative, accounting
and technical functions of FG. While these are generally sound, this program
would allow PG to expand its present capacity of about 900 subloans per year
to a level approaching 2,000 annual clients. It would also provide for a
more effective technical assistance role. The reorganization program would
distribute the activities and responsibilities of second-tier management more
equitably, separate the administrative and service responsibilities of the
administrative director, rationalize and strengthen the functions of the
technical directorate, computerize the processing and storage of data,
strengthen the internal auditing system and provide for changes in the
accounting system, including the adoption of the accrual system. FG
contracted in mid-1983 two consulting firms to assist in the institutional
and accounting system reorganization, which includes the computerization of
data. The main proposals for the reorganization were discussed with the
Bank. FG, with the assistance of its consultants, will prepare a final
program, which will be provided to the Bank for comments. The adoption of
the reorganization program, satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of L oan
effectiveness (Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement and Section
6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       In addition, a four-year work program for the technical assistance
activities of FG was discussed and agreed during negotiations. The formal
adoption of this work program would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
(Section 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement and Section 6.01(d) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The work program would, inter alia, provide for- a tech-
nical assistance program for all sub-borrowers for a minimum of two years
from the date of subloan approval, which would include more frequent visits
from FG over a longer period of time and help in the improvement of manage-
ment and production techniques; a specific training program for FG tech-
nicians in the areas of subloan preparation, farm record systems, project



- 14 -
evaluation, forage production and general livestock husbandry; and specific
methods to be utilized for supervision and evaluation of private technicians
contracted as a condition of subloans.
FG Lending Terms and Conditions
50.       Project subloans would be for periods of up to 12 years with up to
5 years of grace and would bear interest and commission charges at an initial
effective interest rate of no less than 18% per annum for small- and
medium-scale producers (the same as BNF's interest rates for agricultural
lending) and no less than 20% for large-scale producers. In addition, a
one-time front-end fee of 4% for small-scale producers and 6% for medium- and
large-scale producers would be charged. The effective rates on this basis
are positive in real terms at current and projected inflation rates and cover
FG's finaacial and operating costq. Inflation was 22% in 1980, 14% in 1981,
7% in 1982, and is projected to be 17% in 1983, 14% in 1984 and an average of
9% between 1985-88. In line with FG's policy of providing loans at positive
interest rates, FC, CB and the Bank would review the rates charged at least
once a year and more frequently if so required by inflation levels. If it is
found that they do not cover FG's net operating costs and maintain the value
of its capital, they would be modified to meet these criteria and an adjusted
commission would be charged on new subloans. Real interest rates would be
determined by comparing rates charged with reference to the variation of the
Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the previous calendar year. If necessary
modifications are not implemented within 60 days of the publication of the
CPI, FG would not make further commitments of loan proceeds until an
agreement is reached on a new rate among FG, CB and the Bank (Schedule 2(c)
of the draft Project Agreement).
51.       Subloans made to project beneficiaries would follow standard
procedures presently used by FG. Investment subloans would be processed and
approved on the basis of detailed farm plans that demonstrate the technical,
economic and financial viability of the proposed investment. A producer
applying for a repeat subloan would have a study made of the impact of his
previous subloans and would receive further credit only if an adequate
increase in production or productivity as a result of the previous investment
could be demonstrated. The approval of the Central Bank of these terms and
conditions for subloans would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       Subloans would finance up to 90% of investment costs for small- and
75% for medium-size specialized livestock producers, and up to 70% for
large-scale ranchers. Depending on the size of the production unit, subloans
for on-farm investments would have different interest rates (paragraph 50
above), beneficiary participation, and grace and amortization schedules
(Schedule 2(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
53.       In order to ensure a broad distribution of subloans, the total
outstanding debt for subloans from PG to any individual beneficiary receiving
a subloan under the project would not exceed US$150,000 at the official
exchange rate prevailing at the time of subloan approval. The total
outstanding debt to extend a short-term loan to a cattle fattener would not
exceed US$60,000 at the official exchange rate prevailing at the time of the
short-term loan approval (Schedule 1(d) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 15 -
Project Costs and Financing
54.       The total project costs are estimated at US$121.1 million including
US$10.1 million in taxes and duties. The total cost of the investment
program is estimated at US$114.1 million equivalent, of which US$52.3 million
is foreign exchange. The investment program includes US$43.0 million for
large-scale producers, US$41.7 for medium-scale producers, US$17 million for
small-scale producers and US$12.4 million for cattle fattening (paragraph
47). No price contingency is included in view of the nature of the project,
except for the administrative and technical services component (paragraph
55), which is wholly financed by FG.
55.       To carry out the increased lending program, FG would have to
maintain and upgrade its technical and administrative services at a cost
estimated at US$7.0 million, of which US$1.6 million is foreign exchange.
This component would be entirely financed by FG. A portion of the funds
required for this purpose would be provided from a special fund established
from the interest earnings of FG or OPEC co-financing provided in conjunction
with Loan 1979-PA; these funds can only be used for technical assistance.
56.       The proposed Loan of US$25 million would finance about 22% of the
investment program. FONPLATA is considering a Loan of US$15 million
equivalent for the financing of FG's investment program (13%). Meeting all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of FONPLATA funding would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan (Section 6.01(e) of the draft
Loan Agreement). A "B" Loan of US$15 million is being explored with CNCA to
finance 13% of the investment program. The foreign joint financing,
totalling US$55 million, would finance 100% of the project's foreign exchange
cost and 1% of local costs. The contribution of FG's borrowers is estimated
at US$25 million equivalent. External financing would not finance any taxes
or duties.3/
57.       The Government would onlend the proceeds of the loans to FG in
local currency at 0.5% above the Bank and cofinanciers rates, with the same
periods of repayment and grace as the external loans. The onlending terms
and conditions of the Loan would be included in a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and PG. Execution of the subsidiary agreement,
3/ The Government would receive US Dollars from all external financiers at
an initial exchange rate of G 160 = US$1 and would provide foreign
exchange for the import of project inputs at this same rate which,
including fees, commissions, and interest on deposited local funds, would
be increased to about G 178-180. However, not all import/export
transactions are carried out through official channels because of direct
sales of live cattle to Brazil and direct purchases of inputs from Brazil
and Argentina. The costs of inputs imported at G 178 aa compared to an
export exchange of about G 205 = US$1 (paragraph 25) implies a subsidy
from exporters to importers which would disappear if the exchange rates
were unified.



- 16 -
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of Loan effectiveness.
(Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).  The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk while FG would bear the interest risk.
Procurement
58.       Recipients of the subloans would purchase, during a four-year
period, on-farm development inputs (paragraph 47) from established local
agents and other ranchers in Paraguay, Argentina, and Brazil. The Paraguayan
sales agents for physical inputs represent a broad spectrum of international
and local suppliers. The use of international competitive bidding would not
be practical as purchases would vary widely in location and time; however,
local suppliers represent Bank member countries and provide the required
goods and vehicles and equipment services. Items to be procured under the
project are not subject to any quantitative import restrictions.
Disbursements
59.       The proceeds of the Bank/cofinancier Loan are expected to be
disbursed over a period of four years. Bank and co-financier's disbursements
would be made against certified statements of expenditures.The control
arrangements within FG have worked satisfactorily in earlier projects and are
adequate for the adoption of this procedure. The documentation for
expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by FG
for review by the Bank at any time.
Accounts and Audits
60.       Separate project accounts, records and documentation weold be
maintained by FG. FG would establish an accrual basis of accounting,
satisfactory to the Bank on January 1, 1985 (Section 3.04 of the draft
Project Agreement). The Bank has received evidence that an internal auditing
unit has been established by FG to carry out audits in the headquarters and
branch offices and on a sample of sub-borrowers' farms but its efficacy would
have to be monitored. Financial statements of FG, including a statement on
sources and uses of funds, would be audited annually by independent auditors,
satisfactory to the Bank, who would adopt the published Bank norms for
auditing of project accounts. This activity has been carried out in past
projects by the Office of the Superintendent of Banks and has been generally
acceptable but some changes are needed in procedures. The actual audit would
include financial information supporting statements of expenditures used to
claim reimbursements from the Bank. Certified copies of the audited accounts
and the report of the auditors would be sent to the Bank no later than six
months after the close of Government's fiscal year. (Section 3.03 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
61.       PG would maintain complete project monitoring and conduct ongoing
and er-post evaluation for at least 10% of sub-borrowers in each category.
It would submit to the Bank every six months a progress report, including key
indicator figures and details on implementation of the reorganization and



- 17 -
technical assistance activities. A draft completion report would be prepared
by FG's evaluation division and submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the closing date of the Bank Loan. (Section 2.07 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
62.       The project would strengthen the self-financing capability of FG
and increase the availability of investment and production credit to farmers,
thereby enabling them to increase pasture areas and increase beef and milk
output, while facilitating the specialization among farmers of the national
livestock industry toward beef breeding, rearing and fattening, and milk
production. At full development, it is expected that aggregate production of
beef by the project (liveweight basis) would be increased by 121,000 tons
(equivalent to US$74.7 million) and that of milk by 10.4 million liters
(US$3.5 million). It is expected that three-fourths of the incremental
livestock sales would be exported as live cattle or processed beef. The
annual net farm income after debt service and at full development is expected
to increase from US$16,100 to US$64,100 for large-size beef ranches, from
US$4,700 to US$29,700 for medium-size beef ranches, and from US$5,000 to
US$42,400 for small-size dairy farms. During the years of debt service,
income increases are about one-third of the levels reached at full
development. The projected increase in incomes is a result of improved
pasture and herd management; i.e., reduction in the fattening period for
steers and increase in the proportion of cows combined with higher carrying
capacity of the ranches will allow to increase significantly the number of
animals that can be sold.
63.       The project would also help strengthen the administrative and
technical capacity of FG through maintaining positive interest rates; a
reorgar%ization to allow FG to handle efficiently its increased activities,
responsibilities and portfolio size; improved levels of technical assistance;
and initiation of a shift to computerization of accounting and portfolio
control.
64.       The financial and economic justification of the project has been
assessed through the analysis of farm models, representing different farm
sizes, locations, technologies and investment plans. Both the financial and
economic analyses have been prepared in constant mid-1983 prices, taking into
account Bank's international price forecasts. The resulting financial rates
of return on investment for comprehensive farm development programs, ranging
from 25% for large-scale beef ranches to 33% for dairy producers, indicate
that it would be profitable for producers to undertake the proposed
investment. Rates are similar to those experienced under earlier FG
projects. The strong demand for FG's agricultural credit and technical
assistance also suggests the profitability of these investments. The
economic rates of return on individual project components are estimated as
follows: large-size beef ranch, 27%; medium-size beef ranch, 29%; and
small-size dairy farm, 39%, respectively.
65.       One of the risks associated with the project relates to beef
exports. Past exports of live cattle depended predominantly on the Brazil



- i8 -
live cattle market which has been historically a ready outlet for Paraguayan
exporters. If this market should become inaccessible because of import
controls, live cattle exports would decrease and substantial pressure would
be placed on the Paraguayan exporting meat packers to increase exports of
processed beef. Paraguay consumes only about 50% of total beef produced and
thus the viability of the livestock industry is dependent upon the
availability of an export market. However, the prospects of the export
market remain favorable because of the comparative advantage in cost of
production of the Paraguayan producers.
66.       There is a certain element of risk also associated with the
small-scale dairy producer. The production package requirea a level of
management and technical skills that already exists but has not been fully
tested. The farmer's willingness to change to a forage-based production
system, his ability to adopt the mechanical milk handling package and to
expand forage production adequately would be tested. A heavy use of
concentrate feeds in lieu of forage would, however, reduce, but not
eliminate, the financial attractiveness of the undertaking.
67.       The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
effects. Land converted to pasture from either forest or abandoned crop
areas would have adequate soil cover to prevent or reduce erosion effects.
Very little deforestation would be financed by the project based on data from
the previous project where only 1% of the hectares under crop or pasture
production was deforested.
PART V - LEGAL IJSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic nf Paraguay and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Livestock Fund
(FG) and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the Loan are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECONNEKDATIONS
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 13, 1983



BEST CUPf AVAILABLE
-19-                                                        A
T A A 1. E 5A1
PARAGUAY                 - SOCIAL  lNU                     l     CAOSDAASHE
UC ECNS             NIGgDLE lNCIS            MIDE INCIE
ASIA (TIHOAAU                           406.8       46 5        In6.2
TiTACINURAL141.7                                 i54.5       1                                           245376
CP rim CPIlTA tUR3)                    260.0        410io      1610.0            2fsl.2
g p   gf l t   C O N S T  Z p E O N   f l U   C A P Ta
mmC. MS  1OP COA  mUIVAL'IT)         80.0       t1n.0        e000             jhl.7.6                    15O.l
po ImLTOll AMNhT&  (TATTA  S)    1778.0            2290.0      3057,.b             f5.9
URLA  PPATI   H l   (% OP ioA)       3 5.         37.1          .
PPULATInN PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                .0
STATIONARY POPLnATION CHLL)                                2105
YE.AR STATWINART POP. REACHED
PENR s?. tml.                                                                 15.12414 9  17             82.0
PoPULATION iigNgIrt                   2.&          5.6                          93.2
pyS.50.£31  AI                     12.5        248          17.0                                         52
.-UD   IKM   0AGRI. L                                                                                   31.9
popULATtOE DCAS    STRAUCTUIRE C)                  40                           55  .6                     60.9
so.A        50.1        52.                4.17.
15-64m                              3.3         3.3          3.4
6,5 AND ABOVE                                                                                              .
COPSILATION CROMlI RAT                2.61c       2.5Ja        2.6                                          3.4
F"IILY  n.sw                                  t~~~~~~~~~~6.0/d
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (I S)              ..           ..         6.3
USE.RS t: OF HASSD IES)..._
JIDEX  OF FOOD PROW. fllR CAPITA     94.0       103.0          9.0                                         9.1
OP         114.0       121.0        134~~    ~      ~ ~~~.0  1.1                 12.6
rgouxS CEtAT^5    (PS RMTH TU )                                               671.                        36.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATh RATC           9.0                      2.                                          10.
HELTH  tPC.AUR1  YbS                    559        598         416642.6                                    6X7.2
INFANT MOlT. SATE (PER  fOUS)        8.9         59.8        4.1 
LRIDDFAXET. ATgRh(YAS                 5.                      A66267.
ACC_SF TO SAFE HA5tR (Er5,9)2110                              253.01            66.67
URBY71AN                             153         2.0         25.07?              7.
RURAL                                .,.c                    s.o7F            44.3..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOS
(T OF pOPULATION)                       ,a56
TRTAL                                  ,      16.0        10.0                59.6
tURAT91CZN1616                                               20                 *0.6
URR CAPITA SUPPLY OF110.0                   5226.0       1304.0             17176. 020
DM51tSPER HOSIC1T8L Sf096..8.
8<e^VMEIC ce Am Miz    DAY 7t5HL55,35                5 0
POPULD ATEION      DA    PT         fE0         1760         210.001.
URMNO                                       5 ,5.6 _13       6.67
OVE. PCE NU. AN BERSOTH C OORS                  59N  2                         66
ACOP.- PER HSPIAL VRED?op            40.0        600.0        700.0/!           £77.053.
TOTAL                              L.           20         M    T7.
URBAN                                   .                  4.0               6
RURAL                             210P0)O360.0            392.
Rum                                                                         i7.                          62 *'  ___
ForISSPEN  PEHOSP ITAL AL BED                                     2f 7.2                                  206.0
RURAL                      s.~~~~~~),jA:                          1921.
AVERAGESNOE OF PUONS/RLDO               2.6fj       2.4/b
TOTAL                                           i.Y7W5-O
URBAN                                            3. 17W
RURAL
ACCESS To ELECT. CE OF WmatINGS) ~t3.2            17 :1
URBAN12b                                         121
RURAL



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                     r 0 -
AWE 
Page 2
'r A 11 1. F A
PANAIIIIAY     -.:-!211~~IIICAf  MINIIAIR   AApif
rPARAii;AY                              RiW.FFiINrKi rmlti..i(M I 11:11i3:H AlF*~i*i 'BFflt
g sr                lw~~~~~ner t?r RPIN r rIMA r   Fl.) I j -
,40           ,h0'  RVrVNghT   b    LAY. , IMIIE  p.owc       MIMI F TNCWfFF
I"6nfb      l_tg' I7 :rlFt1-:     NAT  AHIAICA A CAtll                riii nr
RI50CATIOU
ANIJINTMI¶ rmnw .imIwtr RArtos
PRINARVU   T;WTAI.                    .         19.n         10. n10.0                                      162.2
HALF                    205.0        111.0        106.0              In6f.                       o07.2
FVI)AI.P.                90.0        101.0        93.0               103.1.                      97.6
stIcNDARVi TTAL.                     11.0        17.0         26.0               40.0                        56.1
FAL.:                    11.0         17.0        2h.0               Il6                         63.4
plar"LI                  11.0         17.0        26.'               41:2                        43.9
voCArlmlAI. (i nr S!IKIJMARYI           7.1         6.           4.15/1            34.0                        22.4
PUPIL-TEACHKR RATIn
PRIMARY                             28.0         12.0         23.0               30.7                        36.7
61ODN1)AIIY                           8.0         9.0         12.0               16.7                        22.1
APIMT LITRRACY KATI? (t)                           1174.6  60.1/b  64.0            79.1                        69.7
OORlIUMP ION1
PASSP.pr.rR CARSI1TIILIANIi ror         2.1         6.7           ..               45S                         52.9
3tA1110 RKIVPVI'STIFII'lsA'IInr        82.P        73.6         61.7              228.2                       165.5
TV Rr.CrIVERS/TIIDlttSAIn Plr            ..        14.P         20.1              206.3                       124.2
II1JsPAPF.R ("411.9AII.f lMNEX
MITREST') Ct1l4CI:I.ATIII
PFe  TioU%AIil POPLLAr?fN             16.9        43.2         30.2               64.I                        96.3
CINDAA ANNtIAL ATTV.NANCEICAPITA         ..           ..          ..                2.9                         2.9
LABIR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TIIOUS)            578.0       724.0        938.0
MOALI (PERCM?)                      21.6         21.5         23.8               24.8                       34.5
ACRICILT'RF (PrRCEKM)                56.3        52.6         44.1               12.3                        40.7
INDUSTNY (PPRCE.%r)                 19.0         19.2         20.4               21.9                       23.4
PARTICIPAT:I1N RATE. (PEACEN'T)
ToAL.                               32.5         31.6         32.3               11.3                        42.0
HALF                                 51.7        50.0         49.4               49.d                        35.2
?L4M.r                               13.9        13.5         15.4               14.6                        29.1
ECWNOIHTC ni:mirEnm   RATTO             1.5         1.6          1.5                1.4                         0.9
INCO1. DISTRIRiTrION
PEFkCrVr OF PrIVATE IRCrltE
RECEIVED BY
HdTIHEST 31 Or HOLUsCmMnS              ..
"Ill;lllT 20:. Or HiltUS-r11ODS        .            ..                              ..
LM*!T :n;s OF HP-MS l IIS             .            ..                              ..
LOWEST ant OF IIONSEHOLDS              ..
POurRTY TiROET GROUPrS
CST1ATED ABSOLUTC r^iVFRTY ItIVE
LCVEL (tus PER CAI'TA)
URB.AN                                 ...249.6
",RAL                                  ..          ..           ..              166.5
STIMAlPIn REIArlVE PMIERTY INC.WE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
DRAM                                   *-           ..       2fi.U/1            51:.8
RURAL                                  *-           .        260.O7T            312.1                       409.0
ESTIATFD POP. sF1nW ARSOLIUrE
PfVRTR  INCOWE LEVEL (2)
URRAN                                  ..           ..        19.0/.
RURAL                                  ..          ..         so.o71
- -- -- - -- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- -- - -- - - - - - - -- - - -- -- - - - --- = - -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - - - - - - -- - -- -- -- - -- - - - - -- -
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APFLICABLF
NO T t S
Ia  The group averdgem for each Indicator are population-umrlthted arlithaewe menna. Coverage of rountrlem anorg the
Indicators depwn1m on availability of data and ts nut uniform.
lb  Unles otherwisw noted. 'ata for 1960- refer to any year betwren 1459 and 1961: Data for 170O  betwen 1969 and
1971; amn data for  Mlost Recent Eutlmate  between 1979 and 2981.
Ic  Due to emigration of Paraegnyanu to netighboring countries (Argentina and Rraztt): populatinn growth rate Lu lmaer
than rate of natural irerease; /d 1976; /e 1977; /f 1Q75; fr 1962; ln 1972: It 1971.
may 1963



1ltaaet4ul  'sum           PV(m .s'    - m   muam-8 m'                                                         lid he  -et el a. Ve.i.S. .      amt aus   qaes-p-   iau   us
p..usqam    slu   -  enislt __p is-ou_)  i--z          *lea-al1 -- ue4.
a..'         pm  mas nfldslaedu~~~~~AldsIp     puu-   u       Ieu55umpP.5mi   51  --ta
u-Iae - (j~mJima~  5u5  mmm5 lm aem    DVs-t  umMIt  u1 u51s,ses.i5 .54iu                                          e5qmauu   umih  Su1eq eup.spum.     -i .e enq D Sa
*suauuumu   5 Amist Dm  umaamt..-.1    -                                                 aam    egsumaau   -upu.- -Jd DC                    L  -51--      nmadwl  . sa.esas
suaea ems.  maj sm-.sau --sIs    mqm"s~            lj'eo   gus-je                                   s .umhlsu Me                   u-a1 as-mis  S         .ae    scse    Jl1.
slmta  udeU ises 5  pam''.mmm   u I--h[  -mme  umm .11.a  mt¶   seat                                      Su u tl'uuu                         u          Val  p..ia 1 5u  4--s.., pAuelfhlS.,-sl
- laaaMu  5%a  -   -i'    lm5 t.JI   sus -mmei ia-a.4  AsIsawlasessl                         tnt  -ses).  a.-Juou    .5a5  psuel spVma.... As -l
0.11M   .19" A  ~     ~          ~          ~          mqseuleu3t-.]-uCa                                    oll P.eusi mil.1   I 5a,a p-  1mtm  me-on  j-u1  as aeqI n
mum usueaausu   -us-m-  Iu,s              e5dmm    setp   suuiss                                       -    .P.m-sas I msqmss I- sa smiumSu  g   s.aa)aas5sI_asa
I5Tau 'st±! -     aAD          il                       aum*ma.-i aPm.Smu4*5   lspews in559  leqsalq  -ss                                                                    ...smep   a S  .    :: ws'
-  ssaua p-u smsasm-msiifll~Y1iiss    ~    mmmami amaaaZ'iS   Pms    -usesiuaps   lsjlp                                    ispmmus      ssim ss Lee)               oM& SlsllasN   imuim
mum-=                                                                                   .&IsPS-    Sll.  ..a.aa,sS- 5n.mmmv  '51515usm.se   mrs   maqV
p-u  U5a4mm3 Siaim.i 5u  autu-e ns1um.ad . s!Lsua W5~mmmmssmi  p              Issspuesa as   ~  -l set mN   1uS---         ts's     juasus    ime  I. -A   ...P u
-MWIsmumMfI'l Aliasi'                                                                                                       isI-P
*pldlaumm.u5                     *sSlot p.  alea s sum.site l. ssqe  Mue q. D 1 _mL  PiAhili. 5555  *esa sma
p  smaaa.d ii, seuasm.S  p.m._~saaa~j±L pmeammmd  .mmema-5 mm D mu  ..e.amq.                  p lsu Ae d.p   eLs1m.          eS .5)sn mm.ap.5mta u  musa -Im.5 dsmm
he                                         "..4-u.mmm   emm  ueei   lsusm5 .   'e                    a   s  esS pI-usd           5mdiH m A ss a--lq-  .ua.ssulmmd seu
gupiuam   elm  9.sm5 pe mmm  mmmJmmam... . uhsaumea                       uju ~  5ii  usd-ad   55e  1u  esaW'a  I  .s.st  ums,auuJ.             aa  uMe-ul
5 uaaml amm4u5sstmi Sm'ebliamaude..u   ins                                                -.m* I5 msamup p-               I.]-Ietspm. hits  i'm-I..s   5usd.  Psu i*   Is.l.
Mele.'smuf  'em  amaeu-p5eem-,.   mq   - fliJ.TTfl-p-i                                                ui.u.J P- laasuslsu                  P ---m%u  smut  5mm u5511.  V--t-speu         u
uipls   -    Ses'msm.m.  m   ms   .m.3uue.iausu55f                                    ~te   pqmmesd.                              setse   Um5a,suu                  P-5ue   'mu. I li'sma
pm.  mulsem   haieas   m555~s es mamt tmqv  - fifll5t 11j                 ~           5ueuu  ielsp-aDsultSsuimims --           ses   atsIi  -lessu,as-u-ue -sm.e
mas   'isl.m           -eufmIdu .... a...                 li'                                                          mmuimmsaul   s  aSe   3m. dnel-ama   pmumm  ms  Dmu  uesliDuf
msIs5m  ues p-  imgss'mitesmtsmiusduea  p-    p-S   sess   pu5s-euelsd'.u  Pu   ale  3muu555.ia p-umusaVu
linus as ueam.mme   muumsum'h   s--smlmmsus  *...   5u  m imm'mustd5         eue   usa-del . 'es5s -pm d as 111sse 1sm ,idd    s5lueqs                    u
Smmaim'ma  mimesssqs'mm  mueueeusmmm   Ssmsmmmtame  mt?iammmsemmD D. uaam,                Se5taiJ   ahem...e.  tls.Ihu-lel.  pm                           . l .e .... iu .msh ....u
p--a  tepusss    umaa -s Is  LIss.mummummj    N~umm'mmm  eat ~'        eas pimsus~- ?lsmsmma 55m.ausia -a e                         I..' ea tSjJmw   i..muaa-'
S. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~muu
55C5pus   ates's'mmmsem  mlmieeu alimtiaaupmm's asacu  5su5iu    m.`MWetm
Al P ... ~~~~11_  ..P.1-s m 1-qme'                                                        J.Sa e wc i. ..Asut-pa         sCmd    mlamaeessmPu ~ m
p-aepusmm.mmsnuuD   mumsmeA  .m.I.mm.mmmmm.mm.lm.-m-m,l:Jils   am  m 
m"eI       sum m .   5.m. mmu  u   m.u-an.'i   mummirmm"Iemupmahm.tm   es"i1   use*.5   use D                                                                                   maIi",..I
tiaammaa 5  smemeap5a  umlislamm  mhmm 5~1m&m.1  hsem:.ba.usmstmiJ~mmme  imllaunpm uutuaaa        - lieem. sla...lh  ahmaam   aamirmmlamii7-TiD.-
mmame..pigutmaapmma   s -mut sj~mTmmsmmmmmm  ad' se~~ma~~TIMbi
D, :L.  .1'.. ..I..         tmm usa  5  i15  ms 5isas Ifu51et55, A.                                       salu   su  tn..u;mes   aupem   savepD.s  Dha .ma   4.s 
isma  -mes  m'stulmmmumm  eq  -5 eu  ssse  mumua 5   siyin '-miis  -s  s- e-u  ussmlams j  aie- luemey    VIaesemiI   sume -I-as  Ii-uI.-                     55D 5
mu s.mmliuasusiea lests mate. m's ph. tasa iaumm -s ftaesimea speuuem55                                                              r          lees~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.DI-  .:__D a~1   , 
meD                                                                                -P..M5   infm.5   .imj~m  ~   ee   m      p-u. me.e  m155..  h5   lespes  ..use .a Daul-u   ..."I-umfeg555ie
S Inin  ets-iI  udslt-                      si'Llmafmmmteif,idDu    msmealmi5us   Nium    uueaee-ispmaai.Jelai.mam4
'smss *a  ill:.e a                        pi.N 5 mem u.  Vu..ums      s Ieeu*iiq-en simiiJiifi
Me ~ ~ ~ ~        ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~ ~ ~~D um3eMmema's em a emi' js mmmeL.sAtmaasnssci5  a~  s
1u55  emsadmm.  ea. mueemsm  -  isiuTa~4I~Zra  * uri'lleTag                      iumiIssa                               a's                         -ipoi5ol
D.   .1   I.. V.- I D                    Vjsr                                                       mss  lc  ssful  nTIt±msuLdm'
S.   VV.I 0   I.-I   'A   1-., D-.         ..PI -d                                          NAIIN)u tesemes    35utasi   hI  Desp -. (suJ45ms'-1jri3rpm
ig-usa   ..Sam  pu n -aI I        ms   5  5'5'lmmusmm  eusmae  5                                                                          tme-l emmmmmkf!±m sur)Mm5 Er
us      .s.sss1CmnenusVseuai msm5ti.   iimTfmsimmi0msmi  s  ..  msmatllhm                                                                      av           aa     msmm.u  e55
VI.",p-s   -I..u'   -e1                          n,            m   m5ftL1es ejiImNmm's                  mi Ios ...i.sam. .. is1d5 mi  aess 5tm- D   1.---$                                --semsumm  in  mP.u  ~l ,.ima~'-    mim
emms5te1muin.555eu5 mmmm4 -  'fl*smmm'~musj' ~m~iiC  '..J..j.A4'.;lj.lj
hiup-smal lememmi. es pa ssmmiemm, - e95s'a5 *misinmu5ee  ~~~~~~~im~~.m1 .7 jmm'411'fmi -jNmP. ..q
'ui   5umqmu  umsit  eq  ieq.35emmummeam  usi's    u  iem                        Cauv   I55  u-p        is     ..m........mmtsmmlm?tem.ise.
...au   ...m eee  suMem  isalDD!smu                                                                 "INut muap. 5M.umd,s10m'        ..5 mstd mSeJous   immeummmlamsui    Lii ss sa5J
ie55 slmumee  Jusam   I  slska   ieissilPs~s-semK      sim   ae                              -asa-i   saesp                         .ee    5'mii5'ssii  m   a  C
I 5.m  pus  mmee5 5. uamm5 ss * sleha   u's5 esmmm'd  u   mmmua-u sl.s i                    u    AtMa pI   mml's ets 35. spMD'  eis us.umuseu              Iu s-sms.m5m
emP-Iue"      us55.it~l                    I'           m* iAepj  '-j'tsssi    g                                                        aiestei V:         es5'ses  us P.    I  sme. D15m5
e5les   ea  555mim.4  um 'm     ais'i  sil' SUbP19-  m "I~%   peI               cip  usa  ss ahPnmiieais-s5ma 5  5uu5   'mua-ms'sJemssmuinsl e:
D,    D.         DiIL'miljmns 51s-.p I.u                                        .tulsm P        ml   m.u    Is  1aem5
4-1AWo ed               i~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mse'l.  -   amsmiu .ssmiiu.  lt      s swl-st  fwSl1
.uusamsle-I  5'sW           's-msim     his5'msstmias-lidI5 ps     il  aapsa suasi   t   5mm0
VIuaut         M us 4 e -lum' Slms  a  m,- 55mea nq5sme.Is-i.mslaum-mePu   ul  j  u.  muisuIe.                                                    t  ism0.mielmiesve".s  mmeh5
- fiWT55d5U155'titf-siWmIflsP  i'  s'msiaf1ss5flh's'i'ti2U    ames   u.  sm.  ese  amme  u5ls~seau   sss   a-  useml5iep  u5uuu
mmmi,.tm  5metaeieemmmm       *seas5  aelmis a4555 ass  uses 'ails sauj 5uJ sdeiusmuagmt umIl mtal ro.  .,l
p55  *asmasC satuleutam  lm 5  e  ihI5 its '5aA5  'sue   mses5 iOP-a  55MIICsI  s 5  siilneuu   l5  a5us  p-  m5ues  tinae  uset
P.- 1.1vilds"  "Also  P.I.I.1-11il'  sissssseils  tuje  eedas       5   i. ws5                                                                    a-
..I I Ivj I.,!r.   I.  N.-I   D, Pj..4ssss d.-msSeS  5151 -t11b lul" je 'lit
'epDU   -ml   Tin§ seI.D.   m~ Sq:  r   .Pt  ue1Sem5. ...-                                         p     s14iA-=              1a            - A .  A           .I
elmlsmms.ss D um3CmsaNm 5Alton)islsI 'IV             ' PBW1EfMau'lgo.hf'ss5C1 eju
win  l'sm m5psssIn5  susessletam'st.d1.4kJ.1..T '   .if    - .6 He  upla.s luisms-mi  eqimms~pijelppse5'ie 
555a0 fefelwl'sss5lsi  e                 .......qs.   .s. s-sa s5 a' mesas  is iA                                                  J.-'                    I'"".      sus   eatmue  'nt
Np-N  5ussmieaml 1h lem1'pime 54L1-u'suua  55555 #5 9al'1is5P                                   V lmflON.mintPool  em's m                              iu1p
pe   esl  siait   mesessfte i5.Smie     ess   mesefslimsis                                      d5euus   Scelmlsss   -swie5isu   i    ue                            tisg  -. IWIRhSiTIW.
NOsstauls, ..I teNse  sq:T Mipi  esemmsm  -t- q4'R4'W1flW.. flJllflhttU5'!JoN 'flu    sues Iss                                                                                               A-s o
Ie- tetsa   usihi            "55         vms slsdh'   m f1'ltbq'5U1fl1kP-*-I"     %mswmw ltjl   tl   oo                       x -M    il   S.Iii .'..'u  ee mem ifs N
d41 J. Z"Z if".   ft# .0%. V10-1   la*-   .116- 4 11  fiv..o 0 I$ P.1 Ajiw.. 14 ON.   . d..&V  it". VON. hissSll e v                           siusijo 
p-u atetmmiimti  ites  ut 51. mmm.mismms us  is aps. is  UsmsSem  m's  amJsu  a5tu515 mbseas51st) mauqis -.  555u5a5  s-  a" ,Cuau.   P'asssst  s Imdsulem
sq  seanuas pm.  tIslim    sa  ss  -b uimm     nIsWsm    its  seasti.   p-SepNuele    sSi to5NusMO               mmelsl aq a.111Fide   mSuoul.   si  b    sl  Ns'm.
up it"ile  eesql t    "      Josis  "cut    i.'aa   e   ehips   aaaau.e.iesl                            p-i l os..asfdmu,  55O ue'lla  aI  esXi-CesujaN                       ~mslps5
....pmste  ealia   m'-   smi   s  m~t-es   p-S 555159  miAn eu     iPN    5lM                                    '5SuilsfllmmUtlN Ifmiha    ialsisulau
lb.t i-s  tm-maa    ci meae   aU.... feti5ms 554e0d   miss leas   utm.s e.. iss                       is" ailme  asetea   asj"esJsiu n .&es  ,  ea                        I 5esP Nassiel    d
XEM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~melsuimlmf esldf su e55auseeiq  -  psj sss-  pias esaa  qlcl
31UVIlVAV AdDO 1S39



AMEX I
Pap 4 of 5
-22 -
lmorouc znzerrOnS
PPopulatiumt    3.3 ELIO  (1902) 1f
CMP Per Capita-: I.570 (19.2) 1/
Mntt            Average Annual InScrea- S     Shae of GDP at Iarket Price S
(MSS milLIeM. currat)  (at-  centre 1977 j tf c c)        fat CUrrt once.)
1980    1981   1962      1 5                     1965 19970      1975    1981    .982i
NATIOn. ACOUT 2/
CDPKr.ACMrS2            4.566   4.970   4.7t5       4.4   6.9  10.9    100.0  100.0   tGO.0   100.0   100.0
Agricultur           1.311   1.348   1.247        1.6   6.1   7.3      36.7   32.1    36.6    27.1    26.5
Induetry             I.141    1.269  1i168       6.0   7.3  16.1       18.1   19.6    20.2    25.5    24.8
Serwlces             2.114   2.354   2.300       6.1   6.2  11.1       45.2   48.3    56.8    47.4    48.8
Consumption             3.547   4.024   3.995       4.1   4.A   7.2       86.1   85.7    80.3    1l .0    84.7
Gram Investment         1.608   1.755   1.5e2       6.0  16.3  23.6       15.1   14.7    26.8    35.3    33.6
ExportA of good 4 naf    874      814     850       5.8   7.9  18.2       16.1   16.0    16.9    16.4    18.0
prts of goad. * nfa  1.464    1.623    l.712        3.9   9.6  19.2       17.2   16.4    24.0    32.7    36.3
Cro.  Dostic Saving.  1.019       946      720      5.3  16.3  20.8       13.9   14.3    19.7    19.0    15.3
A_ist             Avrag Annual Increase S         Cupoition or Nerchadis S
(t  mllinon   et)              man 4tlt  eo)                 (at current urie.)
1990    1981   19Q      1965-70 1970-75 1975-80   1965   1970   1975    1981   1982 1/
nCOSE TRui
lerchadise exprts       709      676    677       -1.4   17.5   ISA4
(of which projects)    88     103      79      -       -      40.3
Merchandise lports    1.254   1t38   1.379         5.1    9.0   25.1    100.0  100.0  1000    100.0   100.0
PDod                  24       33      24      -3.3  -10.6   22.4       10.9    8.2    3.3       2.4      1.7
Other Conser goode  101        99    109       13.2   12.4    7.9        8 .    18.5   14.8      7.1      7.9
Primary and Iter-T
adisats gods         114     103    143        8.8  -12.7   29.5       28.0   25.1   14.7       7.4    10.4
Fuls and lubricta  130        95    154       15.9    Z.1   10.0        e_4    8.1   14.4       6.8     1.2
capital goods         149     178    151       -2.0   :3.6    8.4       26.1   24.2   22.3    12.8    10.9
Other. 3/             449     543    492        1.5   21.7   36.1       M83    tg.9   19.0       9.2    35.7
Pro,ets              287     337    306       -       -       37.6     -       -       11.5    24.1    22.2
1975     1976     t977      1978       1979     1980        1981      T9E1/ 
PRICES Am TERM OF T1RTE
CDP defiator (1577-100)           87.2     91.6    100.0       110.4     *11       155.5      181.3    lwU.5
Echange rate (c/9)               126.0    i26.0    126.0       126.0    126.0      126.0      146.0    160.0
sEport price index                69.6     73.4    1O0.0        91.0     97.9      101.0      107.1      89.6
Ispore price jodis               101.7     92.5    100.0       107.2    128.7      t45.6      138.5    143.5
Term of trade tndex               6S.4      794     100.0       84.9     76.1       69.4       77.3      624
A S ef CDP (Current Price)
1965   1970  1975  1979  190   181  1I98
PUSlIC mrn s (CTnRaL CoVmI)
Current Revemu                                               10.4   11.7   9.4   9.9   9.0   8.1   9.1
Current Expenditu                                             8.4   10.2   7.6   6.6   7.4   7_4   8.7
Surplus (-)  r Deficit (.3                                    1.9    1.5   1.8   3.4   1.6   0.7   04
Capital Expenditur                                            1.7    1.9   2.3   2.7   2.3   2.4   2.2
inncing (net)                                                -0.2    0.4   0.5  -0.7   0.7   1.7   1.8
OTESR IDltC&1                                                1965570    1970-75    1975.80    1980.85
CIIP groth rate (Si                                          4.4       6.7         10.6        0.0
CGP per eapit gt   rate tS)                                  1.7       3.4          7.0       -2.4
IWlt                                                         2.9       2.5          3.1       26.6
NagaSa           r a                                        27.3      42.6         52.5       40.9
Import elsticity                                             1.0       1.4          1.8        4.7
eatisate.
21 Cbrret Cuaante  converted at 146 per 13VWin 1981E  n      160 tI 1982.
3   Includes estiMated non-registerd i port-.
Sources: Central   ank of peara-ay.         - a  ontesnetima'tes.
Octowbr 25. 1953



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
AinmX I
- 23 -
BALANCE OF pEAYMENTS EXTERNIAL CAPI7AL AND DEST
(U3Sf million current)
Population:     3.3 million (1982)
CIrP Per Capita:  SS1 .570 (1962)
Actual                                Projcted
t978     1979    1960   1981  -902 2/ t983           1984    19E5
BALANCE OF PAYMENS I/
Net exports of goods A services                     -712      -964    -900  -1.094  -1.262  -1.041   -1.495  -1.635
Exporta of goodb a services                        654      F03    1 .007   1.008    1 .073    1.091   1.263    1.570
(of which project:)                               126       147      lte    222       171     1II       130      175
Imports of goods A services                     1.366     1.767    1,907   2.102   2.335    21Zt2     2.758    3.205
(of which projects)                               413       518      642    723       843     492       887    1.005
Net transfers                                          6         7        5       6       17      13        14       16
Current Account Balance                             -705      -957    -89. -1.088   -1.245   -1.029   -1.481  -1.619
Direct private i±neatsent. nat                        14        29        5      -8       32       32       32       35
N & LT loane. nat                                    678       822    1 '05   1.113    1.160     822      1.293    1.50G
Officiel                                          105        80      110    122       119      129       168     177
Private                                            26        52       13    -18        27      89       109      150
Projects                                          547       690      882   1.009    1.014      604    1.016    1.181
Other                                                182       274       46      25      -19        -        6       26
Change. in reserves (-Incresoe)                     -169      -169    -162    -41         72      175      150       50
International reserves                               438       607      774   89        753     577       427      377
Reserves as months of imports                        3.9       4.1      4 9    4.7       4.3      3.2      1.9      1.4
Actual
1978     1979    1980   1981    1982
EXTERNIAL CAPITAL AIID DEBT (y'ublic & Private) 3/
Gross Disbursements                                  157.5    186.5   206.0   201.3  297.4
Official Creditors                                 67.8     43.4    53.2    75.1  l14.8
Multilateral                                   29.2      34-0    39.9    67.3   77.3
XBRD                                          7.8      16.4    30.1    34.3   43.0
IDA                                           5.3       3.6      2.9      2.5    0.5
Bilateral                                      38.6       9.4    13.2       7.8   37.5
Private Creditors                                 90.1    142.2   151.4   126.2  182.6
Suppliers                                      48.8      72.6    70.0    62.0   23.9
Finencitl Markets                              41.3      69.6    81.5    64.2  158.6
External Debt                                       832-7  1.290.9  1.247.5  1.660.2 1.964.5
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                   530.9    661.6   783.7   841.9 1.071.0
Official                                      445.1    523.5   632.9   709.2  940.0
Private                                        85.8    138.1   150.8   132.7  131.0
UDdisbursed Debt                                 301.8    629.3   563.8   818.3  893.5
Debt Service
Total Service peoents                             49.7      83.7   124.9   131.8  107.3
Interest                                       18.0      29.9    44.5    36.9   45.1
Payments as % export.                              7.6      10.4    12.4    13.1   10.0
Average Interest rate on nea loans (%)                8.4       6.9      7.2      9.9    9.1
Official                                           6.6       6.5      5.6      5.9    8.1
Private                                           10.1       8.4    12.6      12.2   11.4
Average maturity of new loan                          16.1     19.1    22.4    15.9   15.7
Official                                          23.3      21.0    26.2    24.1   18.4
Private                                            8.7      10.6      9.8     1t.3    9.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Rout Recent
Year (1982)
Maturity structure of debt outsanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                   33.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                  64.2
Interest stracture of debt outstanding
Interest due within first yer                                    3.8
I/ Official figures are adjauted to inLclude extiates of unregistered trade and import. export and borrowing operatione attributable
to the Itaipu and Yacyrets binstional entities.
2/ Estiste.
3/ Debt payable in foreign currency.
October 25. 1985



ltb I WUT AVAILABLE
-24-
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (Sept. 30, 1983)a/
-(US$ million)--
Loan or                                            Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No. Year  Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Eleven loans and eight credits fully disbursed bI    91.3   49.8
1418       1977  Paraguay  Rural Development II       22.0    -          7.5
1419       1977  Paraguay  Industrial Credit          10.0    -          0.4
1502       1977  Paraguay  Rural Water Supply          6.0    -          0.7
1674       1979  Paraguay  Livestock and
Agricultural
Development             25.0    -          5.2
1736       1979  Paraguay  Highways VT                39.0    -         16.9
1780       1979  Paraguay  Preinvestment
Studies II               5.0    -          4.8
1866       1980  Paraguay  Industrial Credit
and Regional
Development             31.0    -         26.2
1979       1981  Paraguay  Livestock Development      20.0    -          1.6
1992       1981  Paraguay  Rural Primary Education   17.0    -          15.6
2014       1981  Paraguay  Second Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation   11.8    -         10.5
2087       1982  Paraguay  Caazapa Area Development  31.0               31.0
2140  (   1982  Paraguay  Seventh Highway             46.0    -         45.3
2141       1982  Paraguay  Eje Norte Rural
Development             22.4    -         22.1
2304       1983  Paraguay  Agricultural Credit c/    40.0               40.0
Total (net of cancellations)              417.5   49.8     227.8
of which has been repaid                 26.1    2.5
Total now outstanding                     391.4   47.2
Amount sold                    1.3
of which has been repaid    1.3           0.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA                391.4   47.2
Total undisbursed                                          227.8
a/ The status of the proiects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank7IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twlce yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
b/  Includes exchange adjustment.
c/ Not yet effective.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (Sept. 30, 1983)a/
Year                                                       (Amouat in US$ million)
Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.                 Wood Processing         4.4      1.0       5.4
1980    NOVOTEL (Encarnacion)       Hotel Development       0.9      0.3       1.2
1982    Golondrina S.A.             Agricultural
Development          5.0      2.0       7.0
Total gross commitments                            10.3      3.3      13.6
Cancellation, sales repayment
and terminations                                (4.4)    (1.0)    (5.4)
Net held by IFC                                    5.9       2.3      8.2
Total umdisbursed                                  3.0         -      3.0
ai  A US$2.5 million loan for a hotel operation in Asuncion was approved in
1982, but is not yet signed.



- 26 -
ANNE[ III
Page 1
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to Prepare Project:  Six Months
(b)  Preparation by:    Livestock Fund
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: January 1983
(d) First Bank Mission:   April 1983
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure:   April 1983
(f)  Negotiations:  November 1983
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: February 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) FG to put into effect a reorganization program (paragraph 48);
(b) FG to put into effect a four-year work program for its technical
assistance and supervision activities (paragraph 49);
Cc) Central Bank to approve terms and conditions for subloans
(paragraph 51);
(d) Meeting all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of FONPLATA
funding (paragraph 56); and
(e)  Execution of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and FG
(paragraph 57).
Other Conditions
(a)  FG to maintain positive interest rates and to comply with
other conditions regarding interest rates and annual review of the
rates (paragraph 50);
(b) Subloans for on-farm investments would have different interest
rates depending on the size of the production unit (paragraph 52);



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) Total outstanding debt would not exceed $150,000 and $60,000 for
subloans and short-term loans, respectively (paragraph 53); and
(d) FG to establish an accrual basis of accounting by January 1, 1985
(paragraph 60).
.



^ ~   ~     ~ Nl-tk                               \,b                           
B O L I VIA I                                                                                                                        AAM e  CA (
M     PABLO LAOBRENZ 
C  H  A   C                          /                                                                              ,
A L T 
Wr  | $§lfbALl\l   /        t      /      A            P    R A G U A Y E A                                         s
. / N ~~U    A    f SUN C ION              /        ' CorrabAl ,os A| j0             8;W,  R                    '    ' F   ;  Z |'L' I-
ii      j !         Bilg O     U E      Nl )                          A   tIOC                          IN0
.    .   P0.                                                          .
Al-"~~~~ /                                 M.
Q.,~~~~~~~~~~~*7 £l WI



S. w,-'    te N>0   5 *   --    ;
FECJ P PEhA j                           \,4\N                                                                   Xs
.  .                   \           \               \                >8  CON%~~~~~~~~~EPCION                   y  !...
.  s X / .X,.F_;X C.I
e~~~~~ 4    t   - ..5/                                                                                         r
24'                          AV                             P R  tE S I D IE N         E        H A Y E?                         - 3r*4;- ;  .
> </~~                                             SAN  PE  v0                C    oNPE8R 
PARAGUAY                                                      _¢rRilAt        i>T   v 
COUNTRY REGIONS AND AVERAG;E ANNUAL RAINfALL                                          \\1Fe.:                         AAG~UAZU    wt\                    F
KCNDO GW4DERO REISO1,41 OFfICES IN PROJECT AREA               *ASuNCIONX 4t /    ;'"-/*)_2j
a-AVERAGE ANNULAL h\JNFALL (in nillimnhl , .j,s)  ,r     _;,Z
....@ COUNTRY REGiON DPSCNSO                                                 g.t /t   X b
BITUMINOUS SURFACED ROADS                                     E,      R A,t*?_{    >              ~                   i _         S    s    <
81TUMINOLUS SURFACED ROADS UNDER CONSTUCTION    ,ER +n,~ .- i 4_F                                                            NA;;
GA EL /ERTH SURFACED ROADS                                    s     ,                't[ < 
-DEPARMENT BOUNDARIES                                I                                tea fvAGUARI j  e r' Wr-2 
-   INIERNATIONAL EiOUNDARIES                                    i       S/ .N               fd        A          <        ; 
{    , - e^.94a" ./ I T A X  /, 
R"i1.ht1Nrb11l*St>lt~@ NWIA his                                                       4     t4tmob FM Vr "*l xo 1 1 ft   ILA
rt  rrww   Wd &"A*    red-d NW rg d h Wltrrdr  J      umm tofr Pa   seArrl  
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A- Akv. 
62~~~~~~~~~~~~~ze~' 6'                               Ss,
|  ~       ~~ F080'_                                                                       fi.s                                                                     _



