Document of
The World Bank
I'OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11938
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2372-PA)
June 3, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Thlis document has a etricled dlibsbtloo  uad mey be used by  aplenb oWly In the perlormcnce o0
their omcial duties. Its comicals may *. otherwise be dbcloe  wallboul World Bonk mulhodlutdon.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2372-PA)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit                                    =  Guarani (G)
Official Exchange Rate (SAR)                           =  US$1/G126
Bank Disbursement Rate (SAR. Raised
to G320 in 1986, G550 in 1987 and
G1,250 in 1989.)                                     =  US$1/G160
Rate at Completion (December 31, 1990)                 =  US$1/G1,252
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF            National Development Bank
CBP            Central Bank of Paraguay
CNCA           (French) National Agricultural Credit Bank
CPI            Consumer Price Index
FG             Livestock Fund
FONPLATA    Fund for the Development of the River Plate
MAG            Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
SEAG           Agricultural Extension Service of the Ministry of Agriculture



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offic, of Dlretor-Gen.ral
Operatons Evaluation
June 3, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Paraguay
Seventh Livestock Development Project (Loan 2372-PA1
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Paraguay - Seventh Livestock
Development Project (Loan 2372-PA) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office. The Government did not contribute Part II.
The project is rated as satisfactory, because it was effective in increasing the
productivity of the ranches. But the PCR - a good one - describes the factors that make that rating
marginal: the poor performance of the Fondo Ganadero (FG) in meeting commitments to
institutional improvements; the unwillingness of government to support FG against adverse macro-
economic conditions in the mid-1980s; FG's failure to expand its small farmer portfolio; and the
declining profitability of ranching.
The Bank has terminated this lending line and its relationship with FG after seven
operations. The sustainability of the FG field operations is now in doubt and it will be important to
ensure that the ranchers have access to continued credit support.
An impact evaluation will be considered at a later date.
ci1E
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wfthout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SEVENTHI LIVETOCK DEVELOPMfENT PRO.TECT
(LOAN 2372-PA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface . ...........................                                                     i
Evaluation Summary ......................................   ii
PARTI:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .............................  1
Background ............................                                    1
Project Objectives and Description .......................    3
Project Design and Organization . ......................    4
Project Implementation ...........................                         8
Project Outcome ............................ 13
Project Sustainability ...........................                        15
Institutional Performance  ...........................   15
Overall Findings and Lessons .........................    18
PAM RI   PROTECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .. 20
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans ................................ 21
Table 2:    Project Timetable . ...............................   22
Table 3:  Loan Disbursement ................................ 22
Table 4:    Project Implementation .      .............................   23
Table 5:    Project Costs and Financing .........            .................   25
Table 6:    Project Results ..................................    26
Table 7:  Status of Covenants ................................ 28
Table 8:    Use of Bank Resources  ...........              .................   30
Table 9:    Key Lending Data . ...............................   31
Table 10:   Number and Amount of Subloans  .......               ...............   32
Table 11:   Investments by Activity  ...........            .................   33
Table 12:   Subloan Distribution by Size and Activity  .....          ............   34
Table 13:   Coefficients of Production ..........           .................   35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Table 14:  Rates of Interest and Inflation  .......  ............... .   .  36
Table 15:  Subloans to Mennonite Dairy Cooperatives ... ........... .   .  36
Table 16:  Subloan Distribution by Geographical Region  .  .36
Table 17:  Consumer Price Index, 1985-1991   ..37
Table 18:  Fondo Ganadero: Financial Indicators, 1986-1990 . ......... .    .  37
Table 19:  Fondo Ganadero: Balance Sheet, 1986-1990 . .   .......... .  .   .  38
Table 20:  Fondo Ganadero: Income Statements, 1986-1990 . ......... .    .  39
Table 21:  Economic and Financial Results: Large and Medium Ranches . . . .  40
Table 22:  Project Impact on Equity: Large and Medium Ranches ........    .  41
Table 23:  Production, Exports and Prices, 1985-1990 .. . .......... .  .   .  42
Table 24:  Fondo Ganadero: Total Subloans Since Inception Until
December 31, 1990   ..42
Map No:   IBRD - 17309



-i-
PROTECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2372-PA)
Preface
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Seventh
Livestock Development Project for which Loan 2372-PA in the amount of
US$25.0 million was approved on January 3, 1984. Cofinancing totalling
US$30.0 million was arranged from two sources; first, with a syndicate
headed by Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA); and second, with
the Fund for the Development of the Rio Plata (FONPLATA). The CNCA
facility was cancelled by member banks without disbursement. The project
was closed on December 30, 1990, two and one-half years behind schedule,
with disbursement applications being accepted until April 30, 1991. The
final disbursement was made on February 20, 1991 and the undisbursed
balances of US$1,251,326 and US$9,190 were cancelled on April 30, 1991
and September 20, 1991 respectively.'
2.           Parts I and III were prepared by the Agricultural Division of
Country Department IV of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office.
They are based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda and interviews; the PCR also drew on a
Borrower's Completion Report and brief discussions in Paraguay with the
Fondo Ganadero. Part I was sent to the Borrower for review in February,
1993, but no comments were received. The PCR therefore does not contain
a Borrower Part II.
1/    The US$9,190 was brought to the attention of the Bank by the Fondo Ganadero. It
was found to be a discrepancy caused by the difference in exchange rates used by the Central
Bank to record expenditures, and the rate used by the Bank to purchase various currencies
whose US dollar equivalent was debited to the Loan Account.






- ul- 
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2372-PA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Objectives
1.    The Seventh Livestock Development Project was the final operation in
a series of livestock loans to Paraguay initiated in 1963, and executed from
1969 by the Livestock Fund (Fondo Ganadero-FG), a legal dependency of the
Central Bank and essentially the supplier of all public sector credit to the
livestock and dairy industries. While the beneficiaries of FG lending have
been mostly commercially-oriented producers, the Bank insisted increasingly
from the fourth project onwards that FG target smaller-scale producers, and
develop an in-house technology transfer capability. This created
philosophical and technical difficulties in FG and sufficient debate in the
Bank during preparation of the seventh project to prompt an early decision
that it would probably be the last. Factors emerging in the late 1980s
including a proposed restructuring of the Paraguayan financial system and a
re-thinking of the Bank's lending policies and methodology for credit
operations, later confirmed this decision.
2.    Unlike its predecessors, Livestock VII was appraised and in large part
implemented under recessionary conditions resulting from unsustainable
expansion associated with construction of the Itaipu Dam. FG was described
at appraisal as a conservative, cost-conscious lending body with an excellent
financial history. Its financial status deteriorated during project
implementation due to the impact of the Government's multiple exchange rate
regime, negative interest rates, FG's deficient subloan evaluation and
supervision, and difficult conditions in the beef industry. Unification of
exchange rates in 1989 by a new Government caused a serious
decapitalization of FG. Its current lending is modest and mostly short-term,
and its future role and status, which could include privatization, is unclear
(Part I, paras. 2.1-2.5).
3.    Project Objectives. The main objective was to provide the financial
and technical support for the livestock subsector to realize its productive and
export potential; and to continue to strengthen the administrative and
technical capabilities of FG. A new objective was to diversify FG's sources
of funds through cofinancing in order to graduate FG from its dependence on
the Bank by introducing it to the international banking community. An
innovative cofinancing instrument, the "B" Loan, in which the Bank
guaranteed a portion of a commercial bank loan and assumed a contingent
liability, was arranged with a syndicate of lenders headed by the French
National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA). Further cofinancing was



- lv -
provided by the Fund for the Development of the River Plate (FONPLATA)
(Part I, paras. 3.1-3.2 and 4.11).
Implementation
4.    Demand for subloans was vigorous and exceeded appraisal estimates.
FG's onlending interest rates were negative in relation to CPI-based inflation
for the greater part of implementation, and this contributed in part to some
misallocation of funds, excessive demand for credit, decapitalization of FG
and declining rates of subloan recovery. Further, Bank disbursements were
tied to an artificially low official rate of exchange while free market rates
accelerated. The GOP's refusal to adjust the official rate caused stormy
discussions at the country level and the suspension of Bank disbursements for
almost two years until modest adjustments were finally allowed. FG was
seriously de-capitalized in 1989 when a new Government unified exchange
rates in a single step from G550/US$1 to G1250/US$l. FG's largely fixed
interest rate loan portfolio robbed it of the flexibility needed in a period of
rising interest rates, to absorb financial shocks. The GOP chose not to
recapitalize FG as a means of forcing it to evaluate its future structure and
operations as part of a reconstituted financial system then under
consideration. The Bank, while protesting the decapitalization, viewed FG
by then as an outmoded vehicle for transferring resources to the sector.
Lending to an affluent clientele with privileged channels to the Central bank
could not be justified (Part I, paras. 5.2-5. 10).
5.    Project-supported institutional strengthening for FG had mixed results.
FG's operations and project implementation suffered as a result of cautious,
highly-centralized leadership and lack of autonomy and authority of its
administrative and technical directors. The institution's conservative, cost-
conscious approach certainly set it apart from other regional institutions but
also impeded its evolution into a more efficient organization. Many actions
recommended by the Bank failed to be implemented including
computerization of portfolio management, the hiring of adequate technical
staff, decentralization of operations and systematic monitoring and
evaluation. The limited improvement in FG's technical assistance capability
was focussed mainly on supporting the credit approval process. Neither the
preparation nor supervision records for the project refers to specific
technologies being prescribed, developed or delivered (Part I, para. 5.11).
6.    The CNCA cofinancing facility encountered difficulties immediately
and was cancelled without drawdown less than one year after signature. The
Government handled the facility improperly, defaulting on fees payable and
failing to establish normal communications with CNCA. Other constraints
arose. FG failed to draw on the facility because "B" Loan funds were
intended to finance local expenditures and the unrealistic exchange rate
applying to the facility would have prevented FG from completing the project
as envisaged. Further, the required subsidiary agreement between the GOP
and FG was never finalized, legally preventing drawdowns. Although the
failure of the "B" Loan calls into question the original commitment of the



Borrower to the arrangement, the success of FONPLATA's cofinancing
(which was regional and carried highly concessional terms) suggests that FG
was not against cofinancing in principle (Part I, paras. 5.9-5.10).
Productive Outcome
7.    The loan financed 1,658 subprojects compared to 1275 estimated at
appraisal (both numbers exclude cattle fattening) and some 3,400
beneficiaries concentrated mostly in Eastern Paraguay. Around 88.5% of the
total investments went for meat production-related investments on medium-
and large-scale ranches, 9.8% for dairy and agricultural production on small-
scale farms, and 1.7% was invested in agro-industry. Meat and livestock
exports improved dramatically over the course of the decade, attributable to
the liberalized exchange rate regime, better cattle prices, improved export
promotion measures and market access, and the maturation of earlier Bank
projects in the livestock series. The project failed to improve domestic milk
production efficiency and to contain imports. The Paraguayan dairy industry
continues to compete unfavorably with cheaper, better quality foreign
products, while incentives are poor for individual operators on small farms
with technological deficiencies, scarcity of good forage and consequent low
productivity. Coefficients of production in 1990 for meat production and
pasture improvement exceeded appraisal estimates of full development for
large and medium ranches although medium-scaled ranches performed
generally better in all categories of coefficients due to inherently greater
dynamism and the understanding that improved productivity must come from
intensification. No data was collected by FG on the outcome for small
producers (Part I, paras. 6.1-6.5).
8.    The original SAR provided a range of estimated economic rates of
return for three farm models (a large- and medium-scaled beef ranch, and a
small dairy farm). The original models are unavailable and the Borrower did
not provide annual cost and benefit flows. Thus recalculation of ex-post
financial and economic rates of return was not possible. However, an ex-
post calculation of real net income per hectare over a six year period (1985
to 1990) for the large and medium beef ranch shows average growth rates of
-2.02 % and 3% per year respectively, compared to original SAR estimates of
3% and 19% per year for the first six years (Part I, para. 6.6 and Part m,
Table 6).
Sustainabilitv
8.    Favorable evolution of these investments longer-term depends on a
number of factors. Producers surveyed seemed to be technically on track in
some areas and performed poorly in others; but the subsector would benefit
greatly from a systematic approach to technology development and
dissemination. Meanwhile, the profitability outlook is uncertain. Internal
demand for beef is growing, but current beef export markets are fragile and
options limited. MERCOSUR will create changes in the beef market, the
effects of which for Paraguay cannot be anticipated. The nature and



- Vi -
consistency of the sectoral policy environment, which planned elections late
in 1993 will determine, is vitally important. A troubling aspect is that FG's
lending is now almost totally short-term, with no alternative sources of
longer-term money for the subsector. It appears unable to continue lending
long-term without external support, and even the reflows from Bank-
supported long-term lending are being lent short-term. Finally,
agro-ecological sustainability appears promising. From the very limited data
available, it appears production was increased without deforestation (Part I,
para. 7.1).
Overall Findings and Lessons
9.    For reasons outside the project, the ambiguous status of Fondo
Ganadero and its modest lending to the subsector fall well short of the
original objectives. While the project had a significant productive impact,
the dramatic increase in meat exports is attributed more to enlightened
economic and trade policies in the latter part of the decade, including
liberalization of the exchange rate. The main lessons are as follows:
(a) Credit. The project lent added urgency to ongoing efforts through
studies and sector work to find better ways of lending for rural credit in
Paraguay, and especially how to serve the small farmer. The issue of market
failure must be faced. Preliminary findings indicate that some degree of
sectoral and targeted lending is still justified in Paraguay, at positive real
rates of interest, until market imperfections are diminished. The need for
official sources of term credit may have to be accepted and the focus placed
on running them well. For new projects, this means up-front actions to
discipline portfolio management, and improve accountability, cost-
effectiveness and accessibility; (b) Small Farmers. With hindsight, greater
commitment to smaller farmers under this project might have eased the
current task of conceiving programs for them in Paraguay. Responsible
attitudes to subloan repayment and greater willingness to use their own funds
distinguish smaller farmers as credit beneficiaries; (c) Research and
Extension. The project underscored (and current sector work confirms) the
weakness of research and extension in Paraguay. These projects, which
spanned almost three decades, could have been vehicles for the evolution of a
technology generation and transfer program with long-term benefits and
broad application; (d) Conditionality. Project specific conditionality can
seldom overcome the risks inherent in bad public policy. If the latter cannot
be changed, it may be preferable to not pursue these objectives in the project
context; and (e) Identity of Interests. A close identity of interests and
objectives between the Bank and Borrower is crucial to secure Borrower
commitment and achieve developmental goals. Eagerness to preserve
institutional relationships and the flow of funds should not overshadow and/or
dilute efforts to achieve legitimate progress and change. Signs of Borrower
resistance should be heeded through dialogue, flexible project design, and the
willingness to act firmly when necessary (Part I, para. 9.1).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2372-PA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:     Seventh Livestock Development Project
Loan Number:      2372-PA
RVP Unit:         Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department IV
Country:          Paraguay
Sector:           Agriculture
2.    Background
2.1   The Seventh Livestock Development Project' was a further stage in
the Government's Livestock Development Plan and an integral part of its
overall agricultural development strategy which sought to maximize the use
of agricultural and pastoral resources, increase agricultural and livestock
production, and improve income distribution, services and living standards in
rural areas. It was recognized from the initiation of the pilot, IDA-financed
First Livestock Project in 1963 (Credit 47-PA) that significant gains could
take extended periods to materialize due to the nature of livestock ranching,
and the need to build institutional capacity to provide credit and technical
assistance to producers.
2.2   The project was executed by the Livestock Fund (Fondo Ganadero-
FG), established in 1969 with Bank assistance as a legal dependency of the
Central Bank of Paraguay (CBP) and as essentially the supplier of all public
sector credit to the livestock and dairy industries. In the early years CBP
provided counterpart funds but these were subsequently generated within FG
by rollovers from earlier projects. The Fund became an independent window
of the CBP in 1974, and operated as a quasi-autonomous institution for the
last four livestock loans. At appraisal of the seventh loan, FG was described
as a conservative, cost-conscious lending body which had maintained a sound
financial position throughout its history, with excellent cost/revenue ratios
and subloan collection record. However, its financial status deteriorated
during project implementation due to the impact of the Government's
multiple exchange rate system, negative interest rates, FG's deficient subloan
evaluation and supervision and a combination of factors affecting the beef
industry.
1     Referred to throughout this report as Livestock VII.



2.3   The beneficiaries of FG lending have been mostly commercially-
oriented livestock producers (although their physical classification into small,
medium and large was not a scientific indicator of production potential). A
consistent theme of these operations since the Fourth Livestock Project (Ln.
1037-PA) was the Bank's insistence that FG target increasing numbers of
small-scale livestock farmers, and develop an in-house technology transfer
capability. This created philosophical and technical difficulties for FG and
much debate in the Bank. Internal disagreements within the Bank on the
targeting issue during preparation caused an early decision that there would
probably not be a follow-up loan.2 Factors emerging in the late 1980s
including efforts to restructure and rationalize the Paraguayan financial
sector, and a re-thinking of the Bank's lending methodology for credit
operations stimulated by the Levy report, confirmed this decision.
2.4   OED audit reports on the third through sixth livestock loans concur
that they were generally successful. Nevertheless, they fell short of appraisal
expectations in important respects, most notably ranch productivity, while
available ex-post rates of return were below appraisal estimates (partly
because the projects were evaluated well before full development). Important
factors linked to the success of these projects are cited as the commendable
overall performance of the Paraguayan economy (up to the early 1980s) and
sound agricultural sector management and policies. Problems mentioned are
chiefly institutional and include inadequate monitoring and evaluation,
technical assistance to producers and financial audits; overcentralization of
authority in FG; and substandard subloan evaluation, technical administration
and portfolio management. The three main lessons from the last PPAR,
dated April 2, 1986 were the need to: (a) reorganize and strengthen FG's
technical and administrative capacities; (b) have a specific credit line for the
purchase of feeder cattle; and (c) implement computer processing of portfolio
and project monitoring data. Measures were included in Livestock VII to
correct these (and other) deficiencies but the outcome was mixed.
2.5   Livestock VII was appraised and in large part implemented under
recessionary conditions, the inevitable aftermath of unsustainable expansion
during the Itaipu Dam bonanza. The system of multiple and fixed exchange
rates, which so bedeviled the project, was introduced by the Government in
1983 to counteract balance of payments difficulties but it had the effect of
distorting incentives, foiling growth and promoting policy instability,
inflation and stagnation. Recovery commenced in 1987 and was reinforced
by improved overall policy management under a more democratic
Government which came to power in 1989. When the exchange rate regime
was finally liberalized (1989), FG suffered a serious decapitalization which it
was obliged to amortize over a short period. Plans to restructure the
Paraguayan financial system have left FG in an ambiguous position with
regard to its future role and status, which could include privatization.
Nevertheless, FG remains the only source of longer-term funds for livestock
(and virtually the only source of term financing in the entire agricultural
2     Memorandum from Senior Management, September 27, 1983.



sector), a market failure which must be better understood when designing
future agricultural lending programs in Paraguay.
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.1    The main project objective was to provide the financial and technical
support necessary for the livestock subsector to realize its productive and
export potential; and to continue to strengthen the administrative and
technical capabilities of FG. An important, new objective was to diversify
FG's sources of financing and to graduate FG from its dependence on the
Bank. The justification for the seventh loan was essentially to bring FG
closer to institutional maturity and the capacity to develop and manage a
much larger portfolio of subloans.3
3.2    The project would assist in: (a) expanding term lending and technical
assistance to the livestock sub-sector through FG: (b) strengthening FG to
meet the requirements of a rapidly expanding clientele and portfolio; (c)
introducing FG to the international banking system through cofinancing; and
(d) improving the national balance of payments through increased beef
exports and reduced milk imports. The project would finance up to 1700
sub-loans over four years to three categories of lenders: large-scale ranchers
(2,500 ha and above); medium-scale producers (250-2,500 ha); and small,
mainly dairy producers (up to 250 ha).4 Medium and long-term subloans
would finance on-farm investments such as land destumping, purchase of
equipment, seeding of improved pastures, construction of livestock handling
facilities, provision of water points and purchase of improved breeding stock.
A supplemental short-term credit line using cofinancing (the "B" loan) and
local funds was made available for the purchase of feeder steers.5 Separate
cofinancing through the Fund for the Development of the River Plate
(FONPLATA) financed 17% of long-term subloans.
3      At the time of project preparation, FG had the administrative capacity to process
only 800-900 subloans per year. It was estimated that some 40,000 livestock
producers were eligible for and in need of credit.
4      The classification into small, medium and large based on physical area was fairly
traditional; income would be the main determinant today. The Loan Agreement
defines 'small-size farm' as a livestock or dairy farm of not more than 250 ha
(Article I, Section 1.01 (1)). The SAR describes project beneficiaries as sall-scale,
mainly dairy producers of up to 250 ha. Three farm models are delineated in the
SAR of which Model 3 for the purposes of project rates of return is a small-size
dairy farm averaging 80 ha. In practice, FG adopted four models (spelt out only in
the FONPLATA cofinancing agreement with the GOP) separating the Bank's small-
size producers into two groups. FG's Model HI was small, primarily livestock
producers of up to 250 ha financed exclusively by FG's own resources, while Model
IV designated small dairy farms averaging 80 ha. and financed by the Bank loan.
5      The estimated 1700 subloans included about 450 for cattle fattening.



- 4 -
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1    The project was a classic targeted credit line of the type which would
now have difficulty passing muster in the Bank, although FG was atypical of
most public credit institutions. Essentially a window of the Central Bank, its
primary interest was in efficiently channeling funds to selected, larger clients.
It had no social welfare mandate or intent and it did not want the
responsibility or cost of a field staff providing technical assistance to small
producers. The concept of subsidizing smaller clients from higher charges
on the larger was inconsistent with its conservative, cost-conscious stance. It
went along with the Bank's requirements to avoid jeopardizing lending to its
main clientele, but it did so without conviction. The differences between the
Bank and FG on this issue have tended to be downplayed as "professional",
but in fact they indicated the absence of an important identity of objectives.
The Bank's position reflected the shift in concept and emphasis towards
small-scale livestock producers and distributional goals in the 1970s, away
from its earlier livestock projects which stressed credit and technology
transfer for larger commercialized farms.
4.2   Interest Rates. FG was committed to charging positive rates of
interest in real terms and had historically done so. Project design required
the review of interest rates "from time to time", and their adjustment if they
were found not to cover FG's net operating costs or maintain the value of its
capital. Real interest rates were to be determined by comparing FG's rates
with variations in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the previous calendar
year.6 The Bank's projection of inflation for Paraguay for 1985-1988 was
9% per year, overly conservative given that inflation had jumped from 7% in
1982 to an annual rate of 17% by late 1983 (i.e., at appraisal) and the
economy was in a recession. Rates established for onlending barely exceeded
inflation, being set at 18 % and 20% respectively for small and larger
producers, and were outstripped by inflation before effectiveness. The
design (and practical) problem was that adjustments of interest rates, in the
event that inflation rose, were not automatic. FG could not act independently
of the CBP which limited and set interest rates administratively in a highly
regulated financial system.
4.3    Exchange Rates. The disparity between the official exchange rate
and the parallel market rate(s) of the Guarani presented problems in
calculating external financing and determining the disbursement rate. The
exchange rate established with the CBP for computing project costs and
financing, for reimbursing the Government and to import project inputs was
G160/US$1 (compared to the equilibrium rate of G210/US$l favored by the
Decision Meeting), representing a subsidy of some 25% on project imports to
a fairly prosperous clientele. The Region defended this decision on the
grounds that the agreed rate of G160 had been hard-won given the rigidity of
6     Interest rate adjustments were introduced under Livestock VI, after the Bank's
requirement under Livestock V that subloan balances be indexed to the CPI became
a highly-charged issue between FG and its clients.



- 5 -
the GOP's position on preserving the official rate (G126), and represented a
small step in moving the GOP towards a more rational exchange rate
policy.7 The Appraisal Mission had warned that if the Bank adopted the
official rate of G126 the disbursement period was likely to shorten and fewer
producers would get loans. The project foreign exchange component was
therefore reduced by 26% (and local costs were increased) to reflect the fact
that FG sub-borrowers typically obtained inputs by importing directly with
FE purchased from the CBP, as well as by direct purchases in Brazil and
Argentina in local currencies from the sale of cattle, at the equilibrium rate.
The Government assumed the foreign exchange risk and on-lent to FG at
0.5% above the cost of external financing. The small commission was
justified by project staff in terms of improving FG's capitalization and the
fact that FG would bear the risk of any increases in variable interest rates.
4.4   Project design provided for the reorganization of FG's administrative,
accounting and technical functions (based on a consultant study carried out in
1983), chiefly to equip it to handle up to 2,000 clients annually in the future,
compared to the 900-odd subloans per year it was then capable of processing.
This plan notionally included computerization of all essential processes
chiefly through FG-funded technical assistance to determine systems and
software needs. Loan portfolio control and management were entirely
manual at appraisal and continued mostly manual until project closing. The
Bank should have taken a much stronger stand on this issue from the outset,
especially as it was an important lesson drawn by the OED audit on
Livestock V and VI.
4.5   The project was innovative in several ways: (a) it was the first of the
livestock series to have a substantial component financing dairy production;
(b) diversification of FG's sources of financing was a major objective; and
(c) Livestock VII was the first project to use the "B" Loan instrument, in
which the Bank guaranteed a portion of a commercial bank loan and assumed
a contingent liability. The assessment of project risk focussed on the
continued availability of export markets for Paraguayan beef and live cattle;
and the evolution of small dairy producers was couched in terms of their
willingness and capacity to adopt more sophisticated management and
technical processes. The implications of the Govemment's exchange rate and
interest rate policies were not acknowledged; similarly the real issues for
small dairy farmers were the availability of technical packages, their effective
delivery, and the market incentives to adopt them.
4.6 The lsue of Small Farmers. Under the Sixth Livestock Project
(Ln. 1979-PA), 45% of loan funds were allocated for on-lending to small,
7     The rate of G160/US$l for imports was at the time generally economy-wide. The
exceptions were petroleum and wheat imports (G1431UJS$S) and payment of external
debt, the so-called official rate (Gl26IUS$l). lThe President's Report (P-3698-PA)
notes in pars. 10 that the Central Bank was considering rationalizing the system of
multiple rates by moving gradually towards their unification.



- 6 -
mixed (crop/livestock) farmers. Of some 1300 subloans about 400 went to
true mixed producers with some 50% of their income derived from sales of
beef and milk. The remainder went to small-sized producers of primarily
cash crops, most of whom had no other source of long-term credit. FG
responded to the demand for crop-related subloans in order to meet the
Bank's lending targets for small farmers since small specialized livestock
producers were few. Servicing these clients required FG to change its
lending and technical assistance practices, and it repeatedly expressed its
desire to give up such lending. It had difficulty preparing farm investment
plans for crops and its technicians did not have the appropriate training for
crop TA (which was at the time, handed over to the Ministry of Agriculture
(MAG)).
4.7   The sharply reduced percentage of loan funds for small producers
contemplated under Livestock VII (around 14%) ran into immediate problems
with senior Bank management on equity and presentational grounds, although
arguments that such producers were already quite weln-served with credit
appear to have been sound. Some US$82.0 million of BNF and bilateral
funding (including Bank projects) was available at that time for those
producers. Project staff felt that the production potential of larger farmers
was not being realized for want of term credit. Retaining the higher share of
the loan for larger producers had several consequences: a decision was taken
to cease lending to the FG upon completion of the seventh project; the terms
of investment packages (interest rates and commissions, borrower
contribution and maturities) were differentiated according to farm size,' a
move protested by the FG; and the "B" Loan cofinancing became a tool not
only to equip the FG to operate without the Bank but specifically to reduce
the dollar amount of the Bank's loan to such beneficiaries.
4.8   Technical Assistance. The Bank continued to press FG to increase
production-related technical assistance to its smaller clients despite FG's
long-standing response that this was more appropriately the role of
specialized institutions such as MAG or private consultants and that most
producers, even the smaller, were already obtaining extension on their own
initiative. The PPAR on Livestock V and VI (Report No.6126, April 2,
1986) concluded that this was an important and persistent issue needing
resolution. Livestock VII as it turned out, redoubled the effort to bolster
FG's technology transfer capacity because it was an essential underpinning
for the Bank's continued financial support to FG. A four-year work program
for FG's technical assistance activities was included. However, the emphasis
was primarily institutional and managerial as opposed to technological. The
8     Subloans would finance up to 90 % of investment costs for small- and 75 % for
medium-scaled livestock producers, and up to 70% for large-scale ranchers. Interest
rates and commissions for large ranchers would be 20% and 6% respectively, for
medium-scale producers 18% and 6%, and for smaller producers 18% and 4%.
Grace and amortization periods of 5 and 7 years respectively would be uniform for
all models, but the grace period would decrease to 3 years for repeater subloans to
large ranchers (see SAR, Annex 1).



Paraguayan livestock loans were, unlike their Uruguayan counterparts9, not
centrally concerned with the transfer of pasture/livestock technology. This
omission may have ultimately limited the profitability of sub-borrowers.
Neither the preparation nor supervision record contains any significant
discussion of specific technologies and none was prescribed for the project.
The make-up of Bank supervision missions after 1986 reflected the almost
complete absence of livestock experts in the LAC Region.
4.9    The regional Agriculture Division'" maintained that as a general
rule, financial institutions should not be encumbered with the responsibility
and cost of providing TA to farmers unless the circumstances were
exceptional, and believed FG was being pressured in a direction it did not
wish to take."' Both of these areas of disagreement (small farmers and
technical assistance) between the Bank and FG reflected broader issues
including a suitable livestock development policy for the country; the
importance of ranch and herd management; and the general role of FG as an
institution. 12
4.10 Observations on the TA Issue. Given the lack of extension services
(and technology) available for the livestock subsector in Paraguay the FG's
claim that most producers even the smaller, were already obtaining TA, is
doubted. Further, Grana-Jonas reports that in 1991, the principal activity of
FG's 12 extension professionals (agricultural engineers and vets) consisted of
visiting the farm at the point of evaluating an investment proposal, a fact also
reported by several Bank missions." (FG's demonstration farm, Centro
Modelo Experimental Estancia "La Patria", has a modest extension role and
the capacity to help producers at only the most basic level). Apparently the
technology-based TA provided by FG to smaller producers under the loan
was delivered by MAG (for whom the livestock subsector is not a priority)
under cooperative arrangements, and based on Grana's assessment was
deficient in quantity and quality. The TA delivered by FG itself appears to
have been a legitimate activity for a financial institution, but it was not
production-related extension as commonly understood. The fundamental
problem was the lack of a specific technology focus in a series of Bank
projects for an economically vital subsector clearly in need of modernization.
9     Livestock loans 245, 407, 698, 773, 816 and 940-UR. The thrust of the livestock
program supported by these loans was the encouragement of improved pastures as
the principal means to achieve a better nutritional base which in turn, was seen as
the only means of obtaining higher beef, lamb, dairy and wool production, and
higher livestock sector exports.
10    Pre- Bank reorganization.
11    Memorandum from AGR, October 23, 1985.
12    PPAR, Loan 1037-PA, Report No. 3457-PA, May 14, 1981
13    Alfonso Grana-Jonas, Paraguay: Evolucidn del Sector Pecuario en el Perfodo
1970-1991 v su Situacion Actual, June 1992.



-8-
An opportunity was lost. The Bank should have taken the lead with MAG,
FG and other bodies to develop a more robust system of livestock extension,
forging links with existing research efforts however rudimentary, as well as
disseminating the research advances generated and validated by the more
successful producers."4
4.11 Cofinancing Arrangements. The need for FG to diversify its
sources of financing to service a growing portfolio first surfaces in the
completion reporting on Livestock IV. In the discussions leading up to the
syndication effort for Livestock VII, the CBP insisted that FG look
exclusively to official sources of financing on concessional terms and agreed
only reluctantly to a cofinancing effort, which it then asked the Bank to
pursue. The FG was not averse to cofinancing but had neither prior
experience borrowing in external markets, nor any relationships with the
offices of foreign banks in Paraguay. Further, it had become accustomed to
being in the Bank's fold and was uncomfortable with the idea of graduation.
Syndication of the "B" Loan was extremely difficult due to the economic
problems of Latin American countries in the early 1980s. The project was
presented to the Board of Directors of the Bank without the "B" Loan
cofinancing settled.
4.12 Project Costs and Timetable. Total project costs were estimated at
US$121.1 million equivalent. A Bank loan of US$25.0 million was approved
by the Board on January 3, 1984 and not declared effective until February 7,
1985. The original Closing Date was June 30, 1988. This was extended
three times; the first two one-year extensions to compensate for country
problems (principally the exchange rate) which had halted disbursement for a
similar period, and the third of six months to permit completion of
disbursements on commitments made by FG prior to June 30, 1990.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1   Effectiveness was delayed almost twelve months, a period not unusual
for Paraguay. Delays resulted from FG's failure to implement a satisfactory
reorganization plan, prepare an acceptable multi-year work program and
establish an accrual system of accounting" as well as slowness to complete
subsidiary loan agreements and other legal requirements. Project staff felt
pressed to declare the loan effective without strict compliance with conditions
relating to the preparation of work and reorganization programs (conditions
which had been specifically requested by senior management). Delayed
14    Grana-Jonas cites medium-scaled ranches applying rational pasture systems with
meat production of 200 kg> per hectare, and advanced dairy producers like the
Mennonites.
15    FG had not established an accrual system of accounting by project closing in 1990.



- 9 -
effectiveness did not affect implementation because FG was already
committing loan funds and disbursing from its own resources.'6
5.2   Implementation was characterized by vigorous demand for subloans.
With the exception of 1988/89, on-lending interest rates were negative
throughout project execution, while the gap between official and market rates
of exchange widened progressively. Disbursements were suspended for
almost two years awaiting resolution of the exchange rate/disbursement
impasse. The deepening subsidy on both the exchange and interest rates after
effectiveness is believed by Bank staff to have resulted in excessive demand
for credit and some misallocation by large, politically well-connected
producers, but the vast majority of small and medium producers probably
enjoyed its benefits unwittingly. As foreseen, the emphasis of lending was
on the medium- and larger-scale producers, reflecting not only FG's
institutional preference but also the Government's policy orientation towards
maximizing exports and foreign exchange earnings. A summation of the key
issues of implementation follows.
5.3   The Exchange Rate. Even before effectiveness, the discrepancy
between the official and market rates had begun to widen. While the Bank
disbursement rate remained fixed at G160, inputs were being purchased at
G240 (basic imports rate) or G420 (free market rate) implying Bank
overdisbursement of 50-160% (although no disbursements had actually
occurred). The problem affected all sectors assisted by Bank lending, but the
Government was unwilling to adjust the rate, notwithstanding intensive and at
times stormy discussions between senior Bank management and the
Government. Meanwhile, the FG continued to approve subloans and
disburse from its own funds in anticipation of a solution, and the GOP was
paying commitment fees on the entire loan. A modest breakthrough was
achieved at the Annual Meetings in 1986; with the free market rate already
over G600, the Bank and the GOP agreed to increase the exchange rate for
disbursements to G320 through December 31, 1986. A further adjustment to
G550 was permitted in early 1987. These adjustments released some
US$11.0 million of pent-up disbursements but the situation was clearly
unsatisfactory.
5.4  In February 1989, a new Government unified exchange rates at
G1200/US$1 and denied FG access to the previous, more favorable rates.
This caused FG to sustain heavy foreign exchange losses which threatened its
solvency. FG's largely fixed interest rate loan portfolio in local currency did
not give it the flexibility in a period of rising inflation to deal with financial
shocks. FG's overall foreign exchange losses during project execution,
which totalled around US$20 million, were largely the result of its assuming
16    By effectiveness FG had committed some 87 subloans equivalent to US$9.3 million
of which 90% had been disbursed from its own reserves.



- 10 -
the foreign exchange risk on four IDA credits in the 1970s.'7 Aggravating
the situation, the Superintendent of Banks directed FG to amortize its losses
over the following five years even though the remaining life of the credits
exceeded 20 years. Further, FG's management had been slow to implement
many of the administrative and operational changes agreed with Bank
missions resulting overall in a weakened institution.
5.5   The Bank urged the Government to recapitalize FG but evidently
fundamental changes were afoot in the Paraguayan financial system and FG
had lost priority. (The BNF was also hit hard by the devaluation but wa
recapitalized by the Government). Even though the contractual obligation on
foreign exchange for the four earlier credits was FG's, the Government as
guarantor could have re-capitalized FG but chose not to do so, thereby
putting pressure on FG to evaluate its role and future. The Bank, while
protesting the de-capitalization, nevertheless viewed FG by then as an
outmoded vehicle for transferring resources to the subsector and inconsistent
with the thrust of the Levy report. The global credit line approach had
superseded the special relationship; continuing to lend to a public institution
catering to a fairly prosperous clientele with favored channels to the Central
Bank could not be justified.
5.6   Interest Rates. By early 1985, interest rates on a portion of FG's
subloans had turned negative based on the average CPI for the previous year,
which was 20.3%. The problem of negative rates affected all Bank credit
operations in Paraguay at the time. While the GOP agreed to study on-
lending rates, larger political and structural issues were at stake. The GOP
believed, and the Bank agreed, that the negative on-lending rate issue could
not be resolved independently of overall interest rate policy and during the
Annual Meetings in 1986 the GOP presented the Bank with an economic
adjustment plan which proposed a solution through controls on infiation."S
The average on-lending interest rate was by then 23 % (including
commissions and fees) with an annual CPI of 35%. Bank supervision staff
believed that high negative on-lending interest rates were causing
misallocation of FG funds, decapitalization and excessive demand for credit.
Inflation slowed in 1988 to the point where rates turned positive and the FG
was in compliance with the Loan Agreement, but surged again in early 1990,
turning project lending interest rates negative again. In 1990, following new
Central Bank interest rate measures, the FG began to apply a combined
interest rate comprising a fixed 28% for the first two years of a subloan,
after which a variable loading would be added to bring total interest payable
level with the CPI.
17    Around 50% of FG's liabilities were at risk from the rate of exchange while some
17% of its assets at that time were at risk from the rate of interest.
18    See Note dated August 11, 1986 setting out chronology of the Bank's efforts to
resolve the interest rate impasse.



- 11 -
5.7   Subloan Recovery. A major issue in 1986 was a striking
deterioration in FG's rates of subloan recovery to around 50% based on
comparison of loan recovery (recuperaci6n) and loans due and payable
(vencimientos).'9 While small- and medium-scale sub-borrowers had
generally good repayment records due to inherently conservative attitudes
towards debt, a phenomenon borne out by experience with small farmers in
Chile during preparation of the Small Farmer Services project (Ln.3473-CH),
evidence suggested that large livestock producers were using political
influence to profit from subsidized interest rates and to purposely delay
repayment.20 FG attributed its arrears problems to: (a) the oversupply of
beef from 1979-1983, dwindling export markets, and lower returns; (b)
producers withholding their product from the market in the hope of driving
prices up, then falling into arrears (FG claimed its sub-borrowers were a high
proportion of this group); (c) flooding in 1979-1983 affecting many
producers along the banks of the Paraguay and Pilcomayo rivers; and (d)
continuous currency devaluations in Brazil and Argentina causing a cross-
border flow of beef into Paraguay due to the temporary exchange advantage.
5.8   The Bank on the other hand, believed that positive on-lending rates
would deter late payment and facilitate better recovery and that the heart of
the matter was better subloan evaluation and supervision by FG. FG was
urged to adopt more stringent creditworthiness criteria, more aggressive
recovery actions including legal steps if necessary, and a plan of action to
improve the overall situation. In addition, FG agreed to hire foreign
consultants to improve its financial management and to train staff in sub-
project analysis and evaluation. Added support was expected from greater
computerized control of operations, the new Plan de Reactivaci6n Econ6mica
to control inflation, the revival of international beef prices and GOP
measures to promote beef exports. FG's recovery rates improved sharply to
around 88% by 1989 demonstrating that FG _wa an institution that could
improve rapidly with greater discipline on financial operations. Loan
portfolio control and management was still largely manual however, when its
increased lending activities obviously required modern systems. This
experience raises questions about the real health of FG's portfolio at project
appraisal and whether the Bank should have been more demanding up-front,
as is now standard practice with new operations in the Region involving
credit.
5.9    Cofinancing. The CNCA cofinancing encountered difficulties
immediately and was cancelled without drawdown less than a year after
19    As opposed to comparing loans due and payable (cartera vencida) and total loan
portfolio (cartera total) which appears to have been the practice and which results in
a better recuperation picture. This raises the question of whether, at appraisal,
recuperation was as good as described.
20    This is strongly rebutted by FG but acknowledged by cattlemen who claim that what
occurred was the inevitable consequence of lax subloan evaluation and supervision.
The Bank's own supervision is also faulted.



- 12 -
signature (March 22, 1985) by agreement between the participating banks.
FG, the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance handled the facility
improperly, essentially defaulting on the payment of agreed fees (agency,
management and legal) and failing to establish any normal lines of
communication with CNCA, suggesting weak commitment to the facility.2"
Further, FG failed to draw on the CNCA cofinancing because: (a) B-Loan
funds were intended to finance local expenditures and only a realistic
exchange rate, not the G160 applying to the facility (and the rest of the
project), would have enabled FG to complete the project as envisaged; and
(b) the required subsidiary agreement between the GOP and FG had never
been finalized, legally preventing drawdowns.' The record does not
support a later interpretation that the "B" Loan was relinquished by the
Paraguayans because they no longer required the funds at the price offered,
in a market characterized by falling rates. The failure (principally of the
CBP) to embrace the opportunity to diversify FG's sources of financing
under the auspices of the Bank was a mistake.
5.10 In contrast, the FONPLATA co-financing seems to have been plainer
sailing perhaps because it was regional, carried highly concessional terms and
had fewer strings attached. However, by September, 1989, FONPLATA had
stopped disbursing due to a shortage of hard currency funds (it was
responsible for covering 17% of total subloan costs) but this did not
adversely affect the project. The agro/industry dairy sub-project amended to
the Loan Agreement in 1990 (Cooperativa Colonias Unidas) allowed
FONPLATA to finance dairy equipment purchases from Brazil in Cruzeiros.
Although the failure of the "B" Loan calls into question the original
commitment of the Borrower to the arrangement, the relative success of
FONPLATA's cofinancing suggests that FG was not against cofinancing in
principle.
5.11   Institutional Evolution of Fondo Ganadero. FG's cautious,
traditional leadership and rigid structure established the tone of its operations
for two decades. Livestock VII implementation suffered, as had its
predecessors, from the lack of autonomy and authority of its administrative
and technical directors. The institution was characterized by highly-
centralized decision-maling and management with all subloans being
personally-approved by the President of FG's Coordinating Committee. The
will to decentralize did not exist and the Bank's repeated recommendations
21    The CBP claimed internal upheavals prevented normal communications, viz: (a)
disappearance of its General Manager; (b) jailing of the Director of Foreign
Exchange for illicit activities; and (c) reorganization of its directorate.
22     Memorandum, December 13, 1985. This situation is not mentioned in the many
exchanges on file. CNCA in fact, urged FG to make a draw-down to demonstrate
continued interest in the facility, apparently unaware that FG could not do so. The
Bank was required under the terms of the B-Loan Agreement to approve the
Subsidiary Agreement but had not yet received a final draft for approval. The
memo sought senior management advice on whether the Bank 'should insist that an
appropriate exchange rate for B-Loan drawdowns be specified in it".



- 13 -
went unheeded. The Fondo's three regional offices remained under-utilfzed
and under-equipped outposts with little authority. While FG's conservative,
cost-conscious approach undoubtedly set it apart from other regional
institutions--it was impressively efficient in terms of lean personnel numbers
and administrative costs, and generous lending spreads--false economies also
impeded FG's institutional development. By 1990 the Bank was still urging
FG to simplify and rationalize lending processes, acquire computer systems,
upgrade subloan supervision, hire needed professionals, schedule priorities,
and establish systematic monitoring and evaluation.3 The record testifies to
missions' detailed analyses of operational shortcomings and their proposed
solutions, most of which were only partly implemented. The distressing
aspect of these shortcomings is their durability. The possibility of future
change, however, has been increased by the appointment of more dynamic,
modern leadership in FG.
6.    Pro3ect Outcome
6.1   The loan financed 1,658 subprojects (compared to 1275 estimated at
appraisal)24 and some 3,400 beneficiaries, concentrated mostly in the
Eastern part of the country. Overall, around 82% of the total value of
subloans went for investments related to increased meat production on large
and medium-scale farms, 15% for dairy and agricultural production on small-
scale farms and 3.2% of the total was invested in agroindustry. Subloans
averaged US$68,500 for larger producers, US$38,000 for medium producers
and US$25,300 for small dairy producers, substantially lower than projected
at appraisal. While the SAR stated that subloans would finance up to 90% of
small farmer investment costs, in practice financing did not exceed 57% for a
variety of investment activities.' This underscores Bank experience in
Chile during preparation of the Small Farmer Services project (Ln.3473-CH),
and in Argentina where the subloan portion of a small farmer investment is
likely to be around 50-60%. Small farmers' prudent approach, typically
using a higher percentage of their own money, reflects a conservative risk
management strategy and relates directly to better rates of repayment.
Larger producers tended to borrow up to the limit imposed by subloan
conditions, using their own funds for the balance of the total investment only
because there were no commercial financing altematives.
6.2   Project objectives were only partially achieved, viz: (a) While FG has
managed to continue lending, albeit at lower levels (TJS$15-20 million
annually), and is surprisingly well advanced in writing off its 1989 FE losses
23    FG management believed evaluation to be costly and pointless. The FG ex-post
project analysis however, laments the absence of an evaluation capability as
hindering its preparation of the report.
24    For Models 1-3 (as set out in SAR), excluding cattle fattening which was to have
been financed by the 'B Loan.
25    May, 1989 data obtained by a supervision mission. An update was sought from FG
but not provided.



- 14 -
within the five-year "deadline" imposed by the Superintendent of Banks, its
future is unclear. Present lending is almost totally short-term and it cannot
be described as poised to assist the livestock industry to achieve its future
potential. While FG could have done much more to develop institutionally,
it had no control over exchange and interest rates, or its FE losses; (b) The
objective of diversifying FG's sources of funding failed, with the exception
of FONPLATA's contribution. The institution is evidently still dependant
upon and contemplating further, bilateral financing; and (c) Exports of meat
and livestock products fluctuated throughout the 1980s, but rose strongly
overall from US$11.8 million in 1984 to US$162.0 million in 1990, falling
back to around US$85.0 million in 1991.26 Much of the improvement in
the late 1980s is attributable to the liberalized exchange rate regime and
resulting better cattle prices, improved market access, and GOP measures to
promote exports, in addition to the maturation of earlier Bank projects in the
livestock series.
6.3    An objective of the project was to reduce imports of milk (by
increasing the quantity and efficiency of domestic output) but the equation in
practice is more complex. Various problems confront the Paraguayan dairy
industry. The high cost of raw material makes Paraguayan product
uncompetitive with imports from neighboring countries, chiefly Argentina,
whose products are cheaper due to production efficiency, standardized quality
and/or exchange rate advantages; much Paraguayan milk is sold unprocessed
or raw as opposed to pasteurized (which is of uneven quality), and delivered
daily; overall consumption of dairy products in Paraguay remains fairly low;
and prices vary greatly between different zones. Incentives are poor for
individual operators on small farms with technological deficiencies, scarcity
of good forage and consequent low productivity. The inherent riskiness
drove many of FG's smaller sub-borrowers to convert from dairying to beef
production.' The Mennonite colonies in the Chaco and Eastern Paraguay,
with integrated production and processing systems and greater technical input
have been more successful.
6.4    The project showed a positive impact in the expansion of pasture and
introduction of improved pasture, health and sanitation improvements, the
high percentage of producers who now use artificial insemination, and the
introduction of better breeding stock. Coefficients of production in 1990 for
meat production and pasture improvement exceeded appraisal estimates of
full development for large- and medium-scale ranches (see Part III, Table
13). However, medium producers performed better in all categories of
coefficients than larger producers due to inherently greater dynamism and the
knowledge that improved productivity has to come from intensification.
26    This does not include the unofficial cross-border trade in live cattle with Brazil.
27    There is evidence however, that dairying has been extending spontaneously in
agricultural zones as a complement to agriculture, with good results in spite of
technical deficiencies; farmers view their dairying activities as a quick route to
survival. See Alfonso Grana-Jonas, 2p. cit.



- 15 -
These results indicate (at least for those producers surveyed) that medium and
large producers were probably obtaining some technical assistance although
there is no information about its source, content or coverage. Substantial
investment went into infrastructure (fencing, holding structures and water
points) where the benefits emerge longer-term. No data is available on
production coefficients for small producers. FG claims it was unable to
derive a satisfactory sample of individual farms (i.e., with dairying/livestock
as their principal activity) and did not attempt to survey the Mennonites or
other dairy cooperatives included in that classification, perceiving them as
unrepresentative.
6.5   At closing, the agro-industrial subproject Cooperativa Colonias
Unidas, had made good progress. The number of milk suppliers to the plant
had risen to around 2,700 and many were receiving foreign-sourced technical
assistance. The cooperative was also in the process of purchasing animals,
organizing in-house technical assistance, and selecting technical staff to
operate the plant.
6.6   Rates of Return. The original SAR provided a range of estimated
economic rates of return for three farm models (see page 3, para. 8 and
footnote 4). Because the original models are unavailable and the Borrower
did not provide annual cost and benefit flows, recalculation of ex-post rates
of return was not possible. However, an ex-post calculation of real net
income per hectare over the six year period 1985-1990 for the large and
medium beef ranch (Models 1 and 2) shows average growth rates of -2.02%
and 3% per year respectively, compared to original SAR estimates of 3% and
19% per year (see Part III, Table 6).
7.    Project Sustainability.
7.1   Favorable evolution of these investments longer-term depends on the
following factors: (a) Producers surveyed seemed to be technically on track
in some aspects of production (adult mortality, pasture improvement and
productivity per hectare) and poor in others (weaning rates, age at sale and
carrying capacity); the subsector would benefit greatly from a systematic
approach to technology development and dissemination; (b) The profitability
outlook is uncertain; internal demand for beef is growing, but current beef
export markets are fragile and options limited. MERCOSUR will create
changes in the beef market,, the effects of which for Paraguay cannot be
anticipated; (c) The nature and consistency of the sectoral policy
environment, which planned elections in late 1993 will determine, is vitally
important; (d) FG's limited and largely short-term lending capacity, and the
absence of alternative term lending for the subsector, is troubling; it appears
that even the reflows from World Bank-supported long-term lending have
reverted to short-term lending once the obligation to keep revolving them
long-term ceased; and (e) agro-ecological sustainability appears promising;
from the very limited data available, it seems production was increased
without deforestation.



- 16 -
8.    Institutional Performance
8.1   The Bank. The Bank had a long-standing, cordial and productive
relationship with the Fondo Ganadero, with the emphasis on the flow of
funds and FG's institutional evolution. The Bank should have heeded
emerging economic trends in mid- to late-1983 and depended less on loan
covenants to achieve needed adjustments in exchange and interest rates. The
inflexibility with which these were managed was part of overall macro policy
from which the GOP and Central Bank in particular were demonstrably
unwilling to deviate. It can be argued that the loan should not have
proceeded in such an environment. The two year hiatus in portfolio-wide
Bank disbursements in Paraguay, difficult exchanges at the country level and
the need to find solutions through broad economic adjustment (and even a
change of Government) illustrate the dimensions of the problem. The Bank's
role in the "B" Loan episode is open to some criticism. The Bank was
responsible for approving the draft subsidiary agreement between the GOP
and FG permitting drawdowns of the facility. The record suggests that the
Bank was not fully abreast of the status of the subsidiary agreement until
relations between CNCA and CBP/FG had deteriorated to the point where
cancellation became imminent. Finalization of the subsidiary agreement was
by then a moot issue.
8.2 Project supervision was unsatisfactory in certain respects. Prior to the
Bank reorganization missions were multi-tasked with as little as one day
assigned to the project; and there was a tendency for mission staff to agree in
jiW to matters which needed management approval, e.g., use of the
Superintendent of Banks for auditing when the Loan Agreement called for
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. There was considerable
turnover in supervision staff and after 1986, no livestock specialist was
included in missions. The interval between missions frequently exceeded
Bank norms (see Part III, Table 8B), although the quality and duration of
supervision improved greatly from 1988. Missions adopted a constructive,
hands-on approach which was appreciated by FG officials, but institutional
constraints in FG impeded follow-up. While the troubled relationship over
exchange and interest rates might partly explain intermittent supervision, it is
more likely that supervision was not a priority.
8.3   The Borrower. Given the duration of the special relationship, the
Bank's decision to not lend for an eighth project (which FG had already
outlined) was clearly a blow. FG's slowness to adopt many of the Bank's
recommended improvements can be attributed directly to its inflexible
leadership, its role as a window of the Central Bank and to the nature of the
public (and private) sector in Paraguay. The Bank kept pressing FG to do
things it had fundamentally no interest in doing. Because the Bank was as
eager to lend as FG was to borrow, and FG's position in the relationship was
stronger, Livestock VII did not ultimately break the mold of its predecessors.
FG prevailed directly and indirectly, in limiting small farmer participation, in
avoiding diversification of its sources of funds, in keeping its TA at modest
levels and in preserving its centralized operations. FG deserves criticism for



- 17 -
failing to survey the impact of the project on smaller producers. Given the
contentiousness of this issue during preparation, repeated assurances by FG
that small producers were an important focus of its activities, and the
potential value of such data for planning future small farmer programs in
Paraguay, follow-up was essential.
8.4    The massive decapitalization suffered by FG in 1989 underscored its
flawed operating base and the Government's unsustainable macro policies of
the 1980s. While FG has been successful in its role of offering longer-term
credit to larger cattle ranchers, the financial cost has been heavy. Its almost
exclusive reliance on foreign funds and frequent lending at fixed rates of
interest in local currency, has left it vulnerable to foreign exchange losses.28
Its historical profitability has resulted from extremely low average borrowing
costs in relation to the real cost of funds and rates of inflation (implying high
levels of Government subsidy), low operating costs, and large financial
margins. Its profitability in real terms is modest.
8.5    Based on recent, brief discussions in Paraguay, the issue of FG's
privatization remains a dilemma. While FG's new leadership is not opposed
to privatization and is ostensibly seeking some form of restructuring package,
it seems unable to reconcile the special nature of FG's services and market
with competing in the commercial sphere. Preliminary talks have occurred
with IDB for a US$20 million livestock development loan in much the same
image as the recent Bank operations, indicating perhaps, business as usual.
Cattlemen, on the other hand, seem to favor assuming control of FG as a
fully private and more dynamic institution, with Government acting as
guarantor for a seed capital loan from the Bank and/or IDB, and possibly
becoming a shareholder in the future.
8.6    Compliance with Leeal Covenants. Covenant performance was
characterized by serious problems relating to: (a) adjustment of interest rates
to the CPI; (b) adjustment of the exchange rate for Bank disbursements; (c)
the covenant requiring FG to use qualified independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; and (d) adoption of an accrual-based system of accounting.
Compliance was ultimately achieved in all cases except the last, which was
dependent on the purchase and installation of computer equipment and
software. As of November, 1992, this was still in process.
8.7    Audit. The Loan Agreement required that the accounts and financial
statements of FG would be audited annually by independent auditors. By
early 1988 FG had still not formally agreed to retain qualified independent
auditors and had so far used the Superintendent of Banks for auditing
purposes. The FG claimed it had an agreement with earlier Bank missions
28    The exchange rate has continued to appreciate since 1989, rising to Gl,365/US$l by
the end of 1991 and G1,590/USSI by December 1992, representing continuing
losses on the earlier credits for which FG bore the FE risk. FG observes in its
annual 'Memoria y Balance' for 1991 and 1992 that in keeping with its role as a
development institution, it has not passed these losses on to its clients.



- 18 -
that the Superintendency was acceptable as auditor for a program dependent
on the Central Bank. The FG finally agreed to comply when the Bank would
not extend the Closing Date beyond June 30, 1988 without settlement of the
auditing issue.
9.    Overall Ftndings and Lessons
9.1   The ambiguous status of Fondo Ganadero and its modest lending to
the subsector fall well short of the original financial and institutional
objectives of the project, due to factors outside the project. While the FG
has traditionally been the only source of long-term lending for livestock, and
fully understands the importance of this service, it appears unable to afford
lending long-term without external support. At the present time, even the
reflows from World Bank-supported long-term lending (which FG is not
obliged to keep revolving long-term) are being lent short-term. Lastly, while
the project had a significant productive impact, the dramatic increase in meat
exports is attributed more to enlightened economic and trade policies in the
latter part of the decade, including liberalization of the exchange rate. The
main lessons from this operation are as follows:
(a)    Credit. This project lends added urgency to ongoing efforts
through studies (Grana-Jonas, Yegros and Guzman) and sector
work (Strasma) to find better ways of lending for rural credit
in Paraguay, and especially how to serve the small farmer.
The issue of market failure must be faced. There are no lines
of long-term credit for agriculture, and no commercial banks
willing to serve small farmers. Strasma's preliminary findings
indicate that some degree of sectoral and targeted lending is
still justified in Paraguay, at positive real interest rates, until
market imperfections are diminished. Further, should research
reveal that the cost of getting commercial banks to serve
smaller clients exceeds the cost of continuing to serve them
through official sources, the need for such entities should be
accepted and the focus placed on running them well, e.g.
greater discipline (up-front in the case of project preparation)
on portfolio management, accountability and cost-effectiveness,
and better accessibility;
(b)   Small Farmers. With hindsight, greater commitment to
smaller farmers under this project might have eased the current
task of conceiving programs for them in Paraguay.
Responsible attitudes to subloan repayment and greater
willingness to use their own funds distinguish smaller
producers as credit beneficiaries and Livestock VII was no
exception. Grana-Jonas notes that some 31% of the national
cattle herd is in the hands of producers with less than 50 ha
who lack the means to attempt the development process.
Conversely, a further 30% is held by producers with over
1,000 head, many of whom are demonstrably unwilling to give



- 19 -
up ranching extensively in favor of more intensive ranching
with greater technological input. However, there clearly is a
subset of larger producers who are interested in technological
improvement, and an emphasis on small farmers should not
imply their exclusion, but rather, certain criteria for their
participation;
(c)   Research and Extension. The project underscored (and
current sector work confirms) the need for Bank support for
research and extension in Paraguay. Grana-Jonas describes
extension for livestock as minimal and research practically
non-existent. These projects, which spanned almost three
decades, could have been vehicles for the evolution of a
technology generation and transfer program with long-term
benefits and broad application;
(d)   Conditionalitv. Project specific conditionality can seldom
overcome the risks inherent in bad public policy. If the latter
cannot be changed, it may be preferable to not pursue these
objectives in the project context; and
(e)   Identity of Interests. A close identity of interests and
objectives between the Bank and Borrower is crucial to secure
the Borrower's commitment and achieve developmental goals.
Eagerness to preserve institutional relationships and the flow of
funds should not overshadow and/or dilute efforts to achieve
legitimate progress and change; signs of Borrower resistance
should be heeded through dialogue, flexible project design, and
the willingness to act firmly when necessary.
April 19, 1993



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2372-PA)
PART i
PROJECT REMEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECE1
1      The Fondo Ganadero (FG) sent a completion report on Livestock VII in late 1992;
this document contains much useful comparative data on production coefficients for medium
and large ranches, but no independent analysis of lessons learned. The Bank discussed key
conclusions with FG during a brief meeting in November, 1992, and the PCR reflects that
discussion, where relevant. The Bank's Part I was sent to FG on February 4, 1993, but no
comments were received.



- 21 -
PROTECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SEVENTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROTECT
(LOAN 2372-PA)
PART m
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TabLe 1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Number/                                                               Year                       Afount
Project Title                               Purpose                      Approved                   (USSHILL.)
Credit 47-PA                            Livestock Development                         1963                        3.6
Credit 86-PA                            Livestock Development                         1966                        7.5
Credit 156-PA !'                        Livestock DeveLopment                         1969                        4.3
Loan 620-PA "                           Livestock Development                         1969                        4.3
Loan 1037-PA                            Livestock Development and                     1974                        10.0
Fourth Livestock Project                Institution Building of
Fondo Ganadero
Loan 1674-PA                            Livestock Development and                     1979                        25.0
Livestock and Agricultural              Institution Building of
Development Project                     Fondo Ganadero
Loan 1979-PA                            Livestock Development and                     1981                        20.0
Sixth Livestock Project                 Institution Building of
Fondo Ganadero
jj Treated as one operation.



- 22 -
Table 2. Prolect Timetable
Date                     Revised
Item                        Planned                      Date                      Actual
Identification                                                                  November, 1982
Preparation                                                                     N/A
Appraisal                  ApriL, 1983                                          April, 1983
Loan Negotiation                                                                November 14, 1983
Board ApprovaL             November 22, 1983                                    January 3, 1984
Signature                                                                       JuLy 9, 1984
Effectiveness              February, 1984            November 9, 1984           February 7, 1985
Completion                 December 30, 1987                                    December 31, 1990
Closing                    June 30, 1988             June 30, 1989              December 31, 1990
June 30, 1990
December 31, 1990
Table 3. Loan Disbursement
Cuitlative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
(USSMi llion)
IBRD                                   Appraisal                                   ActuaL as
Fiscal Year            Semester            Estimate               Actual            % of Appraisal
1984                 Second                0.0                   0.0                  -
1985                 First                 3.4                   0.6                  17.0
Second                7.9                   0.6                   7.6
1986                 First                11.7                   0.6                   5.1
Second               15.4                   0.6                   4.0
1987                 First                18.7                   3.88                 20.7
Second               21.7                   5.99                 27.6
1988                 First                25.0                   8.10                 32.4
Second                -                    11.66                 46.4
1989                 First                 -                    13.48                 54.0
Second                -                    16.21                 65.0
1990                 First                 -                    18.55                 74.2
Second                -                    21.99                 88.0
1991                 First                 -                    23.74                 95.0



- 23 -
Table 4. Project Iplementation
Appraisal                                    ActuaL as X
Key Indicators                               Estimates                Actual               of Estimate
A.   Number of Subloans
Large Scale                                       350                    435                     124.3
Mediun Scale                                      700                    935                     133.6
SmaLL ScaLe                                       225                    285                     126.7
Fattening                                         445                                              0.0
Agro-industry if                                   -                        3                      -
B.   Total Subloans (G/Mill)
Large Scale                                     4,820                 22,857.3                   474.2
Mediun Scale                                    5,230                 28,861.4                   551.8
Small Scale                                     2,420                  9,463.6                   391.1
Fattening                                       2,000                       -                      0.0
Agro-industry /                                    -                   1,999.9
C.   Investments
Imp. Pasture (ha.)                            115,000                370,497                    322.2
Fencing (km.)                                   8,000                 16,935                     211.7
Water Facilities (G/I000)                     916,000                  6,667                       0.7
Purchase Cows (N2)                            134,000                160,786                     120.0
Purchase Bulls (N2)                             8,600
Feeder Steers (N2) 2/                            N/A
D.   Bioeconomic Coefficients 3'
1.   Meat Production (Large-Scale Ranch)
Weaning Rate (X)                              62                     51                      82.3
Adult Mortality CX)                            2                      1.4                    70.0
Calf Mortality (X)                             3.5                    3.2                    91.4
Offtake Rate (X)                              21                     21.6                   102.7
Age of Finished Steers
at Sale (months)                            30                     35                    116.7
Carrying Capacity (A.U./ha.)                   0.96                   0.46                   47.9
Meat Production (kg/ha./yr.)                  43.0                   45.8                   106.0
Meat Production (kg/head/yr.)                107.0
Total Meat Production as a
Result of Project (tons
Liveweight per year)                  132,000                       -                      -
2.   Meat Production (Medium-Scale Ranch)
Weaning Rate (X)                              62                     57.8                    93.2
Adult Mortality CX)                            2                       1.9                   95.0
Calf Mortality (X)                             4                      2.9                    72.5
Offtake Rate (X)                              20.3                    19.0                   93.6
Age of Finished Steers
at Sale (months)                             3.0                    3.0                  100.0
Carrying Capacity (A.U./ha.)                   1.0                    0.74                   74.0
Meat Production (kg/ha./yr.)                 121.0                  134.7                   111.3
Meat Production (kg/head/yr.)                115.3                     -                      -
Total Meat Production as a
Result of Project (tons
liveweight per year)                       N/A



- 24 -
Appraisal                                    Actual as X
Key Indicators                               Estimates                Actual               of Estimate
3.   Milk Production (SmaLL-ScaLe Farm)  '
Calving Rate (X)                              75
Adult MortaLity (X)                            2
Calf Mortality (X)                            12
CaLving Interval (days)                      420
Lactation Period (days)                      340
MiLk Production (L./ha./yr.)               2,738                    N/A                     N/A
Milk Production (t./cow/yr.)               2,920
Age at First Calving (months)               N/A
Average NK of MiLking Cows
in the Herd (X)                             69
Total Milk Production as a
Result of Project (C000/l./yr.)         15,300
E.   Land Use
1.   Large-Scale Ranch
Natural Pasture (ha.)                      4,000                  4,566                     114.5
Artificial Pasture (ha.)                     450                  1,022                     227.0
Forest (ha.)                                 350                  1.912                    546.3
Total:                                     4,800                  7,500                     156.3
2.   Medium-Scale Ranch
Natural Pasture (ha.)                        425                    378                      89.0
Artificial Pasture (ha.)                     220                    451                    205.0
Forest (ha.)                                 255                    371                    145.5
Total:                                       900                  1,200                     133.3
1    Financing allocated in February, 1990 on an exceptional basis.
Z/ To be financed by 'B" Loan, which was cancelled without disbursement.
3/   In the case of the weaning rate, offtake rate, carrying capacity and meat production, the result is
satisfactory if it exceeds 100X of the appraisal estimate; in the case of adult and calf mortaLity, and
age of finished steers at sale, the result is satisfactory if the percentage is C 100.
N No data obtained by Fondo Ganadero.
Source: Fondo Ganadero



- 25 -
Table 5. Proiect Cost and Financins
A. Project Cost
(USSMi lion)
Coimonent                          Aopraisal Estimate                                 Actual
Foreign                                     Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange %   LocaL    Foreign    Total   Exchange X
On Farm Investments
Long Term
Large Scale               22.4       20.6       43.0      48.0        28.8       15.1       43.9      34.4
Medium Scale              21.7       20.1       41.8      48.0        30.7       18.0       48.7      36.9
Small Scale                7.2        9.6       16.8      57.0         4.3        3.7        8.0      46.2
Agro-Industry             -.: -       -                     -           1.1      0.7       1j8         38.9
Sub-total:                51.3       50.3      101.6      49.0        64.9       37.5      102.4      36.6
Short Term
Steer Fattening           10.4        2.1       12.5       16.0       10.4        2.1       12.5       16.0
Sub-totaL                 61.7       52.4      114.1      46.0        75.3       39.5      114.9      34.4
Fondo Ganadero
Technical and
Administrative Services      4.0        1.2        5.2       23.0        4.0        1.2        5.2       23.0
TotaL Baseline Costs        65.7       53.6      119.3      45.0        79.3       40.7      120.1      33.9
Price Contingencies           1.4       0.4        1.8       23.0         1.4       0.4        1.8       22.2
TotaL Project Costs           67.1       54.0      121.1       45.0       80.7       41.1      121.9       33.7
B. Project Financins
(US$Million)
Source                       AAoraisal Estimate                                  ActuaL
Local       Foreign        Total          Local         Foreisn        Total
IBRD                             -          25.0          25.0            -             23.7          23.7
FONPLATA                        1.1          13.9         15.0             - -           12.5          12.5
HBi Loan Cofinancing            -.-          15.0         15.0
Fondo Ganadero                41.1            -.-         41.1           37.5             -           37.5
Beneficiaries                  25.0           -           25.0           28.7             -.-         28.7
TOTAL                     67.2          53.9         121.1           66.2           36.2         102.4



- 26 -
Tabte 6. Prolect Results
Economic Analysis
The original economic rate of return provided in the SAR for the project
was a range of estimates for three farm models rather than a single figure for
the overall project. The original models are not available and annual cost
and benefit flows were not provided by the borrower. Therefore it was not
possible to calculate ex-post financial and economic rates of return for
comparison with the SAR estimates.
The borrower has provided an ex-ante and ex-post comparison of income
per hectare for a sample of farms considered representative of two of the
models used in the SAR - the large and medium beef ranch. These figures
indicate an increase in net income per hectare of 239.6% for model 1 farms
and 358.5% for model 2 farms over the period late 1984/early 1985 to end
1990. This implies an average annual increase of 22.6% for model 1 and an
average annual increase of 28.89% for model 2. However, after adjusting
for inflation using the GDP deflator, net income per hectare decreases by
12% over the period (an average growth rate of -2.02% per year) for model
1 farms and increases by only 19% (an average growth rate of 3% per year)
for model 2 farms. The SAR anticipated that the average annual rate of
increase of real net income per hectare over the first six year period would
be 3% per year for model 1 and 19% per year for model 2 farms.
The poor performance of income growth over the project period is
curious given that after only six years, the technical coefficients were
approaching or had already exceeded the levels anticipated in the SAR for the
full development phase (years 12 to 19) of the project (figure 1). The
production of meat per head showed particularly dramatic improvement,
doubling on both large and medium farms. Participants also benefitted from
negative real interest rates. While producer prices may not have attained the
levels anticipated by the SAR estimates, increases in the price level of
livestock products in Paraguay over the project period lagged only slightly
behind prices for the agricultural sector and the overall economy (figure 2).
Overall economic benefits were gained from beef exports which increased
dramatically following liberalization of foreign exchange policy in 1989.
Additional benefits not anticipated in the SAR resulted from increased land
under forests on large farms and less than expected forest cover reduction on
medium farms as the use of existing pasture was intensified through
investments in fencing and pasture development.



- 27 -
Fifure I
Technical Coefficienn3 for Models I and 2
Made[ I (ArP R&=                               Model 2 (Mdu  Raws
[Tewcam                       1    IEdf r!_ 1e
Gromh 0e lilhl eix year
pto-a  rie nw.                                    76%           .12%              .             200%             19%
Av.ra  enul growt ree             .e.             9.8%           -2%           n.e.              20%             3%
lez Ue                             h.  (S)        he       M     b(%             I.   (%) h            (%) h S1)         (S)
Neaml Peenw                     4,000 (83)      4,000 (B3)     4,566 (61)     425   (47)       425   (47)       378  (31)
Anilft& iPwl e                   250  (5)        450  (9)      1,022 (14)     160   (it)       MD    (24)       451  08)
Foc'                             550 (12)        350  (8)      1,912 (2)      315   (35)       2      (29)      371  (31)
Total:                        4,.00 (100)    4,gO0 (100)    7,500 (LOO)     900   (100)     900   (100)      1,200  (100)
H,do Meman,e
Weani  mt. (%)                  51              62             SL             50.0             62.0            57.8
Adull no11iy (%)                3.0             2.0            1.4            3.0              2.0             1.9
C iMO-lily (                    5.0             3.0            3.2            5.0              4.0             2.9
OfleM Mlo (1)                   16.0            21.0           21.57          16.5             20.3            19.0
A  o  fioi.k  seevat ,el        4               3              3.5            4.0              3.0             3.0
Physical Ph2sivir
Numb.r of aul                   1,(638          2,0S0          2,76           449              945             712
Cuyimn  dprizy (AUIb)           0.82            0.92           0.46           0.73             1.00            0.74
PgdwUee of       l.) per        21.4            42.6           45.8           483              121.0           134.7
eeces  lW)
Production of d (1.w.): pr      62.6            97.7           123.7    IOB.9                  115.3           227.0
bood                             _        _(__ d)
TOWl edeL d pJuaL  ()           102,720         204,480        343,500        43,470           2OB,900         161,640
ToWl bf pducim a                36,050          71,400         149,640        30,100           76,300          151,470
Fioure 2
1985        1986         1987         1988        1989         1990        Cumulative
Price Level Varation (%)
GDP                                25.2         31.6        30.3         25.2        31.2         36.3         380.5
Agriculture                        25.6         31.8        27.7         28.7        28.6         29.2         351.8
Livesaok                          24.1         31.6         30.7         14.7        35.0         33.1         339.6
nirtest Rates
Nofinal                            23.8        22.1         22.2         22.7        25.0         28.0         na.
Real                               -1.4 J        9 5        -8.1         -2.5        -6.2         -8.3         n.a.
------------ 



- 28 -
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Loan Agreement                               Summarized
Section                                   Covenant                       Status
3.02 (b) (i)                               GOP will relend to FG:
(a) At a rate of 0.5X above               Complied
variable Bank rate;
(b) In Guaranies;                         Complied
Cc) GOP will bear FE risk;                Complied
(d) FG will pay front-end and             Co,plied
commitment fees.
3.02 (b) (ii)                              GOP wilL relend FONPLATA Loan              CompLied
proceeds under a Retending
Agreement with terms and
conditions acceptabLe to the
Bank.
2.01, 2.03                                 FG will provide funds,                    Complied
facilities and services to
carry out the project.
2.02                                       FG shall ensure:
(a) Adequate technical                    Complied
assistance for preparation
of short-term and
investment loan requests.
(b) Provision of an adequate              CompLied
number of field
technicians for subloan
processing and
supervision, and provision
of technical assistance.
2.05 (b)                                   FG wilt use aLl funds                     CompLied
recovered from subloans,
except those for debt service
and administrative costs, for
financing agricultural and
livestock development.
Sch. 1 (c)                                 FG shall, in the case of sub-             Complied
borrowers requesting a repeat
subloan, prepare a study of
the impact of the previous
subloan and only approve the
new subloan if there has been
positive impact.
Sch. 1 (d)                                No subloan aLone or when added             Compliad
to outstanding payments to FG
wiLl exceed the equivalent of
USS150,000.



- 29 -
Loan Agreement                             Summarized
Section                                  Covenant                     Status
Sch. 1 (d)                               No short-term loan will exceed            Complied
USS60,000.
Sch. 1 (a)                               Purchase of cattle will not               Complied
exceed 70X of the investment
project unless FG justifies to
the Bank the higher
percentage.
Sch. 2 (a,b)                             FG will establish specific                Comlipted
terms and conditions of
subloans.
3.02                                     FG shall establish a separate             Complied
Project Account.
3.04                                     FG shall establish an accrual             Compliance awaited purchase of
system of accounting by                  a new conmputer and software,
January 1, 1985.                         which had still not occurred
at project closing.
3.05                                     FG shall prepare and execute a            Program was prepared, but its
four-year work program for               execution was problematic.
technical assistance and
supervision activities.
3.06                                     FG shall prepare and execute a            Complied
satisfactory reorganization
program for the administrative
and technical activities.
Supplementary Letter                     The exchange rate to be used              No disbursements occurred at
for Bank disbursement will               the G160 rate.  Rate was
initially be G160/USS1.                  raised to G320 in late 1986 to
G550 in 1987, and G1,250 in
1989.
Sch. 2 (c)                               FG and the Bank will review               Rates were reviewed, but the
and revise interest rates to             needed adjustments were
ensure that they reflect                 difficult to achieve.  Rates
variations in the consumer               were negative for most of
price index.                             project implementation.
2.07 (b)                                 FG shall prepare final project            Complied
report.
2.07 (c)                                 FG shall provide the Bank with            Complied
semi-annual progress reports.
3.03 (c)                                 FG shall have accounts audited            Complied with major delays;
by independent auditors                  considerable problems were
acceptable to the Bank within            encountered getting FG/CB to
six months of the end of the             accept Idea of independent
year.                                    auditors, who were not
retained until 1988.



- 30 -
TabLe 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(weeks)
Stage of                  FY      FY      FY      FY      FY      FY        FY      FY      FY
Project CycLe                82      83      84      85      86      87       88      89      90       Total
Through AppraisaL                 0.5   25.3   16.3                                                           42.1
Through Board Approval                            7.9                                                          7.9
Supervision                                       4.1     5.2     7.3    12.0      8.5     8.4    16.7        62.2
0.5    25.3   28.3      5.2     7.3    12.0     8.5      8.4    16.7       112.2
Source: MIS
B. Missions
Stage of              Month/           N2 of    Days in   SpeciaLization          Performance         Types of
Project CycLe             Year         Persons al  Field    Represented I'    Rating/Standard 2'   Problems 3
Through Appraisal    November, 1982           1         16 1'       Ag
February, 1983          1         8 ^'        Ag
April, 1983             3        18           Ag, Fin, Ec
Supervision           September, 1984 6/      1          1          Ag                        1               -
November, 1984 61       1         5           Ag                      N/A              -
March, 1985             1          1          Ag                       1               -
November, 1985          1         5           Ag                       2             F,M
September, 1986         1        10           Ag                       3             F,M,I
April, 1988             3         7           Fin, Ec, Ag              2             F
May, 1989               1        16           Ec                       2             A,I
February, 1990          1        13           Fin                      2             F,L,M,T
/   Ag = Agronomist; Ec = Economist; Fin = Financial Specialist
g/   1 - Minor Problems; 2 = Moderate ProbLems; 3 = Major Problems
2/   F z Financial; T = Technical; M = Managerial; I = Institutional; A = Acdinistrative; L X LegaL
i/ Various assigrnments, including identification of Livestock VIl.
i/ Pre-effectiveness
W Does not incLude consultants
Source: Terms of Reference, Form 590's and Back-to-Office Reports.



- 31 -
Table 9. KeY Lending Data. Deceaber 31. 1990
A.  Large-Scale Ranch
N of Subiloans                                                          435
N of Beneficiaries                                                      480
Total Amount of Subloans (USSMillion)                                     29.8
Area (ha.)                                                        4,410,143
N' of Cattle                                                      1,489,516
Average Subloan Amount (USS'OOO)                                          68.5
B.  Medium-Scale Ranch
Ng of Subloans                                                           935
N- of Beneficiaries                                                    1,718
Total Amount of Subloans (US$Million)                                     35.4
Area (ha.)                                                        1,478,921
N2 of Cattle                                                        724,062
Average Subloan Amount (USS'000)                                          37.9
C. Small-Scale Farm
N2 of SubLoans                                                           285
N of Beneficiaries                                                    1,143
Total Amount of Subloans (USSMillion)                                      7.2
Area (ha.)                                                          475,427
Ng of Cattle                                                        202,133
Average Subloan Amount (USS'OOO)                                          25.3
D.  Agro-lndustrv
Ng of SubLoans                                                             3
NE of Beneficiaries                                                       52
Total Amount of Subloans (USSMiLlion)                                      1.3
Area (ha.)                                                            12,533
Average Subloan Amount (USS'000)                                         433.3
TOTAL: Ln. 2372-PA
N2 of Subloans                                                         1,658
N' of Beneficiaries                                                    3,393
Total Amount of Subloans (USSMittion)                                     73.7
Area (ha.)                                                         6,377,024
N of Cattle                                                      2,415,711
Source: Fondo Ganadero



- 32 -
Table 10. Number and Amount of Subloans. 1985-1990 1'
Item                          1985           1986           1987           1988           1989           1990
A.  Large-Scale Producers
12 of Subloans                   87            139            198            278            384           435
N of Beneficiaries             123            180            243            323            429            480
Total Amount of
SubLoans (G'000)        1,767,072     3,134,193      5,921,470    10,343,384    18,488,577    22,857,297
Area Affected (ha.)         738,415      1,141,741     1,772,448      2,703,721      4,091,682      4,410,143
N2 of Cattle Affected       230,187        407,007       572,456        953,151      1,374,248      1,489,516
B.  Medium-Scale Producers
N2 of Subloans                  196            298            438            600            821           935
N of Beneficiaries             427            814          1,149          1,311          1,604         1,718
Total Amount of
Subloans (G'000)       2,665,388      4,234,567      7,763,592    12,387,670    22,486,189    28,861,439
Area Affected (ha.)         325,903        449,199        711,647       940,936      1,342,333      1,478,921
N of Cattle Affected       137,751        201,785       302,461        417,572        616,489        724,062
C.  Small-Scale Producers
N of Subloans                   61             93            113            149            232            285
N of Beneficiaries             237            298            345            430            679          1,143
Total Amount of
Subloans (G'000)          830,348     1,044,193      1,334,428      2,111,253      4,649,801      9,463,648
Area Affected (ha.)         232,007        237,220        245,021        255,088       304,165        475,427
N of Cattle Affected        91,841         95,579         98,676       101,243        124,688        202,133
D. Agro-Industry i'
No of SubLoans                               3-               -                                              3
N1 of Beneficiaries                                                                                         52
Total Amount of
Subloans (G'000)                                                                                  1,999,999
Area Affected (ha.)                                                                                     12,533
N' of Cattle Affected                                                                                     -
TOTAL: Ln. 2372-PA
N9 of Subloans                  380            530            749          1,027          1,437          1,658
N2 of Beneficiaries             823          1,292          1,737          2,064         2,712          3,393
Total Amount of
SubLoans (G'000)       5,652,328      8,412,953    15,019,490    24,836,307    45,624,567    63,182,383
Area Affected (ha.)       1,296,325      1,828,160     2,729,116      3,899,745      5,738,180      6,377,024
N1 of Cattle Affected       459,779        704,371       973,593      1,471,966      2,115,425      2,415,711
j/ Cumulative basis
_/ Not incLuded in original project design
Source: Fondo Ganadero 6-monthly progress reports and supplementary data.



- 33 -
TabLe 11. Investments bY Activity. December 31. 1990
Amount
Activity                                Quantity                   (G'000)                      Percentage 1'
A.  Large-Scale Ranch
Fencing (Km.)                               6,865                 3,303,373                           9.9
Pasture Development (ha.)                 115,392                10,515,724                          31.4
Construction (N0)                             560                 2,769,803                           8.3
Machinery/Equipment (NO)                      499                 3,067,608                           9.2
Water Points/Tanks (NO)                     1,820                 3,209,873                           9.6
Beef AnimaLs (Head)                        63,814                 8,331,644                          24.9
Milk Animals (Head)                             -
Pigs (Head)                                     _
Land Preparation (ha.)                     10,623                   957,352                           2.8
Crops (ha.)                                 1,656                   195,084                           0.6
Other                                           -                 1,128,716                           3.4
TOTAL:                                          -                33,479,177                         100.0
B.  Medium-Scale Ranch
Fencing (Km.)                               8,164                 3,931,444                           9.8
Pasture Development (ha.)                 136,179                11,887,955                          29.7
Construction (No)                           1,257                 3,628,667                           9.1
Machinery/Equipment (NO)                      708                 3,429,902                           8.6
Water Points/Tanks (NO)                     1,722                 2,561,833                           6.4
Beef AnimaLs (Head)                        90,053                11,456,144                          28.7
Milk Animals (Head)                           513                   220,410                           0.6
Pigs (Head)                                    79                     3,370                           -
Land Preparation (ha.)                     30,004                 1,992,118                           5.0
Crops (ha.)                                 2,934                   344,080                           0.9
Other                                           -                   514,881                           1.3
TOTAL:                                          -                39,970,804                         100.0
C.  Small-Scale Farm
Fencing (Km.)                               1,806                   914,775                           8.0
Pasture Development (ha.)                  18,926                 1,779,197                          15.6
Construction (No)                             509                 2,023,115                          17.8
Machinery/Equipment (NO)                      426                 2,195,729                          19.3
Water Points/Tanks (N0)                       922                   897,653                           7.9
Beef Animals (Head)                         6,919                 1,324,070                          11.6
Milk Animals (Head)                         3,918                 1,184,156                          10.4
Pigs (Head)                                   205                    17,820                           0.1
Land Preparation (ha.)                      6,481                   673,447                           5.9
Crops (ha.)                                   468                    61,053                           0.5
Other                                           -                   310,136                           2.7
TOTAL:                                          -                11,381,151                         100.0
/  May not add due to rounding.
Source: Fondo Ganadero



- 34 -
Table 12.  Subtoan Distribution by Size and Activity. MaY 31. 1989
(Millions of Guaranies)
No. of            Amount of the         Amount of the             Percentage
Size/Activity                      Subloans               Credit              Investment               Financed
A.   Large (over 2.500 ha.)
Meat Production               301                11,935.1              17,708.4                    67.0
Milk Production                 -                     _                      _                      _
PouLtry Production              -
Pork Production                                       -                      -                      -
Crop Production                  1                   36.0                   53.0                   68.0
Sub-Total:                    302                11,971.1              17,761.4                    67.4
B.   Medium (250-2500 ha.)
Meat Production               648                15,387.4              22,204.0                    69.0
MiLk Production                11                    137.5                 198.0                   69.0
PouLtry Production              3                     18.6                  26.0                   69.0
Pork Production                  1                     9.0                  13.0                   69.0
Crop Production                 12                   130.8                 188.5                   69.0
Sub-TotaL:                    675                15,683.1              22,630.7                    69.0
C.   SmaLL ((250 ha.)
Meat Production                  5                    23.2                  41.1                   56.0
MiLk Production                162                3,061.9               5,419.2                    57.0
Poultry Production              5                   138.3                 244.7                    57.0
Pork Production                 3                    58.4                  103.3                   57.0
Crop Production                 4                     13.6                  26.4                   52.0
Sub-Total                     179                 3,295.5               5,832.7                    57.0
TOTAL                       1,156                30,949.7              46,224.8                    67.0
/  Update to December, 1990 requested but not provided.
Source: Financial Directorate, Fondo Ganadero.



- 35 -
Table 13. Coefficients of Production. December 1990
Large-ScaLe                4ediun-ScaLe           Small-Scale "
Weaning Rate (X)
Before Project                            51.0                       50.0
FuLl DeveLopment                          62.0                       62.0                      N/A
Achieved                                  51.0                       57.8
Mortality (Adults, X)
Before Project                             3.0                        3.0
Full DeveLopment                           2.0                        2.0                      N/A
Achieved                                   1.4                        1.9
Offtake Rate tX)
Before Project                            19.0                       16.5
FuLl DeveLopment                          27.0                       20.3                      N/A
Achieved                                  21.6                       19.0
Grazing Density (A.U./ha.)
Before Project                             0.82                       0.73
FuLL DeveLopment                           0.92                       1.00                     N/A
Achieved                                   0.47                       0.74
Pastures Improved tX of total area)
Before Project                             5.0                       18.0
FuLl DeveLopment                           9.0                       24.0                     N/A
Achieved                                  13.6                       36.4
Meat Production (kg. Liveweight per ha., per year)
Before Project                            21.36                      68.90
Full Development                          42.56                     119.50                     N/A
Achieved                                  45.73                     134.70
i/    FG did not survey small-scale producers, claiming that the survey sample did not contain sufficient
farmers with dairy/Livestock as their principal activity to make a meaningful evaluation. Further,
the survey did not gather data on dairy cooperatives, or the Mennonite dairy farmers in Eastern
Paraguay.



- 36 -
Table 14. Rates of Interest and Inflation. 1980-1991
(Percentages)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Fondo Ganadero:
Rate of Interest on
New Subloans              18.8   23.5   21.9   24.9   25.6   23.8   22.1   22.2   22.7   25.0   28.0   28.0
Annual Rate of
InfLation (CPI)          23.4   14.0    6.7   13.5   20.3   23.1   24.0   31.7   17.0   26.1  44 1   11.8
Real Rates of
Interest                  -9.6    4.6   10.3    5.4  -0.5   -6.2   -9.6  -15.7    0.0   -3.3  -18.8   13.2
Table 15. Subtoans to Nenronite Dairy Cooperatives
No. of                                                 Amount
Cooperative                         SubLoans                Beneficiaries                    (G'000)
Chortitzer Komitee                       10                       780                          5,403,231
Fernheim                                  8                       490                          2,875,791
NewLand                                  10                       170                          1,973,900
TOTAL                               28                     1,440                         10,251,922
Source: Fondo Ganadero
Table 16. 5uloan Distribution by Geogradhical Reaion. December 31. 1990
Regions                             Subloans                              Amount
(Numbers)             X            (USSNILLion)            X
Central Office                            898                54.2               53.5              72.6
Concepcl6n                                188                 11.3               4.7               6.4
San Ignaclo                               183                 11.0               5.9               8.0
Ciudad del Este                           389                23.5                9.6               13.0
TOTAL                             1,658               100.0               73.7             100.0
Source: Credit Directorate, Fondo Ganadero



- 37 -
Table 17. Conswuer Price Index. 1985-1991
AbsoLute                          Percentage
Year                                    Variation                          Variation
1985                                      208.0                                -
1986                                      274.0                              31.7
1987                                      333.7                              21.8
1988                                      445.8                              33.6
1989                                      573.0                              28.5
1990                                      825.5                              44.1
1991                                      923.0                               11.8
J Average annual
Source: CentraL lank
Table 18. Fondo G6adero - Financial Indicators. 1986-1990
(Percentages)
1986        1987        1988        1989        1990
1. AnnuaL Growth of Loan Portfolio                    11          18          31          45           54
2. Portfolio in Arrears                                7           9           5            5           7
3. Net Income over Average Portfolio                  12           9           5            0.2         0
4.  Financial Income (Interest pLus
commissions, over average portfoLio)              14          13          13           13          12
5.  FinanciaL Costs (Interest pLus
connissions paid, over average portfolio)          7           6           6            2           3
6. Liquidity                                           1.6         1.7          1.3         0.8         0.8
7. SoLvency                                            1.5         1.4          1.3         1.1         1.1
8.  FinanciaL Leverage                                66          74          80           88          90
9. Return                                             11          13           9            8          10
Source: Fondo Ganadero



- 38 -
Table 19. Fmndo Gawdero - Balance Sheet. 1986-1990
(G. Millions)
1986    Z         1987    X          1988    X         1989    X          1990    %
ASSETS
Cash and Bank Deposits              5,181.7  23.2    7,622.7   26.9   10,172.3   26.3   14,408.6   21.2    3,925.9    5.1
Loans due within one year
FG/IDA/IBRD/OPEC                  1,176.6    5.3    1,156.4    4.1    2,260.4    5.8    3,106.3    4.6    5,323.8    7.0
FG Reinvestment Fund               511.2    2.2      641.7    2.2    1.529.0    3.9    1.902.8    2.8    1.524.2   2.0
Subtotal:                         1,687.3    7.5    1,798.1    6.3    3,733.0    9.7    4,988.4    7.3    6,829.2    8.9
Less: Provision for bad debts       N/A               N/A                N/A                -20.7   -0.0       -18.8  -0.0
Loans due in over one year
FG/IDA/IBRD/OPEC                10,129.3   45.4   12,879.8   45.4   18,545.4  47.8   30,227.1   44.4   50,818.4  66.5
FG Reinvestment Fund             2.930.8   13.2    3.214.8   11.4    3.740.0    9.6    3.647.0    5.4    2.910.0    3.8
Subtotal:                        13,060.1   58.6   16,094.6   56.8   22,001.9  56.7  33,747.4   49.5   53,592.9   70.1
Less: Provision for bad debts      290.5    1.3       290.5    1.0         -               -126.7   -0.2     -135.5   -0.2
Loans due and payable
(installments)                   1,108.8    4.9    1,614.5    5.7    1,456.2    3.7        613.7    0.9       708.8
Total Portfolio                    15,856.2   71.2   19,216.7   67.8   26,841.1   69.2   39,349.5   57.8   61,130.9  80.0
Negotiable goods                      887.2    3.9    1,057.2    3.7       937.3    2.4    1,052.0    1.5    1,016.3    1.3
Equipment and fixed assets            296.9    1.3      349.5    1.2       806.3    2.0    1,150.0    1.7    1,159.9    1.5
Other assets                           55.9    0.2       68.2    0.2        10.9   0.1         11.7   90.6         0.0    0.1
Exchange rate differential            N/A               N/A                N/A             12,148.0   17.8    9,111.0   11.9
Total Assets                       22,278.2  100.0   28,314.3  100.0  38,767.9  100.0  68,119.8  100.0   76,434.6  100.0
LIABILITIES
Borrowings due within one year
IDA/IBRD                           715.3    3.2       883.3    3.0    1,382.8    3.5    5,107.9    8.4    3,006.4    4.3
Central Bank                     3,349.1   15.0    4,392.0   15.4    9,305.6  23.7  16,314.1   26.9   15,667.0   22.6
Other                               979.0    4.3    1,156.    4.0    1.283.9    3.2   1.335.4    2.2          995.5    1.4
Subtotal:                        5,043.3   22.6    6,431.3   22.4   11,972.3   30.6   22,757.4   37.6   19,668.9  28.4
Borrowings due in over one year
IDA/IBRD                         8,475.0   38.1   13,397.5   46.8   17,988.6   45.9  36,793.0   60.8   48,366.8   69.8
Central Bank                          -                 -                  -                  -
Other                             1.255.4    5.6    1.232.3    4.3    1.221.7    3.1        994.8    1.6   1.264.8    1.8
Subtotal:                        9,729.4   43.6   14,629.8   51.1   19,210.3   49.1   37,787.8   62.4   49,631.6   71.6
Total loans received               14,772.7   66.4   21,061.1   73.6   31,115.4   79.7  60,545.2  100.0   69,300.5  100.0
EQUITY
Fund to support local FG loans        166.8    0.7      166.8    0.5       166.8    0.4       166.8    0.2      166.8    0.2
Equity "Est. La Patria"                 6.6    -          6.6    -           6.6    -           6.6    0.0        6.6    0.0
Reserves and retained earnings      6,471.6   29.0    6,119.0   21.4    7,080.0   18.1    7,761.6   11.3    7,843.0   10.2
Profit, financial year                860.5    3.8      960.9    3.3       682.1    1.8        82      0.1     -638.9  -0.8
Provision for bad debts                 -               290.6    1.2         -                N/A                N/A
Total Eauitv                        7,505.5   33.6    7,543.9   26.4    7,935.5   20.3    8,017.0   11.7    7,377.5    9.6
Total Liabilities                 22,278.2  100.0   28,605.1  100.0   39,118.2  100.0  68,562.2  100.0   76,678.0  100.0
Source: Financial Directorate, Fondo Ganadero.



- 39 -
Table 20. Fondo Ganiadero - Incom Statement. 1966-1990
(G. Miltions)
1986         X       1987          X      1988          X       1989          X       1990        X
A.   Financial Revenues:
Interest on FG/IDA/IBRD lines of credit           1,103.2      52.3    1,284.9       47.7   1,830.2       48.5    2,778.1       53.6   5,475.0      71.3
Interest on Reinvestment Funds                      433.3      20.6      465.9       17.3      793.4      21.1    1,134.8       21.9   1,000.0       13.0
Interest on OPEC line of credit                      20.5       0.9        15.1       0.8       15.9       0.4         8.9       0.2        2.4      0.0
Commissions                                         550.7      26.6       922.7      34.2   1,131.8       30.0    1,256.9        24.3   1,196.1      15.6
TOTAL                                             2,107.7     100.0    2,688.6      100.0   3,771.4      100.0    5,178.7       100.0   7,673.5    100.0
B.   Financial Expenditures
Interest payments on IBRD/OPEC borrowings           462.9      21.9       509.9      18.9      813.7      21.5    1,156.2       22.3   1,681.1      21.9
Interest payments on other borrowings                11.9       0.6       125.2       4.6      189.2       5.0       290.6       5.6      420.3      5.5
Commissions                                          31.4       1.5         0.9       1.3        3.3       -           -         -          -         -
Other                                                34.5       1.6        33.5       -          -         -           -          -         -         -
TOTAL                                               540.7      25.6       668.6      24.8   1,006.2       26.5    1,446.8       27.9   2,101.4       27.4
C.   Income from Lending Operations  (A-B)             1,567.0      74.3    2,020.0       75.1   2,765.3       73.3    3,731.9        72.1   5,572.1      72.6
D.  Operatina Expenditures
Exchange                                             50.1       2.3         -         -      1,572.1      41.6    3,137.4       60.6   4,580.9       59.7
Reserve for adjustments                                       350.1        16.6     658.2       24.4       -           -         -          -        11.60.2
Personnel                                           202.1       9.5       243.1       9.0      308.4       8.1       603.1       11.6   1,103.6      14.4
General expenditures                                127.1       6.0       159.6       5.9      201.7       5.3       261.8        5.1     504.1       6.6
Wet expenses Est. "La Patria"                         -         -          19.8       5.9        -         -           -         -         66.0       0.9
Provision for bad debts                               -         -           -         0.7       59.5       1.5       147.5        2.8       -        -
Depreciation                                         11.1       0.5        33.7       1.2       19.9       0.5        38.2        0.7      58.9       0.8
TOTAL                                               740.5      35.5    1,114.4       41.4   2,161.6       57.3    4,188.0       80.9   6,325.1       82.4
E.   Income from Operations (C-D)                        826.4      39.2       905.6      33.6      603.7       16.0     -456.1       -8.8    -753.0      -9.8
F.   Other Net Income                                     34.0       1.6        56.4       2.0       78.6       2.0       539.4       10.4     114.9       1.5
G.  Profits. FinanciaL Year (E-F)                        860.4      40.8       960.9      35.7      682.1       18.0       83.3        1.6    -638.1      -8.3
Source: Financial Directorate, Forido Ganadero.



- 40 -
Table 21. Econmic and Financial Results. Large and Nedium Ranches
(G'000)
Item                                           Large Ranch                  Medium Ranch
(2,500 ha.>)               (250-2,500 ha.)
Initial         Final         Initial         FinaL
A. Balance Position
1 ssets
1.1 Liauid Assets                                393,347        373,700        528,032        237,755
Cash  nd bank deposits                       251,432        247,000        113,774        204,355
Accounts receivable                          145,915        126,700        414,258         33,400
1.2 Livestock                                  8,644,034    23,353,844       3,681,481     14,157,806
Cattle stocks                              8,544,970    23,353,264       3,507,227    13,801,237
Stocks in storage                             99,064            580        174,254        356,569
Current Assets                             9,041,381     23,727,544      4,209,513     14,395,561
1.3 Machinery and Ewuioment (8 yrs.)             400,852      1,788,331        729,838      2,460,380
1.4 F[Ie  Asets                                6,088,007    38,473,353       5,040,069    28,277,594
4,779,920    35,298,743       4,190,282    24,574,912
Buildings and facilities (15 yrs.)         1,308,087      3,174,610        849,787      3,702,682
TOTAL ASSETS                                  15,530,240    63,989,228       9,979,420    45,133,535
2. Liabilities
Short-term debt                                  276,728        317,767        151,063         40,960
Long-Term debt                                   282,954        m,232          514,065      1,034,924
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                559,682      1,089,999        665,128      1,075,884
3.  NET EQUITY                                    14,970,558    62,899,229       9,314,292    44,057,651
B.  Results
Cattle saLes                                   1,376,760      4,489,430        458,560      2,282,315
Operating expenses                               655,228      1,515,783        278,228      1,183,642
Farm expenses                                    655,228      1,515,783        278,228      1,183,642
NET OPERATING PROFIT                                 721,532      2,973,647         180,332      1,098,673
Depreciation                                     137,225        434,970                       554,146
Other Income from Sales 
NET PROFIT                                           585,307      2,538,677         32,507         514,527
C. Financial Indicators
4.  Liwuidity Index
4.1 Liquidity ratio                                1.435          1.176          3.495          5.804
4.2 Indebtedness                                   0.030          0.017          0.066          0.024
5.  Activity Index
5.1 Rotation of fixed assets
5.2 Rotation of total assets
6. Profitability Index
6.1 Margin of surety (Interest coverage)           0.424          0.565          0.071          0.238
6.2 Return on total assets                         0.037          0.039          0.003          0.012
6.3 Return on net equity                           0.039          0.040          0.003          0.012
Source: Fondo Ganadero



- 41 -
Table 22. Project lIrect on Ewuity - Large and Medium Ranches
(By Hectare in Current USS)
Initial Year               December 1990          Difference    Increase
A.    Larse Scale Ranch
Fixed Capital             30,901.54       41.76      191,736.00       62.92     160,834.46       520.47
Operating Capital          1,891.84        2.56        1,789.65        0.58         (102.19)      (5.4)
CircuLating Capital       41,165.01       55.66      111,216.73       36.50      70,051.72       170.17
Total Equity              73,958.38      100.00      304,732.38      100.00     230,774.00       312.03
Net Equity                71,293.04                  290,541.53                 228,248.49       320.16
B.    Nedlum-Scale Ranch
Fixed Capital             77,235.89       57.80      411,458.05       68.10     334,222.16       432.72
Operating Capital          7,068.23        5.30        3,182.58        0.50       (3,885.65)     (54.97)
Circulating Capital       49,280.24       36.90      189,516.17       31.40     140,235.93       234.56
Total Equity             133,584.36      100.00      684,156.80      100.00     470,572.44       352.26
Net Equity               124,680.97                  589,755.04                 465,074.07       370.01
1987            1988              1989              1990
General CPI (millions of
constant 1982 Guaranies)                331.2            445.8             573.08             25.5
Annual variation (X)                     32.0             16.9              28.5              44.1
Source: Fondo Ganadero



- 42 -
Table 23. Production Data, 1965-1990
1985         1986           1987          1988         1989           1990
Production
Vacuno (unidades faenadas)*    539,310         550,080       563,832       577,938       611,950       671,309
Porcino (unidades faenadas)* 1,779,580    1,788,400    1,979,560    1,824,977    1,902,977    1,908,750
*                                231,110       232,260       238,279       243,048       247,488       251,200
Raw Milk (m./Lt.)*               176,600       181,980       188,347       193,997       199,817       219,001
Eggs (m./units)*                 620,080       638,680       659,756       681,528       704,018       673,600
Exports
Meat - frozen and processed (ton)                             15,209        15,649        73,704       101,496
VeaL - frozen (ton)                                              341           349         1,610         2,988
CattLe hides (ton)                                             4,994         5,158         6,132         4,304
Beef Prices (G/kiLo/liveweight)
Steer                                 187           283          376           395           300           649
Cow                                   117           264          352           300           343           583
Source: Fondo Ganadero, Information BuLLetin MAG No. 107, National Accounts 89/90.
Table 24. Fondo Ganadero - Total Subloans Since Inception until December 31. 1990
Line of Credit                        humber of                Amount of Subtloans
Subloans 1'                  (G. Millions)
First Project (47-PA)                           227                           653.0
Second Project (86-PA)                          499                         1,117.4
Third Project (156-PA, 620-PA)                1,300                         1,649.5
Fourth Project (1037-PA)                      1,902                         2,206.1
Fifth Project (1674-PA)                         945                         2,507.8
Sixth Project (1979-PA)                       1,769                         6,110.5
Seventh Project (2372-PA)                     1,658                        65,700.6
FOMPLATA                                         58  '                      1,229.4
Reinvestment Funds                            3,657  ''                    24,914.1
TOTAL                                   12,015                            -
/   Representing some 14,900 beneficiaries.
?/ As of June 30, 1989.
3f Addition meaningless.
Source: Fondo Ganadero



0. : t          L  |                                          Y /   p^z1
X   T   \    !    ,   </   /          t i          E ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M E R I C A i
<   |  0AtS itHi. Ablilidt )   }  /   /    ' >    . '  ,    '  :    *t. <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
/ ) NU tA  U NC I ON / Alin orits i [Pe  R A G  U A Y }44!'  ..  ''''    
N| n1e  wuA1}     1oi SPU*Nc........... !j, }'.....,tFi,  N>
LE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
72                                           -i R-1S
~~~i B    -' .; U   .-EX9^i. R',4: 0. .N   ...i A/  >X'A
r~~~~ E Sooi I< D E N E4 A                            ,Y E
4FuFnlu   \X   E   UtifrFFsKM   
.W. ,> ,_1 d ??. 11 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA      PE r   xw_M,S-i 1ICU  / , s /af
.tr .4t Z.idei ..............................  .t  utt > -2tt
J,~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SE   .6?'                     'NOJEC ,2wSM rJ 



