OJFFICIAL LOAN NUMBER 2372 PA
DGC UMENT,
Project Agreement
(Seventh Livestock Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FONDO GANADERO
Dated                              , 1984


﻿Loan Number 2372 PA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1984, between
ENTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and FONDO GANADERO.
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
oetween Republic of Paraguay (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to tweny-five
nillion dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Fondo
Ganadero agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
4re hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
oetween the Borrower and Fondo Ganadero, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
Fondo Ganadero on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
by a Relending Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and Fondo Ganadero, the proceeds of a loan to be made by Fondo
Financiero para el Desarollo de la Cuenca del Plata (hereinafter
called the Fund) to the Borrower will be made available to Fondo
Ganadero on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Fondo Ganadero, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Fondo Ganadero shall carry out the Project,
described in Section 3.01 to the Loan Agreement, with due


﻿-2-
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural and live-
stock practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Fondo Ganadero shall: (a) ensure that Benefi-
ciaries, and borrowers to whom Fondo Ganadero has made or pro-
poses to make a Short-term loan, receive such technical assis-
tance as shall be necessary to prepare and submit, respectively,
Sub-loan and Short-term loan applications; (b) assign and station
an adequate number of field technicians in its central and
regional offices for such periods and on such terms and condi-
tions as may be necessary for such field technicians: (i) to
assist in the preparation, receive and process Sub-loan and
Short-term  loan  applications;  (ii)  to  supervise   Investment
Projects; and (iii) to assist farmers in the application of
improved management practices; (c) appraise Sub-loan applications
in terms of the managerial capabilities of the Beneficiaries and
the technical, financial and environmental soundness of the
proposed Investment Projects, taking into account, inter alia,
income and expenditure estimates, cash flow projections and the
financial rate of return on the investment, provided, however,
that Sub-loan applications for Investment Projects consisting of
single input complementary investments may be appraised on the
basis of simple cash flow projections to determine the merits of
such proposed investments; and (d) in order to cover technical
and administrative costs related to the preparation and super-
vision of Investment Projects, charge a one-time fee, satis-
factory to the Bank, such fee to be paid at the time of signing
of the Sub-loans.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Fondo Ganadero shall: (a) provide its field technicians with
adequate transportation facilities; and (b) provide funds
sufficient for: (i) fuel and maintenance for such transportation
facilities; and (ii) offices for, and air travel by, such field
technicians.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Fondo Ganadero shall make Sub-loans and Short-term loans in
accordance with the operating policies and procedures set forth
in this Agreement, including those set forth in the Schedule to
this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. Fondo Ganadero shall:
(a) make any Sub-loan on terms whereby Fondo Ganad.ero shall
obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Bank and Fondo Ganadero, including in the
case of any such Sub-loan, the right of Fondo Ganadero to: (i)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligency and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial, agricultural, livestock and manage-
rial standards and to establish and maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that: (A) the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased through regular
commercial channels at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them; and (B) such goods and services shall be appro-
priate for the Project and shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out thereof; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants, farms, ranches and construc-
tion included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (A)
the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business and agricultural
practices; and (B) without limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such
information as the Borrower, the Bank or Fondo Ganadero shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary;
and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Benefi-
ciary to perform its obligations under its contract with Fondo
Ganadero; and
(b) exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Bank and Fondo Ganadero; and (ii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Fondo Ganadero shall use all funds paid or to
be paid thereto under Sub-loans and Short-term loans exclusively
for the purpose of financing livestock and agricultural develop-
ment in the territories of the Borrower; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not apply to funds
required by Fondo Ganadero: (i) to service its financial obliga-
tions to the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the
Relending Agreement; and (ii) to meet the other reasonable costs
to carry out the Project and administering such funds. The Bank
and Fondo Ganadero shall consult from time to time as to the
policies and procedures for ensuring the effective use of such
funC3,
Section 2.07. (a) Fondo Ganadero shall: (i) maintain records
adequate to reflect the progress of the Project (including the
cost and the benefits to be derived therefrom) and to identify
the types of goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loans and to disclose their use thereof in the Investment
Projects; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loans and the
Short-term loans and any relevant records and documents and to
visit the facilities and sites included in the Investment
Projects and in projects under Short-term loans; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived thereof,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, Fondo Ganadero shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a   report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Bank and
Fondo Ganadero of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and this Agreement, the
performance by Fondo Ganadero of its obligations under the
Relending Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan and the Fund Loan.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon Fondo
Ganadero's obligations under this Section, Fondo Ganadero shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports, of such


﻿-5-
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the progress of the execution of the Project.
Section 2.08. Fondo Ganadero shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the
Relending Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Fondo Ganadero shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) Fondo Ganadero shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) Fondo Ganadero shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan or the Fund Loan, or the performance by Fondo Ganadero
of its obligations under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and under the Relending Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Fondo Ganadero shall conduct its business and
operations in accordance with appropriate financial, agricul-
tural, livestock and adminstrative practices and under the super-
vision of competent and experienced management.
Section 3.02. Fondo Ganadero shall establish a separate
Project account exclusively for the Project and shall record in
it all receipts and payments for or in connection with the
Project, including amounts disbursed to, and received from,
Beneficiaries under Sub-loans and borrowers under Short-term
loans.
Section 3.03. (a) Fondo Ganadero shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.


﻿-6-
(b) Fondo Ganadero shall retain, until two years after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(c) Fondo Ganadero shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, which report shall include a statement as to whether
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures have been used to make
payments for goods and services eligible for financing under the
Loan Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of Fondo
Ganadero and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 3.04. Fondo Ganadero shall, not later than Janu-
ary 1, 1985, establish and thereafter maintain an accounting
system, satisfactory to the Bank, on an accrual basis.
Section 3.05. Fondo Ganadero shall: (a) prepare a four- year
work program, satisfactory to the Bank, for its technical
assistance and supervision activities; and (b) promptly after
the effective date, initiate the execution of such program, and
thereafter continue to carry it out, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.06. Fondo Ganadero shall: (a) prepare a program,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the reorganization of the
administrative, accounting and technical activities of Fondo
Ganadero aimed primarily at improving the distribution of the
activities and responsibilities of its management, incorporating
data  processing   and  storage   techniques,  strengthening   its
internal auditing system and providing       for changes in    its
accounting system; and (b) promptly after the effective date,


﻿-7-
initiate the execution of such program, and thereafter continue
to carry it out, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Fondo Ganadero thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Fondo Ganadero thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For Fondo Ganadero:
Fondo Ganadero
Palma 468
Asuncion
Paraguay
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Fondo Ganadero, or by Fondo Ganadero on
behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the President of Fondo Ganadero or such other person
or persons as the President of Fondo Ganadero shall designate in
writing, and Fondo Ganadero shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FONDO GANADERO
By/
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCEDULE
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   Approval of Sub-loans and Short-term Loans
(a) To qualify for the granting of a Sub-loan, each appli-
cant will demonstrate to the satisfaction of Fondo Ganadero that
he meets all such creditworthiness criteria as shall be reason-
ably established from time to time by Fondo Ganadero.
(b) Investment Projects will be processed and approved on
the basis of detailed farm plans that demonstrate the technical,
economic and financial viability of the proposed investment and
other documentation which the Bank may, from time to time re-
quest.
(c) When processing an application for a Sub-loan of an
applicant to whom Fondo Ganadero has made a previous Sub-loan or
Sub-loans, Fondo Ganadero will prepare a study on the impact of
such Sub-loan or Sub-loans and will approve such new Sub-loan
only if, inter alia, such study demonstrates that an adequate
increase in production or productivity has resulted from the
previous Sub-loan or Sub-loans.
(d) No Sub-loan will exceed, by itself or when added    to
any outstanding payments under other loan or loans made to the
same Beneficiary by Fondo Ganadero under Part A of the Project,
the equivalent of $150,000 at the official exchange rate prevail-
ing in Paraguay at the time such Sub-loan is approved; and no
Short-term loan will exceed, by itself or when added to any
outstanding payments under other Short-term loan or Short-term
loans made to the same borrower under Part B of the Project, the
eqt.ivalent of $60,000 at the official exchange rate prevailing in
Paraguay at the time such Short-term loan is approved.
(e) The amount allocated to estimated cost of the purchase
of breeding stock within each Investment Project will not exceed
70% of the total estimated cost of such Investment Project unless
Fondo Ganadero demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Bank,
that a higher percentage is justified on technical and financial
grounds.
(f) To qualify for a Short-term loan, each applicant will
demonstrate to the satisfaction of Fondo Ganadero, that he has


﻿- 11 -
technical, administrative and infrastructural capacity to utilize
efficiently the proceeds of the Short-term loan.
2.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans and Short-term loans
(a) The terms and conditions of Sub-loans will be those
specified in the following table:
Repayment
Period
Annual    Benefi- Loan
Front-  Interest   ciary    Amorti-
end    Rate + Com- Contri-  zation   Grace
Fee     missions   bution   Period   Period
(%)      (%)        (%)     (Yr)     (Yr)
Not less   Not less
than:      than:
Beneficiaries under
Part A of the Project
Small-size Farmer       4       18         10        7       5
Medium-size Farmer    6       18         25        7       5
Large-size Farmer:
First Sub-loan     6       20         30        7       5
Repeater Sub-loan  6       20         30        7       3
(b) Short-term loans will bear interest plus commissions at
a rate of not less than 20% per annum and will have a repayment
period of up to 18 months.
(c) Notwithstanding the interest rates set forth in the
table in paragraph (a) and in paragraph (b) above, Fondo Ganadero
will: (i) at, the request of the Borrower, the Bank or Banco
Gentral, review, from time to time, such interest rates and
revise them as shall be necessary to reflect the variations of
the Indice de Precios al Consumidor, to cover Fondo Ganadero's
net operating costs and to maintain the value of its capital;
(ii) agree with the Bank and Banco Central on such adjustments;
and (iii) put into effect the adjustments agreed with the Bank
and Banco Central for the purpose, promptly after such agreement
has been reached.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of J      198
FOR SECRETARY


