Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 23066 MAU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.6 MILLION
(US$3.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FORA
GLOBAL DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER
October 23, 2001
Operational Quality and Knowledge Services (AFTQK)
Country Department 15
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2001)
Currency Unit = Ouguiya
1 UM = US$0.004
USSI = 260UM
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMEXTIPE             Agence Mauritanienne d 'Execution des Travaux d 'Interets Publiques
pour I 'Emploi (Contract Management Agency)
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
C.I.F.               Cost, insurance and freight
CFED                 Centre de Formnation et d'Echanges a Distance (Distance Learning Center)
CO                   Country Office
DLC                  Distance Learning Center
FMS                  Financial Management System
GDG                  Global Development Gateway (Portail Mondial du D&veloppemeni)
GDLN                 Global Development Learning Network
ISG                  Information Solutions Group
LIL                  Learning and Innovation Loan
MEAD                 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
MRDG                 Mauritanian Development Gateway (Portail Mauritanien du Developpement)
PdC                  Palais des Congres (Congress Palace)
NS                   National Shopping
PAR                  Procurement Assessment Review
PCU                  Project Coordination Unit
PMR                  Project Management Report
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
QCBS                 Quality and Cost Based Selection
SA                   Special Account
SDR                  Special Drawing Rights
SOE(s)               Statement(s) of Expenditure
SSNT                 State Secretariat for New Technologies (Secretariat d'Etat aux Nouvelles
Technologies)
VSAT                 Very Small Aperture Terminal
WBI                  World Bank Institute
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Miguel Saponara
Sector Manager/Director:   John A. Roome
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jean Mazurelle



MAURITANIA
GLOBAL DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                          Page
1. Project development objective                                                          2
2. Key performance indicators                                                             3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project         3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                         5
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                     7
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                          9
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                                11
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              12
2. Financial                                                                             12
3. Technical                                                                             12
4. Institutional                                                                         13
5. Environmental                                                                         14
6. Social                                                                                15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                    16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                        16
2. Critical risks                                                                        15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                        17
G. Main Loan Conditions



1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              17
2. Other                                                                                18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           28
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary             30
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary       33
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         36
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       45
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     46
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    47
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              48
MAP(S)



MAURITANIA
Global Distance Learning Center
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFMMR
Date: October 23, 2001                            Team Leader: Jean Mazurelle
Country Director: A. David Craig                  Sector Director: John A. Roome
Project ID: P071881                               Sector(s): ED - Distance Education/Education Technology
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 3.3
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard                         Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       0.00           0.00           0.00
IDA                                                            1.55            1.75          3.30
CENTRE D' EDUCATION A DISTANCE                                 0.75           0.55           1.30
OTHER SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                   0.25           0.15           0.40
Total:                                                         2.55           2.45           5.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MAURITANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT
Address: BP 238 Nouakchott
Contact Person: Mohamed Ould El Abed
Tel: (222) 25 16 12          Fax: (222) 25 51 10           Email: melabed@mauritania.mr
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual    1.60        0.65       0.55       0.50
Cumulative    1.60        2.25      2.80       3.30
Project implementation period: January 31, 2002 - July 31, 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 01/31/2002  Expected closing date:  01/31/2006
OCS PAD Fom. Ro Mach 2OW



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project will test mechanisms of public and private sector partnership to promote better acces, to and
dissemination of information relevant for country development and policy reforms. This Development Objective
will be assessed through (i) Institutional Championship (ability for small entities to promote a better access to
information); (ii) test of two specific telecom-based technologies and (iii) financial sustainability through 3 phased
funding.
In this context, the proposed Project will pilot two initiatives
A. The distance learning initiative will aim to (a) strengthen the environment for policy reforms and b) build
capacity in the public and private sectors by increasing local access to global knowledge and sp-cialized
information using internet-based technology.
Distance Leaming will facilitate the increased dissemination of knowledge and cross-country experience in
support of reform. Public and private sector decision-makers will access interactive multi-media training programs
developed by the World Bank Institute, major universities, private corporations and technical organizations around
the world. This exposure to global knowledge will enhance the capacity of Mauritanian decision-makers to
conceptualize and implement reforms. This will, in tum, lead to improved governance, economic growth and
poverty reduction.
B. Although communications on the World Wide Web between intemational organizations, governments, civil
society, and private sector have improved greatly in recent years, their potential to support development remains
largely untapped in many countries. Some of the remaining challenges are: (i) Uncoordinated and ineffective aid;
(ii) Low access-to reliable knowledge; (iii) Untapped opportunities for private sector development; (iv) Need for
better networking among development organizations; and (v) Low usage of Intemet for economic and social
development.
The Global Development Gateway (GDG) promotes the Intemet as a central tool for development an(d poverty
alleviation. The GDG aims to respond to the above challenges by creating a common development Internet Portal,
which will help deploy the collective assets and capabilities of the development community in a more efficient and
coordinated fashion.
The Mauritania Development Gateway (MRDG) is an Intemet-based comprehensive development partnersnip, first
of its kind in Mauritania, which will help various development stakeholders to work towards their goL.ls more
efficiently. The MRDG is a high-impact and low-cost cutting edge technology tool to facilitate solving various
development problems by all working in one common environment and in one team. The followings are the key
innovative features of the MRDG: (i) The MRDG is a country-level component of the Global Development
Gateway; (ii) The MRDG  can be further organized into Regional Development Gateways (e.g.,  Africa
Development Gateway); the MRDG can be further divided into Sub-national (regional) Development Gateways
(e.g., Gateway to Trarza or Gateway to Mauritanian Diaspora) or Municipal Gateways (e.g., Gateway to
Nouadhibou).
It is a country-led initiative to build or expand national links into the global development community by targeting
Mauritania-specific needs and supporting the use of the Intemet for e-business, communications, and knrwledge
sharing among the development stakeholders.
It aims at helping Mauritania cross the digital divide and become fully integrated into the increasingly digitized
intemational economy. More specifically, it would: (i) maximize opportunities and minimize risks of the global
Intemet revolution; (ii) facilitate e-commerce, e-banking, and e-govemment; (iii) mobilize development
knowledge; (iv) improve communications within various social and economic communities; and (v) ultimately help
- 2 -



to increase living standards, global competitiveness of the country through lower transaction costs and greater
productivity and transparency.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance indicators will be used to assess the impact of Distance Learning on the policy environment and its
sustainability in enhancing institutional capacity. They will also be used to assess the impact of the Development
Gateway. Indicators include (a) the number of specific initiatives in designated areas covered by distance leaming
with emphasis on sector reforms (e.g fishing / mining, administration/civil service, etc.); (b) the number of trained
decision-makers implementing best practice guidelines on governance; (c) the demand for and utilization of
distance learning services as demonstrated in course enrollment; (d) the Internet penetration rate in the country,
(e) the number of local stakeholders using the Gateway on a regular basis, and (f) ability to cover operating
expenses through fees (100% of operating expenses to be covered by revenue generation by the 4th year of project
implementation).
Indicators will be measured through a built-in monitoring/evaluation mechanism within the Management
Information System (MIS). The system will include an accounting system that measures the cost and revenue of the
organization. Bank sector reviews and surveys of trainees will also be used to measure performance over time.
The Mauritania Development Gateway is a new Bank initiative. In order to reduce the risk of such an operation, it
has been decided to implement and finance this component in three phases. Each phase has its own objectives as
follows.
Phase I: during the first year, the project would (i) set up the Gateway and realize a demonstration site,
and (ii) agree with the operator on the strengthening of the bandwidth to facilitate the development of the
Gateway.
Phase 2: during the second year, the project would (i) set up the on-line services as described in the first
year Business-Plan elaborated by the Steering Committee, and (ii) achieve all the objectives put in its
Business-Plan to reach a sufficient number of users to ensure financial sustainability at the end of the third
year.
Phase 3: during the third year, the project would (i) complete and increase the number of on-line services
and collaborative access, (ii) strengthen its marketing policy to reach the financial autonomy by the end of
the fourth year, and (iii) fund other service providers (support other Mauritanian gateways initiatives).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16595        Date of latest CAS discussion: June 17, 1997
The need to invest in Global Development Learning Network and in the Global Development Gateway is not
explicitly identified in the current CAS. The Bank agreed to consider providing support in this area at the specific
request of the Govemment. The approach proposed in this LIL is however consistent with the CAS objectives.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Conceptualization and execution of specific sector strategies at the Government level are, in part, limited by
insufficient exposure to relevant international experience and policy trends. Key stakeholders are often unaware of
how similar concems are addressed in other countries. The proposed LIL is intended to bridge this knowledge gap
in support of policy reform.
A. The Distance Learning Center:
-3 -



Efforts to foster good govemance and institutional reform are being made in Mauritania. However, irmportant
weaknesses remain, including in terms of capacity to plan at the center, implement decisions at the periphery, or
enforce good governance principles such as transparency and accountability. Civil reform is a key elemert of the
improved institutional framework, and, while distance leaming alone will not resolve the shortcomings of public
administration, it will nonetheless facilitate improved govemance through knowledge transfer. It will expose
national decision-makers to international best practice and enhance the skills of local decision-makeri: in the
prionty areas of economics, finance, accounting and management.
The Govemment has already shown a huge interest in worldwide dissemination of knowledge through the Virtual
University Program which is fully operational. A Ministry of New Technologies has been established. In addition,
through the IDA financed Education Sector Development Project (FY02, Report Number 22529) the Worldlinks
initiative is currently implemented and provides Intemet access to selected schools. The recent liberalization of the
telecommunications sector and the willingness of the Government to facilitate a universal access to new
technologies through the Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project (FYOO, Report Number 18(44) has
generated the need for a DLC an important element of this framework.
The private sector also lacks exposure to the latest developments in corporate finance and management. It lacks the
supporting institutions and human resources that are critical to sound corporate govemance. Distance leaming
course modules relayed from intemational institutions will strengthen corporate management while access to the
latest technical information could possibly allow Mauritania private sector to effectively compete in the global
world.
B. The Mauritania Development Gateway:
The MRDG aims to develop Mauritania integrate into the global digital economy by: (i) creating a common
information, communication, transaction and training space; (ii) building, and upgrading local contlnt and
capacity; (iii) catalyzing emergence of national knowledge management systems; (iv) promoting the reput-tion of
the country, as an attractive place for doing business; (v) promoting e-commerce, e-banking, e-government,
c-training and e-communities; and (vi) increasing global competitiveness of the country through greater
institutional transparency and lower transaction costs.
The MRDG will be built by and serve the Govemment of Mauritania, the intemational donor communily, civil
society, the private sector, and other key partners by providing information about, and facilitating links to, new
ideas, funding, and commercial opportunities. The MRDG will strive to become a premier development Intemet
Portal: to ensure global information sharing the MRDG will share a universal structure, editorial polici-s, and
technical platform with other country gateways and the Global Development Gateway. It will share a prc,sperous
set of links with them to promote global information exchange of knowledge, ideas, expertise, and opporturities.
The MRDG will also promote foreign investments, efficient privatization, small business, export, tourism, capital
markets and institutional development, donor coordination, better govemance, and transparency. It will empower
various professional associations and industry clusters existing in Mauritania with the Intemet instruments. X wide
range of information, knowledge, and other resources will be available to users free of charge such as the Official
Gazette on-line and country specific content for the intemet database comprising, inter alia: (a) economic and
financial information; (b) development information pertaining to the economic and financial progress; of the
Borrower's civil society, including development projects' status and procurement; (c) geographical and geological
information for mining activities; (d) legal information including laws and judgments, and (e) historic and cultural
information, all through the provision of technical advisory services and training to selected staff. The MR1)G will
provide paid services as well: value-added sources, advertising, and corporate or other sponsorships.
- 4 -



3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The Project is designed as a LIL to (a) test the ability of the public sector to work with the private sector and civil
society to manage together this information tool; (b) test the use of new telecommunication technology tools for a
wider access to and dissemination of information; (c) test the financial sustainability of the two entities (DLC and
MRDG).
The Project is intended to support, in particular but not only, local efforts to strengthen institutional capacity
within the civil service. A larger number of Government staff will be trained through distance learning, and will
apply what they have learned, improving govemance in the public sector. The project will support IDA policy
dialogue with regional decision-makers. By convening them in one forum, it will also facilitate internal debate on
the reform agenda. It will help link the regional decision-makers to the information super highway and facilitate
regional input in national planning.
The LIL will likewise enhance private sector efforts to adopt intemational principles of corporate govemance and
train executives in financial and management skills. Exposure to modem methods of planning, finance and
management will enhance corporate governance. The Project will bring together the local public and private sector
in high-profile deliberations on issues of national interest.
There are several success stories of the delivery of courses over satellite and via the Internet. The World Bank
supported the African Virtual University in 1997, the first-ever technology-based educational network serving
sub-Saharan Africa. The cyber-space university has been piloted in 16 English speaking and eight French speaking
tertiary education centers and offers specialized certification programs with content from major universities,
private corporations and organizations in North America, Europe and Africa. It will soon offer degree programs as
well.
Likewise, the Virtual University of the Monterrey Institute of Technology in Mexico delivers courses through
printed texts and live and prerecorded television broadcasts, with communications between students and faculty
aided by the Intemet. It enrolls 9,000 degree and 35,000 non-degree students each year in Latin America. The
Distance Learning Project in Mauritania attempts to replicate the benefits of such programs by (i) focusing on
reform and governance workshops, and (ii) targeting senior decision-makers from public and privates sectors.
The WBI has had considerable experience in the production, delivery and evaluation of distance learning course
materials. The intent is to develop a dynamic knowledge management system in Mauritania capable of distilling
international experience and making it available for further adaptation and use in a local setting. The proposed LIL
will help build the capability in Mauritania to adapt relevant policy and technical knowledge to the domestic
context, and when possible to create new knowledge, which in tum might be useful for other countries. Mauritania
will be better positioned to exploit the new information and communications technologies to increase its own
knowledge base. Moreover the public-private interface will create opportunities for improved governance.
One of the objectives of the new Mauritanian Distance Leaming institution is to respond to the local demand in
terms of trainings and workshops. After having accurately assessed the Mauritanian needs, the DLC Board will try
to find, through the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) and other DL Centers, the best academic
institutions or specialists able to deliver adequate trainings and workshops and so ensure the quality of the courses
offered on the GDLN. Another objective is to develop local courses production. The GDLN through its Distance
Leaming Centers is a two-ways interactive tool. Mauritanian experts can provide courses and share their
experiences by producing and delivering trainings and workshops locally from the Mauritanian DLC.
The content available on the GDLN is growing fast. WBI develops partnerships with many institutions around the
world to be able to respond to the GDLN clients.
-5 -



4. Learning and innovation expectations:
X Economic       Z  Technical      Z  Social         LI Participation
Z3 Financial     N  Institutional   bi Environmental [I Other
Economic: It is the expectation of the project that increased access to global knowledge will help to facilitate better
policies, improved govemance.
The project is also expected to demonstrate an economically viable method of delivering relevant Training to
replace the current and expensive practice of sending officials abroad for specialized training or the import of
international trainers. The project will enable more trainees to have access to high-quality training in a wider
variety of fields in Mauritania itself. Moreover, increased training will be provided locally at lower cost leading to
an effective use of funds.
Financial: Financial viability hinges on market development, relevance of DLC courses to the local context, the
willingness to pay, and cost recovery. The project will finance a decreasing share of DLC and MRDG operating
costs over project duration to permit gradual market development and increased user fees. To make thlis happen,
the DLC/MRDG managements will make market studies to assess the local demand and then respond better to the
potential clients needs. The Management of the two entities DLC and MRDG will use strong marketing oolicies to
promote their institutions, attract clients, and so increase their revenues.
Technical: The project will introduce advanced communications technologies in trainings. This will inzrease the
use of the Intemet in the public sector and introduce administrators to a range of information technology options.
The LIL will support the use of the Internet for policy planning and training purposes. It will he p change
decision-making at the regional level. The project will introduce state-of-the-art videoconference facilities in
Mauritania and so bring knowledge to local engineers in terms of maintenance and concrete use.
Institutional: The Distance Learning Center and the Mauritania Development Gateway are autonomous entities
run on a commercial basis. Arrangements will be sought for close partnership with the public and privat:e sectors,
donors and global education communities, as well as civil society. The DLC is expected to strengthen MIauritanian
public, private and community organizations by providing wider access to a greater range of trainir.g for the
leaders and staff of these organizations.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises three main components: (i) construction and equipment of the Distance Leamiing Center;
and (ii) support for DLC establishment and operation, and (iii) support of the Mauritania Development Gateway
establishment and operation.
Component I consists of building facilities on the site of the Palais des Congres for the establishment of the DLC,
to provide a videoconference room with a 30-person capacity, a computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations
(hardware, software and Internet hook-up), a technical and administrative center, and installatic n and/or
upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring. It also comprises equipment of the DLC including purchase and
installation of a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) (satellite communication terminal t, video,
telecommunications and microprocessor equipment, office and classroom furniture, and various other equipment
for DLC operation and security.
-6 -



Component 2 aims to assist the DLC begin operation and become financially viable. It includes:
(a) financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing basis (see Annex 5) over the first three years of operation; (b)
purchase of a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing of DLC services; and (c) technical assistance for the
training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center operation and management effectiveness, and establishment
of financial accounts and their annual audit.
Component 3 consists of installing the Mauritania Development Gateway (MRDG) facilities and assist MRDG
begin operation. It includes:
(a) purchase of the office equipment, installation and maintenance (servers, computers, scanners, printers, digital
video, CD recorders, phones, faxes, etc. (b) assisting in platforms and graphics design, upgrades and
customization; (c) assisting in the institutional set-up of the Gateway and its content's management; and (d)
financing of MRDG operation costs on a decreasing basis (see Annex 5) over the first three years of operation.
Indicative               Bank-       % of
Component                      Sector          Costs       % of     financing    Bank-
(USSM)    Total        (US$M)   financing
1. DLC Retrofitting and Equipment    Telecommunications
& Informatics
a. Civil Works                                                0.45         9.0       0.45        13.6
b. Network Access Equipment                                   0.15         3.0       0.15         4.5
c. Videoconferencing Equipment                                0.15         3.0       0.15         4.5
d. Office Furniture/other equipment                           0.40         8.0       0.40        12.1
2. Support for DLC Establishment and Institutional
Operation                            Development
a. Consultant Services/Training                               0.40         8.0       0.40        12.1
b. Operating Costs                                            1.95        39.0        0.65       19.7
3. Mauritania Development Gateway   Telecommunications
& Informatics
a. Equipment and maintenance                                  0.30         6.0       0.20         6.1
b. Consultant Services                                        0.45         9.0        0.45       13.6
c. Operating Costs                   Institutional            0.75        15.0       0.45        13.6
Development
Total Project Costs                        5.00      100.0        3.30       100.0
Total Financing Required                          5.00       100.0        3.30      100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
LIL Implementation Period: January 31, 2002 - July 31, 2005
Implementing Agency:
The Distance Learning Center and the Mauritania Development Gateway are autonomous entities run on a
- 7 -



commercial basis. Arrangements will be sought for close partnership with the public and private sector;. dorors
and global education communities, as well as civil society. The DLC is expected to strengthen MauritaniAilm puHic,
private and community organizations by providing wider access to a greater range of training for the lc:ders ind
staff of these organizations. It is considered a non-profit organization in recognition of its role ini p onojinn
advances in policy, culture and technology among a wide range of actors.
The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development (MEAD) is responsible for the project coordinaTion. The
MEAD supervises the preparation and implementation of the DLC. The State Secretariat of New I'ccl nologies
(SSNT) supervises the preparation and the implementation MRDG but neither the MEAD nor the S'NT ,%ill
interfere in the management of the two autonomous entities. The only control made by the MLAD i; strictly
restricted to (i) a legal control regarding the respect of the rules described in Development Credit Agreen cnt, a1nd
(ii) a control of the DLC and MRDG accounts for IDA's transmission and approval.
MEAD
pro  ides funda                   PCU
|S SNT    1                
Supervises .(nrdinaics the ;,,jt 1
implementation                       Financial
v                /   Management and
SC                       Accounting             \I/t,, d
Adininstrative management
D :L(                 )
MRD G              ) 
The DEC comQnent: The DIEC is governed by a Board, equally comprising representativcs ot go- .rmicrnt
ministries, Mauritanian academic institutions, the private sector and civil society, and chaired by an officiK elected
from among the members. Daily management of the Center will be entrusted to a Director selected, throurgh. a
competitive bidding, on the basis of proven experience in enterprise management or managcmcnit o' simi'ar
educational entities. The Director will be assisted by a team consisting of a technician (computer spcclrnisi w :tb
telecommunications knowledge), a facilitator/coordinator (who will promote the Trainings and WVorksl-'ops). an
experienced accountant and an office assistant.
The Director will manage the Center by submitting withdrawal applications, as stated in the Developren Crcdit
Agreement, to the MEAD which will manage the Special Account. These withdrawn amounts will corn-lete the
DLC budget to finance the operating costs of the Center. The DLC annual budget, approved by the Board. will ac
transmitted to the MEAD for approval and then sent to the IDA for no-objection.
The MRDG component: The MRDG is governed by a Steering Committee, equally comprising representa3 ives of
government ministries, Mauritanian academic institutions, the private sector and civil society, and cliaire ! by in
official elected from  among the members. The State Secretariat of New Technologies (SSNT)  ch,irs the
Committee. Daily management of the N4RDG will be entrusted to a Manager selected, through a cor-Tetitive
bidding, on the basis of proven expericnce in enterprise management or management of similar edualaioral
entities. The Manager will be assisted by a team consisting of a network administrator (computer spci iai si wth
- 8 -



telecommunications knowledge), a Partnership Responsible (who will promote the MRDG services and ensure
contact with all the potential providers of content), an experienced accountant and an office assistant.
The Manager will manage the Gateway by submitting withdrawal applications, as stated in the Development
Credit Agreement, to the MEAD which will manage the Special Account. These withdrawn amounts will complete
the MRDG budget to finance the operating costs of the Gateway. The MRDG annual budget, approved by the
Steering Committee, will be transmitted to the MEAD for approval and then sent to the IDA for no-objection.
The MRDG component will be used as one of the start-points of the new technologies development strategy
launched by the SSNT. The SSNT wilt benefit from the MRDG component of a credit line which will allow the
financing of some SSNT studies in order to help the new Ministry to develop its strategy and launch some
operations described in its Action Plan. The choice of the operations and studies will be made by the SC and sent
through the MEAD to the IDA for approval. The SC will be responsible towards the SSNT which will approve the
MRDG budget. The CO will submit the annual budget proposal to the MEAD before sending it to IDA for
no-objection.
Project Oversight and Coordination:
Distance Leaming Center components: The Ministrv of Economic Affairs and Development (MEAD) is
responsible for these components coordination (as well as all the other components).
The DLC Board will oversee project implementation, through its executive secretariat and ensures the participation
of the public and private sectors and donor community in project monitoring and training development activities, .
The Board is charged with monitoring DLC management and deciding DLC development policy, approving the
annual business plan and program of activities, assessing the Center's financial statements and providing
recommendations to help the Center become financially self-sustaining.
Mauritania Development Gateway component: The State Secretariat of New Technologies (SSNT) is delegated the
development of the MRDG under the tutelage of MEAD. responsible of MRDG financial management. The SSNT
ensures the component coordination. It will also ensure the participation of the public and private sectors, NGOs
and donor community in project monitoring and training development activities through the Mauritania
Development Gateway Steering Committee.
Project Implementation:
In order to facilitate the project preparation and to benefit from their experience in procurement, the MEAD signed
a "Convention de Maitrise d'Ouvrage Deleguee" with AMEXTIPE. This Convention has been financed through a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF). It includes the civil works (construction of the DL Center and refitting of some
facilities within the SSNT to host the MRDG), the purchase of all the equipment (telecom and informatic
equipment, fumiture, etc.), the financing of some studies (Manual of Procedures, selection of the Director and the
Manager, market study, etc.).
In order to ensure the compatibility of all the electronic equipment with the other Centers and the Bank satellite
network, the telecom and inforrnatic equipment (including the satellite earth station) has been purchased by the
Bank (through the ISG division) on the behalf of the Borrower. To do so, the Borrower signed a Procurement
Agreement with the Bank authorizing the Bank to purchase on the behalf of the Government of Mauritania. The
equipment, purchased in August 2000, is already available and stored by ISG.
Distance Learning Center components: These components will be implemented and managed by the DLC. So that
distance learning activities can begin as soon as possible after project effectiveness.The project preparation
included establishment of the DLC (legal procedures, formation of the DLC Board, recruitment of Director and
staff) and preparation and equipment of the site (classrooms, videoconference room, computer room,
-9-



administrative offices, etc. Project preparation activities have been handled by the Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Development with the assistance of AMEXTIPE, for works, equipment, and studies.
Upon taking office and before credit effectiveness, the Director will prepare a business plan based on A survey of
training requests from the public and private sectors, The business plan, to be submitted for DLC Boai d and IDA
review and approval, will include: market data, budget and sources of financing, training and other services to be
provided (lectures, seminars, other), source and programming of training, rates for different types of :mraining and
financial projections in the form of a budget, operating account and marketing strategy. The business pilan will be
updated and submitted for IDA and DLC Board review and approval on an annual basis. To this effect, the
implementing agency will continue to assess demand for training, identify and program appropriate training
courses, market the services of the Center and increase its visibility in Mauritania and abroad.
Mauritania Development Gateway component: This component will be implemented by the MRDC;. So that
development gateway activities can begin as soon as possible after project effectiveness. The project nreparation
includes establishment of the MRDG (legal procedures, formation of the MRDG Steering Committee, iecruitment
of Manager and staff) and preparation and equipment of the site (WEB servers. Internet links, adriinistrative
offices, etc.)
Project Financing:
To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account (SA) was established by the Borrower (MEAD) in the
name of the DLC/MRDG of Mauritania in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
MEAD/Finance Directorate operates this SA through the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
Distance Learning Center components: The IDA credit will finance DLC retrofitting and equipment, consultant
services and training related to DLC start-up. Over the project implementation period, the IDA Credit will also
finance, on a decreasing basis, DLC operating expenditures. As the market for its services develops, the DLC is to
mobilize an increasing share of financing for its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency within r:he project
implementation period. It is expected that the DLC will cover approximately 20% of operating expenses in the
first year, 40% in the second year, 60% in the third year, and be completely self-financing as of the forrth year of
project implementation.
Mauritania Development Gatewav component: The MRDG will be financed through the same SA as the DLC. The
IDA credit will finance MRDG equipment and consultant services and training related to MRDG start-up. Over
the project implementation period, the IDA Credit will also finance, on a decreasing basis, MRDG operating
expenditures. As the market for its services develops, the MRDG is to mobilize an increasing share of fir ancing for
its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency within the project implementation period. It is expect d that the
MRDG will cover approximately 20% of operating expenses in the first year, 40% in the second year, (0% in the
third year, and be completely self-financing as of the fourth year of project implementation.
Financial Management and Reporting:
Financial Management
During appraisal an action plan for the establishment of a financial management system was agreed cri between
the Bank and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MEAD: the project coordinator, the accounta-nt and the
auditor (recruited part-time). This system which will cover cash management, accounting, internal c )ntrol and
financial reporting will be fully in place prior to project effectiveness. It will be established by the PCU and
acceptable to IDA, and will provide the PCU and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources
and expenditures. In addition, before effectiveness a (i) part-time project accountant/financial m,.nagement
specialist will be hired by the PCU, and (ii) an external audit firm would be contracted.
Accounting
- 10 -



Internal account controls for the project will be set out in detail in the financial procedures of the Manual of
Procedures to be satisfactory for providing reasonable assurances that accounts are properly recorded and resources
safeguarded. The accounting system for the PCU will be computerized using appropriate software.
Financial reporting
The PCU will provide quarterly activity reports. The annual financial statements of the project will be prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Mauritania and will include at least (i) a summary of
sources and uses of funds, (ii) project balance statement, and (iii) a statement of the special account. The financial
statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Auditing
The financial statements of the project will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The selection
of an appropriate auditor will be a condition of effectiveness.
The auditor will provide an opinion on:
(a) the project's financial statements
(b) statement of expenditures (SOEs)
(c) special accounts
(d) a management report on intemal controls outlining any recommendation for improving internal accounting
controls identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
A. The Distance Learing Center: The Director will submit an initial business plan for DLC Board and IDA
review and approval. An annual business plan will be developed and submitted by November I of each subsequent
year to the DLC Board for review and approval and to IDA for review. The financial component of the business
plan will detail operating expense financing, to specify, among other things, loan fund proceeds and the capital
mobilized by the DLC itself.
The DLC will submit a quarterly activity report to the DLC Board within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
B. The Mauritania Developement Gateway: The Manager will submit an initial business plan for MRDG Steering
Committee and IDA review and approval. An annual business plan will be developed and submitted by November
1 of each subsequent year to the MRDG Steering Committee for review and approval and to IDA for review. The
financial component of the business plan will detail operating expense financing, to specify, among other things,
loan fund proceeds and the capital mobilized by the MRDG itself.
The MRDG will submit a quarterly activity report to the MRDG Steering Committee within 30 days of the end of
each quarter.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
- 11 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
o Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The cost-effectiveness analysis consists of comparing the cost of delivering training through the proposed DLC to
the current training and course delivery system for the "target market" (high-level government officials and private
sector and community leaders). The average DLC training delivery cost amounts to US$110/student-day as
compared to US$296/student-day for the current system for training of at least ten days.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Distance Learning Center components: The DLC is expected to attain financial sustainability by its fourth year of
operation, by generating enough revenue, through user fees, to fully cover operating costs and equipment
replacement. Financial simulations determined that the financial break-even point will be achieved when the
average rate of installed capacity reaches more than 60%. This corresponds to about 5000 person-days of training
per year, or that 15% of high-level government officials take five days of training per year. For the first three years
of operation, DLC revenue is expected to cover 20%, 40% and 60% of operating costs for each successive year.
The cost of training through the DLC is expected to be about $110 per participant per day, which is lower than the
cost of training delivery under current systems in Mauritania (approximately $300 per participant per day).
Mauritania Development Gateway component: The MRDG is expected to attain financial sustainability by its
fourth year of operation, by generating enough revenue, through user fees, to fully cover operating costs and
equipment replacement.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
As the technology involved is quite advanced, the project will provide DLC technical support staff with intensive
training in operation and daily maintenance. World Bank information technology staff in the Mauritania Resident
Mission, experienced with this and similar technology, will also be available to provide support. Equipment
maintenance will be contracted out to qualified firms in Mauritania or representatives of the equipment suppliers.
4. Institutional:
The detailed institutional arrangements are outlined in Section C.2. The sustainability of the Distance Learning
Center and the Mauritania Development Gateway is expected as they will function as autonomous entities run on a
commercial basis. There will be close partnership with the public and private sectors, donors and global education
communities, as well as civil society. The DLC is expected to strengthen Mauritanian public, private and
community organizations by providing wider access to a greater range of training for the leaders and staff of these
organizations.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Distance Learning Center components: The DLC was established during project preparation as an autonomous
agency, governed by a Board made up of a broad stakeholder representation. The project will gradually scale up the
activities of the DLC to allow it time to increase its capacity. In addition, project component 2 is dedicated to
providing assistance to the DLC to ensure that it can handle its functions adequately.
Mauritania Development Gateway component: The MRDG was established during project preparation as an
- 12 -



autonomous agency, governed by a Steering Committee made up of a broad Development Community
representation. The project will gradually scale up the activities of the MRDG to allow it time to increase its
capacity.
The two entities report to MEAD project coordinator.
4.2 Project management:
Distance Learning Center components: The DLC component will be implemented and managed by the DLC. The
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development will be responsible for overall project oversight and coordination.
Mauritania Development Gateway component: The Gateway component will be implemented by the MRDG under
the supervision of the SSNT (see parag. 4). The MEAD will be responsible for overall project oversight and
coordination.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement/contract management system adopted by the project conforms to the Bank's guidelines for
procurement in investment projects.
Based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement, Setting of Prior Review
Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank, the project satisfies the Bank's
minimum procurement management requirements. However, the project does not have in place an adequate
procurement/contract management system that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and
contract management (PMR - Section 3) as required by the Bank/IDA.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Regarding the financial management system, the project has in place an adequate financial management system as
required by the Bankl,'DA under OP/BP 10.02.
Based on the Bank's guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of
the project's accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of
an auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the
borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications, the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. However the project does not have in place an adequate project financial management system that
can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMR) as
required by the Bank/IDA for PMR-Based Disbursements.
5. Environmental:                     Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Not applicable
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
- 13-



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Not applicable
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The DLC Board comprises representatives of the public and private sectors, education and vocationa training
communities, civil society and donors interested in supporting the distance learning initiative. The Board was
designated through a consultative process as part of DLC establishment during project preparation. Tle Board
gives guidance on DLC marketing and development policy, oversees implementation of its business plan and
ensures that training activities and curricula are consistent with the country's priority.
Primary beneficiaries will be senior civil servants, private sector managers, the education community, NGOs,
community groups and the media. Training courses will be designed with the active participation of benzficiaries
through annual market research conducted by the DLC Director. Trainees from the public and private seJtors and
civil society will benefit from access to a wider selection and higher quality of cost-effective trainin7 than is
currently available. Educators will benefit from being able to present courses to a larger audience and to learn
from their trainees about the Mauritanian experience and context.
Other stakeholders include institutions and individuals currently providing training to the target gronp. This
includes institutes in Mauritania, institutes outside of Mauritania and individual trainers. Many of the institutions
involved (such as the African Virtual University, the University of Nouakchott, etc.) have been consulted to ensure
that there is no duplication of efforts and to coordinate actions. Many of these institutions (especially thos abroad)
will be providing training through the Center. They will be consulted by the DLC management team to J etermine
course content and scheduling to accommodate expressed demand.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The legal status of the Associations indicates that the composition of the Board and the Steering Conmmittee
includes at least fifty percent of representants of the civil society.
The Gateway, as a development oriented Web site, will link as many infornation as possible on the devi-lopment
activities in Mauritania. The more collaboration the Gateway will generate, the more relevant the information will
be. The success of the Gateway, as an information site, lies in the wide consultation and collaboration wilh all the
development actors (UNDP, UNICEF, World Bank, IMF, Government of Mauritania, NGOs, etc.)
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes'?
Not applicable
- 14 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Al    Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment to give enough          S         Composition of the Board and SC, and
sovereignty/legitimacy to GDLC Board                    incentives.
and the MRDG Steering Comitee to
empower them as Public/Private decision
tool
Government commitment to training of         M          Government commitment to use and pay for
professionals in public and private sectors             20% of DLC capacity over the first 3 years.
and civil society.
Availability of resources for training.       S         Resources built into the Government budget and
donor-financed project.
Availability of Global Distance Learning     M          WBI courses will be provided; market study will
Network training courses and relevance to              fine tune the supply of training from other
local needs, particularly courses offered in           institutions to provide the broadest range.
French.
The Palais des Congres interference and       S         DLC will enter into an agreement
abuse of DLC facilities.                                (Memorandum of Understanding) with the
Palais des Congres to clearly define the
circumstances and manner in which Palais des
Congres may use DLC facilities.
- 15-



Reliable management of satellite                M          Bank will assure initial management and will
equipment.                                                 assist DLC in selecting a reliable and
cost-effective satellite manager.
From Components to Outputs
Reliability of the technology.                  M          The DLC will be under the Bank's technology
umbrella.
Appropriate equipment operation and             M          The project will provide intensive training for
maintenance.                                               technical staff, maintenance will be contracted
out to a qualified contractor.
Management team capacity.                       H          A competitively selected, highly-q aalified and
business-oriented manager, with a proven track
record, will be hired.
Other institutions' cooperation and              S         Other institutions will participate in the DLC
willingness to pay (private sector, donors,                Board; marketing campaigns will xe carried out
etc.).                                                     by the management team.
Overall Risk Rating                             M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Other training institutions (both domestic and foreign) may oppose the competition, particularly given the high
degree of technology and cost-effectiveness of the training. If competition does occur, it will stimulate the DLC
management team as well as competitors to provide better service to consumers. The Bank has a arge and
proactive role in project preparation and implementation, but this is justified by its experience and contacts in
Global Distance Leaming, the economies of scale resulting from bulk procurement of distance learning equipment
and its knowledge of latest technologies. The Bank is providing this assistance at no cost to the BorroweT.
Regarding the MRDG, the Mauritanian authorities may interfere and abuse of their power to censor site, content.
The issue of the validation of the infornation put on line will bring the project team to set up mechinisms of
validation and protection against censorship.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1.     Memorandum of understanding signed between the Distance Leaming Center and the Palais de;. Congres
specifying the relation between the institutions and the terms for use of DLC facilities by the Palais de; Congres
community.
2.     Memorandum of understanding signed between the MRDG and the SSNT specifying the relation between
the institutions and the terms for use of MRDG facilities by the SSNT.
3.     DLC/MRDG Director and key personnel (technician, facilitator and financial officer), with skills and
experience satisfactory to IDA, hired.
4.     DLC/MRDG first-year business plan submitted for IDA review before its adoption by the Center's Board.
The plan is to be prepared by the Director upon his recruitment and is to include: management and development
policy for the Center, course programming, video-seminars and other services to be provided, identified real
training demand, the Center's pricing policy, willingness and ability to pay for training by identified clients,
- 16 -



provisional budget and financial statement for the first year.
5.     An adequate financial management system satisfactory to IDA is in place and an auditor, with appropriate
skills and experience, hired in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
5.     Annual DLC/MRDG business plan (program of activities, annual budget and provisional accounts,
including replacement/rehabilitation expenses submitted for IDA review two months before the beginning of each
fiscal year, and adopted by the DLC Board/MRDG SC by December 15 of the current year.
6.     Commitment by the DLC to use its net cash flow to renew Center equipment that has become obsolete or
that needs reconfiguration/updating.
7.     Commitment by the Center to reserve at least 20% of space in its training courses for public sector staff.
Financial:
8.     Commitment by the DLC to cover 20%, 40% and 60% respectively of operating expenses (excluding
depreciation) for the first three years of the project from Center revenues, sufficient to ensure that the Center will at
least break even by its fourth year of operation.
Auditin :
9.     DLC/MRDG Quarterly Activity Report submitted to the DLC Board and IDA within a month of the end
of each quarter.
10.    DLC/MRDG Management Evaluation Report submitted to the DLC Board/MRDG Steering Committee
and IDA within three months of the end of each fiscal year.
ll.    Financial Audit Report of the Center's accounts submitted to the DLC Board/MRDG Steering Committee
and IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D I. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
Z 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 17 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
IN 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jean Mazurelle                  /      A. Roome                      A. David '
Team Leader                     I Sector Director                    Country Direci-
- 18-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MAURITANIA: Global Distance Learning Center
Key Perfonnance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhance the institutional and  Number of reforms introduced IDA Sector Review   There is a policy commitment
policy framework for                                                            to address the reform agenda
increased investment in
Private sector-led growth
Increased private investment  Country Reports        There is an enabling
in key sectors of the economy                        environment for private sector
development
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Mainstream the use of      Number of public and private  DLC Annual Report      The distance learning courses
distance leaming as an     professionals trained                                offered are timely and
ongoing tool to increase                                                        relevant to local needs
access of public and private
sector professionals to global
knowledge.
Civil service reform                                                            Access to knowledge and
information is transformed
into better policies
Help Mauritania to cross the  The Internet penetration rate  Country reports    There is an enabling
digital divide and become  in the country                                       environment for Internet
fully integrated into the                                                       development and usage.
increasingly digitized
economy to maximize
opportunities of the global
Internet revolution and
increase living standards,
global competitiveness of the
country through lower
transaction costs and greater
productivity and transparency.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Test mechanisms of public   International regulations and
and private sector partnership procedures have been
to promote better access to   respected during Project
and dissemination of      Implementation
information relevant for
country development and
policy reforms
Strengthen the environment  Number of specific initiatives IDA Sector Review    Exposure to the latest
for policy reform         introduced that impact on                             technical information and
sector reform in designated                          cross country experience will
- 19-



areas covered by distance                               help build a policy consensus
learning.                                               on the need for reform
Variance of content offered in
the training sessions has
covered at least three specific
sectors during the first twelve
months of Project
Implementation, and five such
sectors in each twelve months
period thereafter.
Build capacity in the public   Number of directors, trained   Annual Survey of Trainees    Access to knowledge is
and private sectors        in the distance learning                                 transforned inlto improved
program, implementing best                              performance by private sector
practice guidelines on                                  executives
corporate governance.
80 training sessions have been
held during the first twelve
months of Project
Implementation, and 120 such
sessions in each twelve
months period.
Ability to cover operating                              The public and private sector
expenses through fees (70% of                           are able and willing to invest
operating expenses to be                                in the distance learning
covered by revenue generation                           method
by the 4th year of project
implementation).
Promote internationally     Use of the MR Gateway and   IDA supervision missions    Ability to translate
Mauritania best practices in   exchanges with neighboring                           experiences in best practices
development, and thus       countries to disseminate MR                             easy to disseminate.
provide an image of the     reforms
country conducive to foreign
private sector investment.
Build partnership with      Number of twinning          DLC annual reports          The DLC is managed under
Research centers and center of agreements between                                   the tutelage of a steering
excellence in key fields of MR  institutions and centers.                           committee or a Board which
development (fishery/ mining,                                                       will include all potential
etc.                                                                                clients in such a way that it
will not be confiscated by one
of the main clients.
Build or expand national links Number of stakeholders who  MRDG annual report       Local stakeholders
into the Global Development  are using the gateway on a                             empowered to use the Internet
community to target         regular basis                                           as a preferred cost effective
Mauritania-specific needs and                                                       tool of e-market,
support the use of the Internet The server has been visible                         e-procurement, e-training,
for e-business,             during 335 days per year.                               knowledge sharing, etc.
communications, and
knowledge sharing among    The number of connections
local development           per year has reached (20,000
- 20 -



stakeholders.              the first year of
implementation, 40,000 the
second year, and 50,000 the
third year).
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Distance learning      Number and variety of      DLC Annual Report.         The relevance of DLC
facilities extensively used to   organizations using DLC                        training to country needs and
train decision makers, private                                                  market demand
sector managers and
community leaders.
Number of public and private
professionals trained
2. Viable cost recovery plan  DLC self financing at the end Annual audit report of the    Trainee organizations'
in place and operational.  of its fourth year of operations Center.             willingness and ability to pay.
3. MRDG extensively used to  Number and variety of   MRDG Annual Report         Internet access available and
mobilize, organize, and create organizations using the                          affordable to the communities
new development and        Mauritania DG.
business-related content from
local and international
sources and to facilitate
various partnerships through
the Internet gateway.
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. DLC Retrofitting and   $1.15 million              Quarterly Reports.         Donors willing to allocate part
Equipment.                                                                      of training budgets to project.
Management team is business
2. Support to DLC Start-up    $1.05 million                                      oriented.
and Operation.                                                                  Course content relevant to
local needs.
Participating institutions
willing to cover part of
training costs.
Private sector willing to
cooperate.
3. Mauritania Development   $1.10 million            Quaterly Reports
Gateway equipment, support
to start-up and operation.
- 21 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MAURITANIA: Global Distance Learning Center
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.15 million
(a) building facilities on the site of the Palais des Congres for establishment of the DLC,
including:
(i) a videoconference room with a 30-person capacity;
(ii) a computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations (hardware, software and Internet
hook-up);
(iii) a technical and administrative center; and
(iv) mechanical outfitting such as installation and/or upgrading of electrical and
telephone wiring.
(b) equipment of the DLC, including
(i) a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) (satellite communication terminal);
(ii) video, telecommunications and microprocessor equipment;
(iii) office and classroom furniture; and
(iv) various other equipment for DLC operation and security.
Project Component 2 - US$1.05 million
Support for DLC Operation: This component aims to assist the DLC begin operation
and become financially viable. It includes:
(a) financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing basis over the first three years of
operation;
(b) purchase of a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing of DLC services; and
(c) technical assistance for the training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center
operation and management effectiveness, and establishment of financial accounts and
their annual audit.
Distance Learning Center Project Implementation Framework
Implementing Agency: This component will be implemented by the Distance Learning
Center, established as an autonomous nonprofit agency (an Association) and housed in
the Palais des Congres. It is considered a non-profit association in recognition of its role
in promoting advances in policy, culture and technology among a wide range of actors.
The DLC is governed by a Board, comprising representatives of the Ministries of
Economic Affairs and Development, Finance and Education, Mauritanian academic
institutions, the private sector and civil society (cultural associations, the media, etc.),
and chaired by an official elected from among the members.
Daily management of the Center will be entrusted to a Director selected on the basis of
proven experience in enterprise management or management of similar educational
entities. The Director will be assisted by a team consisting of a technician (computer
specialist with telecommunications knowledge), a facilitator/trainer, an experienced
accountant and an office assistant.
Project Oversight and Coordination:  The Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Development is responsible for project coordination and ensuring the participation of the
public and private sectors and donor community in project monitoring and training
- 22 -



development activities (through the DLC Board).
The DLC Board will oversee project implementation, through its executive secretariat.
The Board is charged with monitoring DLC management and deciding DLC
development policy, approving the annual business plan and program of activities,
assessing the Center's financial statements and providing recommendations to help the
Center become financially self-sustaining.
Project Implementation: The DLC will be implemented and managed by the DLC. So
that distance learning activities could begin as soon as possible after project
effectiveness, project preparation included establishment of the DLC (legal procedures,
formation of the DLC Board, recruitment of Director and staff) and preparation and
equipment of the site (classrooms, videoconference room, computer room, administrative
offices, etc. Project preparation activities are handled by the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Development with the assistance of AMEXTIPE, for works, equipment,
institutional aspects and studies. These activities have been funded through a Project
Preparation Facility advance. In addition, the Bank, through its Information Solution
Group, will provide  assistance  and  expertise  to  procure,  install and  test
videoconferencing equipment.
Upon taking office, the Director will prepare a business plan based on a survey of
training requests from the public and private sectors. The business plan, to be submitted
for DLC Board and IDA review and approval, will include: market data, budget and
sources of financing, training and other services to be provided (lectures, seminars,
other), source and programming of training, rates for different types of training and
financial projections in the form of a budget, operating account and marketing strategy.
The business plan will be updated and submitted for IDA and DLC Board review and
approval on an annual basis. To this effect, the implementing agency will continue to
assess demand for training, identify and program appropriate training courses, market
the services of the Center and increase its visibility in Mauritania and abroad.
For the first year of project implementation, most training courses will be selected from
those offered by the World Bank Institute through its Global Development Learning
Network. However, over the first year, the DLC management team will identify and
establish contacts with a variety of other training institutions capable of providing
training over the GDLN. Over subsequent years, the DLC will match demand for
training to the most appropriate supplier institution, both in terms of course content and
schedule availability.
Project Financing: To faci]itate project implementation, a Special Account will be
established by the Borrower in the name of the project in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The MEAD will operate this Special Account. The
DLC will establish an account in a commercial bank. The PMU in the MEAD will
operate transfers from the SA to the account of the DLC.
The IDA credit will finance DLC retrofitting and equipment and consultant services and
training related to DLC start-up through a PPF advance. Over the project
implementation period, the IDA Credit will also finance, on a decreasing basis, DLC
operating expenditures. As the market for its services develops, the DLC is to mobilize
an increasing share of financing for its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency
within the project implementation period. It is expected that the DLC will cover 20% of
operating expenses in the first year of operation, 40% in the second year, 60% in the
third year, and be completely self-financing as of the fourth year of project
- 23 -



implementation.
Financial Management and Reporting: As the implementing agency for the DLC
component is a new entity, the DLC will make disbursement arrangements through its
own account and SOEs.
Accounting: The DLC will have the responsibility of the component's overall financial
management. It will have to maintain its own set of accounts as an autonomous nonprofit
yet revenue-earning entity. The DLC will be equipped with a computerized financial
management system appropriate to the scale and nature of the project and capable of
recording and reporting the project's operations (by components, sub-components,
activities, expenditure categories, regardless of origin of funds). The computerized
financial management system will be multi-currency and include the following modules
which should be integrated: general accounting, cost accounting, budgeting, contract
management, fixed assets register, preparation of withdrawal applications, reports
generating. A manual of administrative and financial procedures will be developed for
the DLC.
Auditing: The financial statements of the DLC will be audited for each fiscal year by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also
acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail will be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of each financial year of the project. The selection of an
auditor acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness. Terms of reference for the
recruitment of the auditors have been drafted and agreed on with the Government of
Mauritania.
Reporting: Two sets of financial statements will be required: the project's separate
financial statements and the DLC's (as an autonomous agency) financial statements. The
project's separate financial statements will comprise: (i) a statement of Source and
Application of Funds for the project during the current financial year, and cumulatively
from the start of the project, and (ii) a balance sheet. These two financial statements will
be prepared annually. In addition, the DLC agreed during negotiations to submit a
quarterly report including financial statements, procurement/contracts schedule and
output monitoring, one month after the end of each quarter. Due its legal status as an
association, DLC is required for its own operation to follow an Accounting System,
acceptable for IDA, under which a set of financial statements must be prepared annually.
Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements:  The Director will submit an initial
business plan for DLC Board and IDA review and approval. An annual business plan
will be developed and submitted by November I of each subsequent year to the DLC
Board for review and approval and to IDA for review. The financial component of the
business plan will detail operating expense financing, to specify, among other things,
loan fund proceeds and the capital mobilized by the DLC itself. Thereafter, DLC should
operate and renew its equipment through self-generated revenues; this will be
determined during the fourth year of implementation.
The DLC will submit a quarterly activity report to the DLC Board within 30 days of the
end of each quarter. At the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six months after its
completion, the borrower and DLC will present to IDA financial audit reports of: (i) the
Special Account as well as a special opinion on the SOEs; and (ii) DLC accounts and
financial statements.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.10 million
- 24 -



(a) building facilities on a site which is to be determined by the Government for
establishment of the MRDG;
(b) equipment of the MRDG;
(c) financing of MRDG operation costs on a decreasing basis over the first three years of
operation;
(d) technical assistance for the training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center
operation and management effectiveness, and establishment of financial accounts and
their annual audit.
Mauritania Developement Gateway Project Implementation Framework
Implementing Agency: This component will be implemented by the Mauritania
Development Gateway, established as an autonomous nonprofit association. It will be
considered a non-profit organization in recognition of its role in promoting advances in
policy, culture and technology among a wide range of actors in the Development
Community.
The MRDG is governed by a Steering Committee (SC), comprising representatives of the
Ministries of Economic Affairs and Development, Education, new Technologies,
Mauritanian academic institutions, the private sector, civil society (cultural associations,
the media, etc.), NGOs, donors, and chaired by the State Secretariat of New
Technologies.
Daily management of the MRDG will be entrusted to a Manager selected, through
competitive bidding, on the basis of proven experience in enterprise management or
management of similar educational entities. The Manager will be assisted by a team
consisting of a network administrator (computer specialist with telecommunications
knowledge), a Partnership Responsible, an experienced accountant and an office
assistant.
Project Oversight and Coordination: The State Secretariat for New Technologies is
responsible for this component coordination and ensuring the participation of the public
and private sectors and donor community in project monitoring and training
development activities (through the MRDG SC).
The MRDG SC will oversee project implementation, through its executive secretariat.
The SC is charged with monitoring MRDG management and deciding MRDG
development policy, approving the annual business plan and program of activities,
assessing the Gateway's financial statements and providing recommendations to help the
MRDG become financially self-sustaining.
Project Implementation: The MRDG will be implemented by MRDG under the
supervision of the SSNT and managed by the MRDG. So that its activities could begin
as soon as possible after project effectiveness, project preparation included establishment
of the MRDG (legal procedures, formation of the SC, recruitment of Manager and staff)
and preparation and equipment of the site. Project preparation activities are handled
with the help of the State Secretariat for New Technologies. These activities have been
funded through a Project Preparation Facility advance. In addition, the Bank, through its
Information Solution Group, will provide assistance and expertise to procure, install and
test equipment.
Upon taking office, the Manager will prepare a business plan based on a survey of
training requests from the public and private sectors. The business plan, to be submitted
- 25 -



for MRDG SC and IDA review and approval, will include: market data, budget and
sources of financing, training and other services to be provided, rates for different types
of services and financial projections in the form of a budget, operating account and
marketing strategy. The business plan will be updated and submitted for IDA and
MRDG SC review and approval on an annual basis. To this effect, the implementing
agency will continue to assess demand for services and increase its visibility in
Mauritania and abroad.
Project Financing:  To facilitate this component implementation, the MRDG  of
Mauritania will use the same Special Account as the DLC. The MEAD will operate this
Special Account.
The IDA credit will finance MRDG equipment and consultant services and training
related to MRDG start-up through a PPF advance. Over the project implementation
period, the IDA Credit will also finance, on a decreasing basis, MRDG operating
expenditures. As the market for its services develops, the MRDG is to mobilize an
increasing share of financing for its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency
within the project implementation period. It is expected that the MRDG will cover 20%
of operating expenses in the first year, 40% in the second year, 60% in the third year,
and be completely self-financing as of the fourth year of project implementation.
Financial Management and Reporting: As the implementing agency for the Gateway
component (the MRDG) is a new entity, the project will do disbursement arrangements
through its own account and SOEs.
Accounting: The MRDG will have the responsibility of the Gateway component's overall
financial management. It will have to maintain both the project's accounts and its own
set of accounts as an autonomous nonprofit yet revenue-earning entity. The MRDG will
be equipped with a computerized financial management system appropriate to the scale
and nature of the project and capable of recording and reporting the project's operations
(by components, sub-components, activities, expenditure categories, regardless of origin
of funds). The computerized financial management system will be multi-currency and
include the following modules which should be integrated: general accounting, cost
accounting, budgeting, contract management, fixed assets register, preparation of
withdrawal applications, reports generating. A manual of administrative and financial
procedures will be developed for the MRDG.
Auditing: The financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also
acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail will be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of each financial year of the project. The selection of an
auditor acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness. Terms of reference for the
recruitment of the auditors have been drafted and agreed on with the Government of
Mauritania.
Reporting: Two sets of financial statements will be required: the project's separate
financial statements and the MRDG's (as an autonomous agency) financial statements.
The project's separate financial statements will comprise: (i) a statement of Source and
Application of Funds for the project during the current financial year, and cumulatively
from the start of the project, and (ii) a balance sheet. These two financial statements will
be prepared annually. In addition, the MRDG agreed during negotiations to submit a
quarterly report including financial statements, procurement/contracts schedule and
output monitoring, one month after the end of each quarter. Due its legal status as an
- 26 -



association, MRDG is required for its own operation to follow an Accounting System,
acceptable for IDA, under which a set of financial statements must be prepared annually.
Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements: The Manager will submit an initial
business plan for MRDG Board and IDA review and approval. An annual business plan
will be developed and submitted by November 1 of each subsequent year to the MRDG
Board for review and approval and to IDA for review. The financial component of the
business plan will detail operating expense financing, to specify, among other things,
loan fund proceeds and the capital mobilized by the MRDG itself. Thereafter, MRDG
should operate and renew its equipment through self-generated revenues; this will be
determined during the fifth year of implementation.
The MRDG will submit a quarterly activity report to the MRDG Board within 30 days of
the end of each quarter. At the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six months after
its completion, the borrower and MRDG will present to IDA financial audit reports of:
(i) the Special Account as well as a special opinion on the SOEs; and (ii) MRDG
accounts and financial statements.
- 27 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MAURITANIA: Global Distance Learning Center
US$
____LQai'  IDA   | Fo tign    A IDA      Totl Total IDA
A. CENTER RETROFITTING AND EQUIPMENT
Civil Works
Civil Reconstruction                                    87,500   (87,500)   162,500  (162,500)  2 i0,000  (250,000)
Other Refitting                                         53,667   (53,667)    99,667   (99,667   1 53,334  (153,334)
Subtotal Component Base Cost                                  141,167  (141,167)   262,167  (262,167)  4)3,334  (403,334)
Price Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                                         14,117   (14,117)    26,217   (26,217)   10,333   (40,333)
Subtotal Component Cost                                       155,284  (155,284)   288,384  (288,384)  413,667  (443,667)
B GOODS
1. Network Access Equipment and Videoconferencing Equipment
Global connectivity (3)                                  67,876   (67,876)     7,542    (7,542)   '5,418   (75,418)
Pedagogical tools (4)                                   138,591  (138,591)    15,399   (15,399)   53,990  (153,990)
Local connectivity (2)                                   48,049   (48,049)    5,339    (5,339)   i3,388   (53,388)
2. Other Equipment and Furniture
Office Furniture                                        37,500   (37,500)   112,500  (112,500)  !50,000  (150,000)
UPS and Generator                                       17,500   (17,500)    52,500   (52,500)   '0,000   (70,000)
Other Electrical/Electronic equipment                   69,134   (69,134)    12,200   (12,200)   S1,334   (81,334)
Car                                                     21,250   (21,250)     3,750    (3,750)  .15,000   (25,000)
Video and TV Equipment                                   4,465    (4,465)       788     (788)    5,253    (5,253)
Country Development Gateway Informatic Equipment        106,250  (106,250)    18,750   (18.750)  125,000  (125,000)
Shipping and Installation of Equipment                         61,625   (61,625)    10,875   (10,875)   '2,500   (72,500)
Subtotal Component Base Cost                                  572,239  (572,239)   239,643  (239,643)  811,882  (811,882)
Price Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                                         57,2241  (57,224)    23,964   (23,964)   81,188   (81,188)
Subtotal Component Cost                                       629,463  (542,180)   263,607  (181,950)  833,070  (893,070)
C. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND TRAINING
Supervision of Work (inc. Agetip)                       12,500   (12,500)    37,500   (37,500)   10,000   (50,000)
Legal Studies                                            7,500    (7.500)    22,500   (22,500)   30,000   (30,000)
Training for DLC Staff                                  45,000   (45,000)     5,000    (5,000)   50,000   (50,000)
Audits                                                  11,250   (11,250)    33,750   (33,750)  ..5,000   (45,000)
Consulting Services                                       6,000    (6,000)    54,000   (54,000)   10,000   (60,000
Subtotal Component Base Cost                                   82,250   (82,250)   152,750  (152,750)  215,000  (235,000)
Price Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                                          8,225    (8,225)    15,275   (15,275)  .'3,500   (23,500)
Subtotal Component Cost                                        90,475   (90,475)   168,025  (168,025( 2_9i8,500  (258,500
D. OPERATING COST
Satellite Bandwidth&Servicing Cost                           522,000  (271,593)         0         ()  822,000  (271,593)
Personnel Distance Learning Center                           176,700   (61,237)   288,300  (187,896)  4115,000  (249,132)
Internet Connection Costs                                     47,500   (15,986)    77,500   (49,051)  1-'5,000   (65.037)
Personnel Country Development Gateway                        155,800   (52,434)   254,200  (160,886)  4 0,000  (213,320)
Operating Costs Country Development Gateway                   190,000   (38,366)   310,000  (117,722)  8n0,000  (156,088)
Maintenance                                                  270,847   (91,153)   441,908  (279,689)  7-2,755  (370,842)
Utilities                                                     29,260   (10,083)    47,740   (30,939)   77,000   (41,022)
Varable Operating Cost                                        98,601   (33,184)   160,875  (101,820)  29;9,476  (135,003)
Subtotal Component Base Cost                                1,490,708  (574,037)  1,580,523  (92B,002) 3,0-1 ,231 (1,502,038)
Price Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                                        149,071   (57,404)   158,052   (92,800)  307,123  (150,204)
Subtotal Component Cost                                     1,639,778  (631,4401  1,738,575 (1,020,802 7 3,378,354 (1,652,242)
- 28 -



A. CAI WF"19n .D. IDA                  Total   Total IDA
A. CIVIL WORKS
Base Cost                                              141,167  (141,167)   262,167  (262,167)  403,334  (403.334)
B. GOODS
1. Network Access Equipment                            316,140  (316,140)    39,154   (39,154)  355,295  (355,295)
2. Other Equipment and Furniture                       256,099  (256,099)   200,488  (200,488)  456,587  (456,587)
C. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND TRAINING
Base Cost                                              82,250   (82,250)   152,750  (152,750)  235,000  (235,000)
D. OPERATING COST
1. Satellite Bandwidth Rent                            522,000  (271,593)        0         0  522,000  (271,593)
2. Operating Expenditure                               968,708  (302,443)  1,580,523  (928,002) 2,549,231 (1,230,445)
Total Base Cost                                            2,286,364 (1,369,693)  2,235,083 (1,582,561) 4,521,447 (2,952,254)
Total Price Contingencies
Total Physical Contingencies                                 228,636  (136,969)   223,508  (158,256)  452,145  (295,225)
Total Project Cost                                         2,515,000 (1,506,662) 2,458,591 (1,740,818) 4,973,591 (3,247,480)
- 29 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
MAURITANIA: Global Distance Learning Center
The cost-effectiveness analysis is based on comparing the cost of delivering training courses t:irough the
Global Distance Learning Network with the current training and course delivery practice in its "target
market". Currently, there are four main methods of in-service training of professionals:
(a) international training, i.e., outside Africa;
(b) regional training, i.e., in another African country;
(c) local training by local trainers; and
(d) local training by international trainers.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
In the absence of reliable and comprehensive data on the training market in Mauritania, preliliinart data
gathered in the field make it possible to estimate the following distribution of in-service Training of
professionals (mainly public sector employees who were trained in 199 i- 99t): 45% of professionals are
trained internationally, 15% are trained regionally, 20% are trained locally by local staff. and 20%o are
trained locally by international staff
Capacit': By design, the Mauritania distance leaming facility will have a capacity of 30 seats -ach f0r thie
conference and computer rooms. The Center may operate over 260 working days per year. In the long
run (by Year 5), capacity utilization is estimated to be around 65%, corresponding to a producti an level of
5,000 student-days. For the first four years, a steady annual increase of the capacity utilizetion rate is
projected as follows: 10%, 20%, 30% and 45% respectively for each successive year.
One of the indicators for comparing costs of course delivery in the current system of in-service trainiug of
professionals with the one proposed in the GDLN is the unit cost of course delivery per stiident-day.
This indicator reflects all measurable components, except the "quality and convenience of' thc proposed
system," as it will provide easier and wider access to state-of-the-art knowledge and inform ition. In a
comprehensive evaluation, these benefits need to be taken into account although they are difficult to
quantify.
Cost of the Distance Learning Center: The unit cost of course delivery per student per day is defined as
operating cost plus depreciation (i.e., total OC) divided by the total number of students trair id over an
average course length. The estimated cost structure of the DLC is detailed in Annex 5. TIhe anrual cost is
determined to be around US$500,()00. Fixed cost represents iS% of total cost, indicating that a high level
of expenses will be incurred by the Center irrespective of the level of utilization of its facilities  The cost
per day and per student depends on the level of demand, and hence the rate of use of the proposed
facilities. The table below shows that the cost per student and per day is very sensitive to :he rate of
capacity utilization. Unit cost decreases sharply when utilization of the center facilities increas s, whereas
the operating cost remains largely unchanged due to the importance of fixed costs.
Year                                     1       2        3        4        5      l
Capacity utilization(%)                  10o     20       30       45        60
Total operating cost (thousand US$)   486        492    497    ) 502         502
Cost per student per day (US$)          585      333    21  0       45       107
- 30 -



This simulation emphasizes the importance of a qualified business-oriented manager to develop effective
marketing tools and attract enough clients to ensure DLC competitiveness and financial sustainability.
Preliminary market data suggest that an utilization rate of 60% may be attained by the fifth year of
operation corresponding to a reasonable unit cost of US$107 per day per student. This will require an
intensive marketing endeavor by the DLC management team aiming at: diversifying Center products and
services and winning customer loyalty through steady high-quality service, competitive pricing, and
training content relevant to expressed demand and client expectations.
Unit Cost of the Existing Training System: Cost of in-service training was determined for each delivery
method currently used and based on unit costs gathered in the field and including, when applicable, the
following expenses: travel plus subsistence for students or teacher (when training is provided locally by
international trainers), local expenses (for locally delivered training, other costs when identified. It is
worth noting that no course charge (fees) was taken into account as no such fees were included in the
GDLN system (operating costs assume that GDLN content is free of charge for the first years). Based on
the above data and assumptions, the table below presents the unit cost (per day and per student) of the
current in-service training system:
Number of Course Days   5 davs             10 days
Unit Cost of Training Category  % of total training
International Training (lJSS)                   45%              910               53(0
Regional Traininlg (USS)                        15%              410               2X0
Local 'I'raining by Local Staff  (US$)          20%               35                35
Local Training by Inter. Staff  (USS)           2 0%.,            75                43
Total Unit Cost of Current Svstem (US$)       100%              493              296
Combining the fotur categories of the current training system in Mauritania gives an estimate of the
average unit cost for the current training system. Depending on the length of the course (and--for
simplicity-- assuming that local courses are delivered by only one international trainer), this yields a range
of unit cost of the current training system in Mauritania of US$296 for a 10-day course and US$493
for a 5-day course.
This range of cost shows that the proposed (Global Development Learning Network ((3DLN) training
svstcm will be much more cost-effective than the existing system which lowest possiblc cost (USS296 for
10 days course) is higher than the GDLN start-up unit cost (USS247 in the second year). In the long run,
the estimated unit cost of the proposed GDLN (US$107) will be about 36% of the cost of the cuLrrent
system in its most favorable condition.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Not Evaluated
- 31 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MAURITANIA: Global Distance Learning Center
A. Project Cost by Category
VN, W00ETT777 U7TWW*f             77 ft,,,,_,i W            0           1           2           3           4         Total
Investment Cost                                     1,545,216      35,000      35,000      35,000                1,650,216
Civil Works                                           403,334                                                      403,334
ISG Procured Items                                    282,795                                                      282,795
Other Equipment and Furniture                         456,587                                                      456,587
Shipping and Installation of Equipment                 72,500                                                       72,500
Consultant Services and Training                      330,000     35,000      35,000      35,000                  435,000
Operating Cost                                        217,000     570,846     570,846     570,846     570,846    3,071,231
Fixed Operating Cost                                 217,000     518,951     518,951     518,951     5113,951    2,811,755
Satellite Bandwidth&Servicing Cost                               104,400     104,400     104,400      101,400     522,000
Personnel Distance Leaming Center                      15,000      90,000     90,000      90,000       9),000     465,000
Intemet Connection Costs                                           25,000     25,000      25,000       25,000      125,000
Personnel Country Development Gateway                              82,000     82,000      82,000       812,000    410.000
Operating Costs Country Development Gateway           200,000      60,000      60,000      60,000        2),000    500,000
Maintenance of the DL Center                                      142,551    142,551      142,551     142,551     712,755
Utilities                                               2,000      15,000      15,000      15,000      - 5,000     77,000
Operatina Costs Contingencies                                      51,895      51,895      51,895      51,895      259,476
Total Project Cost                                   1,762,216    605,846     605,846     605,846     570,846    4,721,447
B. Project Financing
I 'i) i   , .  .  ,, },,f0  1      2            3           4        Total
Required Financing
Total Project Cost                                   1,545,216     35,000      35,000      35,000         -       1,650,216
Physical Investment Cost                            1,215,216        -           -           -           -       1,215,216
Services                                             330,000      35,000      35,000      35,000                  435,000
Financed by IDA                                      1,545,216     35,000      35,000      35,000       0         1,650,216
C. Project Operation Financing
000 :esiteA"          rE L 8n,,127,-'7M                   0           1           2           3           4         Total
Required Financing
Project Operating Cost                                217,000     570,846     570,846     570,846     5,'7),846    3,071,231
Revenue Generation                                        -        80,000     147,500     236,000     3416,500    1,268,000
Financed by IDA                                       217,000     570,846     490,846     423,346                 1,702,038
Surplus                                                                                               224,346      337,192
Financial Analysis
Revenue
Income generation: The most crucial set of assumptions pertains to the revenue generation patterns. Given
the rapid pace of project preparation, only a very preliminary understanding of the market dynamics was
obtained. An alternative approach (admittedly sub-optimal) for deriving a set of precise revenue projections
would have been to use training supply to determine the requirements for the Center to be financially viable
and then analyze whether these requirements are reasonable from the demand side in the context of
Mauritania. Training supply is relatively precise as most of the DLC courses will be provided by t-ie WBI at
- 32 -



least for the first two years. The main assumption regards the utilization rates for Center facilities, which
are projected, over the first five years of operation, to be 10%, 20%, 30%, 44% and 60%, and going up to
65% for each successive year. The maximum capacity amounts to 5000 student-days of training at a 65%
utilization rate. The training fee is set at around US$100 per student per day, as this price seems to be
competitive and affordable for most public and private institutions (see Annex 4) and is therefore expected
to attract more students.
Other financial revenue: The amount of financial support to the DLC to balance its operating cost over the
first years of operation will be determined by the extent to which the Center can generate its own revenue.
Hence, it is defined as the residual between the revenue generated and total funding required to cover
operating costs before depreciation.
Operating Cost
Satellite Bandwidth Rent: The satellite bandwidth cost includes the yearly rental cost for the bandwidth and
a corresponding service charge. Bandwidth costs are fixed costs, i.e. they don't depend on capacity
utilization rates. Annual cost is estimated at US$138,700 on the basis of existing rates provided by the
supplier.
Personnel: It is assumed that the DLC and MRDG will have eight local staff including a manager, a
facilitator and a technician. Annual salary per staff is based on current market data for similar positions
and responsibilities.
Maintenance: The estimated maintenance costs are based on the following assumptions: locally procured
equipment (furniture, etc.) and civil works have a yearly maintenance of 10% of initial investment cost;
internationally procured equipment (equipment for videoconferencing room) has a yearly maintenance cost
of 20% of initial investment cost. This high rate accounts for possible contracting out maintenance activities
of sensitive equipment to a qualified foreign or regional company.
Utilities: Utility costs include expenditures on electricity, telephone and water, which were estimated to cost
US$15,000 annually by comparison to similar computer services in Mauritania.
Variable Operating Cost: These mainly comprise costs related to training and office supply, and depend on
capacity utilization. A flat cost of US$25,000 per year has been assumed at full capacity utilization.
Depreciation: Equipment is assumed to depreciate at different rates in accordance with national accounting
standards in Mauritania.
Fee/Interest and debt service: The Government of Mauritania suggests carrying the interest and principal
repayment in lieu of the Center to allow for sensible and attractive training rates. However, it is envisaged
that the Center assumes reinvestment and renewal cost of its equipment.
Financial Statements and Results.
Based on the above assumptions, basic financial statements of the Center have been established for the first
five years of its operation. Annex 5.b presents the income and cash flow statement as well as its projected
balance sheet. It shows that under the above assumptions the Distance Learning Center will be economically
viable and self-sustaining (reach its break-even point) once its capacity utilization rate attains or exceeds
44% (or 3465 student-days per year are sold). This is the equivalent of 700 professionals attending a 5-day
training per year. From the market perspective, this requirement seems to be achievable: (i) a rate of
US$100 per day per participant compares very favorably with the average cost of the current training
practice (US$296, see Annex 4); this attractive rate will allow for more participants within the same overall
budget; (ii) 700 professionals trained annually represents around 20% of the high-level civil servant
- 33 -



population in Mauritania; however, private sector managers and community leaders will also tal.e training,
either reducing the number of civil servants who would need to be trained to maintain the assumption of
700 students per year, or increasing the number of students who could be trained in a given year above 700.
The income statement suggests that the break-even point (operating cost minus depreciation) will be
attained in the fourth year, when the capacity utilization rate reaches 44% (at a unit cost of USS 107 per day
per student). The overall equilibrium (including depreciation to allow for reinvestment) is attained from the
fifth year at a utilization rate of 60% or higher. To achieve this goal, an intensive marketing camipaign will
be needed from the Center management team to: diversify DLC products and services and wmi customer
loyalty through steadily improving quality of service, competitive pricing, and providing training courses
that meet expressed demand and client expectations. This emphasizes the importance of a qualified
business-oriented manager to develop effective marketing tools and attract enough clients to ensure (c enter
competitiveness and financial sustainability.
Initial pricing of the Center's services aims at promoting DLC products and attracting more pr fessionals
and decision-makers to strengthen their management and policy formation capacity, which is lifficult to
quantify in economic and financial terms. Consequently, the operating deficit of the first three years will be
covered through special Government support through IDA credit proceeds from this proposedi LIL. This
financial support will match the exact deficit (without depreciation), projected to be around US$( 88,000 for
the first three years, making up 54%,'o of generated income over that period. This support will be provided on
a decreasing basis over this 3-year period as follows: 80% of operating cost in the first year, () 0`, in the
second, and 40% in the third. As the initial training rate, US$100 per person, is in the low range it may be
raised in relation to the market demand for certain high-demand courses. A flexible market-drix en pricing
policy should improve the financial viability of the project.
- 34 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MAURITANIA: Global Distance Learning Center
Procurement
General
I.     The Mauritanian procurement Code was prepared in 1993 and will be revised under an IDF Grant
of 1998-2001 to help finance the public procurement reform on the basis of the recommendations of the
CPAR, which was carried out in February 1999. In the event that national procurement laws and
procedures would be in conflict with the IDA Guidelines for procurement, the Mauritanian procurement
code permits IDA procedures to take precedence over national law. The National procedures and bidding
documents acceptable to IDA will be used for NCB provided that (i) bids will be advertised in national
newspapers with wide circulation; (ii) the bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation and award
criteria; (iii) bidders are given adequate response time to prepare and submit bids; (iv) bids will be awarded
to the lowest evaluated bidder and not arbitrarily; (v) eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, will not be
precluded from participating; and (vi) no domestic preference margins are applicable to domestic
manufacturers or suppliers.
2.     The DLC-RIM and the MRDG will use standard AGETIP bidding documents for goods and civil
works approved recently by IDA (February 2001) for NCB.
Guidelines
3.     Procurement of goods and works will be caried out in accordance with the Guidelines for
procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits (published in 1995 and updated in January and August
1996 and in September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and
civil works will be used for ICB. Consultant services contracts will be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (published in January 1997 and
updated in September 1997 and January 1999). The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals will be used
and forms of contracts as needed as well as the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for Selection of
Consultants.
Procurement Notices
4.     A  General Procurement Notice (GPN) with pertinent information on estimated contract
opportunities scheduled during the next twelve months will be published in the UN Development Business
(UNDB). The GPN will be updated annually for ICB contracts, if any. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN)
will be required for goods and works contracts. For ICB contracts, if any, the SPN will also be advertised
in the UNDB. For NCB, SPNs will be advertised in a national paper of wide circulation. Individual
contracts for consulting firms are estimated below US$ 200 000, consequently, the request for expression of
interest will be published only in a national paper of wide circulation. However, if foreign firms express
interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
5.     The Center will be implemented by the Distance Learning Center, headed by a Board, under the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development and the Gateway will be implemented by the Mauritania
Development Gateway headed by a Steering Committee under the State Secretariat for New Technologies.
The Ministry has already extensive experience with managing Bank projects and its staff is familiar with
Bank procedures. However, the Director of Distance Learning Center and the Manager of the Mauritania
Development Gateway will be assisted by Accountant/Financial Management/Procurement Specialists to
monitor procurement activities and ensure timely project execution.
- 35 -



Procurement Capacity Assessment
6.     Since the DLC-RIM and the MRDG have yet to be created, it can be concluded that currently
there is no procurement capacity to coordinate and handle procurements for the project. A comprehensive
procurement capacity assessment of these agencies will be carried out after they have been established to
provide an assessment of risk and the recommended risk mitigation measures. Another assessment will be
conducted six months after start-up of operations to measure performance and appropriate steps will be
taken as necessary to strengthen their procurement capacity. The final draft assessment report will be
reviewed and cleared by the RPA.
7.     To ensure that the newly created agencies -DLC-RIM and the MRDG - will have the necessary
procurement capacity to handle procurement, the following measures will be taken earlier: (i) a qualified
management team, acceptable to IDA, will be recruited with good experience in management of similar
projects; and (ii) a training program for senior DLC-RIM and MRDG staff in Bank procuremenit
procedures will be carried out as appropriate.
8.     When established, the DLC will be supported by a procurement specialist recruited in accordance
with IDA procurement procedures and terms in reference approved by IDA. The PCU will prepare biddirg
documents but will not award the contracts. It must work closely with the Central Tender Board (CCM)
and the Departmental Tender Board (CDM).
9.     CCM's staff has a good experience and have received training in IDA procurement procedures.
On the other hand, CDM of the Ministry for Economic Affairs and Development (MAED) does not hav e
permanent personnel qualified in procurement and does not have the necessary equipment. So it needs a
reinforcement of its capacity (training and equipment).  This support must be conditioned by tl-e
designation of a permanent person responsible for the preparation and follow-up of procurement.
Manual of procedures/Procurement Plan
10.    The borrower will submit a detailed procurement plan for the first year, which includes relevatit
information on civil works and goods. The procurement plan was discussed and finalized during
negotiations and will  be updated at least once a year.  The Government provided assurances at
negotiations that it will take the necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the
following target time periods:
Procurement phases                           Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents                     3 weeks
Preparation of bids by bidders                       4 weeks
Bid Evaluation, award and signature                  8 weeks
A progress report to be communicated to IDA will provide appropriate details on procurement progress.
During implementation, all bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and draft contracts transmitted to
IDA for review will contain an updated copy of the procurement plan. Procurement confirmation will be
collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt recording of contract award information by the DLC/MRDG;
(b) comprehensive semi-annual reports by the DLC/MRDG management indicating: (i) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances for
contingencies; (ii) revised timing of estimated procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award and experience with completion time and completion costs for individual contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
- 36 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works (US$0.1 Million)
11.    The project main civil works component will be the construction of the MRDG facilities. Given
the low amount of this component it would not attract foreign contractors. These contract sestimated to
cost less than 100,000, equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000, would be tendered through
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Contracts for works estimated to cost less than US$10,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$30,000 would be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in
writing to bid.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant
drawings where applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors who offer the lowest price
quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully.
Goods (US$0.2 Million)
12.    Goods financed under the project would include vehicles, computers, and equipments for
implementing agencies. NCB procedures would be used except for contracts exceeding US$100,000 each,
which should be tendered through ICB procedures. Prudent shopping based on written price quotations
obtained from at least three reliable suppliers can be used for small quantities of goods, provided that: (a)
these goods cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$30,000; and (b) the aggregate amount does not
exceed US$100,000.
13.    The above aggregate values for NCB or other non-ICB procurement methods for goods and works
are limitative and cannot be exceeded without the prior no-objection of the Bank. The procurement unit
responsible for the project will maintain a tracking system to monitor such procurement in order to alert
the Bank timely when this may occur.
Consulting services and Training (US$0.7 Million)
14.    The project will finance consultant services provided by firms to assist the DL Center and the
Mauritania Gateway to (i) organize workshops and seminars (ii) provide assistance in the development of
the Gateway database and services, (iii) set-up large marketing operations. The Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) method will be used for technical assistance provided to all beneficiaries. The
organization of a National Workshop may require the services of consulting firms or training institutions to
be selected based on Consultant qualifications. For audit contracts the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will be
the most appropriate method: the firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided technical proposals
received the minimal score
15.    Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ 50,000
may be comprised entirely of national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three)
are locally available at competitive cost.
16.    Services for small assignments, studies, organization of or lecturing at seminars, workshops or
study tours which can be carried out by individual consultants including consultants recruited as DLC-RIM
and MRDG key staff, will be selected through comparison of qualification and experience among those
expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly.
The procurement methods and related amounts are summarized in table A.
- 37 -



IDA reviews
17.    Goods and works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of USS100,000 or more will be subject
to prior review by IDA. All other contracts will be subject to post review during supervision missions and
audits.
18.    Consultant services : All contracts with consulting firms exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; and
with individual consultants exceeding US$50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review.  For contracts
with firms above US$50,000, IDA will also require the technical evaluation report for non-objection before
the financial envelops are opened. All other contracts will be subjected to post review. However, thTs
exception for prior review will not apply to terms of references of such contracts, to single source hiring ef
firms, amendments of contracts with firms raising the contact value to US$100,000, amendments cf
contracts with firms raising the contact value with individuals to US$30,000, to contracts for audits. Far
training abroad or in the country, the program containing names of candidates, cost estimates, courses,
period of training and institutions selected would be reviewed by IDA semi-annually. Selective post-reviewv
of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply to about one in five contracts during supervisiow
missions, and procurement audits.
19. The procurement specialist, the financial management agents and the Heads of DLC and Gatewas
Management Center will be recruited with IDA non-objection based on comparison of at least three
resumes.
Procurement supervision and technical audit
20     As a condition for effectiveness, the Govemment will submit to IDA: (a) a Project Operations
Manual with a specific section on procurement detailling (i) procedures for planning, calling for bids,
selecting contractors, suppliers and consultants, and (b) a Project Implementation Plan and a procurement
plan for the first year of operations.
21     The Government has given assurances at negotiations that it will: (a) use the Project Operations
Manual and Project Implementation Plan for Project Implementation (b) use Bank standard bidding
documents for NCB; and requests for proposal and models of contracts for consultant services (c) apply the
procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in the above documents; The Government has agreed
on the principle that the Manual of Procedures will only be modified with prior IDA approval.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                ICB              NCB            Other'         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                                0.00              0.09           0.00           0.01          0.10
(0.00)           (0.08)          (0.00)         (0.01)       (0.09)
2. Goods                                0.00              0.10            0.10           0.00         0.20
(0.00)           (0.09)          (0.09)         (0.00)        (0.18)
3. Services                             0.00              0.00            0.70           0.00         0.70
and Trainings                          (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.70)         (0.00)       (0.70)
4. Operating Costs I PPF                0.00              0.00            2.30           0.00         2.30
(0.00)           (0.00)          (2.30)         (0.00)        (2.30)
Total                                0.00              0.19            3.10          0.01          3.30
.________________________              (0.00)            (0.17)         (3.09)         (0.01)        (3.27)
- 38 -



" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, setvices of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment
units.
- 39 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS        CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               0.04    0.00    0.00    0.01     0.02    0.00    0.00       0.07
(0.04)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.01)   (0.02)  (0.00)  (0.00) - (0.07)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.63     0.00      0.63
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.63)  (0.00)   (0.63)
Total  0.04    0.00    0.00    0.01      0.02    0.63    0.00      0.70
(0.04)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.01)   (0.02)  (0.63)   (0.00)   (0.70)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-40 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                  Above US$100,000              ICB                 Prior Review:
US$0.1 million
Below US$100,000             NCB                   Post Review
Below US$10,000           Small Works             Post Review
2. Goods               Above US$100,000 below           NCB                 Prior Review:
US$100,000                                    US$0.03 million
Below US$30,000       National/Intemational       Post Review
Shopping
3. Services                   FIRMS:
Above US$100,000             QCBS                  Prior Review
US$0.03 million
Below US$100,000                                   Post Review
Trainings and similar          CQ                  Post Review
assignments                                   US$0.02 million
LCS
Audits                                       Prior Review
US$0.1 million
INDIVIDUALS           Comparison of CV
Above US$50,000                                   Prior Review
Comparison of CV         US$0.02 million
Below US$50,000                                    Post review
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$0.34 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 41 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The IDA credit will be disbursed against (i) for goods and civcil works: 100% of foreign
expenditure, 85% of local expenditure; (ii) for consultants, including training and workshops:
100% of foreign expenditure and 90% of local expenditure; and for (iii) operating costs: 80O of
expenditures the first year.
The IDA Credit will be disbursed from January 31, 2002 to July 31, 2005. The estimated
disbursement schedule for the proposed IDA credit is:
IDA in llS$m
Fiscal Year                   2002           2003           2004           2005
Annual                        1.60           0.65           0.55            0.50
Accumulated                   1.60           2.25           2.80            3.30
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in US$million             Financing Percentage
1. Works                                        0.10             100% of foreign expenditure. 85% of
local expenditures
2. Goods                                        0.20             100% of foreign expenditure, 85% of
local expenditur.'s
3.Consultant Services & Trainings               0.70             100% of foreign expenditure, 1 00% of
local expenditu-es
4. Incremental operating cost                   1.10                     80% of expenditures
5. PPF financing                                1.20
Total Project Costs                             3.30
Total                                           3.30
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawal applications shall be fully documented for all expenditures against which loan
disbursements would be made, except for the following contracts for which loan disbursement would
be based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the Project Coordinator: (a) goods under
contracts costing less than US$30,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts of consulting firms costing Icss
than US$30,000 equivalent each or with individuals costing less than USS10,000 each. Documerits
supporting the SOE shall be retained by the perspective project management unit and made available
for review as requested by auditors (including technical audits) and by the World Bank supervisi )n
missions.
Special account:
In order to expedite disbursement and ensure that funds for the project are available as needed, the
Government would open and maintain a Special Account for IDA share of eligible expenditure in a
Commercial Bank for the duration of the project. The authorized allocations of the Special Account
will be USD 300,000 representing about four months of project expenditures. IDA will make an initial
deposit of USD 150,000 once the credit is declared effective and the program unit prepares and
submits a withdrawal application for the said amount to the Bank. The remaining balance will be
made available as soon as cumulative disbursements reach SDR 800,000 (this figure needs to be
looked at in more detail in conjunction with the project's disbursement profile).
- 42 -



Govermment counterparts
The Government's counterpart funds needed to cover 15% of local costs of goods and civil works and
will be deposited by the Government in a Project Account at a Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA.
The Government will make an initial deposit of UM 30 million (US$150.000) representing about a
year of project expenditures which will be a condition to project effectiveness, and will subsequently
replenish the account on a yearly basis. The Government counterparts will also include the financing
of a three-year subsidy to the new postal entity.
Financial Management
During appraisal an action plan for the establishment of a financial management system was agreed on
between the Bank and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MEAD. This system which will
cover cash management, accounting, internal control and financial reporting will be fully in place
prior to project effectiveness. It will be established by the PCU and acceptable to IDA, and will
provide the PCU and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures.
In addition, before effectiveness a (i) full-time project accountant/financial management specialist will
be hired by the PCU, and (ii) an extemal audit firm will be contracted.
Accounting
Internal account controls for the project will be set out in detail in the financial procedures of the
Manuals of Procedures to be satisfactory for providing reasonable assurances that accounts are
properly recorded and resources safeguarded. The accounting system for the PCU will be computerized
using appropriate software.
Financial reporting
The PCU will provide quarterly activity reports. The annual financial statements of the project will be
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Mauritania and will include
at least (i) a summary of sources and uses of funds, (ii) a project balance statement, and (iii) a
statement of the special account. The financial statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year.
The Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration. During appraisal, it was assessed
by a certified financial management specialist on the project team whether the project can function by
using Project Management Reports (PMR) based disbursements. An assessment has been made that
the PMR procedures would not be appropriate for the Project initially. There is a need to ensure that
the systems put in place are operating effectively. The monitoring and evaluation process will include
output monitoring reports which are consistent with the PMR requirements. The financial,
procurement and output monitoring systems will be reviewed as part of the mid-term review at the end
of the second year to assess whether it would be appropriate to move to PMR disbursements at that
time.
Auditing
The financial statements of the project will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.
The selection of an appropriate auditor will be a condition of effectiveness.
The auditor will provide an opinion on:
-43 -



(a) the project's financial statements
(b) statement of expenditures (SOEs)
(c) special accounts
(d) a management report on intemal controls outlining any recommendation for improving internal
accounting controls identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
- 44 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MAURITANIA: Global Distance Learning Center
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                            12
First Bank mission (identification)             06/01/2000                    06/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     01/03/2001                    02/28/2001
Negotiations                                    02/28/2001                    06/26/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/31/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Jean Mazurelle                     Task Leader, AFMBF
Dolele Sylla                      IT Officer, AFC14
Marc Lixi                          GDLN Regional Coordinator, AFC14
Ahmedou Ould Hamed                Procurement Specialist, AFMIMR
Hans W. Wabnitz                    Senior Legal Counsel, LEGOP
Francoise Perrot                  Operations Analyst, AFC 15
Thiane Dia                        Executive Assistant, AFMMR
Abdoulaye Coulibaly                Financial Management Specialist, AFC15
Wolfgang M.T. Chadab               Disbursement Officer, LOAGI
Yahya Ould Aly Jean                Disbursement Assistant, AFMMR
- 45 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MAURITANIA: Global Distance Learning Center
A. Project Implementation Plan
A Project Implementation Plan was not prepared because the project financing is mainly for builcing of the
center and providing equipment for its functioning. A first-year Business Plan for the DLC/MR[)G will be
prepared and submitted to IDA's review as a condition of effectiveness.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
The World Bank. 1997. Islamic Republic of Mauritania: Country Assistance Strategy
The World Bank. 1999. Telecommunications and Postal Sectors Refonn Project (Project Appr iisal
Document)
The World Bank. 2001. Education Sector Development Program (Project Appraisal Document)
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 46 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MAURITANIA: Global Distance Learning Center
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA                        Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
P044711       2000 INTEGDEVPROGFORI                                0.00     38.10                         0.00     32.36     18.55      0.00
P064570       2000 CULTURAL HERITAGE                               0.00      5.00                         0.00      4.96      0.00      0.00
P066345       2000 ENERGY/WATERISANITATION SECTOR REFORM           0.00      9.90                         0.00      8.95      4.43      0.00
P055003       1999 NUTRITION (LIL)                                 0.00      4.90                         0.00      3.04      1 02      0.88
P057875       19e9 MINING SECT CAPACTrY                            0.00     15.00                         0 00      12e62     310       0.00
P063791       1999 TELECOM POSTAL REFRM                            0.00     10.80                         0.00      8.27      3.33      0.00
P035689       1998 HEALTH SECTOR INVEST                            0.00     24.00                         0.00      17 12     8 14      4.82
P001875       1997 RAINFED NAT RES MGT                             0.00     18.00                         0.00     1147       342       000
P046650       1997 REGIONAL POWER                                  0.00     11.10                         0.00      4.35      4 6e      000
P034106       1996 INFRAST & PILOT DEC.                            0.00     14.00                         0.00      4.25      533       0X
P001857       1995 GENERAL EDUCATION PR                            0.00     35.00                         0.00      11 18    32 50        0c
Total:       0.00     185.80                         0.00     119.38    94l 0
MAURITANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Oct.-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                Disbur%ed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval              Company                               Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic         Loan   Equiit       I 1.1,    P.rniL<
1997                     AEF Codipal                            0.00      0.00      0.47       0.00      0.00      0 (e        I, 4      (00
1996                     AEFMayoFish                            0.00      0.00      0.21       0.00      0.00      001 OI                ( 00
1997                    AEF STEP                                0.54      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.54      00(1      lf ot.      0 00
1997                    BMCI                                   10.50      0.00      0.00       0.00     10.50      0 (10      o it      (O 00
1996/00                  GBM                                    7.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      7.00      0 0(         (W t     0 00
1999                    PAL-GMN                                 1.70      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0 00  00(X o           000
1999                     SEF Lemhar                             0.38      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0 00        0 nt      0.00
Total Portfolio:              20.12       0.00       0.68      0.00      18.04      0.0( o      6,1S      0.00
Approvals Pending Commnitment
FY Approval             Company                                   Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                  0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
- 47 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MAURITANIA: Global Distance Learning Center
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 Saharan       Low-
Mauritania      Africa   income       Development diamond'
1 999
Pon.latinn mid-vear (mitlionsi                               7 f         42      2 417                   Life expectancy
GNP Der caoita (Atlas method. USS)                          390         500       410
G1N P (Atlas method USS billions)                            1 n        321       988
Averaae annual arowth. 1993-99
Pon,l,,tion 1)                                              2.8        2 f        t I 9
Labor force 1%1                                              2.8        2.6        2.3      GNp                                 Gross
per                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1993-99i                                       capita
Povertv (% of Dooulation below national oovertv iinei        47
Irhl,- nonIlatinn (/O of total DoDolationl                   Sf          R4         R1
Life exDectancv at birth (vears!                             54          50         60
Infant mnrtnlit, (cer 1.000 live births)                    10nf         92         77
Child malnu,trition r,,% of children under 5)                23          32         43                 Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source 1% of Dooulationl            64          43         64
lliterac- (1 of Doulation ao7e 151                         SR         39         3c 9
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of schcol-ace Dooulation)        B6          78         96               - Mauritania
Male                                                       R9          85       102                    LOw-income group
FemAl:                                                     83.        71         8f
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989        1998       1999
Economic ratios'
G DP fUSS billions)                              0.74       0.98       1.00       0.96      E
Gro,s dome-sti, in-ectment/CrDP                   1f 1      186        190n       178                         R I
Fxnnrts of rnndn and se,virreltfl)P              28 9      49 8        399        38 S                       Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                        -7.0      11.7       5S1         7.2
Grsns national sI-in-s/GDP                                  310 n      1 2        198 I p 
Current account balancerDP                       -13.1      1234        -3.8       2 0             .o/sti
Interest navmentslGnP                              2 1          f       4          3        Domestic                       Invesment
Tntal dehtGnnP                                    97 a     9I  3      213 0      272.S      Savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                        32 5      18.6       28.6       317
Present value nf rd,ht/GflP                                           142 3      12R 0
Present value of debtlexoorts                                         308 9      289.5
Indebtedness
1979-89   1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
laveraoe annual crowthi
GnP                                     in n        8 A      3 7        43         S S                     Mauritania
GNP nr ranira                          -1 n        I 1       1 4        2 2          7     [               Low-income group
EXcorts of ooods and services            4 2       0.6       4 8        4.8       -7.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979      1989       1998       1999      | Growth of investment and GOP (%)
1% of GDPI
Aoricr,ltvlre                                     284       31 5       24.4       25.2
Industry                                          28.8      29.7       31.2       29.3      20
Man.,facturino      .11.6                                              9.4      10.0
Services                                         42.7       38.4       44 4       45.5           o
,/94   95   96  97    99~.   5
Private cnnsumntion                               6 1      fi3.1       80 4       77 f.    -25
General oovernment cnnsi,mntinn                  4f.9       2S.3       14.S       1.2                       GDI        '  GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                    52.1       56.7       53.8       48.8
1979-89  1989-99        1998       1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averaoe annual arowth)
Anri.Ifit-re                                       2 7       4S         64         4 1      40
Industrv                                           4.4       2.3       -0.3       -0.6
Maninifactr,rino                                          -nR          4 R      122      220A
Servires0 n                                                  4 3        40 n       8
Prwvate cnnsnumnfinn                              -n 8       4 6       13.9        2 7                                            99
Gne ral nnverrment cns hlntin                     -S.4      -2 3       10.8 n        9 fi
Gross domestic investment                         11.7       6.2      -17.5        7.4   1-2i
Irnnrts of no,nd and servires                      1 A       1 1       137        -1 1    |              Exp.rts      '   rmprors
Gross national oroduct                             1.6       3.9        4.2        5.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv lin boldt comoared with its income-orouo averaoe. It data are missino. the diamond wil
- 48 -



Mauritania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              11979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation )%)
(% change)                                                                          12
Consumer pnces                                  ..    13.0         8.0      4.008
Irnplicit GDP deflator                        12.2      8.0      10.0        1.9
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                  .     23.5      26.5      27.6              94    95    96    97    99    9
Current budget balance                           ..    -2.0        8.9       9.4                  GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -16.3         2.2      2.1
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..    438        360       333      6co
Iron                                          ..    181         217       178
Fish                                          ..    257         140       155      400
Manufactures                                  ..
Total imports (cif)                             ..    382         387       329
Food                                          ..    115         103        98      200-
Fuel and energy                               ..       37        50        61
Capital goods                                 ..       77        64        59       o
93   94   95   96   97   99   99
Exoort orice index (1995=100)                           97         90        79
Imoort once index /1995=100)                     -     103         88        91                 * Exports      *mports
Temms of trade (1995=1001                       ..      95        103        87
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                 193      489        399       370       4
Imports of goods and services                 369      557        538       469
Resource balance                              -177      -68      -139       -99 o
Net income                                     -31      -60       -40       -33
Netcurrenttransfers                           111      250        141       152     4*I
Current account balance                        -97      122       -38        19
Financing items (net)                         121      -258        57         4
Changes in net reserves                       -24      135        -19       -23    -12
Memo:
Reserves includin oold (USS millions)         118       87        207       228
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSS)              45.9    83.1       189.0    209.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999                 1
(USS millions)                               1                                       Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          720    1,957      2,130     2.168
IBRD                                          0       61          3         2                        A: 3
IDA                                          34      160        398       415                G 324            8 398
Total debt service                             67       93        132       135
IBRD                                          0       15          2         2           F2
IDA                                           1        2          6         6                                       C: 106
Composition of net resource flows
Officialgrants                               84      155        130       115
Official creditors                           70       38        -47       -35                                      D: 249
Private creditors                            -32       -7        -2         0
Foreign direct investment                    63        4          5         0                     _      _
Portfolio equity                              0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  68       55         19        69      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 4       12         25        19      B - IDA    0 - Other multlateral  F - Ptvate
Pnrncipal repayments                          0       10          5         5      C -iMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     4        2         20        14
Interest payments                             0        6          3         3
Net transfers                                 4        -4        17        11
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/9/2000
-49 -



