Report No. PID9893
Project Name                     Mauritania-Global Distance Learning Center (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Distance Education/Education Technology
Project ID                       MRPE71881
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF MAURITANIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT
Address: BP 238 Nouakchott
Contact Person: Mohamed Ould El Abed
Tel: (222) 25 16 12
Fax: (222) 25 51 10
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 7, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 27, 2001
Projected Board Date             July 26, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Conceptualization and execution of specific sector strategies at the
Government level are, in part, limited by insufficient exposure to
relevant international experience and policy trends. Key stakeholders are
often unaware of how similar concerns are addressed in other countries.
The proposed LIL is intended to bridge this knowledge gap in support of
policy reform.A. The Distance Learning Center :Efforts to foster good
governance and institutional reform are being made in Mauritania. However,
important weaknesses remain, including in terms of capacity to plan at the
center, implement decisions at the periphery, or enforce good governance
principles such as transparency and accountability. Civil reform is a key
element of the improved institutional framework, and, while distance
learning alone will not resolve the shortcomings of public administration,
it will nonetheless facilitate improved governance through knowledge
transfer. It will expose national decision-makers to international best
practice and enhance the skills of local decision-makers in the priority
areas of economics, finance, accounting and management. The Government has
already shown a huge interest in worldwide dissemination of knowledge
through the Virtual University Program which is fully operational. A
Ministry of New technologies has been established. In addition, through
the IDA financed Education Project, the Worldlinks initiative is currently
implemented and provides Internet access to selected schools. The recent
liberalization of the Telecommunications sector and the willingness of the
Government to facilitate a universal access to new technologies through
the Telecoms TA Project, has generated the need for a DLC an important
element of this framework.The private sector also lacks exposure to the
latest developments in corporate finance and management. It lacks the
supporting institutions and human resources that are critical to sound
corporate governance. Distance learning course modules relayed from
international institutions will strengthen corporate management while
access to the latest technical information could possibly allow Mauritania
private sector to effectively compete in the global world. B. The



Mauritania Development Gateway :The MRDG aims to develop Mauritania
integrate into the global digital economy by: (i) creating a common
information, communication, transaction and training space; (ii) Building,
and upgrading local content and capacity; (iii) catalyzing emergence of
national knowledge management systems; (iv) promoting the reputation of
the country, as an attractive place for doing business; (v) promoting
e-commerce, e-banking, e-government, e-training and e-communities; and
(vi) increasing global competitiveness of the country through greater
institutional transparency and lower transaction costs.The Mauritania
Development Gateway will be built by and serve the Government of
Mauritania, the international donor community, civil society, the private
sector, and other key partners by providing information about, and
facilitating links to, new ideas, funding, and commercial opportunities.
The MRDG will strive to become a premier development Internet Portal: to
ensure global information sharing the MRDG will share a universal
structure, editorial policies, and technical platform with other country
gateways and the Global Development Gateway. It will share a prosperous
set of links with them to promote global information exchange of
knowledge, ideas, expertise, and opportunities.The MRDG will also promote
foreign investments, efficient privatization, small business, export,
tourism, capital markets and institutional development, donor
coordination, better governance, and transparency. It will empower
various professional associations and industry clusters existing in
Mauritania with the Internet instruments. A wide range of information,
knowledge, and other resources will be available to users free of charge
such as the Official Gazette on-line. The MRDG will provide paid services
as well: value-added sources, advertising, and corporate or other
sponsorships.To achieve all the targets mentioned above, the MRDG will
include, but not be limited to, the following services: (i) on-line
training modules via the Internet; (ii) research findings; (iii) best
practices; (iv) case studies; (v) procurement services; (v) product
reviews; (vi) information on development projects; (vii) News; (viii)
jobs; and (ix) Directories.
2. Objectives
The Project will test mechanisms of public and private sector partnership
to promote better access to and dissemination of information relevant for
country development and policy reforms. This Development Objective will be
assessed through (i) Institutional Championship (ability for small
entities to promote a better access to information); (ii) test of two
specific telecom-based technologies and (iii) financial sustainability
through a phased funding.In this context, the proposed Project will pilot
two initiatives :A. The distance learning initiative will aim to (a)
strengthen the environment for policy reforms and (b) build capacity in
the public and private sectors by increasing local access to global
knowledge and specialized information using internet-based
technology.Distance Learning will facilitate the increased dissemination
of knowledge and cross-country experience in support of reform. Public
and private sector decision-makers will access interactive multi-media
training programs developed by the World Bank Institute, major
universities, private corporations and technical organizations around the
world. This exposure to global knowledge will enhance the capacity of
Mauritanian decision-makers to conceptualize and implement reforms. This
will, in turn, lead to improved governance, economic growth and poverty
reduction.B. Although communications on the World Wide Web between
- 2-



international organizations, governments, civil society, and private
sector have improved greatly in recent years, their potential to support
development remains largely untapped in many countries. Some of the
remaining challenges are: (i) Uncoordinated and ineffective aid; (ii) Low
access to reliable knowledge; (iii) Untapped opportunities for private
sector development; (iv) Need for better networking among development
organizations; and (v) Low usage of Internet for economic and social
development.The Global Development Gateway (GDG) promotes the Internet as
a central tool for development and poverty alleviation. The GDG aims to
respond to the above challenges by creating a common development Internet
Portal, which will help deploy the collective assets and capabilities of
the development community in a more efficient and coordinated fashion.The
MRDG (Mauritania Development Gateway) as one of the pilot projects within
the Global Development Gateway in Africa, will help various development
stakeholders to work towards their goals more efficiently.The MRDG is an
Internet-based comprehensive development partnership, first of its kind in
Mauritania, which will help various development stakeholders to work
towards their goals more efficiently. The MRDG is a high-impact and
low-cost cutting edge technology tool to facilitate solving various
development problems by all working in one common environment and in one
team. The followings are the key innovative features of the MRDG: (i) The
MRDG is a country-level component of the Global Development Gateway; (ii)
The MRDG can be further organized into Regional Development Gateways
(e.g., Africa Development Gateway); the MRDG can be further divided into
Sub-national (regional) Development Gateways (e.g., Gateway to Trarza or
Gateway to Mauritanian Diaspora) or Municipal Gateways (e.g., Gateway to
Nouadhibou).It is a country-led initiative to build or expand national
links into the global development community by targeting
Mauritania-specific needs and supporting the use of the Internet for
e-business, communications, and knowledge sharing among the development
stakeholders.It aims at helping Mauritania cross the digital divide and
become fully integrated into the increasingly digitized international
economy. More specifically, it would: (i) maximize opportunities and
minimize risks of the global Internet revolution; (ii) facilitate
e-commerce, e-banking, and e-government; (iii) mobilize development
knowledge; (iv) improve communications within various social and economic
communities; and (v) ultimately help to increase living standards, global
competitiveness of the country through lower transaction costs and greater
productivity and transparency.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
The project comprises three main components: (i) construction and
equipment of the Distance Learning Center; and (ii) support for DLC
establishment and operation, and (iii) support of the Mauritania
Development Gateway establishment and operation.Component 1 consists of
building facilities on the site of the Palais des CongrOs for the
establishment of the DLC, to provide a videoconference room with a
30-person capacity, a computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations
(hardware, software and Internet hook-up), a technical and administrative
center, and installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone
wiring. It also comprises equipment of the DLC including purchase and
installation of a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) (satellite
-3 -



communication terminal), video, telecommunications and microprocessor
equipment, office and classroom furniture, and various other equipment for
DLC operation and security.Component 2 aims to assist the DLC begin
operation and become financially viable. It includes:(a) financing of DLC
operation costs on a decreasing basis over the first three years of
operation; (b) purchase of a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing
of DLC services; and (c) technical assistance for the training of Center
staff, periodic evaluation of Center operation and management
effectiveness, and establishment of financial accounts and their annual
audit.Component 3 consists of installing the Mauritania Development
Gateway (MRDG) facilities and assist MRDG begin operation. It includes:(a)
purchase of the office equipment, installation and maintenance (servers,
computers, scanners, printers, digital video, CD recorders, phones, faxes,
etc. (b) assisting in platforms and graphics design, upgrades and
customization; (c) assisting in the institutional set-up of the Gateway
and its content's management; and (d) financing of MRDG operation costs on
a decreasing basis over the first three years of operation;
1. DLC Retrofitting and Equipment
a. Civil Works
b. Network Access Equipment
c. Videoconferencing Equipment
d. Office Furniture/other equipment
2. Support for DLC Establishment and Operation
a. Consultant Services/Training
b. Operating Costs
a. Equipment and maintenance
b. Consultant Services
c. Operating Costs
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 5
6. Implementation
In order to facilitate the project preparation and to benefit from their
experience in procurement, the MEAD signed a "Convention de MaYtrise
d'Ouvrage Deleguee" with AMEXTIPE. This Convention has been financed
through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). It includes the civil works
(construction of the DL Center and refitting of some facilities within the
SSNT to host the MRDG), the purchase of all the equipment (telecom and
informatic equipment, furniture, etc.), the financing of some studies
(Manual of Procedures, selection of the Director and the Manager, market
study, etc.).In order to ensure the compatibility of all the electronic
equipment with the other Centers and the Bank satellite network, the
telecom and informatic equipment (including the satellite earth station)
has been purchased by the Bank (through the ISG division) on the behalf of
the Borrower. To do so, the Borrower signed a Procurement Agreement with
the Bank authorizing the Bank to purchase on the behalf of the Government
of Mauritania. The equipment, purchased in August 2000, is already
available and stored by ISG.Distance Learning Center components : These
components will be implemented and managed by the DLC. So that distance
learning activities can begin as soon as possible after project
- 4 -



effectiveness.The project preparation included establishment of the DLC
(legal procedures, formation of the DLC Board, recruitment of Director and
staff) and preparation and equipment of the site (classrooms,
videoconference room, computer room, administrative offices, etc. Project
preparation activities have been handled by the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Development with the assistance of AMEXTIPE, for works,
equipment, and studies.Upon taking office and before credit effectiveness,
the Director will prepare a business plan based on a survey of training
requests from the public and private sectors. The business plan, to be
submitted for DLC Board and IDA review and approval, will include: market
data, budget and sources of financing, training and other services to be
provided (lectures, seminars, other), source and programming of training,
rates for different types of training and financial projections in the
form of a budget, operating account and marketing strategy.     The business
plan will be updated and submitted for IDA and DLC Board review and
approval on an annual basis. To this effect, the implementing agency will
continue to assess demand for training, identify and program appropriate
training courses, market the services of the Center and increase its
visibility in Mauritania and abroad.Mauritania Development Gateway
component : This component will be implemented by the MRDG. So that
development gateway activities can begin as soon as possible after project
effectiveness. The project preparation includes establishment of the MRDG
(legal procedures, formation of the MRDG Steering Committee, recruitment
of Manager and staff) and preparation and equipment of the site (WEB
servers, Internet links, administrative offices, etc.)
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Not applicable
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jean Mazurelle
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 5 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 15, 2001.
- 6 -



