Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3578 MAU
Project Agreement
(Global Distance Learning Center Project)
between
CENTRE D’ECHANGES ET DE FORMATION A DISTANCE
DE LA REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
(DLC-RIM)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 19, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3578 MAU
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2001, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the CENTRE D’ECHANGES ET DE FORMATION A 
DISTANCE DE LA REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE  (DLC-RIM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that DLC-RIM agrees to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DLC-RIM, 
part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made 
available to DLC-RIM on terms and conditions set forth in said DLC-RIM Subsidiary Grant Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS DLC-RIM, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term “Fiscal Year” means, for the 
purpose of this Agreement, the fiscal year of DLC-RIM, beginning on January 1 and ending on 
December 31 of each calendar year.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B of the Project and other Covenants
Section 2.01. (a)  DLC-RIM declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth 
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental, educational  practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying out of  Part B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and, except as the 
Association and DLC-RIM shall otherwise agree, DLC-RIM shall carry out Part B of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set out in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit 
Page  3
Agreement and the DLC-RIM Memorandum of Understanding.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants' services, required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a)   DLC-RIM shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
DLC-RIM Project Agreement and Part B of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions, DLC-RIM shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish to 
the 
Association not later than three months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
DLC-RIM, a plan for the future 
development of its services; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
DLC-RIM on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. DLC-RIM shall duly perform all its obligations under the DLC-RIM Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DLC-RIM shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the DLC-RIM 
Grant Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. DLC-RIM shall:
(a)
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
DLC-RIM Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit or the 
accomplishment of the objectives of the Project;
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and 
the objectives of the Project, or the performance by DLC-RIM of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the DLC-RIM Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
(c)
carry out, in conjunction with the Borrower and the Association, the annual review and 
the mid-term review respectively, referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Schedule 4 to the Development 
Credit Agreement; and 
(d)
promptly after completing such reviews, carry out recommendations arising out of said 
reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices.
Section 2.06.  DLC-RIM shall furnish to the Borrower and the Association, for review and 
approval:
(a)
before the beginning of each  Fiscal Year, a proposed annual work program, in respect of 
Part B of the Project, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming Fiscal Year;
Page  4
(b)
up to and until the implementation of Project Management Reports, semiannual and 
annual progress reports on the status of  the works carried out under Part B of the Project, including 
feedback received from water sector users; and
(c)
following the implementation of Project Management Reports, said reports in respect to 
Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of  DLC-RIM
Section 3.01. DLC-RIM shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. DLC-RIM shall at all times operate and maintain its facilities, equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound administrative and technical practices.
Section 3.03. DLC-RIM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DLC-RIM shall maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project.
(b)
DLC-RIM shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements 
of income and expenses and related statements) referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this  Section,  for each  Fiscal  Year  audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
Page  5
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
DLC-RIM shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of 
the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable 
DLC-RIM, not later than eighteen months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of 
which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part B of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for Part B of the Project for the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in implementation of Part B of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
DLC-RIM shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report 
for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination, Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which the 
Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of DLC-RIM 
Page  6
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate; or
(ii)
the date ten (10) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify DLC-RIM of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under the 
Development Credit Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by the 
Development Credit Agreement shall be in writing. Except as otherwise provided in Section 12.03, such 
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or 
by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address specified in the Development Credit Agreement, or at such other address as 
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, DC
or 64145 (MCI)
For DLC-RIM:
CENTRE DE FORMATION ET D’ECHANGES A DISTANCE 
DE LA REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
The President
B.P 383
NOUAKCHOTT
République Islamique de Mauritanie
Facsimile:  
Page  7
(222) 525-2406
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of DLC-RIM, may be taken or executed by its 
President, or by such other person or persons as its President shall designate in writing, and DLC-RIM 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an 
original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Paris, France, as of 
the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                By: /s/ David Craig
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
  CENTRE D’ECHANGES ET DE FORMATION A DISTANCE
                                                      DE LA REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
By /s/ Mohamed Ould Nany
Acting Authorized Representative
