Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3578 MAU
Project Agreement
(Global Distance Learning Center Project)
between
PORTAIL MAURITANIEN DU DEVELOPPEMENT
(PMD)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 19, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3578 MAU
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2001, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the PORTAIL MAURITANIEN DU DEVELOPPEMENT  
(PMD).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that PMD agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association 
as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PMD, part 
of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made 
available to PMD on terms and conditions set forth in said PMD Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS PMD, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development Credit 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term “Fiscal Year” means, for the 
purpose of this Agreement, the fiscal year of PMD, beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 
of each calendar year.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project and other Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) PMD declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental, educational and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying out of Part C of the 
Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and, except as the 
Association and PMD shall otherwise agree, PMD shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set out in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Page  3
with the Implementation Program set out in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and the 
PMD Memorandum of Understanding.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants' services, required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a)  PMD shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the PMD 
Project Agreement and Part C of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, PMD shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association no later than three months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and PMD, a plan 
for the future development of its services; and
(ii)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views with PMD on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. PMD shall duly perform all its obligations under the PMD Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PMD shall not take or concur in any action 
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the PMD Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. PMD shall:
(a)
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of Part C of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
PMD Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit or the 
accomplishment of the objectives of the Project;
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the progress of Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and 
the objectives of the Project, or the performance by PMD of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the PMD Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
(c)
carry out, in conjunction with the Borrower and the Association, the annual review and 
the mid-term review respectively, referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Schedule 4 to the Development 
Credit Agreement; and 
(d)
promptly after completing such reviews, carry out recommendations arising out of said 
reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices.
Section 2.06. PMD shall furnish to the Borrower and the Association, for review and approval:
(a)
before the beginning of each  Fiscal Year, a proposed annual work program, in respect of 
Page  4
Part C of the Project, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming Fiscal Year;
(b)
up to and until the implementation of Project Management Reports, semiannual and 
annual progress reports on the status of the works carried out under Part C of the Project, including 
feedback received from water sector users; and
(c)
following the implementation of Project Management Reports, said reports in respect to 
Part C of the Project.
Section 2.07. PMD shall, no later than twelve months following the Effective Date, establish a 
demonstration site and have an agreement executed with the appropriate telecommunications operator, in 
form and substance acceptable to the Association, to expand bandwith access.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of  PMD
Section 3.01. PMD shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial and technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PMD shall at all times operate and maintain its facilities, equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound administrative and technical practices.
Section 3.03. PMD shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks (other than the risk of default under credit 
provided to PMD) and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PMD shall maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project.
(b)
PMD shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements 
of income and expenses and related statements) referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
Page  5
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) 
months after the end of each Fiscal Year: (A) certified copies of its 
financial statements 
for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, PMD 
shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the 
financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable PMD, 
not later than eighteen months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, 
to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part C of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for Part C of the Project for the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in implementation of Part C of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part C of the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, PMD 
shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association 
not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination, Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which the 
Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of PMD thereunder 
shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
Page  6
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate; or
(ii)
the date ten (10) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify PMD of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under the 
Development Credit Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by the 
Development Credit Agreement shall be in writing. Except as otherwise provided in Section 12.03, such 
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or 
by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address specified in the Development Credit Agreement, or at such other address as 
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
or 64145 (MCI)
For PMD
PORTAIL MAURITANIEN DE DEVELOPPEMENT
The President
B.P 174
NOUAKCHOTT
République Islamique de Mauritanie
Facsimile:
(222) 525-2406
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PMD, may be taken or executed by its 
President, or by such other person or persons as its President shall designate in writing, and PMD shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
Page  7
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an 
original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Paris, France, as of 
the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
      By /s/ David Craig
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
     PORTAIL MAURITANIEN DU DEVELOPPEMENT 
      By /s/ Mohamed Ould Nany
Acting Authorized Representative
