Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3578 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Global Distance Learning Center Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 19, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3578 MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2001 between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
Page  2
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by 
Centre d’Echanges et de Formation à 
Distance de la République Islamique de Mauritanie
 (DLC-RIM) with the Borrower’s assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to DLC-RIM part of the proceeds 
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
(C)
Part C of the Project will be carried out by the 
Portail Mauritanien du 
Développement 
(PMD), and, as part  of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PMD 
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis of, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
the two Project Agreements of even date herewith between: (i) the Association and DLC-RIM (the 
DLC-RIM Project Agreement); and (ii) the Association and PMD (the PMD Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of 
the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, collectively, all such countries.”; 
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no   
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations;” and
Page  3
(c)
the first sentence in Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than three 
months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be  derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the  Association 
of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“DLC-RIM” means 
Centre d’Echanges et de Formation à Distance de la
République 
Islamique de Mauritanie, 
an educational entity established subject to Récépissé No. 0060 dated 
April 03, 2001
, Ministère de l’Intérieur, Service des Libertés Publiques,
 and operating pursuant to 
the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
 “DLC-RIM
Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and DLC-RIM as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to DLC-RIM
Project Agreement;
(c)
“DLC-RIM Memorandum of Understanding” means the agreement between DLC-RIM 
and the Borrower, represented by 
Palais des Congrès 
specifying access rights of DLC-RIM to the 
Palais
;
(d)
“DLC-RIM Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and DLC-RIM pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the DLC-RIM 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
(e)
 “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the table in  
paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting January 1 and ending 
December 31 each calendar year;
(h)
“IEC” means information, education and communication campaigns;
(i)
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
“JO” means 
Journal Officiel, 
the Borrower’s Legal Gazette;
(k)
“MCAT” means 
Ministère du Commerce, de l’Artisanat et du Tourisme, 
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Commerce, Artisan Activities and Tourism;
(l)
“MCOI” means 
Ministère de la Culture et de l’Orientation Islamique, 
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Culture and Islamic Orientation;
(m)
 “MEAD” means 
Ministère des Affaires
Economiques et du Développement
, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Development;
(n)
“MMI” means 
Ministère des Mines et de l’Industrie
, the Borrower’s Ministry of Mining 
and Industry;
Page  4
(o)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit;
(p)
“PMD” means 
Portail Mauritanien du Développement,
 the Mauritanian Regional 
Development Gateway established subject to Récépissé No. …….. dated ….., 2001
, Ministère de 
l’Intérieur, Service des Libertés Publiques, 
and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(q)
“PMD Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and PMD, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the PMD Project Agreement;
(r)
“PMD Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and PMD pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the PMD Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement;
(s)
“PMD Memorandum of Understanding” means the agreement between PMD and the 
Borrower, represented by SENT (as hereafter defined)
specifying access rights of PMD to the 
premises of SENT;
(t)
“Nouakchott” means the capital city of the Borrower;
(u)
“Ougyia” and “UM” mean the currency of the Borrower;
(v)
“Performance Indicators” means the monitoring and performance indicators listed in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(w)
“Project Agreements” mean the DLC-RIM Project Agreement and the PMD Project 
Agreement;
(x)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph (f) of 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement, and supporting handbooks including, 
inter alia
, institutional 
arrangements, work plans, participatory monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to 
be used by the Borrower and DLC-RIM and PMD for the purposes of  the Project, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the approval of the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to said Manual;
(y)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 
4.02 of this Agreement and the Project Agreements;
(z)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by the 
Association to the Borrower, pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 19, 2000, signed 
by the Borrower and the Association;
(aa)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(bb)
 “SENT” means 
Secrétariat d’Etat aux Nouvelles Technologies
, the Borrower’s ministry 
in charge of promoting new technologies; and
(cc)
“Subsidiary Grant Agreements” means the DLC-RIM Subsidiary Grant Agreement and 
the PMD Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or if the 
Page  5
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works or 
services, required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date of 
this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by 
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on  
January 1 and  July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  January 1 and  July 
1, commencing January 1, 2012 and ending July 1, 2041. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on  July 1, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
Page  6
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; 
and 
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph 
(a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end,  shall carry out Part A of the Project, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Part A of  the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the 
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under this  Agreement, 
the Borrower shall cause:
(i)
DLC-RIM to carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and in accordance 
with the provisions of the DLC-RIM Project Agreement, and the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the DLC-RIM Memorandum of Understanding all the 
obligations of DLC-RIM therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
Page  7
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable 
DLC-RIM to perform such obligations;  and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(ii)
PMD to carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and in accordance 
with the provisions of the PMD Project Agreement, the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the PMD Memorandum of Understanding all the obligations of 
PMD therein set forth; shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable PMD to perform such 
obligations; and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(d)
     The Borrower shall:
(i)
make available to DLC-RIM on a non-reimbursable basis  out of the proceeds of the 
Credit the amounts allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a)  and (4) (a) of 
the table in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and DLC-RIM (the DLC-RIM Subsidiary Grant Agreement) under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, in an amount not exceeding seven hundred ninety 
thousand Special Drawing Rights equivalent (SDR 790,000); and
(ii)
        make available to PMD on a non-reimbursable basis out of the proceeds of the 
Credit the amounts allocated from time to time to Categories  (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (b) and (4) (b) of 
the table in paragraph A. 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and PMD (the PMD Subsidiary Grant Agreement) under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, in an amount not exceeding seven hundred forty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights equivalent (SDR 740,000).
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the DLC-RIM Subsidiary Grant Agreement 
and the PMD Subsidiary Grant Agreement, respectively, in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the objectives of the Project, and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by DLC-RIM in respect of Part B of the Project 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the DLC-RIM Project Agreement, and by PMD in respect to Part C of 
the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 of the PMD Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
until the completion of the execution of the Project open and maintain an account  
in Ougyia in a commercial bank (the Project Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount of UM ten million  (UM 
10,000,000), the Initial Deposit to finance the Borrower's contribution to the expenditures required 
under the Project;
Page  8
(c)
thereafter during each following quarter, deposit into the Project Account the 
amount required to cover the Borrower's counterpart contribution for each such following quarter, 
as determined by the Borrower and the Association; and
(d)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures required 
under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association, at the request of either party, shall 
exchange views on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project.
(a)
The Borrower shall cause DLC-RIM and PMD to partake in such exchange of 
views, at the request of the Association.
(b)
Prior to such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for 
its review and comments a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, indicating, inter alia, the views of DLC-RIM or 
PMD if at variance with those of the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in the PCU a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a form 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to Part A of  the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have: (A) the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and (B) the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case no later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
period as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
Page  9
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, no later than eighteen months after the Effective 
Date,
 
or
such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part A of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for Part A the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
Page  10
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
DLC-RIM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the DLC-RIM 
Project Agreement. 
(b)
PMD shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the PMD Project 
Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that DLC-RIM or PMD 
will be able to perform its respective obligations under the Project Agreements.  
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event specified, namely that in any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
each of the Subsidiary Grant Agreements, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, DLC-RIM and PMD, respectively, and 
are binding upon them in accordance with their terms;
(b)
the DLC-RIM Memorandum of Understanding, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, has been executed on behalf of the parties interested;
(c)
the PMD Memorandum of Understanding, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, has been executed on behalf of the parties interested;
(d)
the Borrower has  opened the Project Account and deposited therein the Initial Deposit;
(e)
the Borrower has: (i) appointed, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(ii) established in PCU a financial management system, acceptable to the Association, for the 
purposes of Part A of the Project;
(f)
the Borrower has adopted and furnished to the Association the Project Implementation 
Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the Association;
Page  11
(g)
(i) DLC-RIM has engaged a director and the following staff, with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association, in charge of: (A) financial management and accounting, 
(B) marketing, and (C) communication technology; and (ii) a financial management system 
acceptable to the Association has been established in DLC-RIM;
(h)
(i) PMD has engaged a director and the following staff, with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association, in charge of: (A) financial management and accounting, 
(B) marketing, and (C) communication technology; and (ii) a financial management system 
acceptable to the Association has been established in PMD;
(i)
DLC-RIM has furnished  to the Association a business plan for its first year of 
operations in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and
(j)
PMD has furnished to the Association a business plan for its first year of operations in 
form and substance acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association:
(a)
the DLC-RIM Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified  by 
DLC-RIM and is legally binding upon DLC-RIM in accordance with its terms;
(b)
the PMD Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by PMD and is 
legally binding upon PMD in accordance with its terms;
(c)
the DLC-RIM Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and DLC-RIM and is legally binding upon the Borrower and DLC-RIM in 
accordance with its terms; end
(d)  
the PMD Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified  by the 
Borrower and PMD and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PMD in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  12
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for economic development is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
B.P. 286 
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Telex: Facsimile:
840 MTN 
222-25-110
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
           248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
           64145 (MCI)
Page  13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Paris, 
France, as of the day and year first above written
.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s/ Mohamed Ould Nany
Acting Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David Craig
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Part A
.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Civil works
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local       
expenditures       
(a)
for Part B of the Project
40,000
(b) for Part C of the Project
40,000
 
(2) Equipment and
100% of foreign
materials
        expenditures and
85% of  local  
expenditures
(a)
for Part B of the Project
50,000
(b) for Part C of the Project
100,000
(3)
Consultants’ services
            100%
and training
(a)
for Part B of the Project 
250,000
(b) for Part C of the Project 
300,000
(c)
for Part A of the Project
40,000
(4) Operating costs
    80%
(a)
for DLC-RIM
450,000
(b) for PMD  
300,000
(c)
for PCU
80,000
Page  15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(5) Refunding of
        1,000,000
 Amount due
Project Preparation
pursuant to
Advance
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated
50,000
_________
TOTAL
2,700,000
========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country 
other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
implementation of the Project, and Project audits, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, administrative support, communication and utility services, travel and supervision costs 
but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
and (c) consultants’ services under: (i) contracts with firms costing less than $100,000 each, or (ii) 
with individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Part B
. Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a Special 
Account for the Project in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Except as the 
Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit 
Account shall be deposited into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has received evidence 
Page  16
satisfactory to it that the Special Account have been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. For each payment made by the Borrower out of 
the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (i) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (ii) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall 
have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. 
Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for 
making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
Page  17
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawals or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Page  18
Annex A
To
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $300,000 to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount of $150,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General  Conditions  shall  equal  or  exceed  the  
equivalent  of one million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000).
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed said Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount, as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall 
follow such procedures, as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  19
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one 
or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $400,000.
Page  20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to test the effectiveness and sustainability of: (a) a 
distance learning center as part of a global knowledge-sharing network; and (b) a local internet 
gateway center as tools to promote partnership between the public and private sector and among 
the members of civil society through: (i) better access to and dissemination of internet based 
information for development and poverty alleviation in the territory of the Borrower, and (ii) 
publication of country based information to the outside world
.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Capacity Building Project Management, Monitoring and Supervision
1.
 Administration, coordination, monitoring, supervision and evaluation of Project 
implementation through the provision of technical advisory services, training to staff in PCU, and 
the acquisition of equipment. 
2.
 Carrying out an assessment of implementation results under Parts B and C of the Project 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training to selected staff in PCU. 
Part B
:
Distance Learning Center 
1.
Construction of facilities on the site of the 
Palais des Congrès 
in Nouakchott  for the 
accommodation of: (a) a video-conferencing center with a 30-person capacity,  (b) a computer 
room outfitted for 30 computer stations, and (c) a technical and administrative center. 
2.
The installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring;  the installation of a 
very small aperture terminal satellite communication center containing, inter alia, video, 
telecommunications and microprocessors and the installation of offices for DLC-RIM, through the 
acquisition of equipment.
3.
Strengthening of: (a) financial and operational management; (b) marketing and 
networking; and (c) project design and operations evaluation at DLC-RIM, through provision of 
technical advisory services and training to selected staff in DLC-RIM.
4.
Carrying out of IEC campaigns alerting interested parties to the services available by 
DLC-RIM, through the provision of technical advisory services.
Part C
:
Mauritania Development Gateway
1.
Rehabilitation or updating of facilities on the site of SENT for the accommodation of 
PMD’s technical operations and administrative offices. 
Page  21
2.
(a) The provision of service and maintenance facilities for the operation of  long distance 
digital communications and connections with foreign networks; and (b) the  provision  of technical 
advisory services to strengthen the operational and managerial capacity of PMD, and the 
acquisition of equipment.
3.
Provision of country specific content for the internet database comprising, inter alia: (a) 
economic and financial information; (b) development information pertaining to the economic and 
financial progress of the Borrower’s civil society, including development projects’ status and 
procurement; (c) geographical and  geological information for mining activities; (d) legal 
information including laws and judgments; and (e) historic and cultural information, all through 
the provision of technical advisory services and training to selected staff in inter alia MMI, JO, 
MCAT and MCOI, respectively.
4.
Strengthening management in PMD in: (a) financial and operational management 
capacity; (b) marketing and networking capacities; and (c) project design and operations 
evaluation capacities, including  the provision of technical advisory services and training to 
selected staff in PMD and SENT.
5.
Carrying out studies to 
develop SENT’s strategy and an action plan to implement said 
strategy.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2005.
Page  22
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank Member Countries” 
and “Member Country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Page  23
Guidelines.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $510,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in 
writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award will be made to the contractors 
who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods under Part B of the Project, for network access, video-conferencing and satellite 
band width rent which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract or must be 
procured from a particular supplier as a condition of compatibility and costing $50,000 equivalent 
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines."
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan 
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved 
by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  24
2.
Prior Review
With respect to a contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Page  25
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services for small assignments and the carrying out of workshops may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for supervision of works and services, and for financial audits may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for small studies and training that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to 
cost the equivalent of
 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
 
or
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
(c)
Contracts for audits, all contracts for the employment of consultants in PCU and 
all international training shall be awarded only after prior review and approval of the Association.
Page  26
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  27
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A
. General
1.
The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, cancel or waive any 
provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment cancellation or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Part B
. Coordination and Management
2.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual and summarized in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
3.
The Borrower shall cause DLC-RIM and PMD, respectively, until the Closing Date, to 
maintain the following staff with qualifications and experience, satisfactory to the Association, 
namely: (a) a director; (b) a technical specialist; (c) a facilitator; and (d) a specialist in charge of 
financial management and accounting. 
Part 
C. Annual Reviews and Midterm Review
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and cause 
DLC-RIM and PMD concerning their respective activities under the Project to prepare, and furnish 
annually to the Association, for review and comments, until the receipt by the Association of the 
Project Management Reports referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, a combined report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
2
of
this Schedule 4, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts A, B, and C of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and a draft work program and related 
budget, including the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the twelve months’ period following such 
date (Annual Review). The first such report shall be furnished to the Association no later than 
December 31, 2002 or such later date as the Borrower and the Association shall determine; and
(b)
review with the Association, within four weeks following the submission of the 
report referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, said report and thereafter take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the views of the 
Association on the reports.
Page  28
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by June 30, 2003, or such other date as the Association shall agree upon, carry out jointly 
with the Association, a mid-term review of the implementation of operations under the Project 
(Midterm Review). The Borrower shall cause DLC-RIM and PMD to participate, and take all 
actions it considers necessary to ensure the participation of representatives of civil society in such 
Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation 
of the Project and, more specifically: (i) the sustainability of Project activities, notably the 
financing of recurrent maintenance costs; and (ii) the performance of DLC-RIM and PMD under 
the Project.
(b)
no later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to the Association, 
for its review and comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on 
the implementation of Parts A, B, and C of the Project; and
(c)
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any 
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Association, and cause DLC-RIM and PMD, 
respectively, to act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as shall be recommended 
by the Association, to attain the objectives of the Project.
Part D
. Specific Actions  
6.
The Borrower shall, no later than twenty-four months after the Effective Date, or such 
later date as the Borrower and the Association shall determine, ensure the carrying out of the 
business plan approved by the executing organs of DLC-RIM and PMD and the Association for 
the first and the second twelve months’ period of Project implementation.
Schedule 5
Performance Indicators
A.
Common Criteria for DLC-RIM and PMD
1.
 70% of operating expenses are covered by revenue generation at the end of the 4th year 
of Project implementation.
2.
International regulations and procedures regulating operations of DLC-RIM and PMD 
have been respected during Project implementation.
B.
Criteria for DLC-RIM:
1.
80 training sessions have been held during the first twelve months of Project 
implementation, and 120 such sessions in each twelve month period thereafter.
2.
Variance of content offered in the training sessions has covered at least three specific 
sectors during the first twelve months of Project implementation, and five such sectors in each 
twelve month period thereafter.
Page  29
C.
Criteria for PMD
:
1.
The server has been visible during 335 days per year.
2.
The number of connections per year has reached:
(a)
20,000 during the first twelve months of Project implementation;
(b)
40,000 during the twelve months following period (a); and
(c)
50,000 during each subsequent period of twelve months.
