Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmFCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5051- GR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE HELLENIC STATE (GREECE)
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 859-GR)
April 20, 1984
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the perfonmance of
their officia duties. Its contents nay not otherwiue be dsclowed witbout Wodd Bank authoriution.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
GLDSSARY
ASS        Agricultural Secondary School
CPU        Central Project Unit
DIEP       Directorate of Implementation of
Education Projects
FTC        Farmer Training Center
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ITC        Industrial Training Center
MEO        Manpower Employment Organization
MIM        Ministry of Merchant Marine
MMS        Merchant Marine School
MN~E       Ministry of National Economy
MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
MOE        Ministry of Education
MOT        Ministry of Tourism
MVTC       Mobile Vocational Training Center
PA         Pedagogical Academy
TTS        Tourism Training School
Thi doment has a restied ditibuon and may be used by recipients only in the pefonnanc of
thew offic duti Its conutn may noothewise be didosed without Wodd Bank authorizatin.



THE  ELLEqNIC STATE (GREECE)            FOR OFMAL USE ONLY
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 859-GR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ............................                              ...... i
BASIC DATA SHEET .... ............... .................... ii
HIGHLIGHTS ................................................. vi
SUMMARY, CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................... -x
I.  INTRODUCTION ...............................................                .. I
II.    PROJECT BACKGROUND        . . ..................................... 1
Formulation and Objectives of the Project ...................... 1
The Socio-Economic Background .................................. 2
Project Items .      .     ...............................................  3
-II.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .. .             ...........................................  6
A.  Physical Aspects ...............................................        6
Overview ......................................... ........... 6
Project Management Performance ............... ....... ....... 6
Shites ...................................... .... ......................... 7
Evaluation of School Building Designs ...................... 7
Construction        .................................. 8
Maintenance ................................................................ 9
School Building Policy ........... . .......... ......... .......... 9
Furniture and Equipment ................................... . 10
Covenants            ............................. 10
Bank Performance . . .            ................. 11
B.  Education Aspects ............................................................... ll
General Assessment                    ........ 1.. 
The Pedagogical Academies ............................ ...... 12
The Industrial Training Centers and Mobile Vocational......
Training Centers .        ...................  ............. 13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wcrld Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
Page No.
The Farmer Training Centers ........................ ...... ...  14
The Agricultural Secondary Schools ....................... ..  14
The Tourism Training Schools ...... &............. ...        14
The Merchant Marine Training Schools .......................   14
Technical Assistance ....................... .......... ..  15
IV.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ....... .................................   16
Capital Cost ...... ......................,......  . .... ..-  16
Unit Space Allocation Per Student.................... O...    17
Unit Cost Per Student Place ....O-.......      . .......   18
Disbursements ...................................    18
-:ABLES
Table  1       Project Breakdown by Cost ...............................    4
Table  2       Project Breakdown by Institution    .....    ...................    5
Table  3       Estimated Project Costs by Categories ....     ...............   17
Table 4        Area Per Student Place .......................,,,,,,,,. 17
Table  5       Cost Per Student Place  .................................   18
Table  6       Planned Disbursements and Actual Withdrawals ....    ........   19
Table  7       Estimated and Actual Disbursements by Categories ........   19
CHARTS AND ANNEXES
Chart 1       Estimated and Actual Implementation and Disbursements ..    21
Annex 1        Implementation of Civil Works ..........................    23
Annex 2        Gross Floor Areas  .....................................    24
Annex 3        Estimated and Actual Project Costs in US$ ....    ..........    25
Annex 4        Estimated and Actual Project Costs in Drachmas .... .....   26
Annex 5        Disbursements ..........................................    27
Annex 6        Athens Tourism Training School (Model) ....     .............    28
Annex 7          Tourism Training Schools and Asricultural Secondary
Schools - Design and Construction  ....     ...............   29
Annex 8        Pedagogical Academies - Design and Construction ........   30
Annex 9        Farmer Training Centers - Design and Construction   ......   31
Annex 10       Industrial Training Centers - Design and Construction ..    32
Annex 11       Institutions Visited  ..................................    33
ATTACHMENTS;
Attachment 1   Comments received from DIEP, Ministry of National Education
and Religion   .......................................    35
Attachment 2   Comments received from CPU, Ministry of National Economy    37



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 859-GR)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Education
Project in Greece (Loan 859-GR) for which a Loan of US$23.5 million was
extended to the Hellenic State in October 1972. The Loan was closed on
December 31, 1982 but the loan account was kept open until June 30, 1983 and
the undisbursed balance of US$5.16 million equivalent was cancelled effective
July 29, 1983.
The PCR was prepared following a field visit by an EMENA education
mission in March 1983. The mission enjoyed the full cooperation of the Greek
authorities.
The Operations Evaluation Department decided not to audit the project
and sent the Project Completion Report to the Borrower and its agencies for
comment in June 1983.   Borrower comments have been taken into account by
the EHENA Regional Office and are shown as footnotes. The comments are also
reproduced in their entirety as attachments to the PCR.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 859-GR)
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal          Actual or
Item                                          Estimate        Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (USt million)                 43.90                   74.70
Overrun (x)                                    -                  273.001/
Loan Amount (US$ million)                           -                    23.50
Disbursed                                   23.50                   18.50
Cancelled                                     -                     5.00
Date Civil Works Completed                        10/75                    3/85
Proportion Completed by Above Date (X)             100
Proportion of Time Overrun (Z)                                             800
Institutional Performance                         Good                   Poor
1/ This allows for the cancellation of five institutions from the original
project, which would have reduced the appraisal estimated cost to about
USt20.O million.
B. CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USS Million)
FY          73     74     75    76        77      78      79      80      81     82      83
"I' Estimated 0.06   3.36   6.71   17.33   23.30   23.50   -        -       -       -
Actual    -       -      0.14    0.70    1.25    2.50   4.90    8.60   10.50  13.38   18.34
X (ii) as
^f (i)       -      -       2       4       5       11     21       37      45     57      78



- iii -
C. OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                              Original Plan    Revisions          Actual
First Mention in Files                                  -             01/71
Government's Application                -               -             03/71
Negotiations                         07/72              -             07/72
Board Approval                       09/72              -             09/72
Loan Agreement Date                   10/72             -             10/72
Effectiveness Date                   03/73              -             03/73
Closing Date                         07/77           11/30/77
12/31/78
12/31/81
12/31/82         12/82
Borrower                             The Hellenic State (Greece)
Executing Agency                     Central Project Unit, Ministry of
National Economy
Fiscal Year of Borrower              January 1 through December 31
Follow-on Projects                   Education III (Loan 1134-GR)
Education IV (Loan 1539-GR)



- iv -
D. MISSION DATA
Number    Number    Number
Month/     of          of        of
Mission             Sent By              Year      Weeks     Persons  Nan-weeka
Identification      Bank/UNESCO/FAO   May 1971       3.0       4          12.0
Prep./Appraisal     Bank               Oct 1971      4.0       6          24.0
(2a,te,ec,e,f)      36.0
Supervision I       Bank               Jan 1973      0.8       l(e)        0.8
Supervision II      Bank               Apr 1973      0.6       i(a)        0.5
Supervision III     Bank               Aug 1973      0.6       1(a)        0.6
Supervision IV      Bank               Dec 1973      1.4       1(e)        1.4
Supervision V       Bank               Jan 1974      1.4       1(e)        1.4
Supervision VI      Bank               Mar 1974      0.6       1(a)        0.6
Supervision VII     Bank               Jul 1974      0.4       1(a)        0.4
Supervision VIII    Bank               Sep 1974      0.4       1(a)        0.4
Supervision IX      Bank               Feb 1975      0.4       1(a)        0.4
Supervision X       Bank               Jul 1975      1.0       2(e;a)      2.0
Supervision XI      Bank               Dec 1975      0.4       l(a)        0.4
Supervision XII     Bank               Mar 1976      0.4       1(a)        0.4
Supervision XIII    Bank               Sep 1976      0.4       lia)        0.4
Supervision XIV     Bank               Jun 1977      0.6       1(a)        0.6
Supervision XV      Bank               Oct 1977      0.6       l(e)        0.6
Supervision XVI     Bank               Jan 1978      0.4       1(a)        0.4
Supervision XVII    Bank               Jun 1978      0.4       2(a;e)      0.8
Supervision XVIII   Bank               Jan 1979      0.6       1(a)        0.6
Supervision XIX     Bank               Jun 1979      0.4       2(a;te)    0.8
Supervision XX      Bank               Dec 1979      1.2       2(a;te)    2.4
Supervision XXI     Bank               Aug 1980      0.4       2(a;te)    0.8
Supervision XXII    Bank               Jul 1981      1.2       2(a;te)    2.4
Supervision XXIII   Bank               Dec 1981      0.6       2(a;te)    1.2
Supervision XXIV    Bank               Jul 1982      0.6       1(a)        0.6
Supervision XXV     Bank               Oct 1982      0.8       2(a;e)      1.6
Total No. of Supervision Man-weeks                22.6
Completion           Bank              Mar 1983      2.0       2(a;e)      4.0
a: architect
e: general educator
ec: economist
f; agricultural educator
te: technical educator



-v-
E. COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                              Drachmas (Drs.)
Appraisal Year Average (1972)           Exchange Rate:   USt 1 = Dr. 30.00
Intervening Years' Average                               US* 1 - Dr. 40.39
Completion Year Average (1983)                           US$ 1 - Dr. 84.00



-vi -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 859-GR)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The Second Education Project in Greece provided a Loan of US$23.5
million which was approved in October 1972 to assist with;
(i)   the design, construction, furnishing and equipment for:
(a)   five primary teacher training academies;
(b)   the Schools of Engineering and Natural Sciences of the University of
Patras at a new location;
(c)   eight industrial training centers;
'd)   three vocational agriculture secondary schools and the improvement of
the American Farm School at Thessaloniki;
Ce)   twelve new farmer training centers; and
(f)   five tourism training schools;
'ii) provision of, and equipment for, three mobile vocational training units;
(iii) provision of instructional equipment for:
(a)   five existing industrial training centers and five similar centers
under construction; and
(b)   four new merchant marine schools; and
(iv) provision of education specialists' services for 14 man-years and of
fellowships for the training of national st-f.. amounting to 43 man-years.
2.       The Ministries of Education (MOE), Agriculture (MOA), Tourism (HOT),
Merchant Marine (CMM), and the Manpower Employment Organization (IMEO) were the
implementing agencies concerned with the various project components. By the
original Closing Date (July 31, 1977), only about 6Z of the Loan proceeds of
US$23.5 million had been disbursed. Following four extensions, by the actual
Closing Date (December 31, 1982) about US$15.5 million of the Loan proceeds
was disbursed. The loan account will be kept open until June 30, 1983, by
which time it is anticipated that $18.5 million will have been disbursed
(para. 3.02 PCR). The outstanding US$5.0 million will be cancelled.
3.       The project was complex and wide-ranging, involving five separate
Ministries with varying degrees of experience in project management (para.
3.02 PCR). It failed to meet its objective of providing a total of 11,875 new
places in project-assisted instituLions (subsequently reduced to 7,675 places
1/ as of July 29, 1983, the amount disbursed was US$l8,337.311 and the amount
cancelled was US$5,162,689.



- vii -
during implementation) by the actual Closing Date mainly owing to site (para.
3.04 PCR) and construction problems associated with the civil works component
(paras. 3.07 and 3.08 PCR). Five of the original project institutions with
civil works components were cancelled, and of the 30 remaining in the project
only eleven are completed and fully operational.
4.       Despite this implementation record, certain aspects of the project
were successful, notably (a) the raising of training standards in the Merchant
Marine Schools (MMSs) through the provision of modern training equipment in
the fields of radar and navigation (para. 3.33 PCR); (b) an improvement in
primary education arising from improved teacher training and the introduction
of a more appropriate curriculum (para. 3.22 PCR); and (c) the expansion of
the national network of Farmer Training Centers (FTCs) with their valuable
contribution, through the training of young farmers and their wives, to the
quality of rural life (para. 3.29 PCR). In addition, staff in the Ministries
of Merchant Marine and Tourism benefitted fully from the fellowship training
abroad provided under the loan (para. 3.36 PCR). Other Ministries were only
partially successful in making use of this provision.
5.       Two of the five originally proposed Tourism Training Schools (TTSs)
were cancelled in 1978 for reasons of expense and the non-realization of the
expansion expected in the industry. Two Farmer Training Centers (FTCs),
Kavala and Thessaloniki, were cancelled in 1976 because of site problems.
Although the expansion of the American Farm School was never formally
cancelled, the Ministry of Agriculture did, in fact, replace it with an FTC
and the constructed buildings are being used by the MOA for the training of
farmers. The most serious deletion was the University of Patras component in
December 1976 (para. 3.19 PCR).
6.   During project identification, preparation and appraisal, a fundamental
defect in the whole structure of the formal education system in Greece was
seen to be the organization and administration of the traditional universities
(para. 2.04 PCR). It had become accepted that professorial rule was
sacrosanct and completely autonomous. Elections of deans and rectors took
place annually, making it virtually impossible for even medium-term planning
through continuity of policies to be achieved, and a bias toward class _al
studies impeded the progress of applied and natural science education. As a
relatively new university, Patras was seen as being outside the pervasive
influence of the older universities, and through the project, it was hoped
that modern administrative practices could be introduced in the schools of
engineering and natural sciences from which, ultimately, reform of the entire
system could be achieved.
7.       So strongly was this objective supported by both the Borrower and the
Bank, that it was made a condition of disbursement of the Loan that new
legislation be passed requiring, in the case of Patras (a) the establishment
of a board of trustees or governors for the University in which policy-making
powers would be vested, (b) the election of the rector on a full-time,
renewable basis, and (c) the granting of a degree of academic freedom
regarding curricula.



- viii -
8.       After many unsuccessful attempts, and finally, owing to a change in
the political climate, the Government acknowledged that it was not expedient
for legislation of the kind envisaged to be passed at that time. As a result,
and at the request of the Government, the University of Patras component was
deleted from the project.
9.       This deletion, plus subsequent deletion of two TTSs, one FTC and an
informal substitution of one FTC for one Agricultural Secondary School (ASS)
at Thessaloniki meant that approximately US$15.0 million of the Loan became
available for cancellation or reallocation. At the Government's request, the
Bank agreed to reallocate the US$15.0 million in the light of a shortage of
foreign exchange and the adverse effects of inflation on the project.
10.      Project management suffered from the arrangements agreed at
negotiations whereby a Central Project Unit (CPU) located in the Ministry of
National Economy, then called the Ministry of Planning and Government Policy,
was made responsible for monitoring and coordination of the various elements,
the implementation of which was the responsibility of technical units located
in the five Ministries involved. Since the CPU concentrated more and more on
data collection and the preparation of quarterly reports to the Bank leaving
supervision of construction on the many and varied project sites to the
inexperienced staff in each Ministry who tended-to minimize problems to their
own technical unit management, overall project implemention suffered as a
result. The Coordinating Committee, which, according to the Loan Agreement,
was to provide CPU with broad policy objectives and advise on matters relevant
to CPU's functions, proved to be ineffectual.



SUMMARY, CONCLUSIONS, AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Summary
i.       A Bank Loan (Loan 859-GR) for USi23.5 million was extended to the
Hellenic State in October 1972 to assist the Government in (a) improving the
quality of education across a broad spectrum of levels and types of
institutions, including primary teacher training academies and a variety of
specialized vocational in3titutions; (b) initiating modernization of the
university system by developing the University of Patras along completely
reformed lines; and (c) increasing the supply of better-trained graduate
engineers, scientists and other specialized manpower urgently required by the
Greek economy, which, at the time was expanding at an annual rate of 7% (para.
2.04).
ii.      Specifically, the project provided for the construction and equipping
of (a) five Pedagogical Academies (PAs) for the training of prizary school
teachers; (b) schools of engineering and natural sciences at the University of
Patras; (c) eight Industrial Training Centers (ITCs) and three Mobile
Vocational Training Centers {MVTCs); (d) three new and one expanded
Agricultural Secondary School (ASSs); (e) twelve Farmer Training Centers
CFTCs); and (f) five Tourism Training Schools (TTSs). Equipment only was also
provided for four new Merchant Marine Schools (MMSs), amended in 1978 to 14
existing schooLs, and ten ITCs. A total of 59 different institutions
(excluding the three MVTCs) was involved in the project. However, this figure
was gradually reduced to 54 during the life of the project. In addition the
project provided for 14 man-years of education specialists' services and 43
man-years of training fellowships.
iii.     The completion mission, accompanied by staff of the CPU visited and
reviewed 14 of the project institutions where both buildings and equipment had
been financed. Valuable assistance was received from the CPU in the provision
of statistical data (Annexes 7, 8, 9 and 10).
iv.      The project had four extensions to the Closing Date and still only 11
of the 31 institutions with civil works components are currently functioning
ten years after Loan effectiveness. Two more are virtually completed but have
site-related problems which are preventing student enrollment, and the
remainder are in various stages of completion ranging from 40% to 90%. Of the
USt23.5 million available under the Loan, only US$18.5 million will have been
utilized when disbursements cease on June 30, 1983 (para. 4.05).
v.       Several positive features have emerged from the project.  Bank
involvement accelerated, to a considerable extent, the curricula reforms which
have taken place in the formal education system. Equipment procured and
installed has made a significant improvement to vocational education and
training in the country, and valuable experience in project management has
been gained by staff in the Ministries of National Economy, Education,
Tourism, Merchant Marine, Agriculture and the Manpower Employment
Organization. Staff in these Ministries who completed the technical
assistance programs also benefitted significantly from the project. Although
it is not expected that all project institutions will be functioning until
mid-1985, the Government is committed to their completion. When completed,
they will have a significant impact on the development of Greece's human
resources.



-x-
vi.      The main reasons for the serious implementation delays were; 1/
(a) the dispersion of project management arising from the decision to
vest responsibility for each of the different elements in the five
Ministries concerned, with no executive authority being granted to
the coordinating Central Project Unit of the Ministry of National
Economy (CPU). Slowness in recruiting qualified support staff in the
technical committees handling individual project items also
contributed to the overall delay (paras; 3.02-3.03);
(b) inordinate delays in site selection and acquisition, followed by
unsatisfactory soil and drainage conditions which resulted in
site-related problems after several years of design work or even
after construction had been executed (para. 3.04);
Cc) modifications of accommodation schedules, due in part to program
changes and in part to new enrollment projections resulting in design
changes of project institutions requiring major modifications to
contract documents and additional reviews by the Bank (para. 3.06 and
Annex 2);
(d) the poor performance of some Greek contractors who, having bid for
Government contracts at discounted prices, found that the Government
was unwilling to include a provision for price inflation in their
contract; 2/
(e) a period of high inflation during which the Government's support for
the project appeared inconAsistent at times (paras. 3.01 and 4.02). 3/
vii.     Bank supervision missions were aware of these problems and took steps
to bring them to the attention of the Greek authorities. It was not, however,
until senior Bank staff brought this situation to the attention of
higher-level Government officials during 1977, that any appreciable
improvement became apparent. Even this improvement was short-lived, however,
because staff changes took place among the Ministries involved. There was a
tendency on the part of the Greek site supervisors to underestimate technical
problems and, consequently, not comunicate them through their own management
to the CPU which was responsible for overall monitoring of the project.
1/ The Directorate of Implementation of Education Projects (DIEP) of the
Ministry of Education commented the following: (a) responsibilities of the CPU
was rightly restricted to cover only inter-ministerial matters. Item (d)
monthly payments to contractors from Government always include an additional
amount to cover price increases determined by an independent agency through
publication of current price indices of labor and material. Item (e) payments
to contractors were never delayed by Government due to lack of available funds.
2/ The CPU has the same comment on Item (d) as DIEP (see note 1), that
monthly payments to contractors always include an additional amount for price
increases.
31  The CPU remarked in their comments on Item (e) that Government support to
the project in periods of high inflation remained consistent, but that limited
budget capabilities of individual contractors were the main course of delays.



- xi -
viii.    When, in December 1976, the University of Patras component (US$l3.6
million of the total Loan of US$23.5 million) was deleted at the request of
the Government, the funds originallv allocated for this item were not
cancelled, but reallocated to other project items. Consequently, although the
building and equipment requirements for each institution were carefully
assessed at appraisal, the sudden availability of extra funding resulted in
the Ministries seeking to expand their institutions. In many cases
well-advanced designs were virtually scrapped causing significant delays
(chart 1).
ix.      The civil works component of the project is still encountering
difficulties. Construction of new project institutions began at various
stages between 1977 and 1980 is still in progress. None of the buildings was
completed by the original Closing Date (July 31, 1977). If the project is
completed by 1985, as presently envisioned, the total project implementation
period would have been 12.5 years compared with the 4.5 years expected at
appraisal. However, the appraisal estimate of 4.5 years appears unduly
optimistic compared with the average sectoral disbursement period of nine
years for the region, given (a) the geographical dispersion of the project,
(b) the number of Ministries involved, and (c) an untested project management
capacity. The resultant cost overrun is likely to be about US$49.6 million or
273%. About half of this overrun can be attributed to implementation delays,
but part is also due to an increase in total building area from 73,194 m2 to
151,127 m2. This, in turn, was in part attributable to increased enrollment
projections. The CPU's lack of authority to supervise civil works and
exercise cost control during implementation resulted in high unit capital
costs per student (para. 4.04).
Conclusions
X.       The project, which was dispersed in character, involving 5 Ministries
and 52 separate institutions, 37 of which included civil works, was generally
poorly implemented. Events proved that to vest the management of such a
complex and dispersed project in a CPU located in the Ministry of National
Economy, working with technical units in the concerned Ministries was
unrealistic because interministerial cooperation was difficult to achieve.
Poor selection of architects and contractors and inadequate site surveys and
construction supervision by the responsible Ministries resulted in a
disappointing disbursement record.
xi.      A major original objective of the project, the achievement of a
reform of the overly-conservative university system through the support of the
University of Patras Schools of Engineering and Sciences, did not
materialize. Failure to enact a new law liberalizing the University's
administration and organization policies, which was a condition for
disbursement of the Loan portion corresponding to the University of Patras
component, caused this component to be deleted from the project at the request
of the Government. Another major educational objective of the project,
improving the quality of education of primary school teachers and upgrading a
variety of types of vocational education, was only partially achieved due to
delays in implementation. Only about one-third of the project's institutions
are currently functioning and none has reached its full enrollment. Although
the project only marginally met its educational objectives by the final
Closing Date, ultimately the project's contribution to manpower development in
Greece should be significant.



- xii -
Recommendations
xii.     Design and construction constitute not only the major bottleneck in
the efficient implementation of education projects in Greece, but also reflect
industry-wide problems in public sector construction.  It is recommended by
the completion mission that the following actions be undertaken by the
Government in order to eliminate the existing serious problems in design and
construction:
(a) improving the construction working drawings to include all
structural, architectural and electrical/mechanical details in
order to control the quality of construction, costs and time of
execution;
(b) charging architects and engineers with full responsibility for
supervision of construction; 1/
(c) establishing conditions for qualifying contractors on the basis
of their recorded and documented experience, capability and
financial status in order to ensure that only those contractors
who can maintain a given construction schedule are allowed to
bid on a project;
Cd) developing effective forms of contractual arrangements along the
lines of those employed on public works by other Common Market
Countries (e.g. the use of negotiated contracts and the
possibility of direct selection of contractors); and
Ce) revising and improving existing procedures for cost and quality
control of building construction.
I/  CPU commented that this arrangement can only be implemented through
modifications of Greek law with regard to execution of public works. Before
amending such a law it is recoumended that the proposed arrangement be
introduced on a trial basis for some period.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     In accordance with terms of reference dated February 16, 1983, a
mission comprising Messrs. E. H. Chittleburgh (technical educator, consultant)
and J. E. Kulski (architect/planner, consultant) visited Greece from February
28 through March 11, 1983 to carry out a project completion review of the
Second Education Project in Greece financed through Loan 859-GR in October
1972.1/ Th.e First Bank Education Project (Loan 711-GR, FY1971, US$13.8
million) introduced, for the first time, the concept of the
multi-disciplinary, sub-professional training institute which concentrated on
producing technicians in various engineering fields in the agriculture, food
processing, business administration and health sectors. The Second Education
Project, as conceived and appraised, was expected to complement the First by
providing training facilities in many of the same fields, but at the graduate
and skilled worker levels. An additional important objective was to support
the country's efforts to introduce wide-ranging educational reforms.
1.02     This Completion Report has been carried out through a review of
records and reports available both in the Bank and in Greece, by visits to
selected institutions, and through discussions with officials in various
ministries and educational institutions involved. Due, however, to time
Limitations and to the widely dispersed nature of the project institutions,
detailed analysis was confined to a limited number of schools either
functioning or nearing physical completion. An accurate assessment of the
degree of achievement of the project's ultimate educational objectives was
difficult to determine but the institutions visited which were functioning
were found to be well-managed, to have satisfactory educational programs and
to be producing well-trained students.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Formulation and Objectives of the Project
2.01     A May 1971 joint Bank/UNESCO/FAO mission identified this project in
order to assist the First Education Project (Loan 711-GR) in improving
Greece's education and training capabilities at professional and
skilled-worker levels. As a result of this mission, the Government of Greece
forwarded a formal request to the Bank in 1971 for a loan amounting to US$23.5
million, which represented the estimated foreign exchange component of the
total project cost of US$43.9 million.
2.02     At the time of appraisal, Greece's education system, compared with
that of other developing countries in the region, was considered
quantitatively well-developed, but to be suffering from certain qualitative
weaknesses, particularly at the secondary level. For example, the lower-level
vocational schools, which recruited directly from primary schools, involved
12-year-old children in narrow vocational training before they had the
maturity to make a choice. The lack of an adequate base of general e.aucation
in these schools also inhibited the children from determining their career
options.
1/ The CPU of the Ministry of National Economy felt that the completion
mission should have had the benefit of being accompanied by a Bank project
officer who had closely followed the course of the project.



2.03      The concept of a unified secondary school offering academic programs
with pre-vocational options was discussed with the MOE during both
identification and appraisal, but it was considered that opposition to such a
reform was still too strong to justify a Government request to finance such
schools. However, in line with the MOE's immediate objectives, the project
provided assistance for a qualitative improvement of instruction in primary
schools through a reform and consolidation of the primary teacher-training
system.
2.04      Reform of the university system was also found to be necessary, but
entrenched positions among faculty in the older, autonomous universities were
considered likely to constrain such reform. The University of Patras,
however, founded in 1964, and consequently unfettered by the same traditions,
was considered to provide an opportunity for innovation in what was,
otherwise, an excessively conservative environment. From its beginning, the
University of Patras was intended to be a technological university, with both
undergraduate and post-graduate programs in engineering, science, medicine and
industrial management, and to be free from the constraining influences of the
established university system. As a result, the project was designed to
include assistance with the relocation and expansion of various departments of
the engineering and natural sciences schools at the University of Patras into
an integrated unit.
2.05      Finally, since much of Greece's required manpower is highly
specialized and is trained within institutions operated by ministries other
than education, a major part of the project was devoted to providing
assistance to the Ministries of Agriculture, Tourism and Merchant Marine and
the Manpower Employment Organization. The assistance planned was through
constructing and equipping training centers and schools located strategically
over the mainland and on the islands of Rhodes and Crete.
Socio-Economic Backgro-und
2.06      Preliminary 1971 census results showed Greece with a population of
8.7 million and a population growth rate of 0.7Z annually since 1961. Over
the same period, Greece experienced sustained and rapid economic growth, with
real GNP increases averaging nearly 8% a year. This combination of rapid
economic expansion and slow population growth resulted in a GNP per capita in
1971 of about USt980, about 1.9 times as large as in 1961. With such low
population increases, Greece was able to direct its expanding resources for
social services towards qualitative rather than quantitative needs.
Educational opportunities were already available to great numbers; primary
and secondary school enrollments were 99% and 59% respectively of the relevant
age groups. About 82% of the population over 10 years of age was literate.
2.07      Uneven distribution of land and water resources (only 30% of the
country's 132,000 sq. km. total area is flat and potentially arable) and the
geographic isolation of large districts had created serious problems for
balanced economic growth. The Government emphasized (i) equalization of
opportunity for the entire population as an objective and (ii) regional plans
for development, together with progressive decentralization of administration.



-3-
2.08      Greece's rapid economic growth was accompanied by significant
changes in the structure of the economy, with industry and services as the
leading growth sectors. Although real agricultural output grew by 5.7% per
year between 1968-71, agriculture's share of GDP increased only from 18.2% in
1960 to 18.6% in 1971. This structural transformation was reflected in shifts
in the location and composition of the population and labor force. The rural
population, then 342 of the total, had declined about 1.5% annually; on the
other hand, the population of Greece's ten largest urban areas grew by 34%
between 1961-71, increasing demands for educational and social services in
urban areas.
2.09      Parallel structural changes were apparent in the labor force.
Non-agricultural employment grew by about 3.4% per year between 1958 and 1969
while agricultural jobs fell by about 2.1% annually. By 1971, Greece's rapid
economic growth and low rate of population increase, assisted by significant
external migration, had combined to reduce non-agricultural unemployment to
the low level of 2.5%. Although there was, and still is, a large rural
manpower reserve, rural workers lacked the necessary skills for work in the
rapidly growing, technologically-oriented sectors of the economy.
Consequently, labor supply in the most rapidly growing sectors - industry and
services - was tight and would remain so unless appropriate training or
retraining facilities were developed.
Project Items
2.10      In line with the objectives and background outlined above, the
project consisted of construction, furniture and equipment, and technical
assistance, as outlined in Tables 1 and 2.



-4-
Tbe lt Pzoiec Breidmm by Cot
Dracbm (million)       US (uillimu)        Z Of
la_l Faoeiui TAml  lal Fomiu  Total    Total
A. Teacher Trainirg
Five Pedipgical Acadiam                            32.0   24.4  56.4       1.1    0.8    1.9    S:
B.  Her  tim
University of Patras Swhools of F1gineering
and Natial Sci                                 213.4  303.2 516.6       7.1   10.1   17.2   46X
C. Vocationl Fdocatica
Eigt Inchistral Traraiuz C ntw,
Mree IMbile Trauing Ukits and  m Tndultrial
1raini~ Canters (equipnnt only)                  83.8  I30.5 214.3       2.8    4.3    7.1    19
Faor Agriultiral SeomUy Sdhols                     24.0    15.1  39.1      0.8    0.5    1.3    4Z
Sielve Fans Trainirg Cmers                         33.5   22.8  56.3       1.1    0.8   1.9    5X
"i've Turism Trainirg Schools                      79.0   42.8 121.8       2.6    1.4    4.0    ll.Z
Fouw Wrdt lbrine Tra4ng Sdhools
(equipzent only)                                 3.6   35.1  38.7       0.1    1.2    1.3    4Z
D. Pwofesicnul Services                               40.7     -    40.7      1.4    -      1.4    4S
L  Tedmisal Assisitaue                                 5.0   20.0  25.0       0.2    0.7    0.9    2X
Base Line Costs                                 515.0  593.9 1108.9    17.2   19.8  37.0   1
-,ermiis
a)  rhysical Increase                              23.5   28.7  52.2       0.8    0.9    1.7     5
b)  Price rnces                                    72.4   82.8 155.2       2.4    2.8    5.2   14Z
Subtotal                                95.9   111.5 207.4      3.2    3.7    6.9   l9X
IuCL HEo=  cr                                     610.9   705.4 1316.3    20.4   23.5  43.9



-5-
Ihble 2; Project Breakdln by Institution
New        New
kal Al P    g
Grades  Fnrollbent   t     Prowided Provided
Primary Teacier Trainirg
Five  edagogical. Academies            13-14      1,500      750   1,500          0
Uaiversity of Patras
Schools of Egieering and
Natural Sciewes                      13-16/16   4,750      760   4,750          0
Accelerated Industrial Trainig
Eight new tranin  centers, three new
mobile units, and equipnent for
ten centers                         IkigVaded   6,990   6,130   2,920          0
Vocatiual Agricultuxal Training
7hree new and oe expanded
agricultural secondary scools       10-11/12     490      180     330        330
Welve new far   taining centers        Ungraded  36,000  36,000    1,200        480
F2ve new touris schools                9-10       1,170      990   1,170      1,100
Merchant Marine Training
Equipment for Merchant Marine schools    Ugraded and
12-13/14   4,400   4,160       0
NYE: Provision of technical assistance of (a) 14 manyears of specialists, priTmipally for
the establish2nt of new engineering prgra; at the University of Patras and to assist
the project implntation services, and (b) 43 maryears of fellowships for the
training of key persomiel for the project institutimns.



- 6 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Physical Aspects
Overview
3.01      At appraisal, project implementation was expected to be completed by
December 31, 1976 and the Loan disbursed by July 31, 1977. Due to Government
delays in the selection and acquisition of sites, selection of architects, and
to the unduly long process of building design during the initial years of
project implementation, the construction of the new project institutions did
not commence until 1977-1982. The installation of equipment in existing
institutions began in 1976 (Chart 1). None of the new project institutions
was constructed or equipped by the original Closing Date (July 31, 1977) when
only about 6% of project funds had been disbursed. After 1977 delays in
project implementation were caused by inflation which exceeded the effect of
successive depreciation of the Drachma, changes in Government, problems
related to site selection, changes in design of buildings, poor project
administration and shortages of local funds which continuously disrupted
progress of construction work which was further aggravated by
disputes with contractors. The Closing Date was extended four times
(initially to November 30, 1977, then, to December 31, 1978,
December 31, 1981, and finally to December 31, 1982, with, however,
disbursements on contracts signed prior to the final Closing Date continuing
until June 30, 1983). At the time of the completion mission, all MMSs were
fully equipped. However, all MEO, MOA and MOE institutions are not now
expected to be completed (constructed and equipped) until 1984 and all the
HTSs until 1985. Actual implementation of all project items is now expected
to take 12-1/2 years, as compared to 4-1/2 years estimated at appraisal, and
as compared with the regional average for the education sector of nine years.
On December 31, 1982, 66% (US*15.5 million) of the Loan was disbursed. It is
now expected that by June 30, 1983 another 13% will have been withdrawn,
leaving USg5.0 million tc be cancelled. 1/
Project Management Performance
3.02      In order to ensure that this project would be executed expeditiously
and efficiently, the Loan Agreement (Schedule 5) clearly outlined the need for
sound administration by a specifically created CPU. The CPU was made
responsible for overall administration and coordiration of all components of
the project. In accordance with the Loan Agreement, the Borrower agreed to
appoint a Project Director who would exercise overall supervision of the
project and who would be given power to deal with other ministries and
government agencies as necessary. The CPU was to be assisted by a
coordinating committee composed of senior officials of all ministries involved
in carrying out the project. The committee was to provide the CPU with "broad
policy directives". Individual technical units in each ministry were to be
answerable to the CPU. Due to the autonomy enjoyed by these ministries,
however, it became clear early during project implementation, that they could
1/ Actual disbursements by July 29, 1983, amounted to US¢18,337,311, i.e. 78%
of original allocation. Amount cancelled was US$5,162,689.



not, and would not, be answerable to the CPU. In fact, each ministry
implemented its own project items independently and, despite the continuous
efforts of the CPU to coordinate and integrate all the various and complex
project activities, its role became limited to that of a liaison agency with
the Bank, keeping project accounts and preparing progress reports. Project
management between different Ministries was uneven; ministries experienced in
design, construction and procurement (MOT and MEO) suffered less than the MOA
and MOE.
3.03      The failure of the Government to assign the necessary powers to the
CPU as required by Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement, plus delays in
executing civil works by individual Ministries, have, to a large degree, been
responsible for the inefficient and uneconomical execution of the project.
The Bank's supervision missions were fully aware of this situation, and
continuously urged the Borrower to (i) expedite construction and equipment
procurement and (ii) strengthen the CPU in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement.l/
Sites
3.04      The Appraisal Report indicated that all sites had been selected and
that site surveys and site acquisition were expected to be completed within a
year of Loan signing. The process was not completed, however, until 1979
(Chart 1). This led to implementation delays during the early years of the
project. Some of the sites appear to have been well-chosen; however, many
sites were selected without adequate technical surveys. These sites present
serious flooding problems and moisture penetration into ground floors with a
resultant inadequate and unsatisfactory flow of sanitary and storm
discharges. High ground water-table, combined with non-absorptive soil and
lack of positive surface drainage - all conditions which could have been
easily detected by technical surveys - are the responsible factors. Buildings
were designed, sited and constructed without taking these basic site problems
into consideration, and therefore the action necessary to resolve these
problems at this stage is expensive. The remedial action required includes
installation of expensive drainage pumps, sewage treatment plants and repairs
to buildings and equipment.
Evaluation of School Building Designs
3.05      The Government proposed, and the Bank agreed, that one implicit
institution-building objective of the project - strengthening of school design
policy and the gathering of new designs - would be best served by employing
different architects for each project school. Architects were selected on the
basis of interviews by the staff of tne implementation units within each
Ministry. The system of school designs employed in the First Education
Projpct was thus replaced by an approach which can best be defined as one of
experimentation aimed at improving overall school design in Greece.
1/ See DIEP comments on page v of the Suamnary.



8-
3.06      With the exception of the designs for the PAs developed by the MOE's
architects, all project buildings were designed by architects from the private
sector. As Government pclicy is to employ, whenever possible, local
architects and to distribute the design work among as many firms as possible,
each project school is different and the quality of design correspondingly
uneven. Architectural designs range from the noteworthy Athens Tourism School
(Annex 6), to the non-functional and uneconomic design of the FTC at
Thessaloniki. There was no attempt to arrive at an economic prototype for
each type of institution and/or for each region of the country.l/ The
architect's briefs were generally insufficient and the Ministries'
participation in the design process was inadequate. Evaluation of the design
by the Ministries involved was generally superficial. The Bank's evaluation
w.s more thorough and, in some instances, this thoroughness led to lengthy
iays in final design. Since successful design of educational buildings
requires a significant input on the part of the educators to the design
process, it is not surprising that the best designed project schools were
those which were developed by experienced architects working in close
cooperation with the representatives of the client Ministries. This important
institution-building objective was, therefore, only partially achieved.
3.07      Due largely to the abilities of the architects themselves, many of
the architectural designs are well-conceived, imaginative, functional and
cost-effective. The serious faults with many buildings are due to inadequate
detailing and specification of building .methods and materials. Almost all
contract documents are defective in this respect and the working drawings of
the MDE architects place the entire responsibility for construction with the
contractors. The results of this policy were particularly unsatisfactory
when the selected contractor was irresponsible and construction supervision
inadequate, as was the case with many MOE and some MOA buildings. Leaking
roofs, warped windows and doors, excessive heat loss, cracked walls, peeling
paint and serious ?roblems with electrical and mechanical equipment are due,
to a large extent, to inadequate architectural and engineering drawings and
specifications as well as the inadequate responsibility given the designers
for supervision of construction.
Construction
3.08      The quality and pace of construction were very uneven.  While some
project institutions (the TTSs and the Pedagogical Academy (PA) at Ioannina)
are soundly constructed, the quality of construction in some 1MEO and MOE
schools was found to be substandard and far below acceptable norms for
buildings in Greece.2/ This is partly due to inadequate supervision by the
1/ CPU offered the following comment on "prototype" designs:
Standardization of school designs were discussed with Bank missions. It
was generally agreed that standardization or prototyping of designs were not
practical due to:
a. Regional differences
b. Climate conditions
c. Various traditional architectures
d. Site topographic variations
e. Variations in social conditions.
21 DIEP commented, that the quality of construction of the MOE completed PA's
are "moderate", rather than "poor".



-9-
client Ministries and the consultants but mainly due to poor-quality
construction firms which were selected because of inadequate prequalification
procedures which led to selection of contractors without adequate experience
or resources. Construction, selection of contractors, award and
administration of contracts and methods of supervising construction in Greece
appear to be in urgent need of reform. The major construction fault observed
was the poor quality of concrete work. In addition, sub-standard and poorly-
designed san .tary facilities and systems led to serious post-construction
problems.
3.09      Despite international competitive bidding (ICB) for all items except
the FTCs, all contracts were won by local contractors. The Government
requested, and the Bank agreed, to waive ICB requirements for the FTCs on the
basis that the size and scattered locations of the Centers would not be
attractive to foreign contractors.
Maintenance
3.10      The mission found the maintenance of educational institutions barely
adequate with the exception of the PA at Ioannina. Although it is premature
to judge the level of maintenance of all project schools, since most of them
are still under construction, it appears that unless the Government undertakes
some steps to improve the situation, the project institutions will not be
adequately maintained. The following reasons were given for the existing
situation: (i) the lack of both maintenance staff and maintenance manuals;
(ii) inadequate funds and (iii) weak school management. The mission suggested
to the CPU that, in order to minimize recurrent costs, building and ground
maintenance manuals for all campuses under the project should be prepared to
enable the institutions to undertake a regular maintenance program of the
buildings, grounds and equipment.
School Building Policy
3.11      At negotiations, the Borrower agreed to appoint to the CPU a
full-time project director, an architect, a programning officer, a procurement
officer and an accountant with clearly-defined functions.  It was also agreed
to employ architectural consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. The appraisal mission estimated the cost of consultants required
for the design and supervision of the project institutions to be about US$1.56
million.
3.12      The completion mission discussed the problems and costs associated
with the present system of designing and constructing public buildings in
general and school buildings in particular with representatives of the
Government. Apparently, the Ministry of Public Works, together with the
Technical Chamber of Greece, is presently studying this serious problem.
3.13      It is recommended by the completion mission that design and
construction of buildings could be improved by:
(a) improving the construction working drawings to include all
structural, architectural and electrical/mechanical details in order
to control the quality of construction, costs and time of execution;
(b) charging architects and engineers with full responsibility for
supervision of construction;



- 10 -
(c) establishing conditions for qualifying contractors on the basis of
their recorded and documented experience, capability and financial
status so as to ensure that only those contractors who can maintain
a given construction schedule are allowed to bid on a project;
(d) developing effective forms of contractual arrangements along the
lines of those employed on public works by other Common Market
Countries, (e.g. the use of negotiated contracts and the possibility
of direct selection of contractors); and
(e) revising and improving existing procedures for cost and quality
control of building construction.
Furniture and Equipment
3.14      ICB worked efficiently during the entire project implementation
period. In due course, the MEO awarded 165 contracts amounting to about
USg6.3 million, the MOE signed 23 contracts with a total value of about US$1.2
million and the MKM 20 contracts amounting to about US$1.0 million. The Bank
allowed the MOA to procure equipment and furniture which was available locally
through 77 contracts amounting to a total sum of about Dr. 75.8 million. None
of the TTSs were able to procure furniture and equipment from the proceeds of
the Loan due to delays in construction amd the disbursements for furniture and
equipment under the Loan totalled only US$7.2 million 1/ out of the amended
allocation of US$15.0 million (Table 7).  The total cost of furniture and
equipment for all project institutions remaining after cancellation, is now
estimated at about US$13.8 million (Annex 3).
3.15      Most of the furniture and equipment procured under the Loan was
satisfactory with the exception of blackboards, teachers' desks and kitchen
equipment in some of the FTCs and ASSs. Delays in bidding contributed to both
cost overruns and deferred opening dates of the project institutions.2/
Covenants
3.16      Almost all of the covenants in the Loan Agreement have been
fulfilled albeit, in two cases (sections 3.01 and 3.06), only partially;
(a) Section 3.01 (b). The CPU was never endowed with the powers
necessary to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
(para. 3.02); and
(b) Section 3.06. Action to select and acquire land for project
institutions was often not timely.
1/ Total amount disbursed by July 29, 1983 was US$7,591,567
2/ CPU remarked in their comments, that there was not a case where
commencement of an academic year was postponed due to lack in basic needs for
equipment and furniture. In many cases equipment and furniture were stored
awaiting installation (VTCs, FTCs).



- 11 -
Bank Performance
3.17      Subsequent to Loan effectiveness, the project was supervised by 25
Bank supervision missions (Basic Data Sheet) and there was reasonable staff
continuity.  The supervision effort wa adequate, totalling some 113 man-days
spent in the field, or an average of 11.3 man-days per year. The Government
expressed satisfaction with the Bank's implementation assistance in general
and with the technical assistance it provided in particular. Among some of
the criticisms voiced of the Bank by the Government, however, were:
(a) unrealistic appraisal of the civil works component in terms of time
required for construction (Chart 1);
(b) inadequate provision in the Loan for financing construction; and
(c) failure to insist on fulfillment of section 3.01 dealing with
execution of the project;
The CPU staff spoke favorably of:
(a) the intensive supervision effort and high caliber of most
supervision mission staff;
(b) the adequate notification of the mission's objectives; and
(c) the generally prompt comments and approval by the Bank of requests
for changes.
3.18      Overall, the Bank and the Government seem to have developed a good
relationship. The day-to-day difficulties which arose with civil works design
and construction were, for the most part, beyond the control of either the CPU
or the Bank, although delays could have been minimized had the Bank insisted
more strongly on adherence to agreements reached at negotiations regarding the
size and standard of construction.
B. Educational Aspects
General Assessment
3.19      Undoubtedly the greatest setback to the original objectives of the
project was the cancellation in 1976, at the request of the Government, of the
University of Patras Schools of Engineering and Natural Sciences which had
been seen as being pivotal to the reform of the overly-conservative university
system as a whole. So important did this appear at appraisal, that the
enactment of a new University of Patras law was made a condition of
disbursement for the Loan portion corresponding to the University of Patras
component in the Loan Agreement.
3.20      As far as the other types of educational/training institutions
assisted by the project are concerned, certain positive educational gains have
been made. The most successful component was the improvement of merchant navy
training sought through the provision of modern equipment in four new training
schools operated by the MMM, amended in 1978 to 14 existing schools.



- 12 -
Significantly, no civil works were involved and equipment procurement
proceeded smoothly. Similarly, the industrial training centers operated by
the Manpower Employment Organization have benefitted from the project to the
extent that the two centers currently functioning (which were visited by .-he
mission) have well-equipped workshops in which appropriate and well-planned
courses are being conducted, albeit, at this stage, they are poorly attended.
Likewise, the single PA now completed shows evidence of a new approach to the
training of primary school teachers in Greece through the use of new curricula
and more attention being paid to the use of teaching aids - a factor closely
allied to the reforms successfully achieved in primary education. The
curricula now being introduced in the FTCs are relevant to the needs of both
men and women and these institutions should, when fully utilized, prove
successful.
3.21      The major disappointments relate to secondary schools operated by
the Ministries of Tourism and Agriculture. In the former, none of the
equipment for which financing was provided has been procured. The number of
TTSs was also reduced from the five foreseen at appraisal to three, none of
which has yet been completed. As far as agriculture is concerned, seven of
the original twelve FTCs planned were reportedly completed and are
operational, but none of the agricultural schools has students enrolled, and
the mission was informed that appropriate curricula still awaited development.
The Pedagogical Academies (PAs)
3.22      Of the five PAs included in the project, only those at Iraklion and
Ioannina are completed and functioning. The mission visited one of these and
established that (a) a high standard of pedagogical training is being
achieved; (b) the equipment provided under the project is, in some cases,
still awaiting installation (the micro-teaching and closed-circuit T.V. system
at Ioannina); (c) the language laboratories are underutilized due to a
shortage of qualified foreign-language teacher-trainers; (d) buildings are
being kept in a reasonable state of cleanliness although maintenance could be
improved and; (e) despite an increase in the number of projected trainee
spaces from 350 to 450 during project implementation, there are, in fact,
only 350 students enrolled. This is due to the fact that the curriculum is
still of two years duration and not the four years put forward as
justification for the increase in size of the buildings. It is understood,
however, that a compromise change to three years is likely, in which case,
some of the unutilized places should be taken up.
3.23      At Ioannina, pollution has resulted from the septic tank drainage
system. Ioannina has a serious drainage problem caused by the high
ground-water level although a more suitable design of the sewage disposal
system could have been achieved had a more thorough survey of the site,
including the absorption properties of the soil, been carried out prior to
construction.
3.24      Recurrent costs are high, amounting to about US$3,000 per student
per year. Some of this is accounted for by food subsidies, which amount to
100 Drachmas (about $1.25) per student per day.



- 13 -
The Industrial Training Centers (ITCs) and Mobile Vocational Training
Centers (MVTCs)
3.25      Seriously affected by the problems which afflict the civil works
component of the project, only two of the eight planned ITCs are actually
functioning and both of these are drastically underutilized due to lack of
students/trainees. Attendance in the accelerated vocational training programs
at the ITCs is voluntary and, despite the rising rate of unemployment in
Greece, youth is reluctant to opt for skilled labor in industry. The first
ITC trainees were enrolled in Lamia and Aegaleo (Athens) in September 1981 and
September 1982 respectively. However, to find only 120 students out of a
planned capacity of 350 at Lamia and 275 out of a planned 600 at Aegaleo was
disappointing.l/ Although classrooms and workshop space allocations adhere to
Bank norms, administration, boarding, dining and circulation areas are
excessive (see para. 4.03).
3.26      The idea of running short (six-month) accelerated vocational
training programs in specializations dictated by the industrial needs of the
school environment, in addition to the four-year apprenticeship programs, is
sound. At Lamia, the chosen specializations a_e sheetmetal work, machining,
motor vehicle maintenw-nce and electrical installation, while at Aegaleo, the
12 specializations p.ianed include the above, together with electrical
maintenance, refrigeration and air-conditioning, plant maintenance, welding,
radio and T.V. maintenance, lathe operation, milling machine operation and
metal construction.
3.27      Instructor/trainee ratios are high due to the poor enrollment, being
1:5 at Aegaleo and 1:10 at Lamia. Recurrent costs per student could not be
realistically assessed with such low student populations, but it was
noticeable that in both ITCs, dormitory accommodation was underutilized and
kitchen facilities unused; students were being issued with luncheon vouchers
exchangeable in local cafes. This situation should change as numbers increase
and the wages of kitchen staff become justifiable.  It is important to note
that no living accommndation was included in the original proposal for the
ITCs as appraised.
3.28      The MVTCs have been successful.  Two are based at Thessaloniki and
one in Alexandropolis. Courses offered are well received by local youth and
about 120 persons have so far been trained in mechanical workshop, electronics
and refrigeration.
1/ CPU commented the following on para. 3.25: During the visit of the
completion mission, the Athens II VTC was just completed and operation was
just beginning. At this time the Athens II VTC is in full operation regarding
apprenticeship with some accelerated training specialities operating and more
to be added soon. Attendance has exceeded original appraisal. The cafeteria
is in operation serving approx. 400 students. Another 220 students are living
in the VTC's boarding house. The same applies for Lamia which is in full
operation with 420 students, 100 of them are using the VTC's boarding house.
With the new academic year which recently started Agrinion has 150 students,
60 in boarding house, Serrai with 200 students, 60 in boarding house, N.
Heraklion with 500 students, there is no boarding house. Cafeteria operation
on the above VTC's is considered uneconomical at the present time.



- 14 -
The Farmer Training Centers (FTCB)
3.29      The mission was informed that seven of the planned eleven FTCs are
functioning, but it is unable to substantiate this figure since, in only two,
are the civil works considered to be completed. In these two centers,
however, an impressive list of short courses is being offered during 1983 for
both men and women between the ages of 27 and 60. Courses for men include the
care of vines and crops, maintenance of farm machinery, animal husbandry,
artificial insemination and the use of low-cost greenhouse techniques for
growing vegetables. Womens' courses include child nutrition, basic hygiene,
dressmaking, handicrafts and home decoration.
3.30      The buildings are more than adequate for their purpose and follow
the pattern of over-design and excessive space standards. However, courses
are well-attended and the number of applicants exceeds available places.
Recurrent costs average $1000 per student per year, which is considered
reasonable. Much of the equipment procured for the FTCs from project funds is
still awaiting installation and large quantities are in storage having been
allocated to uncompleted FTCs.
The Agricultural Secondary Schools (ASSs)
3.31      Almost as perturbing as the non-completion of the three ASSs
remaining in the project (the planned expansion of the school at Thessaloniki,
although never formally cancelled, was replaced by the Government with the
cancelled FTC at Thessaloniki) is the apparent lack of an appropriate
curriculum for use in these schools. An assessment of their educational
impact at this time is impossible. The mission visited the school at Ioannina
which was reportedly completed. This was not the case, however, as a
considerable amount of sub-contracted electrical and kitchen installation work
is still required. Moreover, sewage disposal has posed a formidable problem,
constraining the opening of the school to students; and the installation of a
sewage treatment plant, costing an estimated US0300,000, appears to be the
only solution. No great sense of urgency was apparent among the officials of
the MOA who accompanied the mission and it could be many months before the
school becomes operational.
The Tourism Training Schools (TTSs)
3.32      Due to non-completion of the remaining three TTSs in the project, it
is impossible to make an educational assessment of their effectiveness. None
of the planned equipment has been procured.
The Merchant Marine Schools (MMSs)
3.33      The international reputation enjoyed by Greek merchant navy crews is
in no small part attributable to the excellence of their training. The
project significantly assisted the MNMs efforts in this regard by providing a
total of more than US$1.0 million worth of modern training equipment to



- 15 -
fourteen training schools. Procurement proceeded satisfactorily, any delays
which occurred being due to communication difficulties between project
management in the MMS and the CPU.1/
Technical Assistance
3.34      An initial sum of US¢'00,000 was allocated for a total of
14 man-years of expert services to work with local staff involved with the
various project components, plus a total of 43 man-years of fellowships to
provide national staff with the opportunity to improve their backgrounds and
experiences in areas related to their project responsibilities. This sum was
subsequently reduced to US$500,000 in 1976 when several amendments were made
to the original Loan Agreement.
3.35      By the final Closing Date (December 31, 1982) only US¢270,000 2/ of
this allocation had been taken up, but this does not necessarily imply that
the technical assistance input failed to meet its objective. In fact, due to
the cancellation of the University of Patras component, which accounted for
seven man-years of the originally-intended expert services and twelve
man-years of fellowships, plus the informal replacement of one ASS with one
FTC, and the cancellation of two TTSs and one FTC, the technical assistance
requirement was greatly reduced.
3.36      Programs planned by the MMK, the MOT and the MEO have been virtually
completed and fellows attended appropriate training courses in Europe and the
USA. Those planned by the Ministries of Education and Agriculture have fallen
seriously short of meeting their objectives, due mainly to the particularly
weak overall project management on the part of these two ministries. Only
about one-third of the planned fellowships was used as teachers found it
difficult to obtain leave from their jobs and the use of experts for
curriculum design was only half of that originally envisaged.
1/ CPU noted the following: Possible delays in equipment procurement by the
Merchant Marine are mainly attributed to the fact that procurement was carried
out by the Ministrv of Trade on M.M.S.'s behalf. The Ministry of Trade was
not accustomed to carry out tenders through World Bank Educational loans and
the C.P.U. had to orient the various departments within the Ministry calling
numerous and lengthy meetings.
2/ Total amount disbursed by July 29, 1983 was US$285,612.



- 16 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Capital Cost
4.01      The project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$43.9 million.
However, since the project will not now be completed until March 1985 (Chart
1), the final cost is not known at this time, but it is estimated by the
mission that it will be about US$74.7 million with the Bank providing USS18.5
million and the Government the balance of US$56.2 million.
4.02      In summary, the total estimated project expenditures will be US$74.7
million against an original estimate of US$43.9 million, or an overrun in US$
equivalent of about 70%. However, despite the cancellation of project items
amounting to the equivalent of 48% of civil works, the actual cost overruns
are significantly higher; in the case of civil works alone they amount to a
cost overrun in local currency of 1,048% (US$ 449%). The actual cost overruns
of civil works and furniture and equipment combined amount to 664% in local
currency (US$281Z). This increase in the total project cost is mainly due to;
(i) the doubling of the total building area over that estimated at appraisal
and (ii) the unanticipated inflation rate in Greece during 1972-83, the
effects of which exceeded the benefits of successive Drachma devaluations.
During the period between appraisal and completion missions, the cost of
construction in Drachmas has increased at the rate of about 20% annually.
Because project implementation suffered from years of initial delays, the bulk
of construction expenditures were burdened with accumulated inflation in the
Greek building industry. Had the Government pursued implementation more
actively during 1973-77 and constructed the buildings in accordance with the
Loan Agreement, construction could have been completed in about four years and
cost overruns would have been significantly lower. In spite of delays in
completion, equipment costs were held within appraisal estimates. This was
achieved by eliminating from the originally approved equipment lists all
equipment from the cancelled institutions (57% of equipment included at
appraisal). The Bank financed 52% of the entire equipment costs which
constituted about 54Z of the Loan as disbursed. Appraisal and completion
mission estimates are summarized in Table 3:



- 17 -
Table 3: Estimated Project Costs by Categories
Appraisal                     Current
Estimate         Z of         Estimate         % of
Category of                  of Costs   1    Total          of Costs        Total
Expenditure                (US* Million)      Cost       (Us$ Million)       Cost
I. Civil Works and
Site Development
(incl. Prof. Fees)       11.05            54          60.64             81
II. Furniture and
Equipment                 8.47            41           13.79             18
III.  Technical
Assistance                1.00             5            0.30              1
TOTAL                        20.52           100           74.73           100.0
Appraisal Year:                            Exchange Rate: US$1 = Dr. 30.00
Intervening Years' Average                                 US$l = Dr. 40.39
Completion Year Average:                                   US*1 = Dr. 84.00
Unit Space Allocation Per Student
4.03      Gross areas per student place 2/ are approximately as follows:
Table 4: Area per Student Place
Type of                                       Gross Unit Areas in m2
Institution                               Appraisal     Actual      Difference
Estimate                  (percent)
Teacher Training                                7.16         10.14         42
Vocational Education                            9.65         15.35         59
Agricultural Education                         28.70         33.54         17
Farmer Training                                 9.55         11.83         24
Tourism Training                               21.60         37.87         75
Average                                     11.95         16.14         35
1/ Excluding all project items cancelled during project implementation.
2/ Refers to capacity.



- 18 -
The increase in average unit area per student place in the project schools
appears to have been chiefly the result of the Government's decision to
provide bigger physical facilities than agreed at appraisal. The mission
believes that this significant increase in gross unit area per student was in
part due to cancelling large project item, 1/ such as the University of
Patras, without, at the same time, reducing the amount of the Loan.
Ministries added housing accoumodation (MEO), upgraded designs (MOE) and
increased space allocations (MOT). The TTS at Iraklion was increased by 149
percent and the ITC at Lamia by 296 percent (Annex 2).
Unit Cost Per Student Place
4.04     The unit cost per student place covers all expenditures including
contingencies and professional fees (the latter two not generally used in
estimating unit cost). Given the quality and quantity of the educational
spaces and the furniture and equipment provided, they are excessive. Unit
costs per place are approximately as follows:
Table 5; Cost Per Student Place
Cost Per Student Place in US$
Type of                                          Furniture &
Institution                     Construction        Equipment          Total
Teacher Training                    3,584                667               4,251
Vocational Education                5,014               1,296              6,310
Agricultural Education             19,985               1,394             21,379
Farmer Training                     7,192               1,922              9,114
Tourism Training                   18,137              3,173              21,310
Disbursements
4.05          Estimated and actual disbursements are shown in Chart 1.
Disbursements lagged behind appraisal estimates due to delays in
implementation but there were no problems connected with the actual
disbursement procedures. A comparison of actual withdrawals with appraisal
estimates is shown by semester in Annex 5 and by years in the following table:
1/ The CPU noted in its comments, that gross areas per student place were
finalized with the cooperation of ILO specialists with the Bank's agreement.



- 19 -
Table 6: Planned Disbursements and Actual Withdrawals
Disbursements per Year                   Cumulative Disbursements
Percent
Planned       Actual      Percent                            Actual
Calendar    (USg           (USM          of       Planned    Actual         of
Year     million)        million)    Total         (USg million)      Planned
1973         3.21           --           13.6      3.21         --          -
1974         0.68           0.1           2.9      3.89         0.1          2.6
1975         8.20           0.2          34.9     12.09         0.2          1.7
1976        11.21           0.7         47.7      23.30         0.9          3.9
1977         0.20           0.7           0.9     23.50         1.6          6.8
1978          --            1.6            -        -           3.2         13.6
1979          -             3.3            -        -           6.5         27.7
1980          -             3.4            -        -           9.9        42.1
1981          -             1.8            -        -          11.7        49.8
1982          -             2.3            -        -          15.5         66.0
1983          -             3.0            -        -          18.5 1/      78.7 1/
4.06        The following table shows actual Loan disbursements by categories:
Table 7:   Estimated and Actual Disbursements by Categories
Amended
Type                       Original    Allocation      Actual        Percent
of                       Allocation    12/21/76   Disbursements        of
Expenditure                                                            Original
I.   Civil Works                4.90           6.50         11.00 1/        124.5
II.  Furniture and Equipment  14.20           15.00          7.20 1/         50.7
III. Technical Assistance       0.70           0.50          0.30 1/         42.9
IV.  Unallocated                3.70           1.50           -
TOTAL                     23.50          23.50         18.50 1/       78.8 1/
4.07     Although the Loan is expected to be 79% disbursed by June 30, 1983, 1/
the Government's share of the project is ircomplete and it is estimated that
approximately US$22.4 million will still be required, principally for the
completion of the project institutions scheduled by the Government for
1984/1985. The Government has already incurred a total expenditure of about
USt52.3 million on the construction and equipping of the project institutions
and is committed to completing them.
L/ Total disbursements by July 29, 1983 amounted to US$18,337,311, i.e. 78.0%
of original allocation. Actual disbursements by category were;
US$10,460,132 for civil works; US$7,591,567 for equipment and furniture;
and US$285,612 for technical assistance.



- 20 -
4.08     During discussions with representatives of the Ministry of National
Economy, the completion mission pointed out how Loan disbursements could be
accelerated prior to June 30, 1983, (providing adequate local financing for
construction, and doubling the rate of disbursements for Civil Works). The
misuion reminded the Minister of National Economy that the Bank had agreed to
allow continuation of disbursements up to June 30, 1983 for contracts signed
prior to the Closing Date of December 31, 1982.



- _  j i   X      X   I   -  _1 4 l     ;>!
Estimated and Actual Implementation and Disbursements
FY-YEAR          1974   1975    1976    1977  19 a         1979    190    1981 I192   1983  19  198               5 1   1986
CALENDAR YEAR    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
CIVIL WORKS            QUARTER  _ 2          _      _  2   2 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _                  2 _ E                           1 12 3 4 1 2 3 14   23
Selection of Architects 
Site Acquisition and Sufvey    lt$]s 11-]i; i 4                                          400    00 0 Xt                                         2         Millions
Plsinannd  mLa  ments ation
P leaatinofTnded Disb uments    Mrh3,17                               uy3,17                                        eebr3.18
Tendering and Awards         1          Fl0            m!               011b              d 0 0 H             k 0 0 Hf   
Construction Period ______*e*___I521l 11 ; ;>1|;|l*; 1  L1 
Giuarantee Perlaod___ ____   -___                                   I        ll         LE                                       1        LL               4
EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE __________  t -_I                                              l I              It                          2                        2
Preparation. Master Lists, and    _    ll 1__ 1    eH              I             I      L        4       X      1                              LLI    S11
Contract Awards                                  *              |1||1        *||||  ||      *  !1u   |la4ll l1                       1    11 If
i~~~~~~~~~ .1 i   lllllIRClLUU:ILli                                                   1   1   1
_D Plvr annd Instllmnation                                  I lat oIt ieeOlla  lsngDt                                   clCtsn   a
- A  ctualDisbursements                                 *World8Uank-24707
lCel
'-'I



7I/J  ooe ¢e-     /Av /Y



PROJECT COMYLETION REPUIT
CREECE SECWND EDUCATIUN PROJECT (WAN 859-YR)
Implementation of Civil Works
Comencement    Actual or                                            Expenditures Incurred
Project                                   of          Eatimated      kxpenditures       Estimated         as % of kstimated
Inatitutions                         Construction      Date of         To  Date     lTotal cost 1/            Total COst
o mpletion    (in USS 000U) (in  S$ UUOS 's
A.    Pedagogical Academie
loanitina                    3/77             9/80             1,547            1,547                   100
Iraklion                     2/77             9/8U             1,31b            1,5W                     Sb
Alexandropolis               3/77             6/83              1,324            1,344                   98
Tripolis                     3/77            12/84               581            1,86b                    31
Florina                      2/77             6/84              1,100            1,dU7                   64
B.    Hiher  duction
UiiTiiiFty of Patras  (cancelled)              -                 -                 -
C.    Induatrial Training Centers
Athena (N  Iraklion)         12/80            9/8Z                58Z            1,204                   40
Athena (Aegaleo)             6/78             9/83             4,U23            4,59b                    87
Ksvala                       9/79             9/84               859            2,706                    32
Agrinion                     2/78             9/83              1,7UU           3,175                    54
Ioannina                     9/78             9/84             1,427            2,880                    49
Laia                        3/7b             9/81             3,502            3,502                   IUU
Kalamata                     10/78            12/84               455            2,5U2                   18
Serres                       2/78             9/83             3,ol4            3,835                    90
D.    A lgric ural Secondary Schools
loanninab/79                                  9/84             1,755            1,955                    90
Komotini 2/                  12/78            12/53             1,5b8            L,78u                   81
Chania                       7/80             9/84              1,b75           2,860                    58
Thessaloniki-Expansion 3/   (Cancelled)        -                 -                -                      -
S.    Farmer Training Centers
S dirokastro                  1/79            12/83               297              32U                   93
Larissa                      5/78             9/53               378              55b                    68
Rethymnon                    5/75             9/81                52U              520                  IUU
Nafplion                     4/78             10/82              407              467                   LOU
lhessaloniki 31              7/78             9/83                51U             6UU                    b5
Urevena                      2179             9984                129             Y2U                    14
Kozani                       7/78             9/84                315             83U                    38
Rhodos                       1/78            12/83               8iU              88U                    93
Samoa                        5/79             6/84               344              928                    37
Iraklion                     9/8U             3/85                24            1,20U                     2
Agrinion                     6/80             12/83              470               590                   68
Kavala                 (cancelled)             -                 -                                       -
F.    Tourism Training Schools
Athens                       2/79             9/84             4,92U            6,663                    74
Thessaloniki                 2/79            12/83              1,97b           2,403                    82
Iraklion                    10/80            12/84             2,508            4,537                    55
Corfou                 (cancelled)             -                 -                -                      -
Nafplion               (cancelled)              -                 -
TOTAL                                                     4U,836           6u,639                   07
I/    Includes price adjustments and unforeseen physical contingencies.
2/    Komotini replaced Aratos-Iodopi.
3/    Although the Theasaloniki FTC was formally cancelled in 1976, the
Government built it in lieu of the Thesmaloniki ASS.



- 216 -
ANNEX 2
PRuJECT COMPLETIUN KIl'ORT
GREECE - SECUND EDUCATIUN PROJECT (LOAN 859-GM)
Gross Floor Areas in m2
Project                             Physical  Facilities        Percentage
Institutions                     As Built 1/        Appraisal       Change
A.    Pedagogical Academies
Ioannina                  4,600            2,207            + 108
Iraklion                   4,550            2,207           + 10b
Alexandropolis             4,550            2,207           + 106
Tripolis                   4,570            1,910           + 139
Florina                    4,550            2,207           + lob
B.    Higher Education
University of Patras      (cancelled)       (57,8o1)
C.    Industrial Training Centers
Athens (N. Iraklion)        3,UU0           4,410           -  47
Athens (Aegaleo)           ll,ebO           4,310           + 1b9
Kavala                      7,850           2,910           + 170
Agrinion                    8,2U0           2,43U           + 237
Ioannina                    9,9U0          3,71U            + 1b7
Lamia                      14,175           3,580           + 296
Kalamata                    7,200           Z,bu5           + 176
Serres                     13,0U          4,270            + 204
D.    Agricultural Secondary Schools
Ioannina                    4,U5U          2,186            +  85
Komotini 2/                 3,870           1,992           +  94
Chania                      4,150           2,192           +  89
Thessaloniki-Expansion 3/  (cancelled)    -
E.    Farmer Training Centers
Sidirokastro                  957             955           +   1
Larissa                     1,215             955           +  27
Rethymnon                   1,200             955           +  2b
Nafplion                      950             955           -   1
Thessaloniki 3/             1,340             955           +  40
Grevena                     1,300             955           +  36
Kozani                      1,35U             955           +  41
Rhodos                      1,30U             955           +  3b
Samos                       1,40U             955           +  47
Iraklion                    1,3UU             955           +  3b
Agrinion                      700             955           -  26
Kavala                    (cancelled)        (955)
F.    Tourism Training Schools
Athens                     ll,UOU           6,436           +  71
Thessaloniki                6,9UU          6,71U            +   1
Iraklion                   10,500          4,210            + 149
Corfou                    (cancelled)       (4,210)           -
Nafplion                  (cancelled)       (4,210)
Subtotal                 151,127             14U,45U       *   7
(Cancelled)             -_                    (07,256)
TOTAL               151,127          73,194           4 1U5
1/ As built - when completed.
2 Komotini replaced Aratos-Rodopi.
3/ Although the Thessaloniki FTC was formally cancelled in 1976, the
Government built it in lieu of the Thessaloniki ASS.
Doc:0648V



PRUJLUI WnYLLtIUt s uKIVK
t.KLLLL - SLQhU WU,I.VA1IONh VeWl.10 iMI oVW9I)
UConO ison  il urj MInIlY bAtLiLud Utoet  of  ivil Works, Furnlturu & Luuipeiit and At udl LOILS  t1in Lb* 'VUV'6)
UiNSTKUW'1N                                        VUKNITUkkb ANU tuLFInlN1                _     _       _     AL
Project                      ADoraisal tctimato          tatTimatd                      PPrjteel b.ti  te        sti,ate A,pr aeal *larsmle    ttIm.iIet
Inecitutions                      IncludIni              or Actual                         l, IcluJ in*        or ACtuAl                       I., I udant      rut ACtual        6
Contingelic(e               Vost        Uitfference      konOtinAmnc%te           Lust        Ii arunca LnnaGnsg ga l.leda s                 JIIIr.*Irs
A. PedaSoSical Academie
looabnni                    14h.i            )1,547,U         03b.3               IJU,                JtiU.u     *ii9.Y                                  .07,1   I,a.au   *Jbl,l
tIroklion                   34b.b             I W)e.U         #JJ2.1              IJu,5               suU,ui      1X4..V              %i.1              lee§vve    04117,
Alexandrmpoli              J34b,b            l1J44,U          *zM7.1              |lu.                JUU.U      tli9.                411,1             1,0e44.U   *i44.
Tripolis                    IUSl I'o 1,10  U                  fSI                 12b 7               Juu,u       IJb .1              4Jle0             i,lOl.V u   4U1,D
Florina                     J4b,b              1,1u1.u        *421.J              1JU,.               JUu,u      1149-                47.1             2d,1u7,u   *JVI.e
e.     Higher "ucctlon
University ul
Patrae
IUancelled)         tIU,b9U.7)                                            11U,74u,4)                 ..l, ,l,
C     Induitri4l TraiLilnA
Center,
AtWhunc (N. Iraklion)    bt2.U                 1,Ye4.u        6 IUV. u            2bw,>                274.ts       0.4                t12XI,)JGc    e  7s,v
Athedl (Aegalso)            b9b.9             4,$Yb.U         *b1ld.U             b?2z, t1b,2                     *5. l             1419,?7             $,JV4,4   *,tJu,
K&vat4                      419.J              t,7Ubt U         O54J              JW5.4                Jb6.        317.0               141.)            J,uVL,4   JIJ.7
Aglrinion                   355.5             J,175.U         9193.1              2bY,U               Ju),.       J14.1               544.)             1.45bu,9   -1.4
loannina                    539.b             3,55.0U        #4j4.4              J40.0                4tl,u       IJ0.1               555.4             J,Je7.u  o@19,9
tJ.I.                       S21.2             J,sU2¢U         051-9               4u1.4               40b,J       *Ic.u               Wt4,4             J,91U,J   1-1.V.
Katamata                    374.5             J,SU2.U         65bS-.1             J91.b               41J,b          S-,               1e0.l            4,53),u  *2.u,J
Marrus                      bl2.b             3,J5.u         4S2b.U              4UU,S               5.,4i       'J.4              I,UlJ,I             4,J11.4  )J1J,u
IU VwTr'. s
J nob. Unit                 -                   -              -             l,1bJ.U             2,o01,s        *)U.4             l,15J.u             i,sl.0    flu,
U.     61Ni:up url Secondsr
loanllnina                  J13.7             1,9SS-U         *53.2               11.1                I1u.b      *94b,Y               449,l             ,1125-0   9494,)
Komotinl 1/                 291.7             1570U.U          SIU.a              I,4                 3,5.9      *J7.u                $4.1              l,vl,VI    SJGO.I
Owln&a                      JI5.b 5,IibU,U                    61U1.2              1Ui.4                1u,J4      *0.e                411.U      j.uIlu.*   e.l.
Theaaalalnik( zI (cancelled)
E.     Farmer Trainint Uenters
Sldirokastro                14J-U                32u,u        411J.6               b5.U                M115,     *lb91.4               2UO,u               4),l  *IJo,u
Laries                      14J.U                S$b.U        9245,5               63.U               19M.5      *24uU.i 9ue,u                             1 0 u 40l,J
Rethymnon                   14J.U                51U.u        92bJ.5               65.u                44.5      441 .4                jub,1               ?du,)  *44D,
HIafplion                    14J.U               4b7,U        #496.5               cS.U                JuU.S    *2U9.u                 .uo,u               ee7,   9441.1
lhessalo,iKik  2/           14J.U                bUU U        4319.b               b. l                146,    *ld4.J                  WUb,l               15.O  0.00,4
tSrevenc  ~~~~~   14J.U          92U,U        *5~~~~t4J.J           *s1                 6J.7       le2-2               2ue,1             I,IU1Id *J,
Uravena                      144.0               94.1        .514.4551                                 341       @5.                    0.                ,141*,9,
Kosenl                       14J.U               KIU,M         4h.4 b0.l 2,15.e                                  'JI4.                 *ue.l             1, #44.      V *.vd,)
Rhodos                      114J.u               59U U        9)ID,4                5.1l               Iee.1    6le9.6 c2Ub1                             1,1455.1     1J.3
Samos                        143.U               Y45,u        6548,v               5,1                 149.1     094941                4U6.1             1, 0.1.    *'..14
Iraklion                    14J,U             1,20U,U         07.9.1               b5.I               405.)    941-,1                  dub.1             l,.,1s    *...
ASrinlon                     14J.u               b9U,U 5J0,2..                     bS1                 2.s       #dI.tP               iUt.Sl               0U,5  9.JIV,u
Kavala tca,icelled)        114J4U)                 *bS,II-                                                           -                14U4.1)                *
V.    Tourimm Tratning Svh vole
Athena                    1,U70,U             b,ebJ.,u         )19.4              JIlu.4               197.e     #350.4              I,J4e.%             1,4..u.0  *4"3-l
Theesalonitki      1       ,0U3J.             24,413.u        434.5               M9O,                 105.4     *355.0              3,445.5             J,le ,.   sIJ ,?
lr4klion                    7U2,5             4,sJl.U         *5bo.b              Itt4,u              19,         JJ,                   ov.              .J.    *U
Uortou (cancelled)         1172.5)                 -             -               t114M                   -           -                105b.15
Netplion (cancelled)   (102.5)                     *             *               (3514.0)                *           ,                    5)                  *
u.    Herehcnt Karine Schootc              -                   -              -             1.205,5              IMulUU        -19.J           j.M.1;               jM,u1   _:L.4'
Subtotal              2.3,255.6            5u,bl3q.            -             14,4J9.u            lJ,181.U         *              ',9*1.              14,44sbu        -
(Cancelled)           (12.235.9)                  -             -           ill,l7J                  -4 -                              1' 5)
uTA.                     11,u49.9             UpbJ,5 U        #440,,e           M,4b).4            li,7-1.U        91b2.9           IV,ls,J             ?.,...U   *401,;.
Il/    Koatini replaced Aratos-itodopt.
2/    Although the Thessloniki FTC wa  tormally cancelled  in 197b, the
Government built it In lieu of the Theesaloniki ASS.



I0oJSCT C-OlATlIO  UFOaT
CUICS - 55000 UIOCATION FIOJICT (WAN 8594-0)
CapAr1aon of UrlalnAIlv SAtlgtad Coat. of CiVtIl WorLs, Furniture &  cuhmant gnd Actual Colts  (In DracMa '000U)
wNSUVCuIriN          -UUITUU AND *WIHUIIT                                         _                TOTAL
Project                    Appraia9j5t o              cltteated               1Qraleabs;t -a   Eat lEaed                    har&i &I Mt             a     atimtad
Ioatltutleonc                   ~In1in1gj          or Actual           S          inel1ij            or Actual                                     o  t l         Z
A.    Ifeod a  I AM too [t£o8ocfa.          Cost       Diffarnece    Cootinaaacfaa          Coat    Difateacc       Coatiaaieclea          C.ot   Dhltlaaca
A.    vada!::M:IaAcadm 10,399           55,399         .401.5          3,917             12,900      .229.3           14,316            71,299    *395.0
Irablion              10,399 S3,000 b505.b                              3,911            12,90U       *229.3           14,31e            7S5,UO    *430.1
Aleracdropolia        10,399             51,000         *390.4          3,17              12,W900       229.3          14 ,31            63,900    *33S.J
Tripolia               9,154            1S0,0U         1,535.0          3, WA             12,900      *239.5           12,954           102,9    *1,157.S
Vrle n                10,399            140,000       .1,246.3          3,91t             12,900      .229.3           14,315           152s900    *965.
5.    viol,"  ucmulg
University of
patras
(cancallad)      (320,723)                 -            -        (322,214)                            -          (042,931)
C.    Indna rial
Ttai iia'" aptra
Atha.a (N. IrakIton) 15,959              95,000         *4UI.U          7,015             10,S00        *3s.2          26,114           105,500    *295.1
Athena (Aegalao)       17,90S           2715,00       .1,435,6         185,64             31,365       .67.1i          35,592           Jo4,3%U    *73172
Kavkla                 12,550           2w,0uoo       *1,459.e          9,54b             15,190        *54.3          22,426           215,190    *559.5
Irtoton               10, 64            220Q,0o       *1,962,4          5,071             12,020        *4b.9          15,737           Z32,020  *1,131.3
1oanzaina             16515             200,UOU       *1,135.4         to,399           I85,90         *01 7           202551 285,900    *723.3
La.Ia                 1S,635            137,535         *151.4         12,104             15,400 *a  2O                21,42            155,935    .4  20
"bla ta                11,235           200W,OU       *1,ObU.1         11,741            le,250         *3t.3          22,9S2           215,250    *540.9
Serr,                 15,379            230,UU0        01,152.0        12,015            21,30         *17.4           30,394           251,310    *7*26.
10 VBTC'a 4
3 Mob Unit.             -                  -            -           S2,591           104,190        *9170          52,591            I04,190    *100,0
D.    Aaricultural Secondary
Schoolc
Ioannina               9,411            115,000       *1,21.9           3,454             11,J5o      *225,4           12,595           120,35U     *e7549
Itomotini 1/            5,750           106,000       *1,111.4          3,042              9,240       *203.1          11,792           115,240    *577,2
Chcnin                 9,449            171,000       *1,705.9          3,U42             10,000      *22e.1           12,511           111,000   1,3J40,1
Thauaaloniki 2/ cancelled
e,    Parsir Tr:,lnIp& gnter
Stdi,r katro           4,291            1IUOU          *272.5          1,951              1,437      *251.2            6,242            23,43J    .215.5
larI.&L                4,290             30,UOO         .599.3          8,95I              5,30W     *#323,             6,242            350306    *S.l
BethymnoD              4,291             28,uO          *525.7          1,951              5,516     *#32.5             6,241            35,510    *44551
NalpIton               4,290             25,200         *4d7.4          1,S51              5,531       *331.3           5,242            33,131    *40.4
Theasalonikl  2/       4,290             35,150         +719.3          1,952              6,191       *217.2           6,242            41,341    .02.3
Crovcna                4,290             S,W00       *1,08Q.5          1,952              7,7199      i2995            0,242            5d,799    *542.0
Xoa.aa                 4,291             48,500       .1,03U.3           1,952             9,145       *369,5           5,243            57,045    *523.t
Rhoda$                 4,291             47,000         *995.3          1,952              a,015      *310.0            e,243            55,015    *711.Y
Sa"e                   4,291             S0,OUW       *1,0U5.2          1,952             5,481        *334.0           6,243            55,481    .535.1
Irakuton               4,291             13,000       .1,601.2          1,952              5,724      *347.U            5,243            51,725  *1,2U9.U
Agrinion               4,291             37,000         *762.2          1,952              O,515       *341.4           6,243            45,616    *630.17
eava1a (cancelled)   (4,291                   -            -           (1,952)                 -          -            (0,243)                 -
F.   TourIs Training Schools
ten#                  32,252            450,000       *1,293.9          9,312            b5,000       *019.5           41,594           511,000   1,142,9
Thesaeloniki          31,000            IS,WO           *383.5          5,552            40000U        o643,1          39,IIS           21e000u      448 S
Iraklion              21,077            350,000       .1,560.6          5,521            57,000    *1,113.5            26,59b           411t,O0   1,.07.a
Corfou (cancelled)  (21,07)                   -            -           (5,521)                 -          -           (24,595)
wef piion
(cancelled)        (21,0713                 -            -           (5,521)                                        2 -  (26,595)           -        -      l
0.                vicet ne
Sehool                       -                 -            -_          34.10              31.15U         .2.1          3b.110           *317150       *2.1
Subtotal           tS0,064         3,504,714             -          559,170           t70,44J          -         1,2817,54
(Cancellad)        (361855)                  -            - 3315.203        )                 -         -          (102.316)
TOTAl.               331,496          3,504,754       *1,t4717        253,S02           610,443        *201.5         545,455         4,475,2217    *64.4
1/    Kaotini replatcd Artoa-Xodopi.
V/    Although the Ihaaaaloniki FTC vwa  formlly cancelled in 1976, the
Covernt built It In lieu of the Thamaaloniki Ass.



-27-
ANNEX 5
io r 00NLfo  Wt
EEZCE - SEO1D EDUCATITN ftOJECE (LOAM 859-CR)
Diuburac cnta
Apprmiual Eati mte-              Aetual                 Actual as
Accumulated                Accumlated       Z of Appraisal          Signifidbut Date. and Events
FT    Semeter            Amounts     Ain  ta          AxoaCta    Amounts           Eatiuate               in Proiect Iuple_ ntacion
73    1 (07/72-12172)       200        200                -          -                _                  I/72 Signing. 3/73 Effective Date
2 (01173-06173)       400        600                -          -                _
74    1 (07/73-12/73)     2.610      3.210                -          -                _
2 (OL/74-06174)       150      3.360                -          -                _
75    1 (07/74-L2/74)       530      3.890               100        100               3
2 (0O175-06175)     2.820      6.710               -          t0o               1
76    1 (07175-12175)     5,380     12.090               100        200                2
2 (01/76-06/76)     5.240     17.330               500        700               4
77    1 (07/76-U176)      5.970     23.300               200        900               4
2 (01/77-06/77)        -      23,300               400      1.300               6
78    1 (07/77-12/77)       200     23,500               300      1.600               7                  7/77 Original Closing Dote
2 (01178-06178)                                    900      2.500              11
79    1 (07/78-12178)                                    700      3.200              14
2 (01/79-06/79)                                  1.700     46900               21
SO    1 (07/79-12/79)                                  1.600      6.500              28
2 (01/80-06180)                                  2.100      8.600              37
S1    1 (07/80-12/80)                                  1.300      9.900              42
2 (01/81-06/81)                                   600      10,500              45
82    1 (07/81-12/81)                                  1.200     11,700              S0
2 (01/82-06/82)                                  1.700     13.400              57
83    1 (07/82-12/82)                                  2.100     15.500              66                  1282 Pinal Closing Date
2 (01183-06/83)                                  3.000     18.500 1/           79 1/
1/ Total a* ut disbursed by July 29. 1983 was USS16.337.311. i.e. 78S of oritinal allocation.
U648V



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              t
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~ d    , -.- ,
Model of Athens Tourism Training School presently under construction.                                                  I
I 



PROJECT COMPLETION WEPORT
GREECE - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 859-UR)
Tourism Training Schoola and Agricultural Secondary School  - Delign and Construction
Institute          Location            Academic Buildings    Hostels b Housing         Construction          Maintenance         Halor eroblems & keguirements
Tourism Trainin&
Schools
Athena          Excellent site         Academic spaces         A first-class hotel    Excellent              N.A.                No major problems. Progress of
right on the sea      well arranged.          Excellent design                                                  construction could be doubled
45 km. from                                   taking full advan-                                                 if adequate financing could be
Athena. Will                                  tage of a unique site,                                             secured.
located for
students and
guests.
Thessaloniki   Well located site             do                A second-class           ciood                N.A.                do
right on the sea                              hotel. Good,
and between the                               functional design.
city and the                                                                                                                                               N
airport.
Iraklion        N,Ve                   Nw. N.V                                          NeVa                 ho.v                NoVY
Agricultural
Secondary Schools
loannina        Badly located          Satisfactory            Satisfactory             Fair                 N.A.                Severe drainage problem will
site. Unsuitable      Design did not take   Design did not take                                                  necessitate use of a biological
due to high water    into consideration    into consideration                                                    treatment plant, estimated at
table. Inadequate    site conditions -        site conditions -                                                  about 10 million Drachmas. The
site surveys,         buildings had to be   buildings had to be                                                  plan to erect a cheese factory
elevated during        elevated during                                                    also likely to affect student
construction.          construction.                                                      entry date.
Komotini        NoV,                   NOV.                    No.Y                     N.YV                  N.YV               NOVY
Chania          NOV,                   N.V.                    N.VY                     NoVY                  NOV.               NY,.
Notia N.A. - Not Applicable
N.V. - Not Visited



PROJ8CT COMPLETION REPORT
CU8CC - S8COND  DUCATION PiOJECT (WAAN 859-OR)
Pedsaoaical Academies - Design and Construction
Institute         Location           Academic buildings    hostelr I Mousing        Construction         maintenance        Major Problems & RseuireaeOto
loannina        8tisfactory.           Satisfactory         N.A.                 bood                 Very good.           Drainage problem is causing
Inadequate site                                                                                          sewerage to flow over the
surveys and soil                                                                                          school site.
engineering.
Ireklien         N.V.                   N.V.                 N.V.                 N.V.                 N.A.                 N.V.
Alexandropolis   Site well located.    Design layout         N.^A                 Poor by local        N.A.                 To remedy the major problems
Small but adequate.   satisfactory, but                         standards.  Poor                          about 1-2 million Dracbas is
interior roof                            waterproofing is                          required. Heeting system mest
drains will cause                        causing problems.                         be made operationsl before              La
cootinuous                               Heating system                            buildings ar*e acceptable for
maintenance                               is poorly installed                      occupancy.  Site requires
problems.  Due to                                                                  surface water drainage.
high water table,
the buildinas are
located too low on
the ground.
Tripolis         Constricted central   do                    N.A.                 Unsatisfactory       N.A.                 Contractor is again in default.
urban site. High                                                by any standards.                         Completely inadequate supervision,
water table.  Inade-                                                                                      labor and materials.
quate site surveys
and soil engineering.
Floring          N.V.                   N.Y.                 N.Y.                 N.V.                 N.V.
Notes N.A. - Not Applicable
N.V. - Not Visited



PROJ8CT COMMLATION REPORT
GREECE - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 859-CR)
fraer TraininR Centers - Design and Construction
Institute                 Location       Academic Buildings    Hostels & Houeins    Conatruction            maintenance        Maior Problems & dequireeentc
Sidirokastro           N.HV               N.V.                   N.V.                   NOV.                N.Y.                N.V.
Larissa                Excellent. Next  Satisfactory             Poor deaign            Poor               NhA.                 Inadequate plumbing and water-
to an old                                                                                               proofing. Building as is not
agricultural school                                                                                     acceptable or muitable for
and in midst of                                                                                         occupancy.
arrable land.
Rethymnon              N.HV               N.Y.                   N.V                    NV.Y                N.V.                N.Ve
Nafplion               Good. Adequate   Good and functional   Good.                     Good except for    N.A                 Heat loss around windows and
for future        in general.             1 bedroom house       lack of window                          water infiltration problems.
expansion.                                inadequate.           weatherctripping
and window sill
conctruction. Poor
roofing which
has been replaced.
Thessaloniki           Good. Well         Poor design. Defi-    Poor. balconies on   Poor.                  N.A.                Roof tiles need adequate over-
integrated into  cient in practical    hostels too small    Water problems at                           hang to prevent water damage.
the overall       considerations which  to be useable. Poor  eaves. Doors,                              Electricity tor heavy equipmnt
master plan of   cause high maint-        design in general.   windows are already                      still not available.
the American      enance costs, e.g.,                           warped.                                 Telephones stlil not available.
Farm School.      windows, plumbing,                                                                    Building, as is, not acceptable
roof, drainage, etc.                                                                  for occupancy.
Unnecessarily high
ceilings in class-
rooms. No acoustical
treatm_nt - noise
level unacceptable.
Kozani                 NOV.               N.V.                   N.V.                   NV.Y                N.V.                N.V.
Rhodos                 N.V.              N.V.                    N.V.                   N.V.                N.V.               N.VY
Samos                  N.V               N.V.                    N.V.                   N.V.                N.V.              Nm V
Ircklior.              N.V$              N.V.                    N..                    N.Y.               NmV.                NMe
Agrinion               N.V.              Nm.o                    N.V.                   NOV.                N.V.                N.OV
Rathyamnon             N.o.               N.V.                   N.V.                   N.V.                h.V.                N.V.
Notea N.A. - Not Applicable
N.V. - Not Visited



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (WAN 859-GR)
Industrial Training Centers - Desisn and Construction
Institute             Location        Academic Nuildints       Hostels & Housing    Construction          Maintenance       Major Problems & Requirements
Athens                Central urban        Good                 N.A.                 Good                  N.A.              No major problems.
(N. Iraklion)       site. Small but
satisfactory.
Athens (Aegaleo) II  Large and             Design good. Saw-   Functional design   Excellent               N.A.              Saw-tooth roof construction
adequate site.       tooth construct.    and construction                                              eadattention to prevent
(Transportation      in workshops may    good,                                                        leakage.
of students in       create maintenance
a problem yet        problem..
to be resolved.)
Kavala                N.V.                 N.V.                 N.V.                 N.Y.                  N.Y.              N.V.
Agrinion              N.V.                 N.V.                 N.V.                 N.V.                  N.Y.              N.Y.
loannina              Satisfactory         Good                 N.A.                 Good                 N.A.              Slow construction progresc.
Lania                 Satisfactory and    Clasorms.    work-   Poor design. Rooma        Very good         Inadequate        No major problems. At present
located in an        shops satisfac       too small, designed                                         kitchen cannot be used at all
industrial areas    Design in general   for 4 but only 3                                              and will not be untxl full
is uneconomical.    can be fitted in.                                            student enrollment is reached.
Excessive nonus-    At present drastic-
able floor areas.   ally under-utilized.
Kalamata              Good                 Good.                 ood                  Excellent            N.A.              Good progress - no problems at
Sloping roofs would                                                              present.
have been more
maintenence free.
Saw-tooth roof over
the vorkshops will
also require a lot
of maintenance.
Serres                NV.                  N.Y.                 N.V.                 N.V.                  N.VE              N.V.
Notes N.A. - Not Applicable
N.Y. - Not Visited



- 33 -
ANNEX 11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 859-GR)
Institutions Visited
Pedagogical Academies
Ioannina Pedagogical Academy
Alexandropolis Pedagogical Academy (under construction)
Tripolis Pedagogical Academy (under construction)
Industrial Training Centers
Athens I Industrial Training Center (under construction)
Athens II Industrial Training Center
Ioannina Industrial Training Center
Kalamata Industrial Training Center (under construction)
Lamia Industrial Training Center
ABricultural Secondary Schools
Ioannina Agricultural Secondary School
Farmer Training Centers
Nafplion Farmer Training Center
Larissa Farmer Training Center (under construction)
Thessaloniki Farmer Training Center
Hotel Training Schools
Athens Hotel Training School
Thessaloniki Hotel Training School



-3 Y-
,X,5r,  , ve t4A>w /



35                              ATTACHMENT 1
COMENTS FROIf THE BORROWER                                              (p. 1 of 2)
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION                             15 letropoleos Street
AND RSLIGION                                     Athens, Creece.
DIRECTORATE FOR THE IMPLE3ENTATION                           September 7, 1983.
OP EDUCATIONAL PRO3ECTS
P.477/133/ST3
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
Acting Director-General
Operations Evaluation Department
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S. A.
Dear Mr. Kapur,
Res Project Completion Report
Greece - Second Education Project (Loan 859-GR)
I have studied carefully the project completion report with regard to
the Second EAucation Project and I am confident that your comments will have
a positive effect on the implementation of the education projects that follow.
With regard to the main reasons for the implementation delays mentioned
in page v, I have certain reservations concerning the increase of the executive
responsibilities of the Central Project Unit if these responsibilities are not
restricted only to issues where more than one agencies are responsible (reason a).
As far as reason (d) is concernedv a sum is also included in the monthly accounts
payable to the contractors which is related to the respective increase of
materials and labour from the date of the contractor's establishment until the
three-month period during which the work is performed. The amount is determined
on the basis of indices provided by a special service. With regard to reason (e),
it is obvious that during a period of inflation the financial status of the
contractors is affected and this derives from the delay in the price readjustment
mechanism since no payment has been delayed because of lack of available funds.
I concur with reasons (b) and (c).
I find correct nearly all the comments of the completion mission (pages vii
and 9) with a view to eliminating the problems arising in designs and construction.
Particularly careful work is necessary for the proposed allocation of responsibi-
lities and with this opportunity I wish to advise you that the Ministry of Public
Works has already started preliminary work towards this direction.
With regard to the five Pedagogical Academdes component of the Second
Education Project w!:ich is the concern of DIEPq I wish to comment as follows.
..... .... /12.



- 36 -                      ATTACHIENT 1
(p. 2 of 2)
With the exception of the two Pedagogical Academies of Florina and
Tripolis where the contractor who had been awarded both Academies had been
declared forfeited and DIEP had been obliged to rebid their construction
(procedure according to the Law that takes time), the other Academies have
been completed and I believe that their construction is not poor but moderate.
The failure of the oonstruction of the Pedagogical Academim of Florina and
Tripolis by the first contractor, which constitute the 40% of the program,
had evidently an unfavourable effect on the momentum for the oompletion of
the whole project. I would like also to point out that the Ministry of
Education personnel cannot be considered as inexperienced, as you indicate,
but I do agree that it did not have the appropriate experience.
We are awaiting to receive the final project co letion report for
the Second Educational Project financed by Loan 859-a
YIo 8 inc re
*~~~~~~~ P.
<<               ~ ect6r 



COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                                p ATCIofE 4
HELLENIC REPUBLIC
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL ECONOMY             Athens, November  4C  , 1983
CENTRAL SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT UNIT   Ref. No. XB - q9
42, ACADIMIAS STR., ATHENS
G R E E C E
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur,
Acting Director General
Operations Evaluation Dept.,
I.B.R.D.
1818, H Street, N.W.,
Wash. D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
SubJect: Second Education Project (Ln 859-GR)
Completion Report.
Dear Mr. Kapur,
we have reviewed the draft of the Second Education Project's
Completion Report and we are inclined to make the following
comments:
It is to our opinion that the project's completion mission
should have had the benefit of being accompanied by a W.B. officer
who closely followed the course of the project during most of its
duration and thus being more precisely acquainted with certain
problems and details that affected the project's implementation
from the early stages till now.   We also think that the original
appraisal Glossary should have been maintained.
Page III  para 10
The C.P.U. in the early stages played an active role trying to
coordinate all ministries and set up the framework for the project's
implementation.
It participated in all phases of the architectural designs
strengthened by the presence of specialists. It played an active
role in the selection of architectural designers, preparation of
bid documents, preparation of equipment lists and specifications,
in tendering proceedings ensuring that the W.B. Guidelines were met,
in fund withdrawals e.t.c.
Certainly, after a point where constructions were awarded to
contractors and equipment contracts were signed the C.P.U. activities
turned to preparation of quarterly reports, visits to construction
sites emphasizing the Government's and Bank's interests in prompt
building delivery, quality of work, cost overruns, equipment
installations e.t.c.
In addition,theagencies involved were notified and shortcomings
were detected and discussed.
- J 



- 38 -
ATTACE0I 2
(p. 2 of 4)
Page V  Sara  d
Regarding the contractor's monthly bills an amount is also
paid corresponding to material and labor increases covering the
time interval from the contractor's installation up to the quarter
that these works are executed. The amount is calculated according
to indexes published by a special authority.
Page V 2ara e
We are reluctant to agree that during periods of high inflation,
the Governments interest in the Project was uncertain, some delays
are attributed to limited budjet capabilities of the contractors
derived from the cost readjusting mechanism and their capability
to forfeit contracts.
Paqe VII Rara e
Your proposal for complete supervision responsibility from the
part of the architectural designer, could be adopted only if this
was stipulated in the Greek legislature regarding execution of
public works. We feel that before amending the current legislation
it would be helpful to adopt such a measure on an experimental basis
and record the performance and overall results.
Page  8_Rara 3.06
Regarding the standardization of architectural designs we
like to mention that this was discussed with W.B. architect
Mr. Andoniades and the agencies involved.  It was agreed that
standardization was difficult especially for the FTC's and VTC's
for the following reasons:
a. Regional differences
b. Climate conditions
c. Various traditional architectures
d. Site topographic variations
e. Variations in social conditions.
Nevertheless some standardization was achieved in the
Pedagogical academies where two types of architectural designs
were incorporated for five (5) Academies.
Page 10_para 3.14
Greece as a W.B. member can accept bids for locally manufactured
equipment and furniture as stipulated in the W.B. Procurement
Guidelines.
Para 3.15
To our knowledge there wasn't a case where the commencement
of an Academic year was postponed due to lack in basic needs for
.1/.



- 39 -
ATTACHHME- 2
(p. 3 of 4)
equipment and furniture.  Tn many cases equipment and furniture
was stored awaiting installation (VTC's, FTC's).
Pag  .11 _ap2_3.20
During the visit of the completion mission, the Athens II
VTC was just completed and operation was just beginning. At this
thime the Athens II VTC is in full operation regarding apprentiship
with some accelerated training specialties operating and more to be
added soon. Attendance has exceeded original appraisal. The
cafeteria is in operation serving approx. 400 students. Another
220 students are living in the VTC's boarding house. The same applies
for Lamia which is in full operation with 420 students, 100 of them
are using the VTC's boarding house. With the new academic year
which recently started Agrinion has 150 students, 60 in boarding
house, Serrai with 200 students, 60 in boarding house, N.Heraklion
with 500 students, there .is no boarding house. Cafeteria operation
on the above VTC's is considered uneconomical at the present time.
Pave13_2ara 3.27
With the beginning of the current academic year all teaching
staff vacancies have been filled.
Pa%e_142_ara 3.33
Possible delays in equipment procurement by the Merchant Marine
are mainly attributed to the fact that proceedings were carried out
by the Ministry of Trade on M.M.'s behalf. The Ministry of Trade
was not accustomed to carry out tenders through W.B. Educational
loans and the C.P.U. had to orient the various departments within
the Ministry calling numerous and lengthy meetings.
Page_16 Para 4.03
The gross areas per student place were finalized with the coope-
ration of I.L.O. specialists and the W.B.'s agreement.
We believe that the above comments will help toward a better
understanding regarding certain aspects of the Second Education
Project.
We are looking forward to receive a copy of the final Completion
Report.
With our best regards.
SincerelC yours,
Athanassios Maroulis
Project Manager
vb



- 40 -
ATUACHME  2
(p. 4 of 4)
cc: MINISTRY OF NATIONAL ECONOMY
Directorate of Technical Cooperatikn
and Special Financing,
c/o Mr. Karavias.
1.  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTLURk
and sducation Project
2, Aharnon Str.
A t h e n s
2.   M.E.O.
2nd Education Project
8, Thrakis Str.
T RAH O NES
3.  SCHOOL TOURISM ORGANIZATION
4, Dragatsaniou Str.,
ATHENS



