DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No    PE-48a
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
GREECE
August 22, 1972
Education Projects Department
| This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =  30 drachmae
1 drachma      =  US$    .03
100 dr.        =  US$   3.33
1,000,000 dr.  = US$  33,333
MEASURES
1 m2           =  1.20 sq yd
1 m2           =  10.76 sq ft
1 km           = 0.38 sq miles
1 hectare      =  2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



GREECE
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS.                                     i
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                  1
Socio-Economic Background .
Education and Training System.                          2
Educational Finance.                                    3
II.   EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND PROGRAMS.                 4
Economic Development.                                   4
Manpower Implications.                                  5
Educational Development.                                6
Primary Teacher Training.                               8
The University of Patras.                               8
Training by Other Ministries.                           8
Industrial Skill Training.                              9
Agricultural Training .10
Tourism Training .t...                                 10
Merchant Marine Training .11
III. THE PROJECT .12
General .12
Primary Teacher Training .14
The University of Patras .14
Vocational Agricultural Schools .16
Farmer Training Centers .17
Tourism Training Schools    .17
Merchant Marine Training .18
Project Cost .19
IV. IMPLEMENTATION .20
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . ...         ......  22
This report is based on the findings of a preparation/appraisal mission
which visited Greece in September-October, 1971. The mission consisted
of Mr. C. L. Germanacos (education planner, consultant), Messrs. R. E. Byron
(technical educator) and B. Hubert (architect) of the Bank, Messrs. B. Kimmins
(architect) and W. L. Taylor (economist) of Unesco, and Mr. G. F. Saguiguit
(agricultural educator, consultant to FAO). Mr. B. R. Teare (university en-
gineering educator, consultant) assisted the mission for one week and
Mr. B. Boscoe of the Bank Tourism Projects Department for two weeks.



A
If



GREECE
APPENDICES
A.   Education and Training
B.   The Technical Assistance Program
CIHARTS
4562    Structure of the Developing Education System
4561    The Educational Pyramid, 1967-1968
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Institutions, Enrollments and Teachers, 1969-1970
3.   Enrollments in Iligher (University) Education, 1968-1969, 1969-1970
4.   Output in University Education, by Field of Study, 1966-1970
5.   Actual and Projected Enrollments, Formal Education System
6.   Actual and Projected Enrollments and Teachers in Public Education
7.   Public and Private Recurrent, Capital and Total Expenditures on
Education, 1969-71
8.   University of Patras:  Enrollments, Staff and Graduates, 1966
through 1981
9.   Accelerated Vocational Training Centers:  Enrollments and Outputs
10.   Enrollments and Outputs by Course
A.  The Vocational Agriculture Schools
B. The Tourist Professions Training Schools
11.   Public Merchant Marine Schools
12.   Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
13.   Comparative Table:  Unit Costs
14.   Contingency Allowances
15.   Project Implementation and Expenditure Schedule
16.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Map of Greece (Showing Project Schools)



I



G R E E C E
BASIC DATAI/
Population
Total Population (1971 Census)                     8.7 million
Urban Population (1971 Census)                    4h5 million or 51.7%
Population Growth Rate (1961-1971):                0.4% p.a.
it      "t   "i  Urban                        2.5% p.a.
it      "t    "   Rural                      -1.5% p.a.
GNP growth rate (in real terms) 1961-1970             8%
Employment, by selected sectors (1969):
Agriculture           46.7%
Mining                 0.6%
Manufacturing         13.8%
Construction           6.8%
Administration         4.4%
Education (1969)
- Literacy (1961, population over age 10)          82%
- Primary school enrollment ratio (age
group 6-11)                                    99%
- Secondary school enrollment ratio (age
group 12-17)                                   59%
- Higher education enrollment ratio (age
group 18 through 23)                           11%
- Public expenditure on education as a per-
centage of total government revenues (1970)   9.3%
- Public expenditure on education as a
percentage of GNP                               2.2%
- Total expenditure on education as a
percentage of GNP                               3.4%
j    See Annex 1 for comparative educational data.



I
A



GREECE
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project in Greece for
which a Bank loan of US$23.5 million is proposed. Greece has experienced
a rapid rate of economic growth since 1961 (real GDP increases averaging
nearly 7% annually). This growth has been accompanied by significant
changes in the economy's structure, as industry and services became the
leading growth sectors. These changes have in turn caused changes in the
structure of the labor force and have resulted in manpower demands to which
the Greek education and training system has not as yet been able to respond
adequately. An expansion and improvement of this system are essential for
the continuation of the economy's growth.
ii.       The first Bank education project (Loan No. 711 GR) has introduced
in Greece the concept of the multi-disciplinary sub-professional training
institution, concentrating on producing trained technicians in engineering,
agriculture, food processing, business administration, and health. Much of
the proposed project would be complementary to the first project as it would
provide training in many of the same fields, but at skilled worker and pro-
fessional levels. In addition, the project would support significant educa-
tional reforms.
iii.      Specifically, the project would comprise:
A.   Construction and equipment for:
- five primary teacher training academies;
- Schools of Engineering and Natural Sciences of the
University of Patras;
- eight new accelerated industrial training centers;
- three new vocational agriculture schools and the ex-
pansion of another;
- 12 new farmer training centers;
- five new tourism training institutions.
B.   The provision and equipment of three mobile industrial
training units;
C.   The provision of instructional equipment for:
- five existing accelerated industrial training centers
and five such centers under construction; and
- four new merchant marine schools.



- ii -
D.   Provision of technical assistance of (a) 14 man-years of
specialists, mainly for the establishment of new engineering
programs at the University of Patras, and (b) 43 man-years
of fellowships for the training of key personnel for the
project institutions.
iv.       The project emphasis is on reform of technical education and voca-
tional training and upon increasing the supply of trained personnel for in-
dustry, tourism, and the merchant marine, which are, or are likely to be,
major earners of foreign exchange. Total manufacturing output in Greece
increased at a rate of about 9% annually between 1968 and 1971, and has
shifted towards more technologically advanced industries such as chemicals,
metal manufacturing and heavy equipment. The numbers of tourists increased
from 496,000 in 1961 to two million in 1971, and are expected to increase to
five to eight millions by 1980; foreign exchange earnings from tourism are
forecast to increase from $195 million in 1970 to $1,000 million by 1980.
The merchant fleet has increased 62% in tonnage during the past six years
and contributed $347 million to the GDP in 1971, an increase of 110% over
the 1965 figure.
v.        The Greek development plans stress as their objectives (i) in-
creases in productivity (ii) improvement of competitiveness of industry
(iii) modernization of basic infrastructure and (iv) generation of new em-
ployment opportunities for the rural population that is migrating to the
cities. An OECD study in 1970 has concluded that the present education and
training system will not be able to produce the numbers of trained person-
nel required by the plans.
vi.       The Greek education systemf is well developed quantitatively, but
is in need of qualitative improvements and reorientation from academic
studies to more practical courses. There is need for improvement in teach-
er training and reform of the higher education system, and also an urgent
need to improve and expand the training systems operated by the various
ministries which provide the specialized manpower required by them, 'The
proposed project would assist programs designed to meet these needs.
vii.      To execute the project, a central project administration unit
would be established within the Ministry of Planning and Governmental
Policy. It would be responsible for liaison with the Bank, for program-
ming project implementation and for project accounting. It would function
in a coordinating and administrative capacity to existing technical serv-
ices, appropriately reinforced, within each ministry or agency participat-
ing in the project.
viii.     All contracts would be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers of furniture or equipment would
be accorded a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of custom duty
applicable to competitive imports or 15% of the c.i.f. prices, whichever
is lower. As imports of teaching equipment are duty free, only furniture
(involving an amount of $1.4 million) would be affected by the preferential



- iii -
treatment afforded to imports from EEC countries. As Greece has well de-
veloped construction and furniture industries, however, it is not likely
that a substantial amount of civil works or furniture contracts would be
won by foreign manufacturers.
ix.       The proposed project would cost US$43.9 million equivalent, in-
cluding contingencies. Cost data are based on detailed schedules of accom-
modation and contracts for similar work. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$23.5 million equivalent.
x.        The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$23.5 million equiv-
alent to the Hellenic State for a term of 20 years including a grace period
of 5 years.



$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1970, the Bank made a first education loan to Greece of US$13.8
million (Loan No. 711-GR) to help the education system meet sub-professional
manpower requirements in industry, business administration, para-medical
services and agriculture. Its implementation is proceeding satisfactorily
at present but is about six months behind schedule because of delays in
recruiting technical assistance specialists and the need for extensive re-
visions of preliminary designs. Because of personnel changes that have oc-
curred within the Ministry of Education since the beginning of this project,
such delays in recruiting technical assistance are not as likely to be re-
peated. The technical assistance requirements of the proposed project were
discussed in detail during negotiations and agreement has been reached on a
timetable for recruiting specialists.
1.02      In May 1971, a joint Bank/Unesco/FAO mission identified the pro-
posed project to provide assistance in the training of professional and
skilled workers in essentially the same sectors as in the first project.
The project was substantially prepared by government task forces and ap-
praised in September-October 1971 by a Bank mission comprising Messrs.
C. L. Germanacos (education planner, consultant), R. E. Byron (technical
educator), B. Boscoe (tourism specialist) and B. Hubert (architect) of the
Bank; B. Kimmins (architect), and W. L. Taylor (economist) of Unesco; G. F.
Saguiguit (agriculture educator, consultant to FAO), and B. R. Teare (uni-
versity engineering education consultant).
Socio-Economic Background
1.03      Preliminary 1971 census results show Greece withl a population of
8.7 million and a population growth rate of 0.7% annually since 1961. Over
the same period, Greece has experienced sustained and rapid economic growth,
with real GNP increases averaging nearly 8% a year. This combination of
rapid economic expansion and slow population growth has resulted in a GNP
per capita in 1971 of about US$980, about 1.9 times as large as in 1961.
With such low population increases, Greece is able to direct its expanding
resources for social services towards qualitative rather than quantitative
needs. Educational opportunities are already available to great numbers:
primary and secondary school enrollments are 99% and 59% respectively, of
the relevant age groups. About 82% of the people over 10 years of age are
literate.
1.04      Uneven distribution of land and water resources (only 30% of the
country's 132,000 sq. km. total area is flat and potentially arable) and
the geographic isolation of large districts have created serious problems
for balanced economic growth. The government has emphasized (i) equaliza-
tion of opportunity for the entire population as an objective and (ii) re-
gional plans for development, together with progressive decentralization of
administration.
1.05      Greece's rapid economic growth has been accompanied by significant
changes in the structure of the economy, with industry and services as the
leading growth sectors. Although real agricultural output grew by 5.7% per
year between 1968-71, agriculture's share of GDP declined from about 28.2%



in 1960 to 18.6% in 1971. This structural transformation is reflected in
shifts in the location and composition of the population and labor force.
The rural population, now 34% of the total, has declined about 1.5% annually;
on the other hand, the population of Greece's ten largest urban areas grew
by 34% between 1961-71, increasing the demands for educational and other
social services in urban areas.
1.06      Parallel structural changes are apparent in the labor force.  Non-
agricultural employment grew by about 3.4% per year between 1958 and 1969
while agricultural jobs fell by about 2.1% annually. By 1971, Greece's
rapid economic growth and low rate of population increase, assisted by sig-
nificant external migration, had combined to reduce non-agricultural unem-
ployment to the low level of 2.5%. Although there is and will continue to
be a large rural manpower reserve, these rural workers lack the skills neces-
sary for work in the rapidly growing, technologically oriented sectors of
the economy. Consequently, labor supply in the most rapidly growing sectors
- industry and services - will remain tight unless appropriate training or
retraining facilities are developed.
Education and Training System (see also Appendix A)
1.07      The Ministry of National Education and Religion is responsible for
all public and private education except for a number of vocational schools
administered by the Ministries of Agriculture, Social Welfare (Health), Labor,
and Merchant Marine, and the National Tourism Organization. A reorganized
Investment Programming Unit was established two years ago within the Ministry
of Education and was expected to prepare an education development plan, but
has proven to be ineffective because insufficient responsibility for plan-
ning has been assigned to it. Education planning is now the responsibility
of a larger group within the Ministry of Planning and Governmental Policy
which will have an overview of the total education and training needs of
Greece and is expected also to coordinate the development of the training
programs of various ministries (para. 2.05).
1.08      Greece's education system (described in more detail in Appendix A,
Annexes 2-6, and Charts 4561 and 4562) compared to that of other developing
countries, is quantitatively well developed. Enrollment ratios are high
(universal primary education, 59% of relevant age group enrolled in sec-
ondary education, and 11% in higher education). Promotion and retention
rates are satisfactory and, in terms of formal academic qualifications, the
teaching force is qualified. Nonetheless, qualitative weaknesses are marked.
1.09      The main structural weakness in the formal system lies at the sec-
ondary level. The lower level vocational school recruits directly from prim-
ary school, so that 12-year old children are heavily involved in narrow voca-
tional training before they have the maturity to make a choice or have an
adequate base of general education for keeping open career options. The
general secondary school offers a comnmon three-year cycle and a partially
diversified second cycle, but the diversificatio n is in separate institu-
tions (except for the classics and maths-science streams) whichl forces
students entering Grade 10 to follow the course they chose when entering
Grade 7.



-3-
1.10      Post secondary non-university education has expanded slowly and
at present represents only about 16% of the total post-secondary school en-
rollment. The five Higher Technical Education Centers being financed under
the first Bank education project introduced into Greece the concept of the
multi-disciplinary post-secondary technical institution. These centers,
scheduled to open in late 1974, will train students for sub-professional
employment in engineering, agriculture, food processing, business adminis-
tration, and health fields. When fully operative, they will enroll 6,660
students and will approximately double the present size of the post-secondary
non-university system.
1.11      Reform of the university system is needed, but the government has
encountered difficulties in motivating the older autonomous universities to
change. The traditional professorial system and the practice of electing
rectors at short intervals (every one to three years) stifles innovation
and long term planning, and prohibits the major administrative, organiza-
tional, and institutional changes that are required. Management practices,
staff selection and promotion procedures need to be revised as well as the
structure and content of programs and courses required to meet the needs of
the broader range of economic activity characterizing developments in Greece.
1.12      The university system is biased in favor of humanities, law, and
political sciences (41% of the total 72,620 university enrollment in 1968);
only 8% was in engineering and 14% in science programs. In 1970, because
of space limitations, only 21% of the engineering candidates and 44% of the
science candidates were admitted. Many who are not admitted enroll abroad
in these programs (3,500 in 1968), but few return to Greece; this consti-
tutes a significant brain drain.
Educational Finance
1.13      Total expenditures on education in Greece are estimated at about
US$346.9 million or about 3.4% of GNP (Annex 7). This is low compared with
countries of comparable stage of development. The Ministry of Education
was responsible for 64% of the total expenditures, with other central gov-
ernment ministries spending another 4%. The remaining 32% was from private
sources. While total educational expenditures have increased by 25% between
1969-71, no trends are discernible either in the proportion of GNP spent on
education or in the composition of spending by source, except for recent
modest increases in the share of educational expenditures financed by min-
istries other than the Ministry of Education.
1.14      Recurrent expenditures on education were an estimated US$298 mil-
lion in 1971. About 61% of this was by the Ministry of Education, 4% by
other Ministries and 35% by private sources (Annex 7). Rising salaries
and additional teachers have absorbed a large share of the increase in re-
current expenditures; between 1966-1970, public recurrent expenditures on
education rose 30.7%, but expenditures on salaries and wages rose 60%.
Public recurrent expenditures on education are relatively low, consistently
below 10% of the total recurrent budget. This is reflected in low levels of
recurrent costs per student in public education which result from a limited
range of practical school work and meager supplies of learning aids.



- 4 -
1.15      Greece has taken steps to increase significantly the levels of
capital expenditures on education since 1967 when they were only US$15.8
million or 6% of the public investment budget.  Capital expenditures on
education increased approximately 57% from 1969 to 1971 and amounted to
US$48.8 million in 1971 (Annex 7), 9.7% of the public investment budget.
In 1971, the Ministry of Education provided 84% of total capital expendi-
tures, while other ministries and private sources each provided another
8%. Expenditures by the Ministry of Labor on apprenticeship schools and
accelerated training centers account for most of the rapid expansion of
capital educational expenditures for education by other ministries.
1.16      Based on enrollment and teacher projections shown in Annexes 5
and 6 and estimated unit costs in 1980, total public educational expendi-
tures, exclusive of Ministry of Labor's expenditures, are projected to be
about US$415 million equivalent in 1980. If the planned annual increase
in GNP of 6.5% is realized, this level of public educational expenditure
would be a modest 2.5% of GNP. This suggests that there is scope for more
rapid introduction of reform measures and improved services in the public
school system. In particular, technological and scientific programs at
degree and diploma levels and pre-vocational and vocational programs at
secondary school level could be expanded at a faster rate than envisaged.
Implementation of such plans, however, would be contingent upon a timely
and adequate teacher supply. The projected recurrent costs of the proposed
project schools in 1980 - US$8 million - would correspond to 2.1% of the
project total public education recurrent expenditures.
II. EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND PROGRAMIS
Economic Development
2.01      Greek perspective planning tentatively envisages a GNP growth
rate of about 6.5% per year between 1970 and 1935. It assumes a continua-
tion of the structural changes discussed in para. 1.05, with agriculture's
share in GNP falling to 11-12% by 1985 while industry's share increases to
about 39-41%.  The target growth rate, somewhat lower than recent perform-
ance, probably reflects realistically the manpower and marketing constraints,
combined with increasing competition from other countries, which will affect
the rate of future economic growth.
2.02      The more important long-term objectives and proposed measures
contained in the current Plan which have immediate implications on the edu-
cation and training sector are:
(i)  the achievement of a marked increase in productivity and
improvement of the competitiveness of the economy (which
imply improved skills, and knowledge and understanding of
the role of technology and science in a developing economy);



-5-
(ii)  the modernization of the basic infrastructure (including
education facilities), and rationalizing distribution of
the basic infrastructure and economic activity on a re-
gional basis;
(iii)  re-direction of investments into the more productive
sectors of the economy, and the creation of new employment
opportunities necessitating the transfer of labor from low
(agricultural) to high (industrial) productivity jobs. For
this, a mobile and trainable work force becomes imperative,
and concomitant facilities for training and re-training.
2.03      These objectives are exemplified by the planned expansion and
modernization of the industrial sector to improve its competitiveness and
to grow at an annual rate of about 9%. This will mean a continued trend
towards more technologically advanced production units and will require
not only more technically trained manpower but, through increased manufac-
tured exports and the growth of tourism and shipping, an expansion of for-
eign exchange earnings to finance a self-sustained growth.
2.04      Although a transfer of labor from agriculture to industrial jobs
as foreseen above is expected to reduce agricultural employment by 4.3%
annually, agricultural output is expected to increase by 2.5% per year
through increased productivity. The latter would result from the applica-
tion of modern technology by a well trained farm labor force.
Manpower Implications
2.05      The absence of an effective mechanism for compiling and analyzing
up-to-date detailed sectoral manpower data has been a serious handicap to
perspective economic and educational planning in Greece. The Ministry of
Planning and Governmental Policy, in conjunction with the Center for Plan-
ning and Economic Research and other interested Ministries and organizations
in Greece, has therefore established a Human Resources Committee and an Edu-
cation Committee to carry out the research studies, investigations, and
analyses necessary for the development of the education and employment
sections of the next plan (1973-77) and the perspective plans through 1985.
2.06      The conclusions of an OECD study of Greece's manpower needs, which
was conducted in 1970, have been summarized in a report not yet published.
These needs have been adjusted to account for the education system's demand
for teachers and the officer requirements of the merchant marine, and are
compared with the present output of the education system below:



-6-
Present Output    Annual Requirement /1
Occupational Level                of System          Period 1972-1985
Professional personnel                   7,000                  9,500
Sub-professional                         4,500                 13,000
Skilled and Semi-skilled                20,000                 40,000
(Vocational Schools)
General (Secondary General              20,000 /2
Schools)
/1   Excluding armed forces and security needs, but including allowance for
emigration.
/2   Excluding the 14,000 proceeding to post-secondary training, but includ-
ing females (48% of total) of which less than 50% participate in the
work force at this level and then usually for a limited number of years.
2.07      The table indicates clearly that the present education system
cannot meet the annual required numbers of trained personnel in the various
occupational levels. But the situation is worse than a comparison of the
numbers would indicate because of imbalances within the education system at
various levels which result in the surplus production of some types, such
as lawyers and political scientists, while shortfalls in other types, such
as engineers and scientists, persist and in some instances become larger.
Programs which have been planned to redress these imbalances and to narrow
the gap between the demands for trained manpower and the capacity of the
education system to produce them are described in the following paragraphs.
Educational Development
2.08      There is no well defined educational development strategy in
Greece at present. There is, however, a growing awareness of the need for
qualitative improvements and a reorientation of the education system away
from predominantly classical studies to more technical studies to produce
the specialists increasingly demanded by the developing economy. This
awareness is especially prevalent among those responsible for the various
sectors of the economy and consequently, the Ministries of Agriculture,
Labor, and Merchant Marine, and the National Tourism Organization have pre-
pared detailed plans for the expansion and up-grading of the specialized
training institutions for which they are responsible.
2.09      Responsiveness to the need for change or adaptation to the economy's
needs is less marked in the Ministry of Education, but there have been en-
couraging developments. The Ministry's decision to abandon a controversial
program, which the appraisal mission had criticized, to construct 140 new
lower technical schools was clearly in favor of the more progressive ele-
ments who appear to be becoming stronger within the Ministry. Moreover,
the concept of a unified secondary school which would offer aica(ietnic core
programs with pre-vocational options appears to he gatnitin, support, allbi t
slowly.



-7-
2.10      During the identification and appraisal of the first and proposed
education projects, the Bank has maintained a dialogue with the Greek author-
ities on the need to introduce this type of secondary school to reorient the
predominantly classical secondary education system towards meeting the needs
of the country more effectively by preparing students better adapted to on-
the-job training or to further studies in technical fields at sub-professional
level. The reconnaissance mission of May, 1971, found the climate for the
introduction of the multilateral or comprehensive secondary school favorable,
but by the time of appraisal, the responsible officers, believing that op-
position to such change was still too strong, did not request the Bank to
finance these schools. Discussions on this matter are continuing, and are
expected to continue, between the Bank and the government, and within the
government.
2.11      The Ministry of Education has been considering and is expected to
implement the following reform and re-structuring measures:
(a) by the middle seventies, introduction of 9 years of com-
pulsory general education, thus forcing the phasing out
(or conversion/up-grading) of the technical lower second-
ary schools, the movement of overage pupils out of primary,
and the rationalization of primary teacher education;
(b) controlled expansion of the second cycle secondary level
of all types (Grades 10-12) to 55%-60% of the school-age
group (47% in 1968); this will entail guidance services
and improved testing and selection practices; an improved
apprentice system and increased opportunities for accel-
erated vocational training would be available for part
of the group not remaining in the formal education system,
and for general secondary school leavers;
(c) during the decade, channelling of a greater proportion of
students, (i) into mathematics-science and technical courses
of all types at second cycle secondary level, (ii) into the
sub-professional technical courses at higher education levels,
and (iii) into the technology and science courses in the uni-
versities;
(d) continuation of present policy of controlling intake into
the universities.
2.12      The Ministry's immediate objectives are (a) to up-grade the qual-
ity of instruction in the primary schools through a reform and consolidation
of the primary teacher training system; and (b) to stimulate change at the
university level while increasing the supply of degree engineers and scien-
tists by initiating the first phase of the development of the University of
Patras. The proposed project would assist in the financing of both of these
programs.



-8-
Primary Teacher Training
2.13      At present, 15 poorly equipped pedagogical academies (grades 13
and 14) with inadequate accommodations enroll a combined total of 2,800
students in a 2-year pre-service primary teacher training program. Legis-
lation has already been passed to consolidate this system into eight insti-
tutions with a combined enrollment of 2,400 students in the 2-year course.
This would be sufficient to meet the annual need for primary school teach-
ers which is not expected to exceed approximately 1,200. In addition, four
of these institutions would enroll a total of 1,200 primary school teachers
in a one-year in-service course to up-date their teaching methods and to
prepare them for promotion. The consolidation will result in economies of
scale and more efficient use of specialized teacher trainers. The consoli-
dated system will incorporate a reformed curriculum, which will take advan-
tage of the larger and more modern facilities and equipment that will be
made available. As the curriculum revision should be a continuous process,
and the management practices of the academies may also require revision from
time to time, the government has provided assurances that the legislation
mentioned above will be suitably modified, within six months of the Loan
Agreement date, to permit such changes as required. The proposed project
would help finance the replacement of five primary teacher training academies
as part of this program.
The University of Patras
2.14      The University of Patras, founded in 1964 and unfettered by tradi-
tion, provides an opportunity for innovation in an overly conservative en-
vironment. It was intended from its beginning to be a modern technological
university, with undergraduate and post-graduate programs in engineering,
science, medicine and industrial management, which would be free from the
deeply rooted limitations of the established university system. Its staff
comprises able and progressive-minded engineering and science educators who
seek to promote appropriate reforms.
2.15      Because of this, the university, in addition to providing about
800 better qualified engineers and scientists, is expected to be the fore-
runner of university change in Greece, as the advantages of more modern
practices are demonstrated to the older universities.
2.16      The OECD has provided master planning assistance in the past three
years and has continued to assist with the preparation of an operational de-
velopment plan. The proposed project would assist in the financing of the
first phase of the university's development, which would consist of the
relocation and expansion of various departments of the engineering and
science schools into an integrated unit.
Training by Other Ministries
2.17      Much of the country's required manpower is highly specialized and
is trained within institutions operated by ministries, such as the Ministry
of Labor and the Ministry of Merchant Marine. The programs prepared by



- 9 -
these ministries in response to the burgeoning needs for trained personnel
in their respective sectors are described below.
Industrial Skill Training
2.18      The National Employment Organization of the Ministry of Labor has
developed, with UNDPM/ILO assistance, five accelerated vocational training
centers which offer intensive six months' courses in skilled trades. Those
who complete the course are not fully skilled, but are highly proficient.
The five centers, with enrollments of 1,620 and outputs of 1,620 in 1971,
offer instruction in building, metal working, electronic and electrical
trades. The centers have new buildings, well trained staff, and modern
programs of instruction and instructional materials. The high standards
of training are recognized by Greek industry, and graduates are assured of
employment at enhanced wages prior to completion of their studies.
2.19      Based on the successful experience with the first accelerated vo-
cational training centers, the Ministry of Labor is planning to establish
13 new such centers strategically located to help to meet regional needs
for skilled industrial workers. Course offerings would vary from center
to center in response to local and national skilled labor shortages. In
addition, in areas where industrial growth prospects are not assured or
are considered as marginal, or in areas with dispersed population, the
ministry is planning to provide mobile training units.
2.20      The Ministry of Labor has been experimenting with the utilization
of the five existing centers for apprenticeship training and has concluded
that such integration of its training programs is both efficient and econom-
ical, as the apprentices benefit from the improved learning environment.
The 13 proposed centers would accommodate a combined total of 1,140 appren-
tices and an output of about 280 annually with no increase in space or equip-
ment.
2.21      For the more highly technical courses such as electronics and
milling machine operation, applicants are screened by mathematical and
language tests; otherwise, there are no formal requirements. Consequently,
the government is planning to utilize the accelerated vocational training
centers to attract numbers in the age group 18 to 45 who are expected to
migrate from rural areas to the cities. Under the program, the unemployed
rural youth with no skills will be transformed into employable manpower re-
quired by the economy.
2.22      When in full operation, the combined output of the existing five
centers and the 13 proposed centers would be about 5,800 annually. This,
together with the expected 1,800 output from the four-year apprenticeship
programs, would still be substantially less than the estimated 24,000 skilled
and semi-skilled workers required annually. Additional numbers of new accel-
erated vocational training centers must await the further development of the
required managerial capacity and increased supply of qualified technical
teachers.



- 10 -
2.03      The proposed project would help finance (a) the construction and
equipment of eight new accelerated vocational training centers, (b) the pro-
vision of modern instructional and workshop equipment to ten others that are
either in operation or in design or construction stage at present and (c)
three mobile training units.
Agricultural Training
2.24      To increase the productive capacity of the working population in
agriculture and related occupations, the Ministry of Agriculture plans to
expand its national network of farmer training centers, up-grade and im-
prove its agricultural schools, expand its agricultural extension services
and integrate these three services into a combined resource whenever possi-
ble.
2.25      Eighteen additional farmer training centers are required in the
next five-year plan to complete the national network which now has 31 cen-
ters in operation and 9 under construction. The additional centers would
increase the total training capacity from 4,000 at a time to about 6,000.
Under this program, approximately 150,000 farmers per year are expected to
be provided with short courses in modern farming teclniques. The range and
content of the courses are to be improved to enhance further the popularity
and usefulness of the centers. The centers will expand the present practice
of utilizing part-time instructors and specialists from the regional and cen-
tral extension services. The centers are expected to broaden their appeal
and services, and develop into community development centers.
2.26      The Ministry of Agriculture plans also to up-grade and reorganize
its seven post-primary agricultural schools, which have not been achieving
their objective of preparing youth for employment in agriculture or related
occupations. This has been attributed to the low entry level (grade 7) and
an insufficiently practical course of only nine months. On the other hand,
the privately endowed and privately operated American Farm School at Salonika,
has been singularly successful with a four-year heavily practical agriculture
course (grades 7 through 10).
2.27      Under the proposed reform, students will be admitted after complet-
ing grade 9. The program will be lengthened to two years and will include an
intensive practical training in the type of agriculture or agricultural indus-
try prevalent in the school's region. The proposed project would assist three
of these schools, and also the American Farm School which would develop a
three-year program with an appropriate balance of academic and vocational
subjects, and theory and practice.
Tourism Training
2.28      The National Tourism Organization predicts foreign exchange earn-
ings from tourism will increase from US$195 million in 1970 to US$1,000 mil-
lion by 1980. This forecast is based upon the rapid growth of tourism during
the past decade in whiclh the numbers of tourists increased from 496,000 in
1961 to an estimated two million in 1971. The numbers per year are expected



- 1 1 -
to swell to five to eight million in 1980. The degree to which this expan-
sion continues will be determined to a large extent by the country's ability
and reputation. to provide satisfactorily the services expected by tourists.
2.29      To meet this demand, the number of hotel beds is expected to in-
crease from 90,000 in 1971 to 170,000 in 1973. By 1980, about 400,000 hotel
beds will be required.  This expansion will ease the capacity constraint, but
unless immediate action is taken to expand hotel training facilities, short-
ages of properly trained hotel workers will remain a bottleneck. The planned
increases in capacity will generate a demand for an additional 38,000 trained
hotel workers by 1980, but the present training system is unable to meet even
short-term demands. The National Tourism Organization estimates that by 1973,
at least 10,000 hotel employees, or 45% of the total, will require basic
training. Compared with these needs, present tourism training programs ap-
pear miniscule. The National Tourism Organization is operating three small
institutions: (a) a two-year post-secondary school for hotel management
with 80 student places; (b) and two schools (in Athens and Salonika) at
grade 8 level offering a six months to two-year courses in hotel restaurant
and office work with a combined total of 260 student places. The Salonika
school is in unsuitable rented quarters. In addition, as emergency measures,
accelerated two months' courses in hotel and catering industries are operated
by the National Employment Organization to provide rudimentary training for
employment (output was 650 in 1971).
2.30      The main thrust of the government's plans to produce the trained
manpower for this sector will be the development of five hotel-school insti-
tutes with combined enrollment of 1,170 and output of about 1,000 annually.
The schools would offer one and two year courses in various hotel special-
izations to students who had completed grade 8, and would be strategically
located to serve the two principal cities of Greece, Athens and Salonika,
and the newly developed tourist areas. The proposed project would assist
in the financing of the construction and equipment of these institutions.
Merchant Marine Training
2.31      The merchant fleet, consistently a major element in the Greek
economy, has increased in tonnage about 62% during the past six years and
now comprises 2,543 vessels, the seventh largest fleet in the world.  In
addition, about 1,200 Greek owned vessels are operating under foreign flags.
The contribution of the merchant fleet to the GDP was $347 million in 1971,
an increase of 110% over the 1965 figure.  This expansion is expected to
continue at a high rate, as the government has given highest priority to
the merchant marine development program.
2.32      The merchant fleet has also become more modern (26% of the vessels
are less than five years old) with consequent increased demands for more
and better trained crews to meet the technical requirements of the large,
complex, and in many instances, highly automated, vessels. In 1970, about
84,000 were employed in the Greek merchant fleet or on Greek owned ships.
It is estimated that about 1,000 additional deck officers, 1,000 engineers,



- 12 -
400 communications officers, and 6,000 crewmen would be required each year
to maintain the marine force at its present level. Compared with these
needs, ten small public merchant marine schools in Greece in 1971 produced
192 deck officers, 200 engineers, and 50 communications officers. The bulk
of the needs is met by the cadet system of on-ship training of secondary
school graduates for deck officers, and by the middle level vocational and
private radio-telegraphy schools for engineer cadets and radio-telegraphists.
This system requires modification to include formal pre-service cadet officer
training at an advanced level in order to produce the kind of marine officers
required by the modern merchant fleet.
2.33      Consequently, the government has assigned high priority to the
development of institutions to increase the supply of officers and to estab-
lish, for the first time, facilities for crew training. Four such institu-
tions, with a combined enrollment of 4,400 in navigation, engineering, com-
munications and basic crew training are either under construction or in an
advanced stage of planning. They will be appropriately located to utilize
existing marine facilities and to be readily accessible to the rural man-
power pool. The proposed project would assist in the financing of the
modern equipment required by these institutions.
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01      The proposed project would assist the government in its efforts to
(a) improve the quality of education across a broad spectrum of levels and
types of institutions, including primary teacher training academies, a variety
of specialized vocational institutions, and a degree level university (b) ini-
tiate modernization of the university system by developing the University of
Patras in a pattern new to Greece and (c) increase the supply of better trained
degree engineers and scientists and other specialized manpower urgently re-
quired by the rapidly developing Greek economy.



- 13 -
3.02      The proposed project would conprise:
(a) construction and/or equipment for:
New       New
Annual    Annual   Places   Boarding
Grades  Enrollment  Output  Provided  Provided
Primary Teacher Training
Five pedagogical
academies                13-14      1,500       750     1,500        0
University of Patras
Schools of Engineering
and Science              13-16/17  4,750       760      4,750        0
Accelerated Industrial
Trainig
Eight new training cen-
ters, three new mobile
units, and equipment
for ten centers          Ungraded  6,990    6,130       2,920        0
Vocational Agricultural
Training
Three new and one ex-
panded agricultural
schools                  10-11/12    490        180       330      330
Twelve new farmer train-
ing centers              Ungraded 36,000   36,000       1,200      480
Tourism Training
Five new hotel schools      9-10      1,170       990     1,170   1,100
Merchant Marine Training
Equipment for four         Ungraded
nautical schools           and
12-13/14  4,400    4,160          0        0
(b) provision of technical assistance of (a) 14 man-years of
specialists, principally for the establishment of new
engineering programs at the University of Patras and to
assist the project implementation services, and (b) 43



- 14 -
man-years of fellowships for the training of key person-
nel for the project institutions. (Details are given in
Appendix B.)
Primary Teacher Training
3.03      The five new pedagogical academies included within the project
form part of the program to consolidate the present inadequate 15 academies
into eight larger and more modern training institutions (para. 2.13). Each
academy would admit 150 secondary school leavers annually into a two year
pre-service teacher training program that would encompass all subjects taught
in the primary schools. The new curriculum for these academies will include
emphasis on more modern education principles and more intensive use of modern
educational technology. The combined output of the project academies would
represent about 60% of the total annual requirements for primary school
teachers. In addition, the project would provide equipment for the in-
service courses to be conducted under the auspices of four of the project
academies.
The University of Patras
3.04      This project item would provide construction and equipment required
for the first development phase of the University of Patras. At present, the
university comprises the School of Natural Sciences with an enrollment of
1,290 and the School of Engineering with an enrollment of 220 in electrical
engineering only. Both schools are located in inadequate temporary quarters.
The project would relocate the university at a new site in Patras and expand
the Schools of Natural Sciences and Engineering to a combined total of 4,300
student places at undergraduate level and 450 at graduate level (Annex 8).
3.05      In the first phase, in addition to the engineering and science
buildings, a central library, a Language Institute, and some central aca-
demic facilities, including a computer center, would be constructed.
3.06      The School of Engineering would diversify and expand its electrical
engineering department and would establish departments of civil, mechanical,
metallurgy, science of materials, and chemical engineering. In addition,
flexible programming would make possible multi-disciplinary degree programs
as, for instance, production or communications engineering.
3.07      In the School of Natural Sciences, enrollments in the existing
departments of chemistry, biology and mathematics would be expanded about
50% above present levels, and sufficient space and equipment would be pro-
vided to enable the departments to strengthen their programs and to develop
new interdisciplinary studies. These departments would also be service de-
partments to the School of Engineering. The Language Institute would service
both Schools, as competence in at least one foreign language would be com-
pulsory for undergraduate and graduate studies.



- 15 -
3.08      The university intends to incorporate significant reforms, but must
await the passage of legislation which would empower it to implement these
measures. The facilities and equipment for all departments would provide
opportunity for practical, experimental, and research work in science and
engineering, using modern materials and processes. Other measures new to
Greek universities will be: organized programs of study in the graduate
school; advisory committees to provide liaison between the university, on
the one hand, and industry and commerce on the other; a departmental struc-
ture with integrated service facilities; and the erosion of the old "profes-
sorial" system of organization and management which has been the major ob-
stacle to university reform (para. 1.11). Other innovations include an ex-
tended academic year on a semester basis, introduction of elective courses
to permit broadening programs, a reduction in the contact hours which would
promote more independent study, control of enrollments to planned maxima,
and reduced student-staff ratios.
3.09      It is expected that the implementation of these innovative features
will be watched closely by officials in both the Ministry of Education and
the other universities. The University of Patras could provide a pattern
which the other universities may wish to adopt in varying degrees or at least
may strengthen the Ministry in its discussions with the other universities
on the desirability of adopting some of the proven reform measures.
3.10      Although the university's innovative character and research oppor-
tunities are attracting the interest of highly-qualified Greeks in univer-
sities abroad, measures already taken to recruit and to train staff will
have to be intensified if the required 206 additional teachers, including
46 full professors, are to be recruited by 1980. The government has pro-
vided assurances that a staff development plan agreeable to the Bank will
be implemented, and that sufficient numbers of scholarships will be made
available for upgrading prospective teachers through overseas study pro-
grams where required, on a timetable agreeable to the Badc.
3.11      The services of seven specialists for one year each would be in-
cluded in the project to provide guidance in establishing the new departments
and the library. In addition, 12 man-years of fellowships would be provided
for periods varying from three months to one year's duration for the univer-
sity's administrators to visit similar institutions in different countries.
3.12      Satisfactory procedures for the selection/appointment and tenure
of office of the rector, deans, and department heads will be essential for
the proper development of the university. Of these, the appointment and
tenure of the rector will be the most critical. If the rector is to be
sufficiently motivated to plan the longer range development of the univer-
sity and to be strong enough to resist undue pressures by the faculty, he
should be appointed for a term of at least five years, be made responsible
to a governing body composed of representatives of the community, govern-
ment, and private enterprise - equivalent to a Board of Trustees - and
should be eligible for reappointment by this body.



- 16 -
3.13      Government representatives agreed during negotiations to incor-
porate the above principles into a bill prescribing the university's organ-
izational and administrative structure. The specific provisions which were
agreed upon during negotiations are described in detail in Schedule 6 of the
Loan Agreement entitled Principles of the University of Patras Law. A bill
incorporating these provisions would be passed into law as a condition of
disbursement on this project item.
3.14      Accelerated Industrial Training Centers.  This item would involve
the expansion of an existing UNDP/ILO-sponsored pilot project for the accel-
erated training of industrial workers. It would provide supplementary equip-
ment for the five existing pilot centers, which has been made necessary by
technological advances and would make possible the introduction of four new
training programs in those centers. It would also include (a) the construc-
tion and equipment of eight new accelerated industrial training centers in
principal cities (Annex 9) and the complete equipment of five such centers
now in various stages of construction, and (b) technical assistance, prin-
cipally to assist with the implementation of the new apprenticeship law
(Appendix B).
3.15      In some areas, growth prospects or population levels do not justify
the construction of permanent facilities; also in some areas, special train-
ing complementary to courses available in existing centers is needed, but not
required on a permanent basis. For these reasons, three mobile units would
be included to provide such training. The units would be large vans equipped
with laboratory and workshop equipment and extensive audiovisual aids to pro-
vide training in various skills and related subjects, supervisory training,
and occupational counselling.
3.16      The 30 new principals and heads of departments required by the
accelerated training centers could be recruited by promotion of qualified
staff within the existing centers and other programs of the Ministry, or by
recruitment of qualified and experienced personnel from outside the Ministry.
In addition, the expanded system will require at capacity about 250 additional
trained instructors within the next four years. The vocational teacher train-
ing institution at Moscato has already increased its enrollment from the usual
40 instructor trainees to 80 in anticipation of this demand, and will be able
to produce the instructors as required.
Vocational Agricultural Schools
3.17      This item comprises the construction and equipment of three new
agricultural schools and the expansion and equipment of the American Farm
School at Salonika. The three new schools would each enroll 90 students
(Annex 10) in a two years' course (grades 10 and 11) which would be pre-
dominantly vocational. The students would be trained in modern farm prac-
tices, and would be prepared for employment in farming and related occupa-
tions. Optional programs would be included in the curriculum in accordance
with the prevailing agricultural activities and enterprises in the school
area. In the summer period, the students would receive employment experi-
ence.



- 17 -
3.18      The output of agricultural university graduates in Greece is ample
to assure adequate staffing of the project institutions. To ensure that these
graduates will have sufficient pedagogical training, the government has pro-
vided an assurance that a program, satisfactory to the Bank, to provide such
training at either the American Farm School or the Technical Teachers' Train-
ing Institute (SELETE) for farm school teacher candidates, will be completed
prior to the opening of these schools (estimated to be mid-1974), and that
the directors would be appointed at least six months in advance of the open-
ing of the schools assigned to them.
3.19      Each of the new schools is to be located on the campus of or adjoin-
ing an existing farmer training center and would thus form part of the agri-
cultural development complex. The American Farm School, on the other hand,
would be provided with a farmer training center on its campus, financed by
the project in addition to the twelve centers described in para. 3.21.
3.20      As the land and the existing buildings of the American Farm School
are owned by a private American foundation, the government should obtain a
legal agreement from the foundation that the buildings and equipment to be
provided by the project at this school would be utilized for the purposes of
the project. Such agreement would be a condition of disbursement for this
school.
Farmer Training Centers
3.21      The twelve farmer training centers included within the project
would assist in completing the national network of such centers and would
extend the coverage of the agricultural extension services into regions not
reached at present. Each center would have a classroom, demonstration room,
multipurpose room, agriculture workshop and a home-economics workshop for
enrollment of 100, but boarding accommodations for only 40, and two staff
houses. It would cater to farmers and their wives for courses from one to
30 days duration.
3.22      Program planning and recruitment would be done in advance by the
extension agents. Experience with the existing centers indicates that each
center would have an annual participation of about 3,000 individuals.  The
12 centers and the four project agricultural schools, which would have provi-
sions for farmer training, would serve 40,000-50,000 individuals.  The staff
of each center would consist of an agronomist and a home economist, with
assistance from extension agents of the region and participation of community
leaders.
Tourism Training Schools
3.23      This item comprises construction and equipment of four new hotel
schools and replacement of the Salonika school (para. 2.29). Distribution
of the combined 1,170 enrollment among the schools and the three departments
is shown in Annex 10. The schools will function as training institutions
from October to May, and as government hotels during the balance of the



- 18 -
year, the tourist season. Some trainees will be employed at their own in-.
stitution during the tourist season, but the majority will be assigned to
other government-hotels and cooperating private hotels.
3.24      The schools will serve the newly-developed tourist areas and the
massive demands of the two main cities. Staff in the existing schools is
of high quality, despite the steady loss as some enter hotel management.
As about 80 additional teachers will be required for the new schools, the
government has prepared a program agreeable to the Bank to train the re-
quired personnel, and has provided an assurance that the National Tourist
Organization would implement the program. The government has also provided
an assurance that the directors of the new schools and heads of departments
would be appointed at least 6 months in advance of the scheduled opening of
the schools.
3.25      To provide equal treatment for all trainees and to minimize drop-
outs during the training season, the government has provided an assurance
that compensation to trainees assigned to the project schools when operated
as hotels or to other government operated hotels would be at levels compe-
titive with compensation provided to trainees assigned to private commer-
cial hotels. As the institutions should be operated on a sound commercial
basis during the tourist season, both for economy and for better training,
the government also provided an assurance that the accounting for the com-
mercial (hotel) operation will be kept separate from the school operations,
and that the schools when functioning as hotels would be operated as com-
mercial enterprises similar to other hotels owned and operated by the gov-
ernment.
Merchant Marine Training
3.26      The project would provide modern instructional equipment for four
training schools. The schools at Salonika and Preveza are already under con-
struction; the remaining two are under design. Of the 2400 student places
to be provided, 2000 would be for six-month basic crew training (Annex 11).
3.27      The navigation and engineering programs would admit candidates
from Grade 11 for courses of two and three years, respectively. Curricula
would combine theoretical with practical studies at the institutions, together
with short periods of training at sea. Graduates would serve two years at
sea before receiving their third officer's rating. Sufficient numbers of
qualified navy and merchant marine officers are available to staff the schools.
To provide senior personnel of the Ministry's training division and key staff
of the project schools with an opportunity to observe more modern training
methods of other countries, five man-years of fellowships for periods of
three to six months duration would be provided within the project.



- 19 -
Project Cost
3.28      The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various
parts of the project are summarized below:
Drachma (millions)      US$ (Millions)        % of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Total
A. Teacher Training
Pedagogical Academies       32.0   24.4    56.4    1.1   0.8        1.9    5%
B. Higher Education
University of Patras       213.4  303.2   516.6    7.1  10.1    17.2   46%
C. Vocational Education
Accelerated Industrial
Training                  83.8  130.5   214.3    2.8   4.3       7.1   19%
Agricultural Schools        24.0   15.1    39.1    0.8   0.5        1.3    4%
Farmer Training Centers   33.5   22.8    56.3    1.1   0.8          1.9    5%
Tourism Personnel
Training School           79.0   42.8   121.8    2.6   1.4       4.0   11%
Merchant Marine Training   3.6   35.1    38.7    0.1   1.2         1.3    4%
D.  Professional Services       40.7    -       40.7    1.4   -         1.4    4%
E.  Technical Assistance         5.0   20.0    25.0    0.2   0.7        0.9    2%
Base Line Costs           515.0  593.9  1108.9   17.2  19.8    37.0  100%
Contingencies
a)  Physical Increase       23.5   28.7    52.2    0.8   0.9        1.7    5%
b)  Price Increase          72.4   82.8   155.2    2.4   2.8        5.2   14%
Sub-Total              95.9  111.5   207.4    3.2   3.7        6.9   19%
TOTAL PROJECT COST   610.9  705.4  1316.3   20.4  23.5    43.9
3.29      The distribution of cost by category of expenditure is given in
Annex 12.  Academic and communal facilities would account for 35% of the
project cost, boarding 7%, staff-housing 1%, equipment and furniture 45%,
technical assistance 2%, professional services 4% and site development



- 20 -
6%. Construction costs are derived from recent school building costs in
Greece and based upon information obtained from public and private enter-
prises. The cost of the institutions compares well with similar Bank/IDA
financed institutions elsewhere (Annex 13).
3.30      The foreign exchange costs were derived from prevailing prices
in dollar equivalent at the time of appraisal, and adjusted for subsequent
currency exchange rate changes. To allow for cost changes due to exchange
rate variations an upward adjustment of 3% has been included in foreign
exchange base cost estimates, except for technical assistance. The adjust-
ment is based on the likely distribution of the countries of origin of the
procurement of goods and services for the project.
3.31      Contingencies:  The project cost includes a contingency allowance,
equal to 5% of estimated costs of buildings, site development, furniture and
equipment to cover any unforeseen physical increases which may emerge during
the design and building periods. Allowance is also made for price escalation
during the implementation period based on cost trends in recent years, equal
to 5.0% p.a. for buildings and site development, 5.5% p.a. for furniture,
and 6.0% p.a. for equipment. Total contingencies represent 19% of the
project cost without contingencies and 16% of the project cost with contin-
gencies (Annex 14).
3.32      Foreign Exchange Component:  The foreign exchange component of
about US$23.5 million equivalent, representing 53% of the total project cost,
has been calculated as follows: civil works and site development 26%; furni-
ture 35%; equipment 90% and technical assistance 80%..
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Administration.  Because of the number of participating agencies,
implementation of the individual project items, except the teacher training
academies, would be the responsibility of the technical services units of
the government entities involved. These would be answerable to a project
administration unit (Central Project Unit) to be established in the General
Directorate of Public Investment and Physical Planning of the Ministry of
Planning and Governmental Policy. The Central Project Unit would provide
overall management, coordinate and advise the participating technical serv-
ices units, and be responsible for liaison between the Bank and implementing
agencies. The Unit would include a full-time project director, an architect,
a programming officer, an accountant and a procurement specialist, appointed
in consultation with the Bank. As a result of discussions during negotia-
tions, three man-years of specialists services were added to the project
to assist the Central Project Unit, particularly in programming and in
equipment procurement. The appointment of the project director, architect
and programming officer and the provision of adequate facilities, support-
ing staff and funds for the effective operation of the Unit would be con-
ditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.



- 21 -
4.02      The Central Project Unit would be advised by a coordinating com-
mittee made up of representatives of each ministry or entity concerned. The
government submitted a plan, during negotiations, describing (a) the rela-
tionlship between the advisory committee, the central project unit and the
participating technical services uniits concerned, and (b) the division of
responsibilities between each government entity involved and the consultants
which it may engage. Each participating technical services unit would be
responsible for planning and supervising the construction of its project
institutions and for appointing consultant firms acceptable to the Bank on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The amount of required strength-
ening of the various technical services units was also discussed during nego-
tiations, and agreement was reached on the plans and timetables for such
strengthening.
4.03      The project unit established in the Ministry of Education under
the first Bank education loan would be responsible for the teacher training
academies included within the proposed project, but design and construction
would be carried out by the School Buildings Organization of the Ministry
(Appendix A). During negotiations, the relationship between this project
unit and the Central Project Unit was clarified.
4.04      Professional Services.  ihe Greek architectural, engineering, and
construction industries should have no difficulty in providing the necessary
services for the project. The estimated construction cost is $18 million,
less tihan 2% of total 1971 construction volume. About 2,000 licensed general
contractors bid actively for projects in all parts of the country and about
8,000 licensed consulting architects are available.  There is no shortage
of engineering services or sub-contractors.
4.05      Sites.  Of the 49 sites, 28 are acquired, 10 others have been
selected and are suitable, and 11 remain to be selected. During negotia-
tions,, the government provided assurances that (i) the remaining sites to
be selected will be agreeable to the Bank and (ii) all land for project in-
stitutions would be legally acquired in time to permit the scheduled start
of construction.  Land would be provided without cost to the project.
4.06      Procurement.  All contracts for civil works and for the supply of
furniture or equipment would be awarded under procedures consistent with the
Bank guidelines on international competitive bidding, based on contract docu-
ments approved by the Bank.  Detailed furniture and enuipment lists woul]d be
prepared for Bank approval during the design stages of ivmplementation.  Items
would be grouped to the extent practicable to form sizeable bid packages and
to permit bulk procurement. Domestic manufacturers of furniture would be
accorded a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of custom duty
generally applicable to competitive imports or 15/ of the c.i.f. prices,
whichever is lower. Foreign bids for furniture will be compared on a duty
free basis, and imports of teaching equipment are, in fact, duty free.
Greece has a well developed furniture industry, and it is not likely that
a substantial amount of furniture contracts could be won by foreign manu-
facturers. Similarly, in view of the competitiveness of the Greek cons-
truction industry, foreign contractors are unlikely to win bids.



- 22 -
4.07      Disbursements.  The proposed loan would finance the estimated for-
eign exchange component of US$23.5 million equivalent, approximately equiva-
lent to 53% of the total project cost of US$43.9 million. The proposed loan
would be disbursed (Annexes 15 and 16) on the basis of 100% of the c.i.f.
price of equipment and furniture manufactured outside of Greece, and 100%
of ex-factory cost of that manufactured in Greece, 100% of foreign exchange
technical assistance costs, and 25% of total expenditures on civil works.
The civil works percentage would be adjusted in the event of cost increases
to distribute disbursements over the project implementation period. Undis-
bursed funds would be available for cancellation.
V. AGREE.MENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on all issues in-
cluding the following principal points:
(a)  implementation of modifications to the decrees and regula-
tions governing curricula and management of the pedagogical
academies (para. 2.13);
(b)  the staff development plan of the University of Patras and
the availability of adequate scholarships for upgrading
prospective teachers (para. 3.10);
(c)  the staff development plans of the 'i'inistry of Agriculture
(para. 3.18) and of the National Tourism Organization (para.
3.24), as well as the timely appointment of the directors
of the project institutions in each case;
(d) the timely availability of all project sites consistent
with the construction schiedule (para. 4.05).
5.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be (a) a project director,
architect, and programmiing officer would be appointed on a full-time basis
to the Central Project Unit in consultation with the Bank and (b) the Unit
would be provided with adequate facilities, supporting staff, and funds for
effective operation (para. 4.01).
5.03      Conditions of disbursement would be (a) for the University of
Patras, a bill prescribing the university's organizational and administrative
structure and operational procedures, acceptable to the Bank, should be passed
into law (para. 3.13); (b) for the American Farm School, the government should
obtain a legal ag,reement from the foundation which owns and operates the
school that the buildings and equipment to be provided under this project
will be used for the purposes of the project (para. 3.20).
5.04      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$23.5
million to the Hellenic State, repayable over a 20 year period, including
a 5 year grace period.



APPENDIX A
Page 1
APPENDIX A
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Structure
1.        Basically the education system has a three-tiered structure of:
(i) 6 primary grades of compulsory education, (ii) 6 secondary grades,
divided into a first and second cycle of three grades each, and (iii) 1-6
years of post-secondary or higher education (Chart I).
Primary Education
2.        School attendance is compulsory from age 5-1/2 through 11.  The
system in 1970 statistically included over 100% of the age group, due to
the inclusion of enrollments in evening primary schools for adolescents,
and some over-age primary pupils in day schools. Retention rates for the
primary school are a high 85%; the drop-out is attributable mainly to the
difficulties of school attendance in the remote areas. Enrollments have
fluctuated between 972,000 in 1957 and 922,000 in 1970, paralleling the
low population growth rates. All teachers are qualified and of satisfac-
tory academic standard (post-secondary level) but the teacher preparation
course needs considerable reform to take advantage of modern education
principles and technology. The teacher-pupil ratio of 1:33 appears satis-
factory but conceals the oversized classes which prevail in the cities.
Secondary General Education
3.        The backbone of the Greek secondary education system is the
Gymnasium, the traditional academic school. Although additional mathe-
matics and science periods have been introduced in lieu of some classical
studies, the teaching remains theoretical.
4.        Enrollments have increased from 226,000 in 1957 to 461,000 in
1970 and graduates from 20,000 to 38,000 in 1969. There is an apparent
wastage of 41% between grades 7 and 12, but part of this loss is due to
transfers to vocational education. The teacher:pupil ratio of 1:31 re-
flects the oversized classes resulting from admitting students in excess
of the capacities of the schools. An even greater weakness, however, is
that the teachers are highly qualified academically but have had little or
no pedagogical training so that the advantages of the broader general cur-
riculum are vitiated by inadequate teaching methods. Greece is remedying
this weakness by initiating a systematic program of secondary teacher
education.



APPENDIX A
Page 2
Secondary Technical Education
5.        This comprises (a) lower technical education at Grade 7, 8 and
9 level for the most part constituting trades training, and (b) middle
level technical education at Grade 10, 11 and 12 level, leading to jobs
and to post-secondary technical programs. Private schools dominate the
technical education field:
1969-1970 - Enrollments
Number of Schools    %      Students    % Public
Lower                                 164           36      43,868        24%
Middle                                293           64      43,427        21
Total                 457          100      87,295
=mm         =mm   ......  uimm      mm
6.        A comprehensive range of courses is offered at both levels.  The
majority of students attend the evening courses which provide the full pro-
gram in four instead of three years. Some 45% of enrollments are in the
lower level electrical installation and mechanics courses. A number of the
middle level schools, although so legally classified, are post-secondary
institutions since they require the secondary school leaving certificate
for entry.
Post-Secondary Technical Education
7.        Public post-secondary technical education in 1968 was available
at only two sub-engineering schools in Athens and Salonika, and two elec-
tronics institutes in Athens and Crete with total enrollments of about 2,700
in courses of 3 and 4 years' duration. Enrollments in eleven private schools
of 5,400 represent 66% of combined enrollments in post-secondary technical
education. Employers were unanimously of the opinion that acceptable tech-
nician level training virtually does not exist in Greece, apart from provi-
sions for deck officers for the Greek merchant marine. This is the area
which the Bank first education project seeks to improve and expand.
8.        A well-equipped technical teachers training college (SELETE),
sponsored by UNDP and UNESCO and assisted by USAID, began operations in
1969. This should considerably improve the quality of the teaching in
the technical schools. SELETE has a responsible function within the first
Bank education project to provide programs for the preparation of the proj-
ect school teachers.
Higher Education
9.        The universities had a combined enrollment in 1968-69 of 72,600
distributed by discipline as shown in Annex 3. The quality of instruction
has suffered from the dramatic increase in enrollments that has taken place



APPENDIX A
Page 3
in recent years without proportionate increases in staff 1/ and facilities.
The Government has taken steps to limit enrollments in higher education,
and competition for available places has become intense. In 1969, of 51,000
applicants for admission to higher education (including teacher training)
only 12,065 or 23% were admitted.
10.       Apart from problems of curriculum, organization and administra-
tion, enrollments, research and staffing, there is a comparatively high pro-
portion of repeaters at this level (33% of first year students in 1968-69),
and the productivity of higher educational institutions, both qualitatively
and quantitatively, is low.
Organization for School Construction (O.S.K.)
11.       The service is divided into (i) the design and (ii) the implementa-
tion sections. For the design section, eight architects deal with primary,
secondary general and technical schools and primary teacher training colleges.
When finished, the drawings are handed to the implementation section for
tendering, construction and supervision. Thereafter, the design architects
have no connection with the building.
12.       For buildings which are not designed by the O.S.K. but given to
private consultant firms, it appears that consultants do not respect the
standards, and areas are greatly exaggerated. Designs submitted to the
0.S.K. for approval should be more critically reviewed and made to conform
to standards.
13.       As a result of reinforcement, the O.S.K. will spend all the bud-
get allocated for school construction this year. It is now capable of
undertaking the design and supervision of the new Pedagogical Academics in-
cluded in the Project. However, careful control will be required to over-
come the two weak points mentioned above.
Some Notes on Training outside the Formal System
14.       The Apprentice Training Centers:  For the most part, the centers
are located in unsuitable rented quarters with little of the equipment,
visual aids and instructional materials considered essential to effective
instruction. Instruction is usually given by persons overqualified tech-
nically for the level of theoretical knowledge required, but lacking the
practical experience required for the training of apprentices. In addition,
there is little supervision of employment experiences of apprentices.
15.       To make the apprenticeship training and supervision program more
purposeful, the facilities of the functionally-built and appropriately
equipped accelerated training centers should be available to apprenticeship
1/   Teacher/student ratio in 1968-1969 was 1:35 (but including assistant
laboratory/workshop instructors as teaching staff).



APPENDIX A
Page 4
also. This can be done with minor adjustments quite economically and the
apprenticeship program be extended as the accelerated training center net-
work is expanded.
16.       The Tourism Industry:  Some supplementary training programs have
been recently organized. The National Employment Organization has coope-
rated since 1969 in operating accelerated two-month courses to provide
operatives with minimum acceptable training for the hotel and catering
industry:
1969-1970       1970-1971
Enrollment                         245              n.a.
Output                              186             650
17.       Another measure also started in 1969 has been a program of inten-
sive training of university students to take up summer jobs. University
catering facilities and hotels are used. Output was 250 in 1970, 286 in
1971. Training is given in all hotel and catering trades except cookery,
but mostly of a basic character. Enrollments and outputs have not been
satisfactory - 100 enrollments in 1971 with 40 completing the course.
18.       A small apprentice school has operated in Mytylene since 1965,
mainly to train ships' stewards. Total output since 1965 has been 155
(25 in 1971).
Analysis and Evaluation
19.       The education and training system has some favorable features
on which to base future needed developments. The low population growth
rate and the present comparatively high enrollment ratios of school age
population at all levels (Annex 2) allows the rare opportunity to plan
primarily for improvement rather than expansion.  This strategy emphasis
is under-scored also by comparatively:
(i)  high and improving retention rates of 85% in primary,
67% in first cycle general secondary, and 82% in the
second cycle, with evening facilities to pick up
dropouts;
(ii)  high promotion rates - 95% in primary and 90% in
secondary;
(iii)  high progression rates - 70% from primary to secondary,
and 30% from secondary to higher.
20.       There is no problem of adequate supply of output from one level
of education to satisfy all intake requirements at the next level. In
addition. virtually 100% of teachers in primary, secondary general and



APPENDIX A
Page 5
higher education and 90% in secondary technical education are qualified
academically. Nor are there any significant imbalances in enrollments
between male and female, except in higher education and in second level
vacational.
21.       These enviable characteristics are somewhat offset by some nega-
tive features which adversely affect the quality and productivity of the
system:
(i) objectives and content of education which are not in all
cases consistent with the needs of the developing economy;
(ii) administrative rigidity: laws pertaining to education and
training in Greece are extremely detailed and specific in
character, prescriptive and restrictive in spirit, un-
imaginatively interpreted and inflexibly applied. Little
can be dealt with by administrative regulations, depart-
mental directive or delegated authority. As a result,
school administrators and staff are given little opportunity
to take the initiative to deal with changing situations;
(iii) a teaching approach which is too theoretical at all levels,
the result of a complex of factors - inadequate knowledge
and skills in modern methodology and teaching techniques,
oversized classes, complicated and obsolescent examination
practices. The major need is for improved pedagogical
training for the academically-qualified teachers and the
provisions of a learning- teaching environment in which they
can function actively;
(iv) the need for administrative, organizational and curricula
changes in the universities; and
(v) negligible educational research activity, and the failure
of the universities to lead in education change.



I                   A



APPENDIX B
Page 1
APPENDIX B
THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The proposed program is given below and in the accompanying schedule:
A.   University of Patras
(i) Specialists as shown below to help establish the new departments
and help prepare programs for undergraduate and graduate courses, equipment
lists, laboratory and layout designs, etc.. As far as possible, these
specialists should work as a team under the dean of the school to develop
inter-disciplinary programs:
1 specialist in Civil Engineering                    1 man-year
1 specialist in Mechanical Engineering               1 man-year
1 specialist in Metallurgy & Science of Materials  1 man-year
1 specialist in Chemical Engineering                 1 man-year
1 specialist in Physics                              1 man-year
1 director of Computer Services                      1 man-year
(ii)  1 specialist in librarianship to assist in the
preparatory work to operation of the library,
and to train local personnel                       1 man-year
(iii) Fellowships for periods varying from three months
to one year duration, as necessary, to provide top adminis-
trators (e.g. rector, deans, heads of departments, key admin-
istrative personnel), with opportunities to visit at least
two or three universities in different countries, to observe
the administration and organization of universities, schools,
departments, curriculum development committees, relationships
with industry, etc.                                           12 man-years
B.   Vocational Agriculture
(i) Specialists as shown below to advise: (a) the Ministry of Agri-
culture Training Department and the Extension services, and (b) the directors
of the agricultural schools and farmer training centers:
1 specialist in Fisheries Education                  1 man-year
1 specialist in Farm Institution Management          1 man-year
(ii)  Fellowships of three to six months duration, as
necessary, to directors of the project agricultural schools
and eight to twelve farmer training center directors to visit
similar institutions abroad, and for the training of spe-
cialists for the project agricultural institutions.            6 man-years



APPENDIX B
Page 2
C.   Tourism
Fellowships of three to six months duration to
the directors and other key personnel of the project
tourism schools as necessary, to observe similar and
related institutions abroad.                                   6 man-years
D.   Merchant Marine Schools
(i) Two fellowships of three months duration for the
Director and Assistant Director of the Training Department
of the Ministry of Merchant Marine to observe similar and
related training departments and training institutions
abroad, and
(ii) 12 fellowships of three to six months
duration, as necessary, for the four directors of the
project institutions and the eight heads of departments
in the four schools                                            5 man-years
E.   Pedagogical Academies
Six to ten fellowships, some of six months,
some of one academic session, to highly qualified
(academically) personnel, but who have little or no
pedagogical training, to study teacher training
abroad.                                                        6 man-years
F.   Accelerated Industrial Training
(i) Two specialists to advise on the implementa-
tion of the apprenticeship law and to help train key
personnel for this service, and                                2 man-years
(ii) Fellowships of three to six months duration
as necessary to provide experience/training abroad of
directors and key personnel of the integrated indus-
trial training and apprenticeship centers.                     6 man-years
G.   The Central Project Unit
Three man-years of specialists to help estab-
lish and organize the Central Project Unit and assist
in the training of its personnel and, as required, to
assist the personnel of the technical services units
of the agencies involved in the project.                       3 man-years



APPENDIX B
Page 3
The technical assistance program should be a flexible one. Within
the total amount allocated to technical assistance and subject to Bank agree-
ment, the length of the specialists' visits or the fellowship awards could
be varied as needs and circumstances may warrant over the project period.
In particular, where bilateral or other multilateral assistance for any of
the above is obtained, the specific project item allocation could be used
for another need related to the project.



I



Schedule to Appendix B
Page 1
SCHEDULE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4
Quarter         Quarter          Quarter          Quarter
1st 2nd 3rd 4th 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 1st 2nd 3rd 4th
PATRAS UNIVERSITY
Specialists:
Civil Engineering                     x   x   x   x
Mechanical Engineering                x   x   x   x
Metallurgy & Science of                x   x   x   x
Materials
Chemical Engineering                  x   x   x   x
Physics                                                x   x   x   x
Computer  Services                             x   x   x   x
Librarianship                                                   x   x   x   x
Fellowships:
Dean, Head of Dept. (2)
Admin. (1)                          x   x
Dean, Heads of Dept.(2)
Admin.(1)                                    x   x
Rector, Heads of Dept.(2)
Admin. Heads of Dept.                                x   x
(2), Tech. Services,                                          x   x
Librarian, Admin.(l)
Others                                                            x   x
Others                                                                  x   x
Vocational Agriculture
Specialist in Fisheries                                   x   x                   x   x
Education
Specialist in Farm Manage-                               x   x                    x   x
ment
Fellowships:
Directors (Schools 2,                          x   x
Centers 2)
Directors (Schools 1,                                  x   x
Centers 4)
Others                                                      x   x   x   x
Vocational Industrial
Training
Specialists in Apprentice-                           x   x   x   x
ship Programs
Fellowships:
Directors(2)                           x   x
Directors & Key Person-                                 x   x
nel (2)
Directors & Key Person-                                         x   x
nel (8)



Schedule to Appendix B
Page 2
Year  1         Year  2          Year  3          Year  4
Quarter         Quarter          Quarter          Quarter
1st 2nd 3rd 4th 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 1st 2nd 3rd 4th
Tourim
Fellowships:
Directors of Sbhools                          x   x
Others                            x   x                x   x
Maritime
Fellowships:
Training Dept. Directors,
School Directors (2)       x   x
Training Dept. Assistant
Directors, School
Directors (2)                                        x   x
Others                                        x   x            x   x
Pedagogical Academies
Fellowships:
Professional Upgrading(4)                     x   x
Professional Upgrading(4)                              x   x   x   x
Central Project Unit
Specialists:
Project Administrator/            x   x   x   x
Programmer
Architect                         x   x   x   x
Procurement Officer                       x   x   x   x



GREECE: STRUCTURE OF THE DEVELOPING EDUCATION SYSTEM
PRIMARY                 >                            SECONDARY                   ><POST SECONDARY                               R -
MEDICAL SCHOOLS
AGRICULTURAL AND ENGINEERING SCHOOLS
< FIRST CYCLE->             <-SECOND CYCLE>            I 
KINDERGARTEN                                                                        SECONDARY GENERAL
GRADE/                   I                                                    '      8       9          10        I      1 2        BUSINESS AND POLITICAL SCIENCES
YEAR
D1
TOURISM                    NUTICAL
To be phased out                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~VOCATIONAL AGRICULTURE  SUB-ENGI  NGEI 
* ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS
NOTE: The Gge- grade relationship applies only when students enter the school at 5l2-6  LOWER TECHNICAL   MIDDLE TECHNICAL
and proceed through the system without repeating a class.           34             13                                      TD2
LABOR MARKET
AGE     4       5       6        7       8       9      10       11          12      13      14          15      16      17          18      19      20       21      22      23      24
IBRD-4562(5R)    <






GREECE: EDUCATION PYRAMID
ENROLLMENT BY EDUCATIONAL LEVEL, 1967-68
YEAR OF STUDY
HIGHER / POST SECONDARY
18                                                                1,001
17                                                               2792
16                                                               1
15                                                              1  2
BOYS                                                           GIRLS
14
13                                                       ... 'GENERAL
SECONDARY/  I  TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL
SECONDARY                                                                         I/ 
SECOND    12                                             7,000         284 1955             3,000
SECOND                                                                    26 25   1   230 2051     3,000
C     { R S T                        14,10     13,000                       808             3        3   000
9                  13,000 ~~~~~~~~~314                 033500
FIRST
CYCLE        8                             13,0010                                                      500
7                       14,000                                                                   00
PRIMARY
6                                                           75,1   68, 72                I*
5
43                                                                    8096
2                                                               4     78,328
100,000    80,000    60,000    401000    20 6o          3 0 60300    4o,6                  60,00           00    100,000
NOTE: Figures for higher education are totals.                                                                                     IBRD-4561(3R)



I                          I



r~ ~ ~~~~-K e"                                               0.00.0t|t;!   =ct> >o      oeswo<     
w  C    X Ss e  = or;2          0  > 2 Y          
O~ ~~~~~2 a-0 0E                                                                       j     a*Otn <  .0   sn&  
s a  -        U                                        n =S  o  a     -      a  o s..     .     ....s.
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   a..-z  
2 Ca                         I         w 2-  -  R          - . X  ,  s   s; > a * 3 n (g g C S ~ N g = l * s R R a e . a . z S * . .. .a. .   a7. .   2 X Z2s a r
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ll~;:~~m.,L  6,  6: s                                                                  L. R      wRYsa        
- - -                                     ,,,.,,~~-- -2- -   -  - -   - - - 
S  n               .0 0  0 _ o_ 2 o _ o  o _ o 0_ _    o o 2 22- S   _ S    -oS t 2 2   o S  _2  _o  o22o 2o o o.0o  o .. o    oS   o2 SS S o  2 S 2S S  
0                                                     _           _ _                      . . . . .R
n______________________________________                                                                         7   -   -   -   -  -   -_  w  - n  .   -   -  a  w  O
95S2.'       o          e      .oo.0    000.0ww 00.w0.o   00.00.00.0    00w _-.DW_W-W00S                                   0w wgS.o20.   .0.0.0000& o
a _0                                                              0   0000                  2-0.000           0.. 0 <S   00.00.0ne  n  02
zEcrNw:: wW      wwo>,  wWw_, w    NooW         wtw~w    ow  >-wwww  0>  wF                          ww-          0w0.00 0000Hc
ovvet^ao-a~~~                 ~~~~ owo                           00 0           000w 0.0bwF                         0         0W-w    F99W0Ww0_
Sw 0< _   w  04ow~         o         ~                                    nwWooo ; 0nw ; w--@< , w  00.o    o.0cX * -a
0100    00 _           0.o   0._    w 00.w0x    0.=-,w00w0w.0..0x00s0000                    =00___00.._0.. 
t   ws o   w  w  >wS0gwrx@89vgw w    woSw88  wggwDg    2owSsOOg63wwwg  8rSx2ew    ww      mwwws6ro @>W           e c s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
R    d _c0                                            0            0   n>=_  3[It
a ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    . ww0  0 w          00SM Wwwws  s>0  0wXw 00   .0 00 00 0                           00w.w    00w0 wc0> gww Rg        w






GREECE
Institutions, Enrollments and Teachers
By Level and Type of Education, 1969-1970
E N R O L L M E N T S                                                   T E A C H E R S                                        NUMBER OP INSTITUTIONS
As /                                                       l                   Teacher-      Teacher-        Teacher-
Appropriate        In Public       No. and 7.                       No. and %       Pupil         Pupil          Pupil
Total       Age Group          Education       Female             Total        in Public       Ratio          Ratio          Ratio            Total        Public      Private
Public         Private
Pre-Primary               82,926            NA               71,635         31,640            2,542          2,235          1:33           1:32           1:36            2,470         2,180        290
86%           38%                              87%                                                                                          .
Primary                  947,081          1107/             882,821        451,718           28,259         25,902          1:33           1:34           1:28           10,026         9,369        657
93%          48%                               91%7
Secondary Ceneral        425,089           50%              374,344        197,825           13,7781/       11,878          1 31           1:32           1:26              840-          660        180
887/          47%
3/            3/            3/             3/               2/
Lower and Middle           79 000            9%-             21,000          6,300            3,3503/        1,400          1:24           1:16-          1:29-             711-          295        416
Technica'                  ,8%                                              8%
.  l  l                                    .                                                            2/
Total Second Level       504,089            59%             395,344        204-,125                                                                        ...            1,551-          955        596
_____________      787.          407.%_                                         _  _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _
5/
Universities               78,576-/        9.3'              100%7          33%                 980-/          980 -        1:74-         1:74-           NA                 10            10
5/
Post-Secondary              3 841                    i        100%7          48%                 160-           160          1:24          1:24            NA                 19            19
Teacher Training                          1.5%7
Post-Secondary              6,037-                             50.                                                           ...              ...                 ...
Technical                       6                                                                      l
Total Higher              88,454-         10.8%                977           ,,.                 ...           ...9.* |       ..
... Hot available                                                 3/Estimate based on 1967-1968 figures
NA  Not applicable                                                A/Includes 2,080 foreigners
I/ Assuming 1,900 full-time teachers in                          5/1968-1969 figures and excluding
private education                                                assistant instructors
2/ 1967-1968 figures                                             6/Incomplete data



I                                                    I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I



04               ,         .        ,___                            1___
C~~~~~~~~~~~~I  *'*'                                             .'..,,   N         _
WN-"            , ,        44       4, , ,                                         ,,* 
44                   I                   .... .. ,., - 4n
e0                                                    44            H                    H     N    
t X < ,~~ 0,    0,  0                     v         t4                     400440   ''||'    '|'I|    ., 
X~ ~~~~~~t 24 _4-                     ,   A                                0000l'''          ''''   
PO~~~~~~~~~0000                             00                                         __ 4_44000~1  4 ~ ~ 000






GREECE
OUTPUT IN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
BY FIELD OF STUDY
1966            .967                      1968                                      1969                             1970
Schools/Departments                    Graduates       Graduates          Graduates       PhD's Awarded            Graduates         PhD's Awarded            Output
A.   MEDICAL                                523              810                713               174                    833               177                    832
B.   DENTISTRY                              145(a)           199(a)             214                 3                    230                 7                    233
C.  AGRICULTURE
Veteri-ary                                                                 36                5                      27                 1
Ac-iculture                                                               290                2                    333                  6
Forestry                                                                   68                _                     34
Total                            l55(b)           198tr)            __7 7                                     394                 7
D.   ENGINEERING
Civil Engineering                                                         317                 1                   402                 4
Architectural                                                             164                 1                    221                 -
Agricaltlr-l Engineering
and Survey                                                                95                2                     149                 -
Eletrical_
Mechanical - Electrical                                                   175                                      185                 7
Chemi-al                                                                   67                3                      93                 I
Metallurgy - Mining                                                        44                 2                     39                 2
Total                            476_551                              8.2                01,089                                  14                    787
E.   SCIENCE - MATl'l
Maths                                                                     296                 1                    328                 I
Radio - Electricity                                                        19                 -                    1I
Pharmace-tical                                                            144                 1                    150                 6
Physical Science-                                                         216                 2                    394                 8
Cbeins try                                                                 72                 4                    i42                 4
Physics - Maths                                                                                                                        5
Bi.'lagy
Geo,raphy - ?hysi-l SUcienres-                                            177                 3                    205                11
Total                             1t7             711              9__124230                                                     35                  1.319
F.   ECONOMICS  BUSINES AND
MANACEMENT STUDIES                                                        569                                      704                 1 I
C.   LAW AND POLITICAL SCIENCES
Law Schools                                                                860                 7                  1,289                 4
Political Scirnces                                                         686                 2                    991                 4
lotal                                           1,693               1,46                  9                  2.280                 8                  2.959
It.   FINE ARTS                               47              51                  39                 _                     65                                       50
1.   THEOLOGY                                                                    109                7                     138                 9
J.   HUMANITIES
-anguage and Literat-re                                                   370                10                    298                15
History - Archaeoilgy                                                     180                 -                    233                 -
English and Gre-k Literature                                              156                                      154
mre-oh and G-eRk Literature              .                                 59                 _4
Geman and Greek LiLteratue                                                  8                 _                      24
Italian and Greek Literature                                                2                 _                       4
Total                             6;7c            738(0)              775                10                    760                15                  1  1  (E)
GRAND TOTALS                               4,590           4,951               '195                231                  7.723               273                  7,743
Including Vti y                      ()Agriclture  ForestrY only               (c) Including Theoogy



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                        i 



GREECE
ACTUAI AND PROJECTED ENROLLNEMTyS BY LEVEL AND TYPE
FORMAL EDUCATION SYSTEM -  IN TIIOIJSANDS
1967 - 1968                                     1969 - 1970                                     1975 - 1976                                      1979 - 1980
School-Age2.                     As % of        School-Age                       As % of        School-Ago                        As 'b of    School-Age                      As ; /   of
Population-       Enrollment   Age-GSoop        Popu' ation      Enrollment   Age-Croup         Population       Enrol Iment   Age-Group       Population      Lnrollment   Age-Groop
in Age-Cronlp                                   i, Age-Croup                                    in Age-Group                                   in A e-. roup
A. Primary
(Age 6 through 11)                  883            973           110%                857           947            1107             865             910             105%          865           870              100%
S. Secondary General
First Cycle                        421             245           58%                431                                           437             330              7t6.         443            420              95%
(Age 12 through 14)
Second Cycle                       414         1 59              38%                412                                           415              165              39%         434            140              327
(Age 15 through 17)                         I
Sub-Total  Second-
art. [ieneral          835             404            49%_               843           42i             501             852             495                           877            560              64%
C.  Secondary Technical-
Vocational
Fitst Cycle                        421              37            9X                43              40                            437              30                77         443
(Age 12 through 14)
Second Cycle                       414              39            9X                 412            39                            415               60              14'.        434             90              21%
(Age 1S through 17)
Sub-Total  Second-
ary Te-h.-Voc.                   835                                              843             79             97.            8s2              90               10%         877             90              10%
S).  Secondary Level (B+C)                        .
FiPst Cycle                        421             282            6!/.               431                                           437             360              82%         443            420                95%.
Second Cycle                       414             198            4 47/              412                                          415              225              53%         434            230               53%
Total Seconda.ry (B+C)                                                                                                                              5                6 |                         650
835             480           587.                843          504             59%             852             585              %68%         877            650              74%
E,  Sligher Education                                            
(Age 18 through 23)                                                                                                                                                                               27
University Status                  850              69            8.1i%              841            78              9.2%           825              76              9.27         865             75            8.6%
Non-University                                      13            1.4%7                             13              1 67. ,                         18              2.21                   I     27            3.2%
Total lligher Education                                                                                                                       1     .   
T      850              82            9.5%               841            91            10S. %           825       1      94             11.4%7        865           1112           11.87.
Grand Total A+D+E                 2,568           1,535             597.            2,541         1,54:'            60/.          2,542           1,589               67 7     2,607           1,622              62%7
_ (Age 6 through 23)                                                                                               _  _   _                       _ i  i                                       __i
I/  ERclude tr-Ining activities of the Ministry of Labor
('.celero.ed Training  -nd Apprentineship) and Prc-Pri-ary Educotion
2/  PopOlation dot., for 1970. 1975, 1980 supplied by Central Planning Bureau                                                                                                       em



GREECE
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHERS
IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS (ALL MINISTRIES EXCEPT MIN. OF LABOR)
ADDITIONAL
1967 - 1968                                             1979 - 1980                                     1979 - 1967
-______                                       -                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3/
Enrollment        Teachers       T   P Ratio          Enrollment         Teachers        T   P Ratio            Enrollmnent           Teachers
Pre-Primary                                      54,000 (85%)         1,300         1 : 40             80,000 (80%)          2,600           1   30                 26,000                1,300
Primary Education                               903,000 (93%)        28,000         1 : 32            825,000 (95%)         27,000           1   30                -78,000                 -500
Secondary General
First Cycle                            223,000                                               369,000               12,000           1 : 30                127,000
Second Cycle                           138,000                                              ______120000            4,300           1 : 28                -18,000
Total:  Secondary General                       361C000 (0)__ 11,0 700              1                 480,000 (87%)         16,300                           _ 1  : 29  119,000          5,600__
Secondary Technical
First Cycle                             11,000 (30%)                                                                                                      -11,000
Second Cycle                             9,000 (26%)                                          54,000 (60%)          2,700           1 : 20                 45,000         _
Total:  Secondary Technical                      20,000               1,200 I/                         54,000 (60%)           2 700          1 : 20                 34,000                1,500
Higher Education
University                              69,000 (100%)        2,026          1 :34             75,000 (100%)          5,000            : 15                   6,000               3,000
Non-University                           8,000 (60%)           400a         1 : 20      _    20,000 (75%)            1,400          1.: 15                  12 000               1,000
Total:  Higher Education                         7720205000                                                                   6 400                 2 __________     18,000              4,000
as percentage of total enrollment at this level i.e. remainder in private education
1' Estimated full-time equivalency
2/ Full-time equivalency not known
3/ This indicates only the minimum additional physical places required, as it does not
include new places required for replacement of obsolete places or for reducing pre-
sent heavy over-crowding of facilities.



ANNEX 7
GREECE
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE RECURRENT, CAPITAL
AND TOTAL EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION 1969-1971
(in Millions of US Dollars)
Source & Type                             1969          1970           1971
RECURRENT
Ministry of Education                154.6         162.8          181.3
Other Public 1/                        6.3            7.3          10.8
(Public as % Total
Recurrent Budget)                  (8.8)         (9.3)          (9.7)
Private 2/                            86.4          95.0          106.0
Total Recurrent                      27.3          26T.2
CA-PITAL
Ministry of Education                 26.0          45.0           41.0
Other Public 3/                        1.7            2.4           4.0
(Total Public as % of
Public Investment)                 (7.7%)       (11.1%)         (9.7%)
Private 4/                             3.3            3.3           3.8
Total Capital                         31.0           50.7           7
TOTAL EXPENDITURES
(Recurrent & Capital):
Ministry of Education                180.6          207.8         222.3
Other Public 1,3/                      8.0            9.7          14.8
Private                               89.7          98.3          109.8
Public & Private                     278.3         315.8          346.9
TOTAL MINISTRY AS % GM? 5/                  2.14           2.24           2.16
OTHER PUBLIC AS % GIMP 5/                   0.10           0.10           0.14
TOTAL PRIVATE AS A GNP 5/                   1.o6           1. 05          1.06
1/  Includes Ministries of Labor, Agriculture and Social Services.
T/  1971 private recurrent expenditure is a mission estimate based on past
ratios of private to public outlays.
3/  Includes Ministry of Labor for 1969-71 and Ministry of Agriculture, 1971.
Other capital expenditures not available.
4/  1970 private capital expenditure is an official estimate; the 1971 figure
is a mission estimate based on past ratios of Private to public outlays.
5/  GNP at current market prices, 1971 G&I? estimated on basis of past ratios
of GNP at market prices to GNP at factor cost.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I



.03
zq ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 0    03  03  03  03  03  03  03  03  03
000 e3 3 0 0 0 0 o3   03n O C                         N    <                    Q N O
e 
030      03 30,00.0 0                        03  03   03 _3 o3   03  03  03   0
_    00 _     3   03  03  03  03    00 3 3 3.. 3 3 - o3   03  03P
000       0    3 03 0    3 0    0    0 0                   30 0 0 0 0 0
00                             03 3 3 3 3 3 30                           3 0    3
_0          03   R3 o3 20 o3 03  83 R3   o R3 0    3
30 e             3 3 3 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 _3   03  03  03 X
.8.00    3 0    0    3 0    3 0
R00                                           03  03 -3   03  03  03 R3 a03  I
o3 0i     -    <                           -            03   03   03030W 30303
-00  ~ 3                                 v                          
03~  ~ *0                                                              03 .n      03  03  03   03  03N S     
ot     .3 .0 c0                                             03  03  R3   o    R    R    03   R
e  U a _ .,, < so I  r 1
e ~ ~    ~ ~ 0    03 0    0    3 0    3 03 0    3 0                                 
H_~     ~~~00000   03 030  30 0  30  3 30 
Ed ~  ~     ~    3                                                                                                00   O O O O  
P1~~~~~0                        00                                                                            03 o->   
; ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     0    03  03 =3   03 0    3 0    3 0    3 0    3 0
m ~   ~~~~~ _                    0
e ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ 0 o3   03 0    3 0                    3 0    3 0    3 0    3 0    3                      0
o ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ 0    03  03  03  03  03   03 o             3 o  3 o  3 0        3 0
30                   03  03  03 H         03 a  3   03    3 -   3    3   03  03   0           R 3 R 8
E  e00                                                                                           00   0  O O   
Xz > =                     o  a  R  S  R  R  R  R~~0033
_  _   l    l  -N                                                               e~~~~~~~~~000
_0           _3 _3 03  03   03                               _ 03  03  _3   cc3   0    03        H
0,o         -3    0 0 0 0 0 0                    3 0    3    3 0    3 0               3           000
3 r,3 30 0 0                                         03  03   0    03   0 S3   0 83                   0388088303
03   03  03    03                -3 30 0 0 0                     03  03   03  03  03           03 030R
0    o      _        3   .3 e33 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3                                             3 0              33
_0           P               *           0         I        *    0        ~*                                 o30
03          00    03   I-  03                                                                                ..00 0 0 0 03 3 3 0    3 03 0  3
03           00    03  03  03    03            3030      0      a030       R030      R03        03
_3           _0     o3 0    3 0    3 0    0 0                  3 0    3 0    3 0    3
e3          o0       o33        3    3    3    3    3     3    3- 03          3    3-0         0              .01






G R E E C E
Accelerated Vocational Training Centers
Locations, Trainee Places, Enrollments, Outputs
Accelerated  Training                             Apprenticeship Training
Item No.             ~~~Number of    Number of                                                                                  Total
Item No.                    0courses        courses     Trainee    Annual        Number of    Class         Annual       Annual
double    i  single       Places      Output                                               O courses  size  Enroll-  output  Outputs
shift         shift                                                            ment
Construction and Equipment                                                    I
1          Athens                         5            3           195          390           3           30             90           22         412
2          Athens                         7            3           255          510           3           30             90           22         532
3          Kavalla                        8            2           270          540           2           30             60           15         555
4          Agrinion                       2            2            90          180           2           30             60           15         195
5          Ioannina                       4            3           165          330           3           30             90           23         333
6          Lamia                          3            3           135          270           3           30             90           23         293
i 7        Kalamata                       4            1           135          270           2           30             60           15         285
8          Serres                         6            3           225          450           3           30             90    I      45         495
Sub-Total       _                           1,470        2,940                                     720          180       3,120
Equipment Only
3 mobile centers               -            3           45           90            -           -              -            -           90
9          Larissa                        5       !    5           225          450           5           30            150           37    i   487
10          Pyrgos                         4            1            75          150           1           30             30            8         158
11          Canea                          _            8           120          240           2           30       j     60           15         255
j  12       Argos                          -            6            90          180           4           30            120           30         210
13          Rhodes                         3            2            go      1   180           2           30             60           15         195
Sub-Total       _                             645        1,290                                     420          105    1_395
Supplementary Equipment                                          I i
14          Athens                         -            -       i   240          480           -           -        I                             480
15          Salonika                       _       I    _           270           540                                                             540
16          Patras                                -         -        90          180           _           _              _            -          180
17          Volos                          -            -           120          240           _           - _                                    240
18          Iraklion                       -            -            90          180           _           - _                                    180
Sub-Total            -            -           810        1,620                                                            1!620 -  -  -   1,62
Total                -            -         2,925        5,850           -           -           1,140          285       6,135
,                                                                                         :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>
1/  As drop-outs are negligible, outputs are assumed the same as enrollments.



GREECE
Enrollments and Outputs by
Course - Project Schools
A. The Vocational Agriculture Schools
!Enrollments Enrollments Enrollmentsi                 Graduates   Graduates
ofofofTotal.  Grdute    Ordute
School and/or Location                of           of           of         Capacity       of           of
1st Year     2nd Year    3rd Year                  2nd Year    3rd  Year
Kavalla                             45          45            _             90          40 
Ioannina                            45          45            -             90          40
Canea                              445          45            _             90          40
Salonika                      J    80      I   80             60           220          -            60
Total              j   215         215            60           490         120      |    60
B.  The Tourism Professions Training Schools
i                I                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~Reception and
SHotel and      Cookery   Billing Machine       Trainees
School                    RetuatBligMcieOutput                                                       Beds
Department      Operators          Total
Department                  Department                         _
Salonika                     150           60             30               240         210          210
Iraklion                     150          60              _                210         180          210
Nafplion                     150           60             _                210         180          210
Corfou                  ;   150            60             -                210    j   180           210
Athens                       150     I   120              30               300         240          270
Total            750          360             60             1,170         990      j 1,110
fr-
m



G R E E C E
Enrollments and Outputs by Course
Project Merchant Marine Schools
Institution           Deck Officers           Engineering        Radio-Telegraphists       Crew Training
Enrollment   Output   Enrollment   Output   Enrollment   Output   Enrollment   Output
Alexandroupolis           -           -          -           -           -          -          1000        1000
Preveza                   -           -          -           -           -          -          1000        1000
Patras                    80          4o        120          40          80         4o         1000        1000
Salonika                  -           -         120          40          -          -          1000        1000
Total       80          4o        2h0          80          80          4o        hoOO        4000



ANNEX 12
GREECE - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURES
Drachma Millions           US$ Millions          %  of
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Total
:L. Construction
Academic & Communal
Facilities               278.5   106.0   384.5      9.3     3.5     12.8      35%
Boarding                    63.2    22.1    85.3      2.1     0.7       2.8      7%
Staff housing                3.4     1.2     4.6      0.1     0.1      0.2       1%
Site development            52.2    18.4    70.6      1.7     0.6      2.3       6%
Professional services      40.7    -        40.7      1.4      -       1.4       4%
Sub-Total        438.0  1147.7   585.7    14.6       4.9     19.5     53%
2. Furniture                    26.7    14.4  41.1        0.9     0.5      1.4       4%
Equipment                  45.3  411.8   457.1        1.5    13.7     15.2      41%
Technical Assistance         5.0    20.0    25.0      0.2     0.7       0.9      2%
"Base Line Costs'         515.0   593.9  1108.9    17.2    19.8       37.0    100%
3.  Contingencies               95.9   111.5   207.4      3.2     3.7      6.9      19%
TOTAL PROJECT COST        610.9   705.4  1316.3    20.4    23.5       43.9



GREECE - EDUCATION PROJECT It
UNIT CAPITAL COST AND EFFICIENCY BY PROJECT ITEM
(Professional Fees and Contingencies are not included)
Per Student Place in US $                     Previous Bank Projget Estimates                       Use Factor
Type of Facilities            Area per    Site Develop-1 Building  Furniture  Equiment  Total                         Median                         For          Workshops,Laboratories        No. of         Teacher!
Student         ment                                                       (US$ equivalent Ln 1970 prices)   Classroom-type  and other practical                  Weekly         Student
(sq. m.)                                                                                                            Area                    Areas                 Periods         Ratio
Academic & Communal
University                     11.8            216            1459         91         1704       3470                 3640                       80%                     7 0%                     30             1:15
Vocational Industrial
Training Centers              8.1            116             791         70          543       1520                 1500                       90% 1          i/       90% 1/                  80 2/           1:15
Farmer Training Center           5.3             80            535          91         274         980                1152                                       not applicable                                 not applicable
Vocational Agriculture
Schools                      13.6 3/         189            1167        144          500       2100                 1400                       not applicable becau.es  of use of               40             1:13
I                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~facilities for farmer extension
training
Teacher Training                 7.35           116             772         75         227        1190                1100                        80%M                    80%                     36             1:20
Boarding Facilities
Vocational Agriculture
Schools                         7.1           114             778          45          33         970                 652
Farmer Center                    9.0            135            900          92          25        1150                1258
Staff ilusing                 Area per
Staff House
Vocational Agriculture
Schools                        60            l101            6750         750        1000       9510                14283
1/ Including utilization by apprentice training groups but excluding evening utilization
2/ Two daily shifts
3/  Includes areas for use by farmers in special extension courses



I                                       I



GREECE
CONTINGENCY ALLOW4ANCES
Drachmas 000's
Site  Development      Buildings           Furniture         Equipment          Professional          Technical              Total Drachmas             Total
Services           Assistance                  000's                 tJS$ 000's             Total
Local    Foreign  Local    Foreign  Local    Foreign  Local    Foreign  Local            Foreign  Local    Foreign  Local    Foreign   Total   Local           Foreign
Allowances for Physical
Increases                    5%      5%        5%        5%        5%         5%      5%        5%        _    -               -          -
Allowances for Price
Increases                   12%     12%       15%       15%       11%        16%      9%       16%       15%         _       6%           6%
Total      17%     17%       20%       20%       16%        21%     14%       21%       15%                 6%           6%
Total Cost before
Contingencies            52,233    18,352  351,035  123,336  26,697    14,375  44,955   404.593  40,725                      3,600     14,400  519,245  575,056 1,094,301 17,308         19,169         3
Physical Increases           2,612        918   17,552    6,167   1,335          719   2,248    20,230    -                      -           -      23,747   28,034    51,781    792           934          1,726
Price Increases              6,268      2,202   52,655   18,500   2,937        2,300   4,046    64,735   6,109                   216         864   72,231   88.601   160,832  2,408         2,953           5,361
Total Contingencies    8,880       3,120   70,207   24,667   4,272         3,019   6,294    84,965   6,109                   216         864   95,978  116,635   212,613  3,200         3,887           7,087
TOTAL PROJECT COST:         61,113    21,472  421,242  148,003  30,969    17,394  51,249   489,558  46,834                     3,816       15,264 615,223  691,691 1,306.914 20.508    23,056              43,564
a-






GREECE - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
Years
Quarters   1                            ~~~~~~~~~2                      3                                4                                 5
IMPLENENTATION                                      uillirers             2      3      4       5      6       7      8      9       t0      11      12       13       14      13       16      17       18      19       20
Civil Weeks
A. Pedagoginal Academies                               1.29         :::    #**    *4* **s+ $$$   -                     sa  .x         ...      x ..     v-      vwV     v-     w-
B. Uiv-ersit. of Patras                                8.21         ...-/%   7O3[%   [**    ***    ***   *+            +44$    $$.. .x sxE             su      x   xxx ..e      ...       V       -V      vv
C. Accelerated Traisisg Cesitrs                        3.11         ::            *        *     +i    $$$   s=    ass    xxx    xxx          x        Vx vw   wv         ',    v-
D. Agricultu-al Schools and Parmer Centers             2.31                [[       n ***        44      $$$    s      sx u    xx  sx x       x xx     ww       -  Vw vw        w
T. Tutism Personeel Truining School1s                  3.24         ::    #       **       *    +++    $$$   ...       xxx    ..       n xxx  xxx     wv       ev      vvv       vw
Totel                                            18.16
Exp-editure Snhedule
1. Civil Wouks                                        18.16                                                            1.46   2.00   2.60    3.20    3.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.69                         0.41
2. Equipment                                          L5.24                       1.50   1.63                                         1.10    1.10    1.27    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.50
3.  s rniture                                          1.37                                                                           0.28    0.32    0.33              0.14    0.15    0.15
4. Prufessionsl Siceu                                  1.36                       0.14   0.14   0.17   0.06  0.06    0.06   0.07   0.08    0.13    0.13    0.08    0.06    0.06    0.09                           0.03
5. T       al Asist e                                  0 8 0.4      0      0.05   0.08   0.08   0.10   0.09  0.09    0.08   0.05   0.05    0.04    0.03    0.04    0.04
6. Contingencies                                       6.91                       0.15   0.16   0.01   0.01  0.02    0.02   0.30   0.50    1.10    1.20    0.80    0.80    0.90    1.00                           0.16
PROJECT EXPENDITURE - TOTAL                           43.88         0.02   0.05   1.87   2.01   0.28   0.16  0.17    1.62   2.42   4.61    5.89    6.16    4.12    4.24    4.31    5.43                           0.60
LOCAL                          20.37                0.01   0.36   0.39   0.20   0.09  0.09    1.17   1.70   2.53    3.31    3.39    1.54    1.60    1.65    2.14                           0.40
FOREIGN                        23.51         0.02   0.04   1.51   1.62   0.08   0.07  0,08    0.45   0.72   2.09    2.58    2.76    2.58    2.64    2.66    3.29                            0.20
:Seletie- of Architnet
7. Muster Plan Preparutiun
# survey of Sites
Dnsign -nd C-nst1-c  ion Dounts Phase
44 Review of design and Co-stru-t-in D.l--ents
$$ Tendering uf Bids
Revi-w of Bids and Award of C-ntruct
en Cunstrc.tion Phase
vv nCruarnte P-riod



ANNEX 16
GREECE - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ millions)
Accumulated             Undisbursed
Quarter      Disbursements        Disbursements              Balance
1 x                                                           23.50
2                 0.02                0.02                    23.48
3                 0.04                0.06                    23.44
4                 1.52                1.53                    21.92
5                 1.63                3.21                    20.29
6                 0.08                3.29                    20.21
7                 0.07                3.36                    20.1L]
8                 0.08                3.44                    20.C06
9                 0.45                3.89                    19.61
10                0.72                4.6a                    18.89
11                2.10                6.71                    16.79
12                2.60                 9.31                   14.]Y
13                2.78                12.09                   1'.IJ
14                2.59                14.68                    8.82
1,                2.65                17.33                    6.17
16                2.67                20.00                    3.50
17                3.30                 23.30                   0.20
18
19
20                0.20                23.50                    0.00
x - starting from signing agreement



71.1~~~~~~~
T           U           R          K    E    Y
YUGOSLAVIA                                                     * t \ \..
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
IOAN/AN                                                      T  EB                 A
A   L  B  A  N  I  A \ pLOK ND >y > * ( '. ALEXAADRGEA IV
GREECE                                                                                                                                                                                           (            Y
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'N
* 2OiSSAHSOKH, 
IIflflnSiSHTSs   Sr sqare  I\ I..........
H          O F P-ATOS
SHSCS 40
C   ACCELO-TEI VA OI-     -PAHINANG CENT EFSS                                       C
g /> / (R U 5 - r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H 6A$gS . C IO  Nar
40 ~~~~            H~   VOCATIONAL.AOHIOOLHTOE-112H0.I                                                                        Oonru
40   . -                           I-AMH TAI- .-OH.-rHS
SO   54                        F   TOUHISH SOAININO SCHOO-S                                                                                                                                                                 HOC HHI.A, .0- . A  1,  O 
/ON/AN                  0   MCAGR MAINE SCJOL                                                                                                                                                                        IAIOHI 5101 HOOAC (H  H 
/SZANDS   ..  Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                                                    [    ,        \               q. 1W
59 ~       ~          ~          v 1,   -kH                                               S                                                                                                           o       Q sSO75IG



