                                                 88430




                        Philippines




            KAPIT-BISIG LABAN SA KAHIRAPAN-
COMPREHENSIVE AND INTEGRATED DELIVERY OF SOCIAL SERVICES
                 (KALAHI-CIDSS) PROJECT
               (Loan No. 7959PH and TF091139)

                           and




           13th IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT MISSION



                     AIDE MEMOIRE




                        May 2014
Table of Contents

A.       Purpose and Objectives ....................................................................................................... 1
B.       Key Contacts......................................................................................................................... 1
II. MISSION FINDINGS ............................................................................................................. 2
A.       Overall Implementation Status and Achievement of Development Objective ............... 2
B.       Implementation Progress by Components......................................................................... 3
C.       Status of Urban KC Pilot-testing ........................................................................................ 4

                           ............................................................................................................................ 5

                                                                                              ........................................................ 5
V.    COMPLIANCE WITH CONVENANT ................................................................................ 5
A.       Financial Management ........................................................................................................ 5
B.       Procurement ......................................................................................................................... 6
C.       Safeguards ............................................................................................................................ 8
VI. DISCLOSURE......................................................................................................................... 8
Annex 1: Schedule of Activities ................................................................................................... 10
BACKGROUND

A.       Purpose and Objectives

1. During the period from April 21-22, 2014 and May 5-7, 2014 the Department of Social
Welfare and Development (DSWD) and a World Bank Team jointly carried out the 13th
Implementation Support Mission (ISM) for the KALAHI-CIDSS (KC) Project and the
Community Driven Enterprise Development Project (CDED). 1 Field visits were conducted in
Region 6. The field visits were supplemented with meetings with the National Project
Management Team followed by a wrap-up meeting on May 7, 2014. This Aide Memoire reflects
the agreements reached and recommendations made in line with the Mission objectives. Please
see Annex 1 for the detailed schedule of activities of the Mission.

2. The Implementation Support Mission aims to: (i) determine the critical milestones for
ensuring the smooth closure of the Project on May 31, 2014 including the implementation of the
grant from the AusAID-World Bank Philippine Development Trust Fund; (ii) synthesize the
lessons learned from pilot-testing of KALAHI-CIDSS in urban areas and discuss the strategic
options for follow-up operations; and (iii) conduct follow-up discussions on the preparation of the
Completion Report. In addition, we would like to look at the major operational arrangements for
the smooth transition of KALAHI-CIDSS to the National Community Driven Development
Program.


3. The Mission also assessed the status of the grant implementation and the milestones for its
full roll-out of CDED (TF014528) which is linked to KC and supported through a grant from the
Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF).

B.       Key Contacts

4. In the course of the Mission, the Bank met with DSWD officials and staff led by: Secretary
Corazon Juliano-Soliman (National Project Director); Undersecretary Mateo Montano; Assistant
Secretary Camilo G. Gudmalin (Deputy Project Director) and Director Benilda Redaja (National
Project Manager). The Mission also acknowledges the participation of the staff of the Regional
Project Management Teams; Area Coordination Team; representatives of the Kabankalan City
and barangay local government units (CLGUs); and members of the city Inter-Agency
Committees; community officials and volunteers. (Annex 1 provides the Mission Program of
Activities). The Bank conveys its sincere appreciation to DSWD staff, local government officials
and staff, and the KALAHI communities for their support and openness during the Mission.




1
 The World Bank Team was composed of Ma. Loreto N. Padua (Task Team Leader);; Rene SD Manuel (Sr. Procurement
Specialist); Aisha Lanette De Guzman (Financial Management Specialist); Patricia Fernandes (Social Development Specialist);
Josemarie Lim (Environment Safeguards Officer), Roberto Tordecilla (Social Safeguards Officer), Makiko Watanabe (Social
Development Specialist); Shiela dela Torre (Local Development Specialist); Lilanie Magdamo (Portfolio Officer); Mohammad
Zidni S. Marohombsar (Financial Management Consultant) and Reinaluz Ona (Team Assistant).


                                                                                                                              1
II.    MISSION FINDINGS

A.     Overall Implementation Status and Achievement of Development Objective

6. The Project has reached the targets set for most of the key performance indicators or
KPIs (please refer to Table 1), which suggests that the overall development objectives will be
achieved. As of December 2013, the Project has completed community-based activities in 80
percent of the villages. However, the Project restructuring was approved in February 2014 to
respond to the damages caused by Typhoon Yolanda (Haiyan). Specifically, the restructuring
involved the use of the about $1.9M community grants for repair of selected sub-projects which
were damaged by Typhoon Yolanda. Thus, about 59 additional sub-projects were initiated in
February 2014. Nevertheless, the Project has completed about 93 percent of the community
activities as of end of March 2014.

7. The project continued to build community capability of to participate in local
development planning as evidenced by accomplishments in reference to three KPIs:           (i) About
86 percent of the barangays have prepared a community development plan through participatory
process which exceeded the target of 80 percent; (ii) 86 percent of the villages participated or
were represented in municipal-level resource allocation by citizens other than the formal officials;
and, (iii) 95 percent of municipalities have expanded the representation in its Municipal
Development Council to generate inputs for the municipal development plan.

8. Furthermore, the mobilization of the communities resulted to the financing of 2,334
community sub-projects that were intended to improve access to basic services such as education,
potable water and primary health care. About 75 percent of the sub-projects have been assessed
upon completion and were found to be functional.


                                Table 1: Key Performance Indicators:
                                 Accomplishments As of March 2014

                         Components/                           Closing        Cumulative
                    Performance Indicators                    Date Target   Accomplishment
  Barangay Grants
  % of barangays that have completed training on                 80%             86%
  Participatory Situation Analysis (PSA), planning, project
  development and M&E
  % of barangays that have completed specific training on        40%             75%
  sub-project management and implementation
   % of completed sub-projects implemented in compliance
  with technical plans and within budget                         85%             93%
  % of completed sub-projects that meet basic financial
  reporting standards based on approved Finance &                85%             93%
  Administration Sub- Manual
  % of completed SPs that have sustainability rating of          85%              75
  satisfactory or higher
  % of KC PSA priorities are funded from non-KC sources          10%             11%

                                                                                                  2
  Capacity-building and Implementation Support
  % of barangays with community development plans
  prepared in accordance with the KC participatory process       80%               86%
  % of barangays with some citizens, other than public
  officials, participating in regular municipal-level KC         80 %              86%
  resource allocation forums
  % of LGUs that satisfactorily implement their
  Participatory, Transparency and Accountability (PTA)
  Integration Plans in accordance with the KC Memorandum         80%              48%
  of Agreement (MOA), and committed to sustaining the                        Awaiting reports
  PTA as part of their sustainability plans                                    from field
  % of Makamasang Tugon municipalities that have
  established expanded MDCs for broader consultation with
  civil society representatives to obtain inputs for the         85%               95%
  Municipal Development Plans
  % of MLGUs that provide technical assistance in SP
  preparation, implementation & monitoring based on the          80%               98%
  MOA
  % of MLGUs that provide KCAF local counterpart
  contributions (LCC) based on their LCC plan                    80%               74%
  % of registered grievances satisfactorily resolved in
  accordance with GRS Sub-Manual                                 80%               99%


B.     Implementation Progress by Components

Component 1: Barangay Grants

9. The Project is financing a total of 2,334 community sub-projects with an estimated cost
of Php2.7 Billion (US$66 Million) that benefits approximately 573,105 households. About 21
percent of the total sub-project cost was funded by local counterpart contribution. As of March
2014, 93 percent of the sub-projects have been completed; another 5 percent is more than 90
percent complete and the rest are targeted to be completed by mid-May 2014.

10. Basic social services (e.g., school building, day care center, health stations) continue to be the
most common type of sub-project (55%) followed by access facilities such as roads or bridges
(26%). In the course of implementing the community sub-projects, about 48,045 individuals
benefitted from short-term employment as community labor with value of about Php176M
($4M).

Component 2: Capacity Building and Implementation Support

11. As of March 2014, the Project has trained 110,729 community volunteers on participatory
situation analysis, project development, community finance and procurement and operations and
maintenance. Moreover, participation rate in barangay assemblies was maintained at 75
percent of the total households.



                                                                                                     3
12. Women and men were equally represented in community mobilization activities.
Approximately 56 percent of the trained community volunteers are women. While, the men
continued to dominate the community labor, there was a slight increase in the share of women
community workers/labor by 2 percent.

Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation

13. The quarterly progress reports continued to be submitted on time. It also included sex-
disaggregated data as well as updates on the grievance received by the project.

14. After the last mission, follow-up meetings were held between the Bank and DSWD teams to
update the matrix, reflecting the key information for the ICR. Moreover, DSWD continued to
provide additional/updated data. The Mission further discussed the status of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The following were the highlights of the
discussions and major agreements reached regarding the ICR preparation:

        Given the deadline for submission of the ICR to the World Bank Board no later than six
         months after the project completion (i.e., November 30, 2014), the Bank Task Team will
         be ready with a first draft by mid-July for validation by DSWD and other stakeholders at
         the national and local levels. For this purpose, field visits will be scheduled in July and
         the Bank will take advantage of various national workshops to be held in Manila to get
         feedback from regional KC representatives.

        the ICR would also include the additional financing from the Australia-World Bank
         Philippine Development Trust Fund; the coordination and enhanced KC process for the
         Grassroots Participatory Budgeting Program; and the KC-PAMANA modality for
         conflict-affected areas.

        While the key contents and focus of the ICR involves joint discussions with DSWD even
         at early stages of preparation, the DSWD would furnish the Bank with its own version of
         the completion report that would be submitted to the National Economic and Development
         Authority by August 2014.


C.       Status of Urban KC Pilot-testing

19. By end of March 2014, all the 4 pilot-testing areas winding down the sub-project
implementation. Specifically, 7 of the 11 sub-projects have been completed while the rest are
almost 90% completed. The remaining month would be spent for finalizing the turn-over plan
and closing the local accounts.

20. The NPMO is preparing a consolidated report on the lessons learned in pilot-testing KC in
urban areas through the JSDF-LVUC implementation and KCAF as well as the options for
follow-up operations. In general, the pilot-testing indicated that the KC modality in rural areas
could be applicable also in peri-urban areas but with adjusted features in terms of mobilization
techniques, taking into consideration the large number of households; inclusion of livelihood as a
major sub-project; and, stronger alliance building or partnership with the city local government
                                                                                                       4
units as well as private sector. For large cities or urban areas, the CDD would be best positioned
as part of a broader city development plan and would provide as participatory mechanism for
ensuring inclusion of the poor/marginalized communities in the overall city development plan.
21. It was agreed that the results of the pilot-testing and the options for follow-up operations
would be presented to the urban Technical Working Group of KC on May 26, 2014 and to the
National Steering Committee in July 2014.




15. As of March 2014, the grant has financed 515 classrooms and 148 day care centers (DCCs) in
390 barangays in 76 municipalities of 24 provinces. These facilities will benefit about 94,598
households. About 85 percent of these classrooms/DCCs have been completed while the rest will
be completed by end of May 15, 2014. Grant utilization is more than 97 percent in March 2014.




16. The Mission is pleased to note that the implementation of the CDED Project is gaining
momentum. Almost all of the local project staff have been recruited and the partner civil society
organization or business development service provider is on board while the local CSO partners
have been identified in all 6 target areas.

17. At the local level, social preparation has been completed with market supply assessment
completed and potential products for enterprise development having been identified. A
Memorandum of Agreement had been executed with all the local government units in the 6
municipalities in November 2013. In addition, local technical working groups in all
municipalities have been organized and mobilized for the social preparation. As next step, the
value chain analysis will be completed in May the results of which will be the basis for initiating
business development in June until test marking by December 2014.


V.        COMPLIANCE WITH CONVENANT

A.        Financial Management

18.                          Total documented disbursements for the individual projects as of
May 1, 2014 are summarized below.


                                                       Disbursement    Undisbursed                      Application
     Loan/Grant      Total Amount     Disbursement*                                     Closing Date
                                                           Rate         Amount                         Deadline Date
KC-AF LN79590        59,124,000.00    59,118,166.00            100%          5,834.00      31-May-14        30-Sep-14
AusAid TF 11939      10,000,000.00      9,999,860.00           100%            140.00      31-May-14        30-Sep-14
JSDF TF12886           2,929,000.00      525,598.00             18%     2,403,402.00       21-Nov-16        21-Mar-17
                  * Based on Client Connection as of May 1, 2014 and includes the Designated Account




                                                                                                                        5
19. As summarized above, projects LN7959 and TF11939 already have significant disbursement
rates at this point in the project life. Utilization of the remaining fund allocation, including sub-
grants for on-going sub-projects are allowed only for expenditures (i.e., services rendered and
goods delivered) incurred by the closing date on May 31, 2014. A grace period (period between
the closing date and the application deadline date) has also been established for the project to
allow actual disbursement or financing for eligible expenditures incurred by the closing date using
the DA balance and sub-grant funds of the communities. The NPMO Finance should monitor
accordingly the fulfillment by closing date of the project’s planned utilization of remaining grant
proceeds including sub-grants at the communities; and ensure that actual disbursements for
eligible expenditures incurred by closing date are completed within the grant’s grace period.

20.                                       There were no significant changes on the financial
management (FM) arrangements for the Project. Physical controls over cash, documents and
records remain adequate. Levels of review and approval are sufficient to provide reasonable
assurance that the policies and procedures for recognition and recording of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses are being complied. The controls at NPMO over payments processing,
documentation and recording remain adequate as noted in the review of disbursement vouchers
and related supporting documents of selected expenditures reported in the SOE of WAs that were
submitted to the Bank. Refer to Annex 2 for the full FM report.

21. It was also noted during the review of transactions that selected sub-grants releases included
contingency costs provided for in the sub-projects’ Program of Works. The Community Finance
Manual prescribed that contingency costs, if needed, should be requested and released together
with the 3rd tranche under specific circumstances and upon submission of certain requirements
(i.e., certification). The NPMO Finance should deduct the released portion of contingency costs
from subsequent RFRs of respective communities and/or require the communities to submit
certification of their use of the received contingency costs.

22.                                                – The Project remains to satisfactorily submit
required financial reports within due dates.
    a.                                         – The 2013 Consolidated Annual Audited Report is
       due on June 30 2014.
    b.                                                  – The IFRs were timely submitted to the
       Bank.


B.     Procurement

23. Ex-post Review of Signed Contracts. With the assistance of the NPMOs Procurement
Officer, the Bank’s designated Procurement Specialist for the project visited the Department’s
Field Offices in Region XIII (in Butuan City), Region XII (in Gen. Santos City), Region X (in
Cagayan de Oro City) and Region IX (in Zamboanga City) during the month of April 2014, and a
review of sample procurement transactions and relevant documents were made. The general
findings of the review are as follows: i) show compliance with agreed procedures; ii) however,
review was made mostly on the available documents that were borrowed from COA as no copies
of those sent to COA were on file at the Regional Field Offices; iii) some documents (e.g. official
receipts, delivery receipts, resolution to award, etc.) are missing from the files reviewed; iv) some

                                                                                                    6
documents are undated and unsigned, and some with erasures that are not initialed; v) deviations
from agreed procedures were noted in some subprojects; and v) various other findings specific to
a particular subproject.

24. A representative sampling from a total number of 98 subprojects funded under KC-AF and 33
subprojects funded under KC-AusAID have been post reviewed by the Bank. This corresponds to
approx. 4.5% and 9.7%, respectively, of completed subprojects as of end-March 2014.

25. Capacity of the NPMO, RPMO and the Field Offices to Undertake Procurement. Based on
the discussions and review of available documents, and even with the deficiencies/deviations
noted by the review, it can be concluded that the NPMO, RPMO, the Field Offices and the
different communities are all able to do their procurement function and responsibilities well and
in accordance with the provisions of the loan agreement and the Community-Based Procurement
Manual that is in place for the project. The lessons learned though from the implementation of
KC-AF and KC-AusAID will be a good additional tool in training the new batch of municipalities
and communities that will be recipients of the forthcoming National Community Driven
Development Project (NCDDP).

26. Recommendations / Action Items. It was discussed and agreed during the mission that the
following actions will be undertaken: i) Regional Field Offices to make copies of documents
before forwarding same to COA; ii) ensure that the documents on file are complete; iii) ensure
that minutes of meetings and evaluation reports clearly indicate the reasons why awards, if any,
are not made in favor of the lowest quote received; iv) ensure that the procedures as outlined in
the CBPM, and required documents, are followed; and v) ensure that findings of the review are
acted upon

27. With regards to the CDED, the status and accomplishments related to procurement include the
following: (i) The Bank had issued the “no objection letter” to the negotiated contract between
the Department and PinoyME Foundation, Inc. for the services of an NGO as national CSO
partner in the implementation of subject grant; (ii) The Bank has also issued it’s no objection to
the updated project Procurement Plan which has incorporated the changes relevant to the selection
of the national CSO partner, and updated timelines for other activities; (iii) Trainings have been
on-going, and most of NPMO staff to work on the subject grant have been recruited; (iv)
similarly, Municipal Coordinators, Local Community Facilitators and Bookkeepers for the field
offices have been hired.


28. The following agreements were reached: (i) Proceed with project implementation based on
the timelines indicated in the revised and updated Procurement Plan; (ii) Submission of a copy of
the signed contract with PinoyME Foundation, Inc. at the earliest time possible, and before any
withdrawal application is submitted to the Bank which includes payments made under this
contract; and (iii)Bank to undertake a post review on selected consulting services’ contracts




                                                                                                    7
C.     Safeguards

Social Safeguards

29. Overall, social safeguards implementation has been satisfactory throughout project
implementation. Informed consultation, participation and inclusion of the marginalized sectors
particularly women, indigenous peoples, and internally displaced persons – the core social
safeguards goals – was achieved with the integration of safeguards into the CEAC. Safeguards
tools were prepared and staff in-charge properly trained. A separate safeguards manual was
developed for the Additional Financing phase to better guide field implementation. The said
manual established clear link with the Project’s Grievance Redress System to ensure social issues
are surfaced and addressed. The BSPMCs, the implementing body at the barangay level, were
sufficiently oriented on the templates and tools and found to be satisfactorily performing their
tasks based on the results of thematic reviews and Implementation Support Missions. ESMPs –
the main safeguards instrument at the BSPMC level – were prepared in local languages and
implemented and monitored by the BSPMCs.

30. Division of tasks for safeguards implementation, supervision and monitoring was clear. At the
NPMO, responsibility for both environmental and social safeguards was with the Engineering
Unit until the social safeguards was transferred to the Social Development Unit under Additional
Financing phase. IP and LARR specialists were mobilized at NPMO.

Environmental Safeguards

31. The project has satisfactorily complied with the agreed framework and guidelines on
environmental safeguards. All subprojects funded have developed and implemented EMPs with
corresponding environmental monitoring plans. The RPMO screened all the subprojects to ensure
compliance to the EMP requirements while the NPMO conducted random subproject screenings.
Except for two seawall projects in Region VI, all subprojects are exempted from securing
environmental compliance certificates from EMB-DENR.

32. The lessons learned and the experiences in implementing EMPs under KC have prepared the
NPMO in the improvement of the environmental and social management framework for NCDDP.
The ACTs, CFs and CVs of the subprojects under KCAF have also benefitted in the thematic
environmental management system developed by the NPMO by capacitating them on
environmental issues such as climate change, DRR, construction safety and solid waste
management.

33. On the issue of pest management particularly on irrigation projects, the NPMO thru the
RPMO encouraged the involvement of the municipal agricultural officers of the LGU thru the
Department of Agriculture by inviting them as resource persons in the MIBF.


VI.    DISCLOSURE




                                                                                                8
34. Consistent with the current practice of the DSWD, the Mission reached agreement with
Government, represented by Secretary Corazon Juliano-Soliman, that this Aide Memoire, as
reviewed, amended and agreed upon at the wrap-up meeting that took place on May 7, 2014 will
be disclosed on the Department’s website, among others.




                                                                                           9
                                                           Annex 1: Schedule of Activities

                   PROVISIONAL SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES

  Date/Day                  Activity                    Key Concerns/Agenda
April          Procurement post-review of
               selected sub-projects in Regions
               9, 10, 12 and Caraga
April 21-22,   Field Visit of KC urban:
2014           Day 1: Visit of urban KC area
               and dialogue with CLGU and          Regional updates and discussions
               community                            on KC Implementation, urban
               Day 2: Exit conference               pilot-testing, link with BUB;
                                                    convergence with 4Ps and SLP
                                                   Discussions on arrangements for
                                                    transition from KC to NCDDP
April 30       CDED                                Status of physical and financial
                                                      accomplishments
May 5,         Morning                              Overview of Mission objectives
                Kick-off Meeting                    and mechanics
               Meeting with NPMO:                  Discussion of status of
                KC Additional Financing            implementation and agreements
                Utilizing CDD for Basic            during last Mission;
                 Education                         Closing activities
                ICR
               Afternoon:                          Inventory of data/information
               Discussions on the completion       Draft annotated outline of the ICR
               report                              Terms of reference for processing
                                                    of the Talakayan
                                                   Consultation processes
May 7           Wrap up                           Key findings and agreements




                                                                                         10
                                                                                       Annex 2: Financial Management




                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

                                            A project implementation support on the financial
management (FM) arrangements of the projects below including a review of compliance to the
financial covenants under the Loan and Grant Agreements were conducted on April 24 to May 6,
2014 by the World Bank’s FM Consultant, Mohammad Zidni S. Marohombsar under the
supervision of FM Specialist, Aisha Lanette N. De Guzman at the National Project Management
Office (NPMO) of the Department of Social Welfare and Development-Central Office (DSWD-
CO).
            a. KALAHI-CIDSS – Additional Financing (LN 7959-PH)
            b. AusAID-WB Development Trust Fund Grant for KALAHI-CIDSS (TF 11939)
            c. JSDF Grant for Community Enterprise Development as Pathway Out of Poverty
                Project or CDED (TF 12886)
The review was aimed to ensure that the FM arrangements for the projects continue to be
adequate for the successful achievement of project development objectives. The review included
a) review and discussions with program officers and staff from the NPMO, Regional Project
Management Office (RPMO) and the DSWD-CO on the FM arrangements and project
requirements; b) review of the status of disbursements; c) review of selected financial
transactions; d) follow-up on the recommendations from the previous Bank mission; and e) field
visit to sub-project sites in Kabankalan, Negros Occidental.

                                                                                       Below is the fund status of the various
projects as of May 1, 2014.

KALAHI-CIDSS - AF (LN 7959-PH)
    Disbursements totaled US$59,118,166 (including advances to Designated Account or DA with balance
    of US$5,568,032) or 99.99% of the signed amount of US$59,124,000.


                                                   Goods, Consultancy,                     Designated
                   Particulars                                            Subgrants                            Front End Fee            Total
                                                        and IOCs                             Account
Loan allocation (a)                                         8,890,190     50,086,000                   -              147,810          59,124,000
Withdrawn from Bank (b)                                     6,459,834     46,942,490            5,568,032             147,810          59,118,166
WA in process at PIUs ( c)                                  1,750,000      1,500,000                   -                   -            3,250,000
Total withdrawals, including balance in DA (b+c)            8,209,834     48,442,490            5,568,032                              62,220,356
Total actual expenditures, excluding DA (d)                 8,209,834     48,442,490                                                   56,652,324
Amount undisbursed from the Bank (a – b)                    2,430,356      3,143,510           (5,568,032)                                  5,834
Disbursement Rate (b/a) 1                                      72.66%          93.72%                                                      99.99%
Utilization Rate (d/a) 2                                       92.35%          96.72%                                                      95.82%
1 Disbursement rate is the rate of the amount of withdrawal applications paid by the Bank divided by the loan amount.
2 Utilization rate is the rate of the amount of withdrawal applications paid by the Bank (net of the Designated Accounts) and those in process,
divided by the loan amount.




                                                                                                                                     11
    As of review date, the DA had an actual balance of US$2,743,244. A total of US$810,409 in prior
    advances to the DA had already been recovered by the Bank beginning in February 2014. Presently,
    withdrawals from the DA totaling US$3.25 million have yet to be reported to the Bank. The project
    has until the loan’s application deadline date on September 30, 2014 to submit all Withdrawal
    Applications (WAs) and supporting documentation for eligible expenditures.



    Utilization of the remaining loan allocation, including barangay grants for on-going sub-projects are
    allowed only for expenditures (i.e., services rendered and goods delivered) incurred by the loan’s
    closing date on May 31, 2014. In particular, savings from sub-grants totaling PhP70.39 million were
    recently approved for use in implementation of newly proposed sub-projects that included post-
    Yolanda rehabilitation of damaged sub-projects, shelter and livelihood recovery, and disaster response.
    Grant funds of PhP58.18 million were already released while PhP12.22 million is still to be
    downloaded. A grace period (period between the closing date and the application deadline date) has
    also been established for the project to allow actual disbursement or financing for eligible expenditures
    incurred by the closing date using the DA balance and sub-grant funds of the communities.




AusAID-WB Development Trust Fund Grant for KALAHI-CIDSS (TF 11939)

    Documented disbursements under the grant totaled US$9,999,860 (including the balance of
    the DA amounting US$1,333,721), or 100.00% of the total approved grant of
    US$10,000,000.00.

    The DA had an actual balance of US$933,916.79 as of the review date. Withdrawals from the DA
    totaling US$399.80 thousand have yet to be reported to the Bank. The project has until the grant’s
    application deadline date on September 30, 2014 to submit all Withdrawal Applications (WAs) and
    supporting documentation for eligible expenditures. The NMPO Finance should be able to submit to
    the Bank all WAs for documentation of the outstanding advances to the DA on or before September
    30, 2014 and to refund immediately any undocumented balance.


                                                          Goods, Consultancy, and                         Designated
                       Particulars                                                      Subgrants                                 Total
                                                                     IOCs                                  Account
Grant allocation (a)                                                      1,000,000      9,000,000                   -          10,000,000
Withdrawn from Bank (b)                                                     356,332       8,309,807           1,333,721          9,999,860
Total actual expenditures, excluding DA (d)                                 356,332      8,309,807                               8,666,139
Amount undisbursed from the Bank (a – b)                                    643,668        690,193           (1,333,721)               140
Disbursement Rate (b/a) 1                                                     35.63%         92.33%                                100.00%
Utilization Rate (d/a) 2                                                      35.63%         92.33%                                 86.66%
1 Disbursement rate is the rate of the amount of withdrawal applications paid by the Bank divided by the grant amount.
2 Utilization rate is the rate of the amount of withdrawal applications paid by the Bank (net of the Designated Accounts) and those in
process, divided by the grant amount.


JSDF Grant for Community Enterprise Development as Pathway Out of Poverty Project (TF
12886)
  Total documented disbursements under the grant totaled US$525,598 (including advance to the

                                                                                                                                     12
   DA of USD 500,000) or 17.94% of the signed amount of US$2,929,000.00. Disbursement rate
   has not significantly increased as it is expected that most of the trainings and release of
   subgrants are expected to happen towards the latter part of the year 2014. It is recommended
   that the PMO prepare a monthly cash disbursement projection to determine the adequacy of the
   DA balance and ensure that there are enough funds should activities start to pick up.


         Adequacy of accounting staff and maintenance of accounting records –There were no
 significant changes on the financial management (FM) staffing arrangements for the Project at the
 NPMO. The Unified Financial Management Specialist (UFMS) is primarily responsible for the
 implementation of the project’s FM arrangements that include management of the Project’s financial
 transactions; facilitation of the timely release and disbursement of funds to communities and field offices
 accounts; evaluation and analysis of claims for payments; preparation and submission of Statement of
 Expenditures (SOE) and Withdrawal Application (WA) to the Bank; and submission of quarterly IFRs.
 The Financial Management Services (FMS) of DSWD Central Office processes check disbursements and
 bank transfers; maintains the NPMO’s books of accounts; and prepares the financial statements of the
 Project.

The Regional Financial Analyst (RFA) of the RPMO is primarily responsible for the FM system at the
Regional Level. As to the fund transfers to Field Offices (FOs), a designated staff from the NPMO Finance
Unit monitors liquidations by FOs. As of April 25, 2014, outstanding loan proceeds at FOs totaled
US$843,373 for the KALAHI-AF and US$181,329 for TF11939.




                                                      There is proper segregation of incompatible duties and
responsibilities. Physical controls over cash, documents and records remain adequate. Levels of review and
approval are also considered adequate to provide reasonable assurance that the policies and procedures for
recognition and recording assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are being complied.

At the community level, unused grant funds may still remain in the community bank account upon
completion of the sub-project and payment of all financial obligations. The subsequent use or waiver of
savings needs to be ascertained accordingly in order to facilitate the closing of the community bank
account.



                               – Below are observations during the visit to selected sub-project sites
in Kabankalan, Negros Occidental; discussions with concerned RPMO personnel, municipal
teams, sub-project officers and committees and community volunteers; and review of financial
records.
     The mission visited two subprojects in the barangays of Binicuil and Hilamonan which
       fulfilled the criteria for urban KC. Both barangays chose skills training for employment as


                                                                                                         13
       their respective subproject and each received Php 1 million KC grant funds plus additional
       Php150,000 local counterpart funds from the City LGU.
      Both projects have substantially completed the subproject and have already requested the
       last tranche of funds from the Central Office. The documentation for the request for funds
       was already received by the CO and is currently being processed.
      The visited communities maintained adequate FM systems. Review of documents showed
       that accounting records are updated and properly maintained. Adequate internal controls
       were in place especially for the approval of payments. No significant issues on FM
       implementation were noted during the visit.
      The mission commends the effective FM trainings and mentoring conducted to the
       barangays which resulted to satisfactory FM performance
      LGUs stated that the download of funds took a lot of time
      Some projects in the regions may not be completed until project close
      Some subprojects damaged by the typhoon needs additional funds for repair

       Recommendations:
      With the scale up of KC through NCDDP, the agency should consider the digital
       submission of supporting documents and tracking of approvals through a computerized
       online system which will enhance efficiency, promote transparency and minimize the cost
       incurred for printing and transporting supporting documents to the central office.
      Closure of community accounts with the completion of the project
      Consider budgeting calendar of the City for LCC considerations in next projects


                                                – The controls at NPMO over payments processing,
documentation and recording remain adequate as noted in the review of disbursement vouchers and related
supporting documents of selected expenditures reported in the SOE of WAs that were submitted to the
Bank. The review also included determination of compliance of project disbursements to the Loan
Agreement.

                                                   – The Project remains to satisfactorily submit
required financial reports within due dates. (a)                                      – The annual
audit by the Commission on Audit (COA) for the 2013 financial statements is ongoing.
                                                                                               (b)
                                              – The IFRs were timely submitted to the Bank.

                 –




1. Submit to the Bank all WAs for documentation of the outstanding NPMO Finance On or before
advances to the DA, and to refund immediately any undocumented                  September 30,
balance.                                                                            2014




                                                                                                    14
2. Monitor accordingly the fulfillment by closing date of the project’s NPMO Finance       Beginning
planned utilization of remaining loan proceeds including sub-grants at                    Immediately
the communities; and ensure that actual disbursements for eligible
expenditures incurred by closing date are completed within the loan’s
grace period.
3. Follow up FOs and closely monitor the timely submission of their NPMO Finance           On or before
respective SOEs or liquidations of loan proceeds used for expenditures                    September 30,
incurred by closing date, and require the return of any unused                                2014
downloaded funds to NPMO’s project account.
4. Ensure that guidelines set in the determination, utilization and/or NPMO or             Beginning
refund of existing savings are observed; community bank accounts are RPMO Finance         Immediately
then closed within the loan’s grace period; and other FM-related sub-
project completion requirements are complied.
5. Require the communities to submit certification of their need or use of NPMO Finance    Beginning
contingency costs                                                                         Immediately

6. Submit project audited reports for 2013.                            NPMO Finance June 30, 2014




May 6, 2014




                                                                                                        15
