  IEG
                                                                                                           Report Number: ICRR14699

                     ICR Review
                     Independent Evaluation Group




         1. Project Data:                                              Date Posted: 06/26/2015

                Country: Philippines
              Project ID: P077012                                                              Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Kapitbisig Laban Sa                 Project Costs (US$M):                           182                276
                          Kahirapan-comprehen
                          sive And Integrated D
   L/C Number:                                                Loan/Credit (US$M):                           100                156
       Sector Board:      Social Development                  Cofinancing (US$M):                                              9.2

            Cofinanciers: Australian Department       Board Approval Date :                                 09/17/2002
                          of Foreign Affairs and             Closing Date:            06/30/2009            05/31/2014
                          Trade
           Sector(s):     Other social services (20%); General education sector (20%); Health (20%); Rural and
                          Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (20%); General water; sanitation and flood protection
                          sector (20%)
           Theme(s):      Participation and civic engagement (23%); Other accountability/anti-corruption (22%);
                          Improving labor markets (22%); Decentralization (22%); Rural services and infrastructure
                          (11%)

Prepared by:                  Reviewed by:               ICR Review                      Group:
                                                         Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva             Christopher David          Christopher David               IEGPS1
                              Nelson                     Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

 Original Objective: “to assist the Borrower in strengthening local communities’ participation in community [barangay
*] governance, and developing their capacity to design, implement and manage development activities that reduce
poverty.” (Loan Agreement of October 7, 2002, p.14; Project Appraisal Document, p.2).

* Barangay is the lowest administrative unit in the Philippines, corresponding to a village.

Revised Objective: “to empower local communities in targeted poor municipalities and selected urban areas to
achieve improved access to sustainable basic public services and to participate in more inclusive Local Government
Unit planning and budgeting. “ (Additional Financing (AF) Loan Agreement of December 3, 2010, p. 5; AF Project
Paper, p. 6).


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 09/30/2010

c. Components:
 Original Components
1: Barangay Grants (appraisal US$132.2 million; actual US$193 million) was designed to assist communities
(barangays in the selected municipalities), through a facilitated participatory planning process, to develop sub-project
proposals, that would be selected at an inter-barangay competitive forum comprising all participating barangays. It
also included carrying out audits of the records, accounts and financial statements of expenditures relating to the
implementation of community development sub-projects.

2: Implementation Support (appraisal US$46.2 million; actual US$72.4 million) aimed to mobilize local communities to
participate in the project and strengthen the capacity of local communities and local government units to initiate, plan
and implement, manage and supervise barangay sub-projects.

3: Monitoring and Evaluation (appraisal US$2.6 million; actual US$9.6 million) aimed to strengthen the capacity of the
National Project Management Office and local communities to monitor and evaluate implementation of the project and
barangay subprojects through development of baseline data and a computerized management information system.

Revised Components

1: Grants to Barangays in Rural Areas (estimate AF US$ 73.9 million) included two components: (i) planning grants
to support communities in the identification of barangay needs and assessment of local resources and capacity, which
would cover costs associated with community mobilization, preparation of proposals by community volunteers as well
as project operations, maintenance and community-based monitoring, and (ii) investment grants to fund sub-projects
selected by communities. This component also included the barangay grants for an LGU-led community driven
development pilot (called Makamasang Tugon) designed to give greater responsibility and authority to municipalities
over program implementation at the local level.

2: Capacity Building and Implementation Support (estimate AF US$17.2 million) planned to cover (i) social
mobilization activities following the “Community Empowerment Activity Cycle” (CEAC) put in place during the first
phase of project implementation; (ii) capacity building for staff of barangay and municipal LGUs (B/MLGUs); and, (iii) a
clearly defined set of social accountability activities, covering the grievance redress system, third-party monitoring,
and active information disclosure.

3: Grants to Barangays in Urban Areas (estimate AF US$2.1 Million) was added to support pilots in 8 urban poor
communities in four cities. It included both planning grants and sub-project investments in selected urban poor areas.
Preparatory activities included: (i) community-based poverty mapping; (ii) adaptation of the methodology used for
social mobilization and planning to the urban context; (iii) testing of a grant-making mechanism for urban poor
communities; and (iv) an evaluation using mixed quantitative and qualitative methods.

4: Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (estimate AF US$ 11.5 million) was to finance incremental
project management and operational costs, including monitoring.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost: The actual project cost of US$ 276.2 million increased by 52% from the appraised value of US$ 182
million to scale up the activities and expand the project's reach from 184 to 220 municipalities within the original scope
of 42 provinces.

Financing: Bank’s original loan in the amount of US$100 million and additional financing of US$59.1 million disbursed
at US$155.9 million at project closure. A co-financing grant supplemented the project from the Australia- World Bank
Philippines Development Trust Fund approved in the amount of US$10 million in 2012 that disbursed at US$9.24
million by project closure. It was added under components 1 and 3 to help improve access of poor communities to
early childhood learning and development activities through the project approach (ICR, p.3,5).

Borrower contribution : The Borrower contributed US$111.1 million at project closure, as compared to the committed
US$ 82 million at appraisal and US$45.7 million at additional financing.

Dates: The original project implementation period of seven years was extended three times by a total of five years,
from June 30, 2009 to May 31, 2014. The initial extension to May 31, 2010 and then 2011, was to make up for a
19-months delay caused by the shortfall in Government’s counterpart funding due to the country’s fiscal constraints
(ICR, p.6). During AF in 2010, the closing date was extended from May 31, 2011 to May 31, 2014, in line with the
expansion of project scope. The project was re-structured in February 2014 as an urgent measure to respond to the
damages caused by typhoon Yolanda. Approximately $1.9 million for community grants, utilizing the loan savings,
were used to rehire community facilitators and repair 59 sub-projects damaged by the typhoon.
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original Objective
High.
At appraisal, the rural poor, accounting for almost three-fourths of the poor in the country, suffered from lack of access
to infrastructure and basic services and were generally excluded from decision-making over resource allocations for
their development. The project objectives were relevant to the Government of the Philippines’ Social Reform and
Poverty Alleviation Act (RA 8425) enacted in 1997; it institutionalized 10 poverty alleviation flagship programs, among
which was the Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services (CIDSS) to provide block grants to
disadvantaged barangays for poverty reduction projects. The subsequent administration (2001-10) launched KALAHI,
a primary poverty reduction framework, which comprised five pillars: (i) asset reform (redistributing resources and
assets to the poor); (ii) human development (access to basic education, health, shelter, water and sanitation,
electricity); (iii) employment and livelihood activities; (iv) participation in the governance of basic sectors; and (v)
social protection. The objectives were also relevant to Bank’s FY03-05 Country Strategy, which supported community-
based approaches to infrastructure creation, rehabilitation and maintenance. The objectives were also relevant to
Bank’s FY15-18 Country Strategy, which supported decentralization and national-local frameworks.

Revised Objective
High.
According to the AF Project Paper p.10, the project objective was revised to better reflect the project's core objective
of community empowerment, while also introducing an element to better reflect the project’s efforts to support LGUs in
responding to community needs. The revised objectives were equally relevant to the GoP’s poverty reduction
programs and Bank’s country strategies. In particular, the Bank’s Country Strategies current at revision of the
objective (FY10-12) targeted better public service delivery, including scaled-up provision of basic services through a
nationwide community- driven development program.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Original Objective
Substantial.
The logical chain was clear between the activities supported by the project and the outputs and outcomes identified as
contributing to the original development objectives. In particular, social mobilization and barangay organizing activities
were expected to strengthen local communities’ participation in barangay governance, and capacity building and
technical support to communities through grants were designed to lead to better capacity to design, implement and
manage development activities. The project was designed to ‘empower’ the communities through a process called the
Community Empowerment and Activity Cycle that included social preparation; sub-project identification, selection and
approval; sub-project implementation, monitoring and maintenance; and transition. This innovative design envisaged
a gradual hand-over process to the LGUs over three implementation cycles to ensure sustainability.

The design of block grant allocations under the project was based on a standard allocation per barangay on a
competitive basis. As the ICR p. 17 elaborates a competitive selection per barangay resulted in limited per capita
allocations as well as exclusion of a number of barangays from receiving funding (17%). The block grant allocation
formula was subsequently revised in a follow-up project to be based on population size, municipal income
classification and poverty levels, with an increasing per capita allocation as the poverty incidence increases (ICR, p.
13).

Revised Objective
Substantial.
The original design was retained under the revised objectives, ‘with some important enhancements” as described by
the ICR p 5. An LGU-led Makamasang Tugon approach was adopted under the project, which was designed to give
greater responsibility and authority to municipalities over program implementation at the local level, while retaining the
Department of Social Welfare and Development’s (DSWD’s) monitoring and oversight functions (AF Project Paper,
                                       th
p.10). This introduced an additional 4 cycle to the original three cycles of the Community Empowerment and Activity
Cycle. Also, the project incorporated disaster risk management and adopted training modules to enhance inclusion of
the marginalized (indigenous), women, and communities in conflict- affected areas ( developed under the Japan
Social Development Fund’s Social Inclusion Project- TF54218) (ICR, p.6). Project design also added a pilot in 8 urban
poor areas, which was captured in the revised objective. Overall, the causal chain between the activities under a
slightly modified design and outcomes in the attainment of the revised objective was clear.
 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The results outlined below are based on (i) the quantitative impact evaluation (sample of 2,400 households in 135
barangays in 16 municipalities in 4 provinces; data was collected in 2003 (baseline), 2006 (mid-term), and 2010
(endline)); (ii) the qualitative impact evaluation (20 barangays in 4 municipalities in 2 provinces); and (iii) the
management information system (MIS) data analysis.

Original Objective

a. strengthening local communities’ participation in community [barangay*] governance . Substantial.

Outputs
  Total 267,197 community volunteers (53% women) were trained in participatory situation analysis, project
    development, financial management, procurement, and operations and maintenance. 97% of barangays
    completed training on participatory situation analysis, planning, project development, implementation, and
    monitoring & evaluation (original target 98%).
  89% of municipal LGUs provided technical assistance in sub-project preparation, implementation and monitoring
    based on memoranda of agreement (original target 80% for percentage of LGUs (municipalities) that honor
    signed memoranda of agreement and assist participatory management of sub-projects by barangays).
  84% of LGUs satisfactorily implemented their participatory, transparency and accountability integration plans in
    accordance with the project’s memoranda of agreement and committed to sustaining these integration plans as
    part of their sustainability plans (original target 80% for percentage of barangays that adopted project
    participatory practices).
  About 93% of the target barangays under both the original financing and AF prepared community development
    plans in accordance with the project participatory process based on the participatory situation analysis results
    (ICR, p.16).
  99% of registered grievances were satisfactorily resolved in accordance with the grievance redress system
    manual (original target 90%).


Outcome
  According to MIS data, 82% of the total target municipalities under the original project accepted the turnover
    memoranda of agreement (MOAs), which signifies that these LGUs agreed to take-over the project management
    responsibilities from DSWD and to comply with all the pre-conditions that they are required to meet including the
    provision of sufficient resources (ICR, p.16).
  95% of the target municipalities under both the original and extended project established expanded Municipal
    Development Councils – a mandatory local development planning body – to include community representatives for
    broader consultation and inputs for the Municipal Development Plan.
  The quantitative impact evaluation detected only marginally significant effects of the project on households’
    participation in barangay assemblies in general, while qualitative impact evaluation found that the project led to
    changes in how barangay assemblies are perceived . Prior to the project, they were considered as avenues for
    leaders to report on budget and plans, and after the project, people came to perceive the barangay assemblies
    as mechanisms for participation, transparency and accountability (ICR, p.16).
  15% of the barangays targeted under the original project mobilized additional funds from other government
    sources to finance their priority needs that the project could not finance (ICR, p.17). This was much lower that
    targeted 50% initially anticipated under the project (ICR, Results Framework).
  The impact evaluation found that the project was not subject to elite capture, i.e., local elites such as elected
    village officials or the wealthy and more educated families did not influence the proposal selection. Poor
    households’ needs were equally represented as were those of the elites, although women and individuals with no
    schooling were less likely to have their preferences represented.

b. developing local communities ' capacity to design, implement and manage development activities that reduce
poverty. Substantial.

Outputs
  5,876 sub-projects were carried out under the original project. 98% of sub-projects were implemented in
    compliance with technical plans and within schedule and budget (target 80%). 99% met basic financial standards
    based on approved Finance and Administration Manual (target 80%). 96% of sub-projects had functionality
    evaluation rating of satisfactory or higher (original target 70%).

Outcome
  The quantitative impact evaluation found that per capita consumption increased by about 12% as a result of the
    project. The impact on consumption was stronger for households that were classified as poor before the project
    started, which experienced a 19% increase. The project also led to a 5 percentage-point increase in the non-food
      share of consumption. One possible source for the increase in per capita consumption is the 4 percentage-point
      increase, or 8 percentage-point for women, in the likelihood of employment that can be attributed to the project.
      The ICR p.18 assesses that the improvements in employment reflect increased economic activity generated by
      the project rather than direct, project- related short-term employment opportunities as the endline survey was
      conducted at least one year after the sub-project related employment ended.

Revised Objective:

a. to empower local communities in targeted poor municipalities and selected urban areas to achieve improved
access to sustainable basic public services . Substantial.

Outputs
The output and outcome indicators under the project were measured from the date of additional financing in 2010, with relevant
baseline values and targets set in 2010.

     An additional 2,330 sub-projects, 11 urban pilots, and 390 sub-projects under the co-financing grant were carried
      out under AF. 97% of sub-projects were implemented in compliance with technical plans and within schedule and
      budget (revised target 85%). 97% met basic financial standards based on approved Finance and Administration
      Manual (revised target 85%). 98% of sub-projects had functionality evaluation rating of satisfactory or higher
      (revised target 85%). Overall, 8,607 sub-projects were carried out under the project (5,876 original and 2,731
      under AF). The most common types of sub-project defined by the proportion of investments were: (i) road works
      (38%); (ii) water systems (16%); (iii) schools (15%); (iv) drainage and flood management facilities (8%); (v) health
      facilities (6%); and (vi) day care centers (5%).


Outcome
  90% of households reported better access to or use of basic services compared to AF initiation, against the
    target of 40%. The quantitative evaluation found that investment in roads (the largest sub-sector) resulted in a 9
    percentage- point increase in the proportion of households whose house is accessible year-round. This was
    associated with greater mobility, reduced transportation costs, and more regular visits to the municipal center.
    However, no positive effects were detected in access to improved water sources, use of health facilities, and
    school enrolment in project areas. This was attributed to the modest size and frequency of the investments and
    quantitative data not capturing the quality improvement (ICR, p.20). Due to the competitive selection of
    barangays under the project, 17% of barangays did not receive any funding, and 57% got funding only once
    (ICR, p.17-18). The qualitative evaluation found positive outcomes that were not quantified. For example, the
    project improved the learning environment by building new school classrooms and toilets. Day care centers
    provided children with pre-school education and enabled stay-at-home mothers to work part-time. Livelihood
    facilities led to lower production costs of as much as 30% and increased beneficiary revenues (ICR, p.18) .
  The qualitative evaluation found that some barangays did not manage to adequately maintain the investments
    (see section 7 below).
  75,724 short-term jobs were generated under the AF and co- financing grant DFAT (the data for the original
    project is not available). The ICR p.4 provides the data for women's employment, which was 5.5%.

b. to empower local communities to participate in more inclusive Local Government Unit planning and budgeting .
Substantial.

Outputs
  86% of barangays completed training on participatory situation analysis, planning, project development,
    implementation, and monitoring & evaluation (revised target 80%). 75% of barangays completed specific training
    on sub-project management and implementation (target 40%).
  74% of members from marginalized groups attended barangay assemblies, against the target of 50%.
  99% of municipal LGUs provided technical assistance in sub-project preparation, implementation and monitoring
    based on memorandum of agreement (target 80%).
  90% of LGUs satisfactorily implement their Participatory, Transparency and Accountability (PTA) integration
    plans in accordance with the KC MOA and committed to sustaining these PTA integration plans as part of their
    sustainability plans (target 80%).
  99% of registered grievances were satisfactorily resolved in accordance with the grievance redress system
    manual (revised target 80%).

Outcome
  93% of households report an increase in knowledge, skills and confidence to participate collectively in community
    development activities compared to AF initiation , against the target of 30%.
  1,005 community volunteers who were trained under project (out of 276,167) became public officials at Barangay
     LGUs (32% of them were women).
    76 LGUs (67%) of the 114 LGUs that completed the 3 cycles moved onto the Makamasang Tugon cycle,
     indicating that they passed an ordinance to institutionalize the CDD principles in local development process and
     met other good governance criteria set by the project (ICR, p.16). 84% of 76 LGUs had at least a 10% increase
     in their budget allocation for community identified priorities. The ICR p.17 adds that the allocated budget for
     community priorities increased on average by 76% substantially exceeding the target of 10% .95% Makamasang
     Tugon /LGU-led CDD modality municipalities established expanded Municipal Development Committees for
     broader consultation with civil society representatives to obtain inputs for the Municipal Development Plans
     (target 85%).
    95% of barangays with citizens, other than public officials, participate in regular municipal-level resource
     allocation forum (target 80%).
    87% of the target municipalities provided at least 80% of their local counterpart contribution that they were
     committed to (the target was 80%).
    12% of priorities identified through participatory situation analysis were funded with non- project funds (revised
     target 10%).
    The project was scaled up into a nationwide program called the "National Community Driven Development
     Program", covering over 900 of the poorest municipalities and reaching out to 24.2 million people in poor
     communities.

5. Efficiency:
  Economic returns. At appraisal, an ex-ante EIRR was estimated at 30.1% for the overall project. As the investment
proposals to be pursued by the communities were not known at the time of appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis was
carried out using conservative assumptions, and available data from then ongoing and past projects of a similar
nature in the Philippines. Profiles of generic sub-projects were modeled for estimating the “expected” benefits and
costs per sub-project. Subsequently, in 2006 an EIRR was estimated at 21% and a net present value of Php1.04
billion (for 82% of all sub-projects completed and ongoing at the time of assessment). The ex-post EIRR at completion
was estimated at 22.1% with a corresponding net present value of Php1.8 billion using the same methodology
adopted in 2006. The ex-post EIRR was estimated for the six sub-project categories that represented 88% of all
sub-projects in areas covered by the project totaling about $188.3 million, as follows : (i) 27.2% for roads; (ii) 31.3%
for water systems; (iii) 5.6% for schools; (iv) 23.1% for flood/drainage; (v) 18.2% for health facilities; and (vi) 8.9% for
day care centers (ICR, p.19).

Cost effectiveness. Civil works unit costs under the project were found to be generally lower than unit costs of
comparable works contracted out by public agencies. Cost savings were highest for water supply sub-projects at 76%
followed by roads at 8%-59%, which were the two largest investments under the project (ICR, p.19).

Efficiency is assessed as substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                      30.1%                                    100%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                      22.1%                                    68%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The outcome rating for the original and revised project objectives is rated Satisfactory. The project achieved its
stated objectives in a substantial way, with minor shortcomings. The disbursement shares were 58% and 42% prior to
and subsequent to project restructuring in 2010 respectively, out of the actual disbursement of US$156.4 million.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Sustainability of Sub -Projects. The financed sub-projects are sustainable in a short-term (6 months) as assessed
     by DSDW's Sustainability Evaluation Test (SET). However, there could be possible risks to longer-term
     sustainability. SET has found that road works (38% of total investments), water facilities (16%) and drainage (8%)
     are especially prone to operation and maintenance challenges.
     Sustainability of Community Empowerment Impacts . There is a need to further strengthen the community
      volunteers so that they can function as community leaders. More efforts are needed to extend the impacts
      beyond community volunteers to broader communities.

     Sustainability of the Participatory Development Process . Integration of the CDD principles in the local
      development system was envisaged under the project, and Makamasang Tugon modality was designed to
      partner with and progressively hand-over the project responsibilities to the LGUs. However, due to capacity and
      resource constraints, LGUs have not been able to match the level of resources. It's important for DSWD to
      continue explore various options to strengthen the LGUs’ capacity and ways to increase the LGUs’ resource
      allocation to provide adequate support.

All the above risks are mitigated under the follow-up National Community Driven Development Program (P127741)
supported by the Bank, which has incorporated measures to address them.


     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Quality Assurance Group at the Bank rated the project's quality at entry as “highly satisfactory” in 2004.
The ICR p.7 attributes this to strong governance agenda aligned with Government priorities and judicious use of
lessons learned from similar CDD operations.

Project design drew heavily on two major CDD programs - the DSWD- implemented CIDSS program since 1998
and the World Bank- supported Kecamatan Development Program in Indonesia. The following lessons were
incorporated into project design from these programs : (i) inclusion of good governance dimension in poverty
alleviation; (ii) utilization/revitalization of existing government structure rather than creating new project specific
committees to ensure sustainability; (iii) competitive grant allocation rather than equal allocation among the
barangays to encourage better planning and avoid exacerbating sense of entitlement; (iv) open menu of
sub-projects to be more responsive to community-identified priority needs; and (v) transparency and accountability
measures. The ICR p.24 says that the project team consulted closely with DSWD during preparation to ensure
that the design was in line with the Government’s policies. Safeguards put in place and risk assessment were
satisfactory. To mitigate any negative impacts of the competitive selection of sub-projects by barangays, the
project included 'mobilization of funds beyond project for non-prioritized barangays' as a key performance
indicator. Also, the project was designed to scale-up in a phased manner and monitor any negative impacts during
implementation. The ICR p. 24 finds that lack of clear articulation of the outcome indicators under the original
financing constrained tracking the project’s progress toward achieving its objective.


     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The ICR p.24 reports that regular management review meetings were held with DSWD together with frequent
field missions, and that the project team had adequate skill mix. As the ICR p.9 describes the project adopted 'a
flexible learning-by-doing approach '. A broad range of analytics were carried out to inform policy and operational
decisions, and adjust the design and implementation. The project drew on a number of trust funds mobilized to
strengthen capacity building for community volunteers, improve inclusion of the marginalized, and inform how
CDD programs can be adapted to the urban context (ICR, p.39). There was continued presence of the project
team leadership in the country office, and as described by the ICR p.25, the relationship between the project team
and DSWD was very good. The ICR p.25 notes that while the team closely monitored the intermediate outcome
indicators, the progress toward achieving the outcome indicators was not closely monitored as carefully as it
should have been given the maturity of the program.


     Quality of Supervision Rating :              Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Satisfactory
 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

  a. Government Performance:
     The Government embraced the CDD approach as a core pillar of its poverty reduction strategy and was highly
committed to the project, as evidenced by support for project preparation and implementation, compliance with all
the credit covenants, and allocation of adequate resources. As part of DSWD’s efforts to rationalize its poverty
reduction programs, DSWD adopted a policy that ensures harmonization among the programs in terms of
targeting, complementation of services each program offers, synchronization of community mobilization, and LGU
engagements. At project closure, the Government scaled up the project- supported approach nationally, and also
linked it to the Bottom-Up Budgeting, which mandates a joint LGU-CSO (Civil Society Organization) budget
planning at the municipal level to make public investments more responsive.

   Government Performance Rating                                Highly Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented through the National Project Management Office of the Department of Social
Welfare and Development (DSWD). It held an autonomous status with a direct line to the DSWD Secretary. The
ICR p.9 notes that this resulted in quick decisions, flexibility for innovations, and recruiting competent staff. DSWD
was committed and responsive throughout the project period, as described by the ICR p.25. The ICR also
commends it for investing in training of public officials on the CDD principles. As evaluated by the ICR, fiduciary
compliance was satisfactory as DSWD established sound FM and procurement systems, recruited adequate
skilled staff, and put in place four key GAC mechanisms that minimized risks. Safeguards compliance was
satisfactory as safeguards were well integrated into the design and implementation (ICR, p.25). The issues that
were noted by the ICR p.25 included a turn-over of senior staff at NPMO during the latter period of project
implementation that led to delays in policy and operational aspects of the project, and the project's staff ability to
and provide timely inputs into the design of M&E and effectively analyze the data.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
    The original project results framework had a mix of PDO-related outcome indicators and intermediate outcome
indicators (PAD, Annex 1). In addition, there were discrepancies between the KPIs listed in the PAD and the LA
which, as the ICR p.10 finds, led to inconsistencies in the outcome indicators listed in the Implementation and Status
Results Reports. As a result, the performance indicators were revised in November 2007 after mid-term review,
through amendments in the loan agreement, and then during AF project restructuring in 2010. A number of indicators
were moved to the intermediate outcome level , some indicators were rephrased and some discontinued (e.g.,
improved poverty and quality of life indicators). During restructuring in 2010, the project development objective was
revised and additional intermediate outcome indicators were included to track progress toward the institutionalization
of participatory approaches at the municipal level through Makamasang Tugon modality. The ICR p.11 finds that the
new framework, however, was structured only to measure the outcomes and outputs of the AF rather than the entire
project.

The ICR p.11 reports that DSWD’s M&E was guided by a comprehensive M&E framework that included both internal
and external M&E which took place at all levels of project implementation (community, municipality, regional and
national levels). Internal M&E included regular monitoring of process and progress, engineering assessment,
safeguards assessment, financial and procurement reviews, participatory monitoring by the communities and LGUs,
and grievance redress mechanism. External M&E included third party monitoring by NGOs, a rigorous mixed methods
impact evaluation (IE) that captured longitudinal and cross sectional data, and numerous evaluation studies on
different aspects of project impact and design.


 b. M&E Implementation:
    The ICR p.11 finds that all activities planned under the M&E framework were undertaken satisfactorily, aside from
third party monitoring by NGOs due to their weak capacity. Also, greater attention could have been devoted to
continuously monitor the outcome indicators and not just the intermediate outcome indicators (ICR, p.11).
 c. M&E Utilization:
   M&E and the empirical evidence helped inform policy and operational decisions. Findings of the impact evaluations
were instrumental in designing AF and in assessing whether the implementation was on the right track, and numerous
thematic studies contributed to design adjustments.

M&E Quality Rating: High




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was a Category B project that triggered three safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP4.01),
Indigenous People (OP/BP4.10), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP4.12).

Environmental Assessment . The ICR p. 12 reports that the project was in compliance with the safeguards covenants
in the Loan Agreement, and the Bank supervision consistently rated safeguards performance as satisfactory with no
major issues. No significant potentially adverse environmental impacts on communities or their surrounding areas
were anticipated. The negative list of prohibited investments with adverse environmental impacts was also introduced.
All sub-projects underwent screening for environmental risks/issues and proper mitigation measures were formulated
and reflected in the Environmental Management Plans by the communities.

Involuntary Resettlement and Indigenous People . No involuntary resettlement took place as nearly all sub-projects
financed by the project were small-scale infrastructure that required minimal land acquisition most of which was
publicly-owned land or was donated to the communities. The area coordination teams took steps to ensure that deeds
of donation were executed and filed for annotation at the municipal Register of Deeds. The ICR p.12 notes that the
project undertook broad- based and informed consultation, participation and inclusion of the marginalized sectors,
particularly women, indigenous people, and internally displaced persons.

The ICR p.12 adds that for AF restructuring, the NPMO prepared an enhanced Environmental Impact Assessment
Guidelines, IP Planning Framework and Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework to incorporate the
lessons learned from implementation, as well as separate safeguards sub-manual to better guide the field
implementation. These policies were publicly disclosed on the DSWD website and Bank Infoshop. The ICR adds p.13
that safeguards training of project staff and communities led to satisfactory compliance.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
The ICR p.11 reports that financial management and procurement have been satisfactory throughout the Project.

Financial management. DSWD put in place an FM staffing arrangement with adequate number of personnel for the
duration of the project that ensured management of the project financial transactions, facilitation of the timely release
and disbursement of funds to communities and field offices accounts and evaluation and analysis of claims for
payments and liquidation. Separate books of the project accounts were maintained by the Central Office for NPMO
using an eNGAS electronic system, and manually by the field offices. Project books are consolidated every quarter by
the Consolidation Unit of the FMS Accounting Division at the Central Office. The Commission on Audit carried out
annual audits for the project. Throughout the project life, DSWD was consistent in submitting the required interim
financial reports and audited financial statements.

Procurement. No issues were raised in the ICR on procurement. The ICR p.12 mentions regular procurement
monitoring conducted by DSWD and various stakeholders at the community level; community participatory monitoring,
capacity building, and adoption of standardized designs for sub-projects.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



                                                                                              Reason for
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Selected lessons, with some adaptation of language:

Adopt phased scaling-up and flexible learning -by-doing approach informed by empirical evidence to enhance
prospects of success . Establishing an iterative process of operations and analysis enhances prospects of success.

Build in design to institutionalize the CDD approach in local development .CDD programs should build in means to
strengthen linkages between the communities and the local governments/ sectoral agencies from the outset, rather
than try to link them retrospectively which is much harder.

Adequate M&E could help capture the impacts accurately . Investing in developing a robust results framework at
entry is essential not only for evaluation but to ensure that the project is on the right track.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and outcome-oriented. Lessons are evidence- based. The excessive use of acronyms, however,
makes its difficult to follow the text. Annex 3 is more like a mini-ICR; it represents a short version of the ICR,
discussing outcomes and issues during implementation, and that otherwise should just list the project's outputs. The
percentages to measure outputs and outcomes lack the number of municipalities and/or barangays they are based
on, as this number differs between the indicators (e.g., some ratios are used only for the Makamasang Tugon
/LGU-led modality municipalities, not for the total municipalities supported by the project).
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
