&*-2-933 - K f t
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10093-KE        Type: (SAR)                        Report No.10093-KE
ALMASSY,B./ X34082 / J10082/ AF2IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 16, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenrlse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
SECQND MOMBASA A           ASAL REGION WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING ANID REHABILITATION PROJECT
Currency Equivalnts
Currency Unitl/         = Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1.00                = US$ 0.033
US$ 1.00                = KSh 30.0
SDR 1.00                = US$ 1.36032
US$ 1.00                =  SDR 0.735
Weights and Measures
(Kenya uses the metric system)
1 cubic meter (in)      = 220 Imperial gallons,
264.2 US gallons
1,000 liters (1 kiloliter - kl)
1 meter (m)             = 3.28 feet (39.37 inches)
1 millimeter (mm)       = 0.39 inch
1 kilometer (kn)        = 0.62 miles
I square kilometer (Km2)  = 0.386 square miles = 247 acres
1 liter per capita per day  =  1 l.c.p.d.
1 m3/d                  =  1 cubic meter per day
Abbreviations and Acronyms
FY      -   Fiscal Year
GOK     -   Government of Kenya
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank)
IDA     -   International Development Association (the Association)
MCSS    -   Ministry of Culture and Social Services
MERD    -   Ministry of Energy and Regional Development
MF      -   Ministry of Finance
MLG     -   Ministry of Local Government
MWD     -   Ministry of Water Development
NWCPC -     National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation
PIU     -   Project Implementation Unit
PPF     -   Project Preparation Facility
ROK     -   Republic of Kenya
WAB     -   Water Apportionment Board
WD      -   Water Department of the Ministry of Water Development
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
1/ The Kenya Pound (Kg = 20 KSh) is traditionally used as accounting unit in financial statements and budgets.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(I)
SECOND MOMBASA AND CAfSTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REITABILITAAT1ON PREC_T
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pagre No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                     (iii)
I.     THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Country Background .......       ..................        I
Sector Background  ..........                       ..     2
Water Resources .........      ...................         2
Access to Water in Urban Areas .....    .............      2
Access to Water in Rural Areas .....    .............      2
Sewerage and Sanitation .......     ................       2
Sector Legislation ..........3................             3
Sector Organization .......     ...................        3
Sector Development Program ......      ..............      4
Development Constraints and Problem Areas ....  ......     5
Previous Bank Group Projects and Lessons Learned  ......   5
I.     THE PROJECT AREA - MOMBASA AND THE COASTAL REGION
Location and Features .......      .................        7
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply System  ....   ......     7
Water Distribution  ........     ..................        9
Water Demand .........        ....................         10
Existing Sewerage, Drainage and Sanitation Systems  ....   10
DI.    THE PROJECT
Genesis .................................                  12
Project Objectives ........     ...................        13
Project Components ........      ..................        13
Cost Estimates .........      ....................        15
Project Financing Arrangements .....     .............     18
Implementation . ............................              19
Procurement Arrangements ......       ...............     20
Disbursement ..............................               22
Environmental Aspects .......      .................      22
Affordability for Low Income Group .....    ..........    23
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Kenya in
June/July, 1991, comprising Mr. Balint Almassy, Senior Sanitary Engineer, mission leader and Ms.
Carolyn Gochenour, Senior Financial Analyst. Mr. Arne Dalfelt, Environmental Specialist assisted in
the appraisal team regarding the environmental aspects of the Project. Mr. Alfonso Zavala, Water
and Sanitation Adviser, was the peer reviewer. Mr. Chakranarayan provided secretarial support in
the preparation of the report. Mr. Stephen Weissman and Mr. Callisto E. Madavo are the managing
Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



(ii)
IV.    THE NATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION AND PIPELINE CORPORATION
Background and Organization ......     ..............      25
Staffing, Manpower Development & Training ....  ......     26
Corporate Development Plan ....................            28
Accounts and Audits .......      ...................       29
Billing and Collection  ........................           29
V.     FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Past Financial Performance of NWCPC  ....     .........    31
Water Tariffs ..........      ....................         32
Future Financial Performance of NWCPC ....    ........     34
VI.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits .........      ...................        35
Least Cost Solution ........      ..................       35
Economic Rate of Return ......       ................      35
Project Risks ..........                                   36
Project Monitoring ........      ..................        36
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENlDATION
Agreements Reached During Negotiations ....   ........     37
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness .....  ............     38
Conditions for Disbursement ......     ..............      38
Recommendation .........                                   38
ANNEX                                DESCRIPTION
1         Schematic Layout of the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply System
2          Detailed Cost Estimates
3          Project Implementation Schedule
4          Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
5          Schedule of Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Credit
6          NWCPC's Water Supply Schemes
7          NWCPC - Organizational Structure
8          NWCPC - Mombasa and Coast Region - Organizational Structure
9          TOR's for Institutional Support Consultancies
10         TORs for Environmenal Impact Assessment Studies
11         TORs for Engineering Consultancies
12         NWCPC's Financial Statements
13         Economic Rate of Return Calculation and Sensitivity Analysis
14         Outline Training Program
15         Project Monitoring Guidelines
16         Summary of Water Tariff Rates
MAPS                                 DESCRIPTION
IBRD No.      23240 - NWCPC's Operational Regions
23241 - NVCPC - Coast Region



(iii)
KENYA
SfCO?ND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SIUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             The Republic of Kenya.
Implementiny A2ency
and Beneficia:       National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC).
Credit Amount:        SDR31.8 million (US$43.2 million equivalent).
C     zit Terms:      Standard IDA Terms with a maturity of 40 years.
OnIgnding T.rnms:     US$17.4 million equivalent for rehabilitation/augmentation works and for
vehicles and equipment as a loan to NWCPC at an interest rate fixed at the
Treasury Bill yield on the date of the auction closest to the date of
commitment of the IDA Credit (currently 16.5 percent per annum), to be
repaid over 20 years including 5 years grace. The balance of the Credit
(US$25.8 million equivalent) for institutional support and preinvestment
studies would be transferred to NWCPC as an equity contribution by the
Government.
Project Description:  The Project would help finance the preparation of a follow-on Mombasa and
Coastal Water Supply Project. The main components of the Project are:
(a) institutional support to the National Water Conservation and Pipeline
Corporation to ensure its institutional, operational and financial viability for
carrying out the proposed Project in particular and for fulfilling its mandate
in the water supply sector in general; (b) pre-investment studies and detailed
engineering designs for the extension of the Mombasa and Coastal Water
Supply System and the related waste water disposal systems for improved
provision of safe water and for improved sanitation for the rapidly
expanding population; and (c) rehabilitation/augmentation of existing
facilities to reduce the water supply deficit (presently about 60 percent) in
the near term. The Project would also ensure that adverse environmental
impacts of the follow-on Project (Class EA) and the augmentation works
under this Project (Class EB) would be minimized.
frtQIt.t fitks:       The introduction of an appropriate tariff policy which is expected to require
significant increases in current water tariffs could be difficult to achieve in
v.ew of political constraints. To reduce this risk, the Project would provide
for carrying out a tariff study and for strengthening NWCPC's revenue
collection and financial management systems. In addition, there would be
annual financial reviews and tariff increases necessary to meet the following
year's requirements would be agreed and implemented. Government's firm
commitment to the Project and to the objective of establishing an
independent, self-financing corporation was demonstrated by an initial tariff
increase of about 50 percent, versus the minimum 20 percent requested by
IDA. The introduction of a differentiated, block tariff system lessened the
impact of tariff increases on low income groups and would help to defuse



(iv)
the political/social issues of increasing the cost of water for the consumers.
Inadequate allocation in the Government's development budget for the IDA
Credit and counterpart funds due to financial and budgetary constraints
would be another risk. To reduce this risk a detailed schedule of the
counterpart fund requirements had been prepared jointly with NWCPC and
Treasury, and agreement was reached that Government's contribution would
be deposited on the project account in a time', manner. The initial deposit
required for FY91/92 was made a condition of Credit effectiveness. Some
unforeseen difficulties could arise fronm a relatively new institution in spite
of its qualified staff, but these difficulties are expected to be reduced
through institutional support and the hiring of consultants to assist in project
preparation and implementation activities. Monitoring of NWCPC's
performance in these areas would be a focus of IDA supervision.
Estimated Cos:                                       Local         Foreign     Total
--------US$ million----------------
Institutional Support
Consultancy and Advisory Services            3.5            3.9        7.4
Machinery and Equipment                       1.0           2.5        3.5
Training                                     0.2            2          0.3
Sub-Total                               4.7            6.6       11.3
Preinvestment Studies and Engineering
Water Supply                                 2.7           10.0       12.7
Sewerage and Sanitation                      0.8            2 .8       3.6
Sub-Total                               3.5           12.8       16.3
Rehabilitation and Augmentation Works
Consultancy and Advisory Services            0.3            0.9        1.2
Land Acquisition                             0.1            0.0        0.1
Physical Works                               3 1            8         11.1
Sub-Total                               3.5            8.9       12.4
BaseCoat Total                                 11,7          28.3       40.
Physical Contingencies                          0.8           2.0        2.8
Price Contingencies                             3.3           2.6        5.9
Total Profect Cost a/                          15.8          329        48.7
Financing Plan:            IDA                        10.3           32.9       43.2
GOK                         5.5                       5.5
Total                      15.8           32.9       487
Estimated Disbursements:
flank FY                  ,1992         1X993        1994          995         1996
- --- - ----------------------US$ million------------------------------
Annual               1.9          19.0         15.8          4.8          1.7
Cumulative           1.9          20.9         36.7         41.5          43.2
Economic Rate of Return:   23.2 percent (for rehabilitation/augmentation works)
a/ Includes local taxes estimated at US$0.7 million equivalent



KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Country Background
1.01         The Republic of Kenya, stretching inland from the Indian Ocean to Lake
Victoria, covers 583,000 Km' and straddles the equator. Along the Indian Ocean coastline
lies a narrow tropical belt, behind which an arid plain extend to the north. Toward the
northwest, the land rises to a high plateau, the Kenya Highlands, at about 1,500 m above sea
level with a temperate climate and subtropical vegetation. The Highlands are bisected from
north to south by the Rift Valley.
1.02         Kenya's population is now about 21 million, with one of the highest
population growth rates (about 3.6 percent per annum) in the world. The rural popula2ion IS
estimated at 18 million, while 3 million people live in the rapidly growing urban areas, The
capital city, Nairobi has a population of about 1.3 million. About 85 percent of the
population and the majority of economic enterprises are concentrated on the Highlands
plateau. Mombasa is the second largest city and the principal seaport in Kenya with a
population of about 0.8 million. Mombasa and the Coastal Regior. is a significant and rapidly
growing base of the tourism industry. The total population of the Coastal Region is estimated
at 1.6 million.
1.03         Kenya's per capita income of US$368 in 1990 places it at the higher end of
the range for low-income countries. The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, which
employs about eighty percent of the labor force, contributos more than one quarter of GDP,
and accounts for close to one half of merchandise exports. The manufacturing sector
contributes about 12 percent of GDP, and manufactured exports are low at less than 20
percent of total exports. The services sector accounts for about one half of GDP and is an
important source of employment. It includes tourism which in recent years has become
Kenya's leading foreign exchange earner. The tourism industry accounts for more than 50
percent of Kenya's foreign earnings, most of which is generated in the Coast Region.
1.04         Kenya has enjoyed an economic recovery over the past five years, reversing
the relative stagnation of the first half of the 1980s. Government's aims for FY92 through
FY94 are to attain output growth of over 5 percent per annum, to reduce the inflation to the
average level forecast for Kenya's main trading partners (about 5 percent per annum) and to
reduce the external current account deficit to a sustainable level of 4.4 percent of GDP. To
achieve these targets the budget deficit needs to be substantially reduced through the
rationalization of public expenditures and parastatal reform, the trade regime must be
liberalized and exports promoted by foreign exchange and incentive policies and the use of
non-concessional sources of external financing must be limited. During the November 1991
Consultative Group meeting, donors expressed their concerns about the extent of
Government's commitment to major structural reforms and linked continued high levels of
quick disbursing assistance to concrete actions. This project is designed to support parastatal
reform, and to reduce Government subventions in the water supply sector; and to protect the
earning capacity of the coastal region, especially in tourism, through improved water supply
infrastructure.



-2-
Water Resources
1.05         Kenya experiences wide differences in climate caused mainly by variations in
altitude. It has two distinct rainy seasons and two dry seasons. The hottest months are
December through March which are followed by the "long rains" until early June. The
Kenya "winter" is from late June until early September and this is followed by the "short
rains" which often last until early December. The coastal strip is dominated by the twice
yearly monsoons which blow to and from the Arabian Gulf. Average annual rainfall Is about
450 mm, but the actual distribution means that vast areas receive 250 mm or less per annum.
As a result of the rainfall pattern, streamflows a.e highly seasonal and vary widely. Perennial
rivers are concentrated in the Highlands area (including Nairobi) and the coastal zones. The
groundwater potential, except in the eastern part of the country, appears to be limited, and
considerably more investigation is required to identify and develop this source for large scale
water supplies. Unfortunately, in some areas, groundwater is saline and in other, including
Nairobi and the Rift Valley, groundwater contains a high level of fluorides. In tlhe southern
part of Kenya, near the Tanzanian border, there are some large natural springs where the
water in the permeable volcanic rocks (lava-flows and volcanic tuffs) comes to the surface.
Some of these springs are utilized for large water supply schemes.
Access to Water in Urban Areas
1.06         While most of the urban population in Kenya has access to piped water, the
urban population growth rate of 7 percent strains the existing capacity of the systems. At
present, water is supplied through metered individual connection to about 70 percent of the
urban population and to about 8 percent through communal water points or water selling
kiosks. The remaining 22 percent of the population has only limited indirect access to potable
water. Overall, urban water usage (excluding Nairobi) ranges from 70 l.p.c.d. to about 160
I.p.c.d. (including industrial consumption). Nairobi's average is about 180 l.p.c.d., which is
normal for this environment. The per capita consumption in Mombasa should be about the
same (160 to 180 l.p.c.d.), as a result of the high number of tourists.
Acces 1qWater in Rural Area
1.07         Only 2.6 million people (about 15 percent of the rural population) are supplied
with safe drinking water. The rest of the rural population has to carry water over
considerable distances from natural sources which are normally polluted, inadequate or dry
for several weeks each year. Water usage ranges from 50 I.p.c.d for individual connections
(about 47,000 to serve 600,000 people) down to about 6 I.p.c.d. where water is being carried.
Although a large number of water supply schemes have been constructed under the country's
Rural Water Supply Program, many with external donor assistance, the level of operation and
maintenance has been inadequate and many schemes are in need of rehabilitation.
Sewerage and Sanitation
1.08         Therf are 22 public sewerage systems in Kenya, servicing about 6 percent of
the total population. Another 4 percent have septic tanks and 40 percent make use of pit
latrines. The remaining 50 percent have no proper sanitation facilities. In Nairobi, about 50
percent of the population is served by public sewer systems, and 20 percent by septic tanks.



--3--
The Ministry of Local Government (MLG) and the Ministry of Water Development (MWD)
have undertaken improvements in other municipalities and smaller towns. The sewerage and
sanitation situation in Mombasa (built-up urban areas) is described in paras 2.14 through 2.17.
Operation and maintenance by local authorities, except in Nairobi, are often to very low
standards.
Sectgr Legislation
1.09         The Water Act, revised in 1986, and currently under review, together with Its
subsidiary legislation, covers the broad field of conservation, control, appointment and use of
water resources. The Water Apportionment Board (WAB) is responsible for issuing all water
abstraction licenses in Kenya. It is able to vary and revoke awards of water use permits.
MWD provides the Board with technical advice, manpower for the Board's Secretariat, and
water bailiffs who are the Board's field workers. The chairman of WAB is appointed by the
Minister of Water Development.
1.10         Complementary to the Water Act is the Public H{ealth Act which includes
many provisions relating to water and sewerage from the health point of view. The Local
Government Act, Cap. 265, gives power to local authorities in urban areas to undertake water
supply, sewerage and drainage works, to maintain waterworks and to make appropriate by-
laws.
Sector Qrganization
1.11         Reflecting the growing importance which the Government attaches to the
water sector and to rural water supply in particular, over the past two decades responsibility
for water supply has passed from the Ministry of Works to the Ministry of Natural Resources
to the Ministry of Agriculture, and finally to the MWD, which was established in 1974 to
concentrate on the development of the water sector. In addition, under the Ministry of
Energy (MOE) and the Ministry of Regional Development (MORD), five river basin
development authorities (the Tana and Athi Rivers, Lake Basin, Kerio Valley, Uaso Nyiro
North and Uaso Nyiro South) were established as independent statutory bodies. They are
responsible for the planning and implementation of integrated, mtulti-sectoral development
projects and orderly water exploitation in their respective areas. Major irrigation
developments are the responsibility of the National Irrigation Board.
1.12         Since its establishment, the MWD has concentrated on the rural water supply
sector by constructing and operating several hundred schemes under the first four phases of its
Rural Development Program, with varying degrees of success. In addition to these MWD
schemes, other ministries and bodies have made rural water investments. The county councils
operate with limited success several hundred small schemes which are scheduled to be
gradually taken over by MWD as funding permits. Kenya Railways also operates about a
hundred schemes which supply water to adjacent villages in addition to their own
requirements. The Ministry of Land and Settlement plans and finances water supply for new
settlement areas, usually with MWD's Water Department as the executing agency. "Self-
help' water supply schemes in rural areas are overseen by MWD.



1.13         The National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) was
established under the State Corporation Act (Cap 446) of Parliament in 1988 as an
autonomous agency reporting to MWD and became operational on July 1, 1989. Its prime
function is to manage and operate major water supply schemes (previously operated by
MWD) on a conmmercial basis, and to develop and implernent new water supply projects. (see
also paras 4.01 through 4.03). As of June, 1991 45 schemes have been transferred from
MWD to NWCPC (Map IBRD 23240 and Annex 6). This includes the Mombasa and Coastal
Water Supply schemes (but the Mombasa sewerage services are the Mombasa municipality's
responsibility).
1.14         In the rest of the urban sector, the Nairobi water supply and sewerage system
Is owned by the Nairobi City Commission (NCC) and operated by its Water and Sewerage
Department (WSD), and five other major municipalities operate their own water supply
systems under the direction of MLG with technical guidance from MWD) and NWCPC.
Sector Development Program
1.15         Kenya's water sector objective, as stated in the 1974 National Water Master
Plan, is to ensure that every household has potable water within a distance of four kilometers
by the year 2000. In the early 1970's, government launched a Rural Water Supply Program
to speed rural development, which is now in its fourth phase. The Government also endorsed
the targets of the International Drinking Water Supply Decade and, in October 1980, created
a National Action Committee to coordinate Decade planning. Annual development
expenditure by MWD in the water supply and sanitation sector grew very rapidly in the
1970s, to about US$25 million equivalent by 1979. Since then, actual expenditure has
dropped below this figure due to financial constraints, but emphasis is still given to the rural
areas, especially to those projects which have attracted substantiai amounts of concessional
donor finance. Sewerage and sanitation developmnent expenditures amount to only 10 percent
of sector expenditures.
1.16         The rural water sector has benefitted substantially from both grants and
technical assistance provided by various international donor agencies. Over 60 percent of
MWD's Rural Water Supply Program has been financed by the nordic donor agencies (SIDA,
NORAD, DANIDA and FINNIDA), the Netherlands, CIDA and KfW. In the past, this
funding was concentrated on new projects to benefit the unserved population. While this
program was largely successful, because of the rapid expansion MWD was unable to provide
necessary back-up services and finance to operate and maintain these new facilities.
Recognizing these constraints, the donors are now focussing their assistance on rehabilitation,
strengdtening of operations and maintenance, and technical assistance to MWD. The recent
trend in rural water supply strategy focuses on village based operations, community
participation and appropriate technology.
1.17         The most significant change in the sector development strategy is the
recognition by Government of the principle that water users have to pay the full cost for the
services provided to them. This has very important implications for the restructuring of the
water supply sector, The first step in this direction was the creation of NWCPC which,
according to its mandate, has to operate the water supply schemes transferred under its
jurisdiction on a commercial basis, without goverrnent subsidy. There is also a commitnent



-- - -
to rehabilitate and upgrade the existing schemes so that they can operate at optimal level.
NWCPC will also assist the Government in the formulation of a national water development
policy which will inter alia clarify the tariff policy to be applied to rural water users. In rural
water schemes water charges traditionally aim at covering operation and maintenance costs.
A study on the National Water Master Plan (financed by JICA) is presently being prepared.
Develoment Constraints and Problem Areas
1.18         The major constraints to an effective restructuring of the water supply sector
are twofold: financial and Institutional. The new policy that NWCPC has to manage
establishment,yoperation and maintenance of water supply schemes without recourse to
Government subsidies requires that the Corporation revenues collected from water users cover
all costs. The present revenue level falls far short of this requirement, hence a number of
actions are needed to raise revenue. First, the level and structure of the water tariffs charged
to users have to be set in such a way that they cover both recurrent and capital costs, while 2t
the same time giving due consideration to social objectives including availability of nminimum
quantities of ;vater at affordable prices to lower income groups. Second, the billing and
collection systems have to be strengthened so that a high proportion of water supplied is
effectively billed and bills collected. Third, an important condition for user cooperation with
the revenue drive is that the Corporation will deliver reliable and good auality water supply.
Moreover, more efficient operation of services can help bring down the cost of water supply
and increase the net revenues. Government has recognized the need to improve the
Corporations's cost recovery as well as operational efficiency in order to overcome the
financial constraint, and also the need for institutional strengthening of this new agency so that
the Corporation can perform operational as well as financial activities more effectively. The
Corporation has identified systematic manpower development and specific training programs
as major tools to overcome the institutional constraints.
Previous Bank rrowp Projects and Lessons Learned
1.19         The Bank has been involved in the urban and water sector since 1970.
During this period, the Bank has financed three urban projects and six water supply projects.
The Nairobi Sites and Services Project (Loan 1205-KE)/Credit 543-KB) included funds for a
substantial sanitation and sewerage comportent to benefit the urban poor in Nairobi. The
Second Urban Project (Loan 1550-KE/Credit 791-KE) undertook to finance site and service
developments and urban upgrading in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. The Secondary Towns
Project (Loan 2319-KE/Credit 1390-KE) assisted the development in Kitale, Eldoret, Nyeri,
Thika and Nakuru, with the aim of developing an integrated urban network to support
economic growth in the rural areas and improving the urban employment base of secondary
towns.
1.20         The Nairobi Water Supply Project (Loan 714-KE) implemented during 1972-
76 with Bank assistance was the first phase of a long-range program to develop the Chania-
Kimakia-Thika river system for the purpose of meeting Nairobi's water bupply requirements.
This was followed by the Second Nairobi Water Supply Project (Loan 1520-KE),
implemented during 1979-84, to provide the necessary extensions for Nairobi's water supply
up to 1987-88. The Third Nairobi Water Supply Engineering Project (Credit 1566-KE)
assisted the Government nd the Nairobi City Commission (NCC) and its Water Sewerage



--6--
DepartmenL (WSD) in the preparation of the next extension phase and strengthening of the
institutional and financial capacity of the implementing agency (NCC/WSD). The Tird
Nairobi Water Supply Project (Credit 2060-KE) is presently being implemented. The Bank
also financed (together with KfM) the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project (Loan
1167-KE), which was implemernted in 1972-79 by MWD. The Nairobi water supply projects
have been successfully implemented albeit with cost overruns of varying degrees. The
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project was less successful: due to inadequate
preparatory work and high cost overruns, some of the project components had to be canceled,
and the capacity of the new scheme is about 10 percent below the design capacity.
1.21         The Bank has made one loan to the rural water sector, namely the Rural
Water Supply Project (Loan 1637-KE) in 1977. Due to the problems of implementation and
:eration which MWD was experiencing with the Rural Water Supply Program, the Bank-
financed project got off to a very slow start. In 1983, the project was restructured and
reduced at Government's request. Since then, Government's continuing financial constraints
have adversely affected MWD's financial and physical capacity to absorb any further
responsibilities, and the project was finally canceled on mutdal agreement in February 1985.
1.22         In assessing the lessons learned from previous Bank group involvement in the
water sector, especially in large urban water supply proi--,ts, it is clear that detailed project
preparation is a necessary condition for the success of such investments. The first Mombasa
and Coastal Water Supply Project was appraised too early in the project cycle (without final
engineering designs) which contributed to original underestimation of quantities and unit costs
and an unrealistic implementation schedule which distorted the appraisal estimates. This
resulted in prolonged implementation and high cost overrun, and some of the originally
planned project components had to be deleted from the program. In contrast, the Nairobi
Project was appraised after thorough project preparation and detailed designs (carried out
under an engineering project) which ensured a realistic project formulation and a favorable
cofinancing arrangement. The same phased approach is being followed in the case of the
proposed project (s< para 3.04).
1.23         The other key lessons learned from the past projects -- which will be
addressed in this operation -- are that the implementing agency should be financially viable
and autonomous; institutional improvement and capacity building should be emphasized in
project formulation; and the implementation of Government's stated policy regarding cost
recovery on water supply projects should be consistently pursued and followed up beyond the
physical completion of individual projects.
1.24         The Bank group strategy is to support Government's efforts to achieve its
targets in water sector development by providing financial assistance for high priority, water
supply projects with continuing assistance for institution building, emphasizing manpower
development and improvement in administrative and financial management. The Bank
therefore contitihes to assist the expansion of water supply and sewerage systems in Nairobi,
the nation's capital and in Mombasa (and the coastal region) which is the second largest
industrial town in Kenya and also an important center of tourism, to which the government
attaches high priGrity.



-7-
IL. THE PROJECT AREA - MOMBUSA AND THE COASTAL REGION
LQoation and Features
2.01         The Coast Province covers about 83,000 km2, or one seventh &f the total area of
Kenya. Its population is estimated at 1.6 million. Many of the Coast Province inhabitants are
concentrated in urban areas, particularly Mombasa, Kilifi and Malindi along the coast. Because
of a warm climate and an abundance of excellent beaches, tourism along the coastal strip from the
Tanzanian border to northeast to Malindi has grown rapidly in recent years.
2.02         Mombasa, the second largest city in Kenya, located on the South-eastern coast is
developing steadily. It is the principal seaport of Kenya, which also serves other land-locked
countries of Eastern Africa. Mombasa is also a center of transport2tion, trade and indust.y.
Duzring the recent decades Mombasa has grown to become the coulitry's major tourist gate-town,
functioning as the center of the coastal resort belt which attracts many foreign visitors. The
municipal area comprises Mombasa Island, the North Mainland, the South Mainland and the West
Mainland. The business center is on the Island which is linked to the North Mainland by the
Nyali EBidge and to the West Mainland by a causeway. The connection between the Island and
the South Mainland is provided by ferry service. rhe North and South Mainland areas are
primarily residential, with a large number of hotels along the beaches. Industrial and commercial
activities center on the port and its allied facilities, oil refineries, brewery and cement plant and a
variety of light industries, located mostly on the Island and West Mainland.
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply System
2.03         The water supply in NWCPC's Coast Region is unique in Kenya in the sense that,
except for the Taveta-Lumi scheme and some minor, community based operations, the whole
region is supplied through an integrated, regional water supply system. This service area includes
Mombasa municipality and its environs, the coastal strip north of Mombasa up to Malindi, the
south coast area, Kwale town, and an about 10 kIn wide strip of occupied land along the existing
Mzima-pipeline and the Mombasa-Nairobi roai and railway line between Voi and Mazeras.
2.04         For operational purposes, the service area is organized into 8 sub-areas (IBRD
Map 23241):
Sub-area                                Area headquarters
Mombasa Island                          Mombasa Island
(Regional H.Q. of NWCPC)
West Mainland                           Changamwe
North Mainland                          Kisauni
Kilifi                                  Kilifi
Malindi                                 Malindi
Mazeras                                 Mazeras
Kwale                                   Kwale
South Coast                             Likoni
Voi                                     Voi



- 8 -
2 05         The schematic layout of the existing Mumbasa and Coastal Water Supply system
is hown in Annex 1. The system currently obtains its water from five different sources (bulk
supply systems):
Annual Averagerodutig
ml/day
Mzima Springs                           35,000
Marere Springs                           9,100
South Coast (Tiwi) Boreholes             3,900
Baricho Intake (Sabaki River)           35,400
Kwa Abs;iya Intake (Sabaki River)        2.000
Total Bulk Supply:         85,400 m3/day
All sources are ope ating near their maximum output with the exception of the Baricho Intake
Works (and treatment plant) which has a theoretical output of 72,000 m3lday. This amount,
however, cannot be obtained at present due to problems of siltation within the intake and due to
limitations in pump capacity (see also para. 2.07 (d)).
2.06         Groundwater investigations have been carried out for about four years near
Baricho, to supplement the production of the existing intake (financed by KfW). These
investigations located the paleo-river channel of the Sabaki River, where indications of very
significant quantities of good quality groundwater were obtained. Two 60 m deep large diameter
wells are presently under construction, with an expected yield of 10,000 m3/day each. The
proposed Project would provide for the continuation/extension of the hydrogeological
investigations. Based on the available data, it is expected that with the construction of a new
wellfield on the left bank (flood plain) of the Sabaki river, an additional 40,000 m3/day can be
made available from this source.
2.07         All bulk water supply schemes (source works, treatment plants and transmission
mains) are in need of rehabilitation. The major problems are:
(a)    Mzima Springs: The source works (spring intake structure), built in 1952, is
operational at present supply capacity, but additional works would be required if
this source is to be expanded. The 220 km long gravity transmission main and its
auxiliary structures (break-pressure tanks) need rehabilitation, especially near Voi,
where frequent pipe bursts are experienced due to nfavorable soil conditions.
(b)    Marere Springs: Some rehabilitation of the source works is required. The 40 km
long transmission main (laid in 1916) needs replacement.
(c)    The TIWIboeh_o1es are well maintained but investigation should be carried out
regarding the danger of saline water intrusion into the aquifer.
(d)      3Barijbo Intake (and t1eatment plant) on the Sabaki River, built in the late
1970's (under the first Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project), did not fulfill
the expectations. IExcept a short initial period, the source works didn't operate at
design capacity, due to siltation (and silt removal) problems within the intake and



- 9 -
frequent breakdown of the raw water pumps. The existing water treatment plant
is in serious state of disrepair and needs rehabilitation. The transmission main
was originally designed to carry about 72,000 m3/day water, with two booster
pumping stations of which only one was constructed at Jaribuni. This pumping
station needs rehabilitation, If the production from this source can be increased,
an additional booster pumping station is required near Didima.
(e)    The Kwa-Alenva Intaks (and treatment plant) on the Sabaki River was the first
source for Malindi. It operates around its design capacity, but the works are old
and badly in need of rehabilitation if they are to be retained.
Water Distribution
2.08        'The first piped water supply to Mombasa was provided from the Marere Springs
(built in 1916), through the Changamwe terminal reservoir. The distribution network was
gradually expanded and in the mid 1950s a second source (bulk supply system) was added to the
system based on the Mzima Springs. The transmission main from Mzima delivers water to the
Mazeras terminal reservoir which has been interconnected to the Changamwe reservoir. The
present network was designed to distribute the water available from these two sources, i.e. about
47,000 m3/day. Although some additional network strengthening was implemented in the
following years, no major, systematic distribution network extension was carried out in Mombasa
since this time.
2.09         The development of the Baricho source works on the Sabaki River and the
transmission main which became operational in 1979, brought about an additional 35,000 m3/day
water to the Mombasa syst,m. However, due to the high cost overrun of this project and the lack
of funds in the following years prevented the upgrading and extension of the distribution system,
originally planned as part of the project.
2.10         The present water shortage in Mombasa is furiter aggravated by the aged and
inadequate pipe network, which cannot evenly distribute even the presently available water. Pipe
bursts are frequent in some zones with higher pressure and other areas receive water only for a
few hours per day. Due to lack of any reliable data-base, unaccounted for water in the system
cannot be calculated, but it is estimated to be 30 to 40 percent at least. A full review, redesign,
and rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution system is urgently needed.
2.11         Presently there are about 71,000 consumer connections in the system. The annual
average increase in connections during the last few years has been about 2000 and mostly in the
North- and South-Mainland for new developments (hotels and residential areas). In principle, all
connections are metered but most of the meters are non functiornal. In addition, consumer
registration records are also unreliable. The metered connections include about 160 water selling
kiosks.
2.12         The distribution networks in the other urban areas served by the system (Kilifi,
Malindi, Kwale and Likoni) are generally in better condition but extension of the reticulation
systems in these locations are also needed to keep pace with the rapid growth.



10 -
Water Demand
2.13         The latest water demand projections were prepared in 1975 as part of the
preparation of the first Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project. Based on this forecast, the
present water demand for Mombasa and the coastal region serviced by the existing regional
scheme would be about 146,000 m3/day. It is presently estimated that the average effective
demand, due to the faster growth of the coastal region than anticipated, is about 160,000 to
170,000 m3/day (equivalent to an average of about 100 l.p.c.d for the population of about 1.64
million) versus the present average bulk supply of 85,400 m3/day, showing a water deficit of
about 50 percent. Including physical losses in the system, specifically is Mombasa (estimated at
30 percent), the water deficit is over 60 percent. Detailed analysis of the present water demand
and preparation of a demand forecast is needed, and will be part of the consultancy services
included in the proposed Project.
Existing Sewerage and Drainage Systems
2.14         The responsibility for sewerage, drainage and sanitation in Mombasa and the other
urban centers along the coast rests with the municipalities, as part of their urban services. In the
Coast Province, sewerage and drainage systems exist only in Mombasa serving a part of
Mombasa Island and West Mainland. The systems cover approximately 15 percent of the
estimated district population. Other disposal systems for human waste are on-site sanitation
systems comprising of pit latrines and septic tanks, which cover about 60 percent and 25 percent
of the population, respectively. None of the sewage treatment works are currently in operation,
and raw sewage is disposed directly into the sea through the sewers or watercourses. Pit latrines
are used in the high density, Swahili-type housing areas, and septic tanks are used in the areas
where piped water is available, including all the tourist hotels along the coast, and most of the
commercial and industrial areas. However, these on-site sanitation systems often pollute the
ground water and are often flooded by storm water due to insufficient drainage coverage and
improper maintenance of the drainage systems, thereby posing serious health risks.
2.15         The Mombasa Island sewerage system was commissioned in 1963 and covers the
Old Town and the east part of the town center. The system consists of 20 km of sewer pipes, 2.3
km of tunnels, four pumping stations, a primary treatment plant in the underground of the
Mombasa Golf Course and a marine outfall at Ras Serani. The primary treatment system includes
a screening and a sedimentation process which are now out of operation due to mechanical
problems. Therefore, raw sewage is being discharged through an outfall tunnel directly into the
mouth of Mombasa harbor without any treatment. Even when the plant was operating in the past,
sedimented sludge generated at the plant was directly discharged into the sea without any
treatment. Furthermore, of the four pumping stations on the Island, three pumping stations are
out of operation due to pipe blockages and mechanical problems, and again, raw sewage is being
directly discharged through by-pass channels into the middle of Mombasa harbor. Therefore, the
Island sewerage system is functioning simply for draining sewage but providing no treatment
before discharging it to the sea. The Mombasa-Island drainage system covers the most densely
developed areas, but grey water spillage on the street and street flooding often result from
blockages in the drainage system.
2.16         The West Mainland sewerage system was commissioned in 1972 to serve the
Changamwe housing estate and industrial estates. The system includes 9.4 km of sewers, an
oxydation ditch treatment facility and sludge drying beds. Currently, the treatment plant's four
rotors for mixing and oxygen supply are rusted and impaired, thereby rendering the plant



- 11 -
Inoperative, with dhe result that raw sewage is by-passed through the drainage channel to the
Kilindini harbor. However, with assistance from the Saudi Fund, the Municipal Council of
Mombasa is currently implementing a project to rehabilitate and upgrade the treatment plant and
extend the sewer main, which is expected to be commissioned by the end of 1992. The new plant
will consist of inlet works, 2 extended aeration tanks, 4 final settling tanks, 2 sludge thickening
tanks and 23 sludge drying beds, and is expected to treat 17,400 m3/day of raw sewage to an
acceptable level of treatment for discharging into the harbor. Four pumping stations are also
under construction in the extension project, located at Mikindani, Port Reitz, Miritini site and
service area, and Miritani pumping station. Due to budgetary constraints, the project does not
include any lateral sewers at this time. The West Mainland drainage system covers the
Changamwe area, but the condition is the same as in Mombasa Island where grey water spillage
on the street and street flooding are common.
2.17          The current sewerage tariff is co;iected together with the water tariff by NWCPC
on behalf of the Municipality. The official FY91 sewerage tariff is based on water consumption,
ranging from 2.5 to 4.0 KSh per m3 of water consumption. However, NWCPC's computer
billing program has not been properly updated and the very low flat rates of 15 Ksh/month for
domestic users; 20 Ksh/month for commercial users and 30 Ksh/month for trade users are
actually being levied. The official sewerage tariff is about 40 percent of the current water tariff,
but traditionally sewer tariffs are higher than water tariffs because sewerage systems are generally
more expensive than water supply systems. In Mombasa the actual tariff collected for the
sewerage services is even lower than the official tariff due to the flat rate charge. Thus, the
revenue for the Municipality for sewefage services is estimated to cover only a small portion of
operation and maintenance costs.
2.18          The Project will provide for consultancy services: (a) to assess in detail the waste
water disposal, drainage and sanitation situation in Mombasa and the other urban centers along
the coast with special regard to the impact of the increased supply of water (under the proposed
Project and the follow-on main investment project) and to assist the municipalities in preparing
short- and long-term plans for upgrading their related services; (b) to prepare a phased
development plan for sewerage and drainage in Mombasa with special regard to Mombasa Island
and West-Mainland; (c) to prepare detailed engineering designs for the rehabilitation, upgrading
and extension of these services commensurate with the proposed extension of water supply
services.



12 -
III, THE PROlECT
Genesmi
3.01         Mombasa has had piped water supply since 1916 and the capacity of the
system was adequate to satisfy the demands until the late 1970s. The first Mombasa and
Coastal Water Supply Project, implemented in 1972-79, increased the production and
transmission capacities of the piped water supply system in the project area from about 46,000
m3/day to the present 85,400 m3/day, but has fallen short of the originally planned total
capacity of 100,000 m3/day which was expected to meet the demands up to about 1983.
Indeed, water shortages began first in 1982-83 and water rationing became necessary since
1984-85. At present, Mombasa and the coastal region are suffering from a very serious water
shortage of about 50 percent of requirements, while the water demand is increasing by about
5 percent per annum.
3.02         The Ministry of Water Development (MWD) carried out a "Feasibility Study
on Water Supply Augmentation Project of Mombasa - Coastal Area and the Hinterland" as
early as 1981 (financed by JICA), as a first step to prepare for a next water supply extension
project for the region. Based on this study, the National Water Resources and Pipeline
Corporation (to whom the responsibility for the water supply in the Mombasa and Coast
Region had been transferred in 1988) concluded that the next viable option was to build a
second transmission main from Mzima Springs and increase the abstraction from this source.
NWCPC, in March 1989, issued an "Invitation for firm proposals for provision of
engineering and design services, construction of works and financing of the Second Mzima
Pipeline Project" to nine selected internationally qualified civil engineering contractors. This
turn-key approach did not succeed mainly because the required concessional funding for the
project could not be secured.
3.03         In late January 1990, the Vice President and Minister for Finance of Kenya
requested the Bank to consider coordinating the funding for this project and to participate
itself in the project with IDA funding. Following an exchange of letters between the Bank
and the Government, a Bank reconnaissance mission visited Kenya in May 1990, to get
acquainted with the situation in Mombasa and the Coast Region and with the proposed
project, and to establish direct contact with NWCPC, the implementing agency.
3.04         The mission proposed a two-step approach: first, an engineering and
rehabilitation project, under which assistance would be provided for (i) institutional
improvement/capacity building for NWCPC; (ii) preparation of pre-investment studies and
engineering; and (iii) rehabilitation/augmentation works to improve the water supply in the
near term. Second, the engineering credit would be followed by a main investment project.
3.05         In a ,etter, signed by the Vice President and Minister for Finance, dated
October 18, 1990, the Government formally requested IDA assistance for an Engineering
Credit on the basis of the proposal of the May 1990 reconnaissance mission. The World
Bank acknowledged the request on October 25, 1990 and followed up the matter with the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD), responsible for water resources development in
Kenya. As a result of the follow-up discussions MWD proposed that a Government
delegation would visit Washington to discuss the modalities and steps to be taken in the
preparation of the proposed Project.



- 13 -
3.06         The Kenyan delegation, led by the Permanent Secretary, MWD and with the
participation of officials from Treasury and NWCPC visited Washington February 25 through
March 1, 1990. During the discussions agreement was reached, in principle, regarding the
objectives, scope and major components of the proposed Project, and a Project processing
timetable.
3.07         Jn accordance with the agreed timetable, a preparation/preappraisal mission
visited Kenya in April 1990, and the proposed Project was formally appraised in the field
from June 17 through July 13, 1991.
3.08          The proposed Project would be the first step towards the improvement and
extension of the water supply and waste water disposal systems in Mombasa and the Coastal
Region, to be followed by a much larger investment project. The main objectives of the
Project are:
(a)    to provide support to NWCPC to help ensure its institutional,
operational and financial viability for carrying out the proposed
preparatory project and the follow-on main project in particular, and
for fulfilling its broad mandate in the water suply sector in general;
(b)    to carry out preinvestment studies and engineering designs for the
extensioh of the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply System and the
related waste water disposal systems, that would (i) improve provision
of safe water and better sanitation to the rapidly expanding population,
(ii) protect the earning capacity of the coastal region, especially in
tourism, and (iii) allow for economic growth;
(c)    to reduce the water supply deficit (presently about 60 percent) in the
near term, through rehabilitation/augmentation of existing facilities;
(d)    to ensure that adverse environmental impacts of the follow-on project
and of the rehabilitation/augmentation works under this Project would
be minimnized.
Project Components
3.09         The Project would consist of the following parts:
A. Institutional Support Component
1. Consultancy and Advisory Services for:
(i) Valuation of Assets and Liabilities;
(ii) Improvement of Revenue Collection, Financial Management and
Management Information Systems;
(iii) Corporate Development Plan (including Tariff Study);



- 14 -
(iv) Coordination, Liaison and Management Consultancy and
Advisory Services.
2. Vehicles and Miscellaneous Equipment 1/
(i) Vehicles;
(ii) Miscellaneous equipment and machinery;
(iii) Office equipment and computers;
(iv) Computerization of billing systems (Coast region);
(v) Radio Communication Equipment;
(vi) Water meters.
3. Training
(i) Training courses;
(ii) Training equipment.
B.   Preinvestment Studies and Engineering
Consultancy Services for:
(i) Source Works (Bulk Supply) Development;
(ii) Distribution Network(s) Improvement and Extension;
(iii) Instrumentation, Telemetry and System Communication;
(iv) Sewerage, Drainage and Sanitation;
(v) Building Works aiid Rehabilitation of Other Schemes.
C.   Rehabilitation and Augmentation Works
1. Consultancy Services for:
(i) Groundwater Investigations and Hydrogeological Studies
(Sabaki/Baricho);
(ii) Wellfield Design (including River Crossing and Associated Works);
(iii) Engineering for Rehabilitation and Augmentation Works
(Sabaki/Baricho Bulk Supply System);
(iv) Construction Supervision of Rehabilitation and Augmentation Works.
.1/ Detailed list (and cost estimate) is given in Annex 2, Table 5.



- 15 -
2.     Physical Works
(i) Groundwater Exploration (Test Drilling);
(ii) Wellfield Development (Civil works and Supply Contracts);
(iii) Rehabilitation Works, Sabaki/Baricho Bulk Supply System (Civil
Works and Supply Contracts);
(iv) Distribution Network, Immediate Improvement Measures (Civil
Works and Supply Contracts)
(v) Rehabilitation of existing Mzima Pipeline, Immediate Improvement
Measures (Civil Works and Supply Contracts);
(vi) Building Works (Extension to Workshops, Offices and Staff
Housing).
3.     Land Acquisition
Cost Estimates
3.10          The total Project cost is estimated at KSh 1,461.0 million (US$48.7 million
equivalent) of which KSh 986.6 million (US$32.9 million equivalent) or about 68 percent is the
foreign exchange component. Local taxes are estimated at about KSh 21.0 million and are
included in the cost estimates. A letter from the Office of the Vice President and Ministry of
Finance (Ref. No.: CONF. 3/03, dated June 15, 1991) confirmed NWCPC's exemption from the
payment of import taxes and duties, which was a condition for negotiations; therefore, import
taxes and duties are not included in the cost estimates. Base costs are expressed in-January 1991
prices. Summary project cost estimates are shown in Table 3.1 and detailed cost estimates are
given in Annex 2, Tables 1 to 4.
3.11          Project costs were estimated by NWCPC and the Bank appraisal team, based on
similar works recently implemented in Kenya, and recent quotations for purchase of vehicles and
equipment. The land acquisition cost is the estimated purchase price of land to be acquired for
the augmentation works (well field near Baricho), including compensation costs for crops. The
engineering and supervision costs are estimated at 8 percent and 5 percent of the cost of the
rehabilitation/augmentation works, respectively. Physical contingencies are estimated at 10
percent for the rehabilitation and augmentation (physical) works and at 5 percent for consultancy
and advisory services. Price contingencies for local and foreign currency costs are based on
expected price increases as shown below:
Price ITcreases
(% change from previous year)
1991       1992      1993      1994      1995     1996
Local             11.5        9.5       7.5       7.5       7.5      7.5
Foreign            5.0        1.8       1.9       3.9       4.9      4.2
In total, physical contingencies are estimated at about 7 percent of base cost, and price
contingencies are estimated at about 14 percent of base cost plus physical contingencies.



- 16-
Table 3.1                                   PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreigti
as X of   X of
LoCal   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Total    Total
--     US$ *illion)   -     --   XSh million)---
A. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1. CONSULTANCY AND ADVISORY
SERVICES
(i) Valuation of Assets
and Liabilities                 2.44     0.00    2.44    73.24     0.00    73.24     0.0      5.0
Iii) Isproveeent of Rev. Coll.,
Fin. pgnt. and MIS.             0.60     2.42    3.02    17.96    72.63    90.59    P0.2      6.2
(iiil Corporate Development Plan
(incl. Tariff Study)            0.15    0.53     0.69     4.64    16.00   20.64     77.5      1.4
liv) Software Development for
Billing (Phase 111, Fip.
Hgot. and HIS.                  0.11     0.39    0.50     3.31    11.78    15.09    78.1      1.0
(v) Coord.ILaison//lget Cons,
and Adv. Serv.                  0.17     0.61    0.79     5.24    18.27    23.51    77.7      1.6
Sub-totalf A.1                3.48     3.96    7.44   104.39   118.68   223.07    53.2     15.3
2. VEHICLES AND RISC. EQUIPNT.  (1)
(i) Vehicles                         0.21    0.95-    1.16     6.25    28.58   34.83     82.0      2.4
liil Hisc.Equipet. and Nachinery      0.07    0.31     0.38     2.06  . 9.39    11.44     82.0      0.8
liii) Office Equipment and
Computers      o                0.06     0.27    0.33     1.79     9.16     9.95    82.0      0.7
liv) ComputerizatiDo of n illing
Systes (Coast Region)           0.56     0.00    0.56    16.70     0.00    16.70     0.0      1.1
(v) Radio Cosmunication Equipot.     0.04    0.16     0.20     1.07     4.90    5.97     82.0      0.4
(vi) Mater Meters                     0.16    0.75     0.91     4.91    22.45   27.37     82.0      1.9
Sub-total, AA,2               1.09     2.45    3.54    32.78    73.48   106.26    69.2      7.3
3. TRAININ6
til Training Courses.                0.14    0.19     0;33     4.34     5.65    9.96     56.6      0.7
lii) Training Equipsent               0.01    0.04     0.04     0.23     1.07    1.30     82.2      0.1
Sub-total, A.3                0.15     0.22  , 0.38     4.57     6.71    11.28    59.5      0.8
TOTAL (Institutional Support)          4.72     6.63   11.35   141.74   198.87   340.bl    50.4     23.3
B. ?REINVESTHENT STUDIES AND ENBINEERINS
CONSULTANCY SERVICES
(i) Source Works (Sulk Supply)
Development                     1.26     4.64    5.91    37.93   139.29   177.21    78.6     12.1
Ili) Distribution Network
leprovesent & Ext.              1.20     4.04    5.24    35.91   121.33   157.24    77.2     10.8
(iii) lnstrusentation, Telemetry
and System Communication        0.07     0.43    0.50     2.12    12.89    15.02    85.9      1.0
tiv) Sewerage, Drainage and
Sanitation Studies              0.76     2.82    3.58    22.89    94.49   107.38    78.7      7.3
(v) Building Works and Rehib.
of Other Schemes                0.23     0.87     1.10    6.98    25.96    32.94
*TItDA.(Prejtvestsent Studies I Eng.)  3.53     12.90   16.33   105.94   383.96  489.79     79.4     33.5



Table 3.1 (continued)                                                                          Foreign
..                                                                                             aso is 5   of  Z of
Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign   Total    Total     Total
-.C (USS million)         .      -  KSh Billion)-- -- ------     .......
C. REHABILITATION/AUGMENTATION WORKS
1. CONSULTANCY SERVICES
Ci Sroundwater 1nvestigations
and Hydrogeological Studies
(Sabaki/Baricho)                  0.09     0.18      0.27     2.56      5.44     8.00      68.0      0.5
(ii) Wellileld Design (Incl. River
Crossing and Associated
Works)                            0.01      0.08     0.09      0,23     2,41     2.64      91,1      0.2
(iii) Engineering for Rehab. Works        0.04     0.31     0.35      1.20     9.40     10.60     88.7      0.7
(iv) Construction Supervision
o4 Rehab. and Augnmnt. Works      0.14      0.35     0.49      4.2    10.36     14,64     70.8      1.0
Sub-total, C.1                  0.28      0.92     1.20      8.27    27.61    35.89      77.0      2.5
2. PHYSICAL WORKS
(i) 6roundwater Exploration
(Test Drilling)                   0,16      0.00     0.16     4.69      0.00     4.68       0.0      0.3
(ii) Wellfield Developnent
(Civil Wks. & Supply Cont:.).    108       2.94     4.02    32.52     88.14   120.65      73.1      9.3
(iii) Rehabilitation Works
(Civil Wks. & Supply Contr.)      1.19      3.19     4.39    35.76     95.84   131.60      72.8      9.0
Civ) Distribution NetNork
le. Ipr. Measures               0.22      0.59     0.90      6.52    17.42    23.95      72.8      1.b
(v) Mziua Pipeline (Rehab. Works)      0.22      0.59     0.90      6.62    17.47     24.09     72.5      1.6
tvi) Building Works                     0.26      0.70     0.96      7.99    20.97     28.87     72.7      2.0
Sub-total, C.2                  3.13      7.99    11.13     94.00   239.84   333.04      71.8     22.8
3. LAND ACQUISITION                       0.04     0.00      0.04     1.34      0.00     1,34       0,0      0.1
TOTAL (Rehab. and Augs. Works)            3.45     8.92     12.37   103.61   267.45    371.06     72.1      15.4
Base Cost Total                          11.71    29.34     40.05   351.19    850.29  1201.46     70.8      82.2
Physical Contingencies                    0.80      1.94     2.74    23.96     58.19    92.15     70.8       5.6
Price Contingencies                       3.31     2.60      5.91    99.27     78.12   177,39     44.0      12.1
Total Project Cost                       15.81    32.89     48.70   474.42    986.58  1461.00     67.5     100.0
Interest During Construction
NWCPC-financed                  9.54      -        9.54    286.08     -       286.08
Total Financing Required                 25.35    32.99     59.24   760.50    986.58  1747.09
Note: Identifiable local taxes are about KSh 21.0 million CUSS 0.7 sillion equivalent), and the total project
cost net of taxes is KSh 1,329.0 million CUS$ 44.3 eillion equivalent).



- 18-
3.12         The Project cost estimate is based on a five-year implementation period. This is
in accordance with the Bank's average disbursement profile for technical assistance projects In
Kenya.
Project Financing A-rrangements
3.13         The proposed IDA credit of US$43.2 million (KSh 1,296 million) would finance
about 89 percent of total project cost or 90 percent of total project cost net of taxes. Agreement
was reached during negotiations that the remaining 11 percent or about US$5.5 million equivalent
(KSh 165 million) of total project cost would be provided by Government as an equity
contribution to NWCPC, which as a new institution, has limited capability to contribute to the
capital cost of the project.
3.14          The IDA Credit would be made to the Republic of Kenya (ROK). The portion of
the IDA Credit utilized to finance consultancy/advisory services under the institutional support
component, training, and preinvestment studies/engineering services for the follow-on project
(UJS$ 25.8 million equivalent) would be provided to NWCPC as an equity contribution by the
Government and the balance utilized to finance rehabilitation/augmentation works (including
associated engineering services), vehicles and equipment (US$ 17.4 million equivalent) would be
passed on to NWCPC as a loan. In line with the Kenyan Government's prior agreement with
IDA for on-lending to parastatals under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, it was agreed
during negotiations that the loan to NWCPC would carry an interest rate, fixed at the Treasury
Bill yield on the date of the auction closest to the date of negotiations of the IDA Credit (16.65%
per annum, as of October 18, 1991). The loan to NWCPC would have a maturity of 20 years
which would allow for a 5-year grace period corresponding to the implementation period of the
project and a repayment period of 15 years. As for past water projects, the foreign exchange risk
of the IDA Credit be borne by ROK. The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and NWCPC would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.15          For the unhindered and timely execution of the Project, it is important that both
the budgetary allocation for the IDA Credit and counterpart funds are ensured for each fiscal year
during the implementation period in the Government's development budget, as summarized in
Table 3.2 below and shown in detail in Annex 2, Table 4. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that Government would
(i)    provide in its annual development budget allocations for the IDA Credit and
counterpart funds in accordance with the following schedule:
Table 3.2: Pro3ect Financing Requirements by Year
-- - -  - . US$m oon equivlit.---------------.--- ------@
91/92  92.93  93/94   94195  95/96   TOt
IDA tluds                 2.17   18.80  15.57   4.77   1.89   43.20
CounimprtPuds             0.82   2.48   2.13    0.06   0.01   5.50
(GOIC coittbutioo)
.......  . ...  _ .... ...... .  ........  ........  ._. ... . .. _
Tolal Cost                2.99  21.28   17.70   4.83   1.90   48.70
(Bsudgcy Aloc,tioo)



- 19-
(ii)   deposit prior to credit effectiveness in an account opened by NWCPC in a
commercil*' Bank the counterpart contribution of US$820,000 equivalent In KSh
for FY91/92. Subsequently, at the beginning of each quarter it would deposit the
necessary amount to cover Government contribution to the local project
expenditures during the quarter.
3.16         The National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) would be
responsible for implementation of the proposed Project. It was agreed during appraisal that a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be set up in NWCPC to carry out the tasks related to the
implementation of major investment projects (contractual and procurement matters, supervision of
consultancy services and physical works, disbursement matters, project accounting and project
reporting), as a permanent part of the organization. 'Te PIU will be headed by the Project
Coordinator who will report to the Managing Director and will liaise with NWCPC's other
departments. The Project Coordinator will be assisted by an advisor, employed under the
Coordination Liaison/Management Consultancy Services and financed under the Project. These
services would also provide assistance in establishing an on-the-job training program for the PIU.
The PIU at NWCPC's Headquarters will be manned initially by an engineer and an accountant
(with support staff) and will have a branch office in NWCPC's Regional office in Mombasa,
under the direct supervision of the Regional Manager. This unit in Mombasa would consist of a
technician and an accounting staff. NWCPC would retain consultants for the institutional studies
and for the preinvestment studies and engineering as well as for the engineering and construction
supervision of the rehabilitation and augmentation works. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that, prior to Credit effectiveness, NWCPC would establish and thereafter would maintain
the Project Implementation Unit, which will be headed by the Froject Coordinator and will have
four key staff, all with terms of reference and experience satisfactory to the Association.
3.17         Project implementation would begin in FY91/92, with priority given to the studies
(consultancy services) for: (a) source works (bulk supply development), in order to gain time as
the other engineering studies depend to a large extent on the results and recommendations of this
study; (ii) hydrogeological studies for the augmentation works in order to carry out the field
investigations before the commencement of the rainy season; and (iii) coordination/lia.son/
management consultancy/advisory services, to provide assistance to NWCPC in project
management. To facilitate the early commencement of these activities, the Bank has approved a
PPF advance of US$750,000 (No.P-647-0-KE) on March 29, 1991 for partial financing of these
services prior to the effectiveness of the proposed Credit. The Project implementation schedule is
shown in Annex 3.



* 20 -
3.18            A summary of procurement arrangements Is given in Table 3.3 below:
PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                    Total
Project Element                      ICB      LCB       Other      N/A       Value
Institutional Sugnort
Consultacoy & Advisory Servoces                                  5.83       3.20W     9.03
(5.83)    (0.00)     (5.83)
Vehioles, Machinery, Water Meters           2.70       0.50                 0.700'    3.90
(2.54)    (0.47)               (0.00)     (3.01)
Office Technology & Training                0.35                 0.10                 0.45
Materials and Equipment                   (0.33)               (0.09)               (0.42)
Training Courses                                                            0.42      0.42
(0.42)    (0.42)
Preiavestment Studies & EnZineeiPng
Consultancy Services                                             19.50               19.50
(19.50)             (19.50)
Rehabilitation/Augmentation Works
Consultan&y Services (Engineering & Construction                 1.40                 1.40
Supervision)                                                   (1.40)               (1.40)
Test Drilling (Civil Works)                            0.20                           0.20
(0.14)                         (0.14)
Wellfield Development (Civil Works & Supply  5.00                                     5.00
Contracts                                 (4.55)                                    (4.58)
Rehabilitation Works (Civil Works & Supply  5.30       0.20                           5.50
Contracts)                                (4.81)     (0.18)                         (4.99)
Distribution Network, Immediate Improvement  0.80      0.20                           1.00
Measures (Civil Works and Supply Contracts)  (0.73)  (0.18)                         (0.91)
Mzima Pipeline, Immediate Improvement       0.80       0.20                           1.00
Measures (Civil Works and Supply Contracts)  (0.73)  (0.18)                         (0.91)
Building Works                              0.80       0.40                           1.20
(0.73)    (0.36)                         (1.09)
Land Acquisition Costs                                                      0.10      0.10
(0.00)    (0.00)
Totl:                                       15.75      1.70     26.83       4.42     48.70
(14-45)    (1.51)    (26.82)    (0.42)    (43.20)
a/ figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA
b/ valuation of asseu and liabilities to be fuinced by the Borrower
o/ computerization of the billing system in Mombasa to be financed by the Borrower
d/ local shopping or contracting



- 21 -
3.19         Procurement of the major civil works and supply contracts for the
rehabilitation/augmentation works, exceeding US$0.5 million equivalent would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB). Vehicles and major n.intenance equipment and
machinery would be combined into supply contracts and would be procured through ICB.
Contracts for workshop equipments, minor machineries, tools and spare parts to cost less than the
equivalent of US$200,000 each up to an aggregate value of US$500,000 equivalent may be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB). Minor civil works contracts for the
rehabilitation/augmentation works, test drilling and building works, to cost less than the
equivalent of US$200,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.2 million may be awarded on
the basis of LCB. LCB procedures shall be satisfactory to the Association. Foreign bidders who
wish to participate will not be precluded from participation and no special preference will be
accorded to domestic contractors in case of foreign bidders participation. Contracts for goods
(office technology and training materials and equipment) estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of US$20,000 each up to an aggregate amount not to exceed of US$100,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of local shopping or contracting. All contracts with a value
above US$100,000 equivalent should be subject to review by the Association. Total value of
individual contracts above US$100,000 equivalent is estimated at about 96% of the total value of
contracts.
3.20         Consultancy studies and engineering will be carried out by consultants whose
qualification, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with the principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981. NWCPC requested the Bank that for the hydrological investigations near Baricho
and for the engineering and construction supervision of the rehabilitation/augmentation of
Baricho/Sabaki system Messrs. H.P. Gauff consulting engineers be retained for a total estimated
cost of about US$1.4 million. This request appears to be justified. The proposed engineering
consultancy is an extension/continuation of their current activities which include: (a) hydrological
and hydrogeological investigations for additional sources for the Baricho/Sabaki bulk water supply
syst.em; (b) design and construction supervision of a new wellfield on the right bank of hie Sabaki
river; (c) engineering studies for the improvement/modification of the existing river-intake
structure at Baricho (including a hydraulic model study); and (d) design and construction
supervision of the extension of the existing treated water pumping station at Baricho, and the
transmission main and distribution network for Malindi's water supply. Gauff's services have
been financed by MWD and KfW (US$0.5 m and 2.0 m, respectively) and their present
assignment is expected to be completed by end-1992. The total value of the physical works are
estimated at US$20 million (under KfW financing). Gauff's performance has been satisfactory
and their presence and intirrmate knowledge of the system are expected to reduce the required time
and cost for carrying out the consultancy for the additional augmentation/rehabilitation of the
system under the proposed project. In any event, Gauff will be requested to provide an offer
against specific termns of reference for this purpose and the contract will be awarded after clear;ng
verification of reasonability of price.



3.21         The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a)    100 percent of total expenditures for consultancy and advisory services
(under Part A. 1 (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), and under Parts B and C of the
Project);
(b)    100 percent of foreign expenditures and 70 percent of local expenditures
for vehicles, miscellaneous equipment and machinery, office equipment
and computers, radio communication equipment, water meters and training
equipment (under Part A.2 (i), (ii), (iii), (v) and (vi), and under Part
A.3(ii) of the Project);
(c)    100 percent of total expenditures for training costs (under Part A.3 (i) of
the Project);
(d)    100 percent of foreign expenditures and 70 percent of local expenditures
on all civil works and supply contracts for the rehabilitation and
augmentation works (under Part C.2 of the Project).
3.22         The Valuation of Assets and Liabilities (Part A. 1 (i) oa' the Project), the
Computerization of the Billing System in the Coast Region (Part A.2 (iv) of the Project) and land
acquisition costs would be financed by the Borrower.
3.23         The Disbursement Schedule is given in Annex 4 and the Schedule of Withdrawals
of Proceeds of the Credit by category in Annex 5. It is expected that disbursements would be
completed by the Credit closing date of June 30, 1996.
3.24         Disbursements would be ma > against standard IDA documentation.
Disbursements for contracts and purchase orders with a total value of less than US$50,000 would
be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOE). In order to ensure the timely
provision of funds available to finance the costs of the Project, it is proposed that the Government
establish a Special Account for NWCPC in the amount of US$4.0 million. Funds in the Special
Account would be available to finance only eligible expenditures under the Project. During
negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the arrangements for establishing and operating the
Special Accounts. For accounting and auditing requirements see paras. 4.14 through 4.16.
Environmental Aspects
3.25         The proposed engineering and rehabilitation Project will be subjected to a limited
environmental assessment in line with its categorization as an EC/EB project. The EB category
applies to the rehabilitation/augmentation component, with special regard to the development of a
new wellfield near Baricho, on the left banklflood plain of the Sabaki river. No involuntary
resettlement is required. The environmental assessment will be carried out as part of the
consultancy assignment for the preparation of the rehabilitation/augmentation works, and an
environmental action plan will be prepared, as appropriate, and will be subject to the approval of
NWCPC and the Bank prior to the commencement of the physical works. The draft TOR for this
study are attached in Annex 10, Part A. During negotiations agreement was reached that the



- 23 -
approval of the environmental action program would be a condition for disbursement for the
rehabilitation/augmentation (physical works) of the Sabaki/Baricho bulk water supply system.
3.26         The follow-on main investmenit project will require a full environmental impact
assessment in line with the World Bank Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A: Environmental
Assessment and Annex B: Environmental Policy tor Dam and Reservoir Projects, and pertinent
Operational Directives, Policy notes and Guidelines. During preappraisal, the mission assisted
NWCPC in preparing TORs for the environmental impact studies to be carried out as part of the
consultancy assignment for the source works (bulk supply) development (a) for the increased
utilization of the Mzima Springs source in the Tsavo West National Park, and (b) for other
selected sources, with special regard to the possibility of reservoir constructions (Annex 10,
Part B and C).
3.27         During the preappraisal mission, agreement was reached that an Environmental
Advisory Panel (EAP) will be set up with participation of NWCPC and government institutions
with specific environmental responsibilities in the country. Non-governmental environmental
organizations will also be kept informed and consulted regarding project plans and activities on a
regular basis and will be asked to participate in the EAP meetings, as appropriate. The Kenya
Wildlife Service and the Environmental Secretariat also endorsed the establishment of the EAP.
Affordability for Low Income Group
3.28         The water tariff in the low consumption bracket, which was adjusted upward from
9 m3/month to 10 m3/month, in accordance with the new water tariffs effective as of October 1,
1991, is a flat rate of KSh 30.0 per month. Low income household minimum monthly water
consumption in Mombasa is estimated as below:
20 I.p.c.d. x 5 persons per household x 30 days = 3000 1 or 3 m3/month
This being below the 10 m3/month consumption threshhold, the monthly cost for water for a low
income household with water connection would be KSh 30.0. At the kiosk rate of KSh 5.0 per
M3, the minimum quantity of 3 m3/month would cost KSh 15.0.
3.29         The median of the low income bracket for consumer price index, i.e. KSh 1,350
in 1987 prices (without adjustment for inflation for the period 1987 - 1990) was used as a proxy
for average monthly low household income. The expenditure for water for a household with
water connection would require about 2.2 percent of household income (or about 1.1 percent at
the kiosk rate).
3.30         An alternative approximation of household income is to use the actual nominal
monthly earning of a typical, modern sector unskilled laborer in manufacturing, i.e. about KSh
1,900. Assuming 1.5 wage earner per household, household income would be about KSh 2,850
per month. The water expenditure would in this case represent only about 1 percent of the
household income.
3.31         Based on above assumptions and calculations, there is room to increase tariffs by
over 100 percent without putting too high a burden on the low income group, as expenditure for
water would still be in the range of 2.0 - 4.5 percent range of income, which is within the
generally acceptable level of 3-5 percent for low income households.



- 24 -
3.32          A large portion of !)w income families, however, pay at present significantly
more for water, if bought from vendors, who quite often sell water at 5 to 6 times the official
kiosk retail price. This brings the percentage of income spent on water (20 l.p.c.d.) to 5.0 - 6.0
percent and the impact of further tariff increases on this group warrants special attention (para.
3.34).
3.33          While it is clear that substantial average tariff increases will be required over the
medium term (paras 5.04 through 5.07) to ensure NWCPC's financial viability, measures would
be taken to protect the interest of the lowest income groups through appropriately designed tariff
structure (para 5.08).
3.34          In addition to a more differentiated tariff structure, the proposed Project and the
follow-on main investment project would help the lowest income group by reducing the water
shortage and providing more equitable supply in an extended system, thereby reducing the need
for buying water at exorbitant prices from vendors. Attention would also be given to increasing
the number of water selling kiosks at strategic locations as part of the distribution network
improvement measures, and forming of women's associations as water retailers (kiosk owners)
would be encouraged. These associations already operate in Mombasa, utilizing their income
from water sales for various neighborhood development projects.



- 25 -
IV. THJ      LNA       W    CONSERVATION AND PIPELINE CORPORATION
Background iA% (_ranL4i a
4.01         The National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) is a
corporate body established under the State Corporation Act by Legal Notice No. 270 of June 24,
1988. After setting up its headquarters and initial management systems, NWCPC effectively
began operations on July 1, 1989. Its purpose is to manage and develop water projects
specifically entrusted to it, including the supply of bulk and retail water within those project
areas, on a commercially oriented basis. NWCPC Is responsible for the operation and
implementation of 45 water schemes, both urban and regional in nature, taken over from the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD). This includes those schemes related to the Mombasa
and Coastal Region, as well as those expected to be revenue-earning operations for smaller urban
and rural areas 1/. Its mandate also includes the responsibility to assist the Government in the
formulation and execution of a national water policy.
4.02          NWCPC reports to MWD and operates under a Board consisting of
representatives from various concerned government ministries as well as the private sector. Its
chief executive officer, the Managing Director, is appointed by the President and acts as
Chairman of the Board. While NWCPC is an autonomous organization, the Ministry of Finance
is expected to play a key role in reviewing NWCPC's borrowing requirements and in acquiring
and guaranteeing loans for NWCPC. In addition, according to present practice, water tariff
increases have to be approved by the Cabinet.
4.03          NWCPC's organizational structure consists of four departments, each headed by a
Chief. The departments and divisions are the following:
-      Finance and Hum.an R-ourCes Department with an Accouuiing and a
Human Resources Division.
-      Operations Department with an Operations Division (supervising the
Regional Offices) and a Technical Support Division.
-      Development Services Department (responsible for standards development
and monitoring, designs and construction).
-      Corporation Services Department organized into three divisions for
Planning, Scientific Services and Information Technology.
In addition, a Corporation Secretary, responsible for legal matters and Board and Committee
services, reports to the Managing Director. NWCPC's present organization structure is well
suited to its needs and provides a sound framework for future growth. The organization chart in
Annex 7 shows the tasks and responsibilities of the various departments and divisions. The
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in a strong central position, as a permanent
If The locations of the schemes are shown on IBRD Map 23240 and the main features of the
major schemes (traditionally named after the location of the source works and not the
supply area) are tabulated in Annex 6.



- 26 -
part of the organization is Justified, due to NWCPC's inexperience in implementing LIrge, multi-
laterally financed projects and the magnitude of expected future investments. The organizational
structure for the Mombasa and Coast Region, NWCPC's largest cost center, consists of four
divisions for administration, finance, engineering and operations and maintenance, each headed by
a division chief who report to the Regional Manager (Annex 8).
Staffing, Manpower Develonment and Training
4.04          NWCPC's total staff currently (as of July 1, 1991) is about 1,200, decreased from
about 1,700 during the previous year in order to promote efficiency in operations and reduce
unnecessary costs. The majority of the staff were initially seconded from MWD but are now
retained by NWCPC. Therefore, while NWCPC is still a fledging institution, it enjoys the
advantage that most of its professional staff were previously involved in the management and
operation of the water schemes it inherited.
4.05          The number of staff in NWCPC's headquarters and in the operational regions is
shown in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: NWCPC's Staff by Operational Regions
No. of Staff        % of Total
H.Q. (Nairobi)         172                  14
Coast Region           555                  47
Rift-Valle) Region     112                   9
Western Region         196                   16
Central Region         194                  14
TOT.AL          1199                 100
NWCPC's overall staffing and staff composition as shown in Table 4.2 meet the present
requirements of the institution. The relatively high proportion of professional staff at
headquarters reflects the strong centralized management of NWCPC which is necessary for a
newly-created institution. The staffing by regions are generally adequate for the present
operations of NWCPC, except in the Coastal Region where the percentage of qualified personnel
appears to be low and may need to be increased with the extension of the system. The adequacy
of staffing at regional levels and for individual schemes is reviewed and adjusted from time to
time, especially as the rehabilitation, extension or upgrading of serviced levels of individual
schemes take place.



- 27 -
Table 4.2        NWCPC's Staff Copmosition
(In Percent of Staft)
Coastal
Qverall   H.Q.    Region
Highly qualified professionals 1/  5    24         1
Mid-and lower level professionals
and support level 2/           12      16        9
Skilled labor 3/                32       46       26
Semi-skilled and unskilled labor  i     14        64
Total             100     100      100
1/     Managers, executive officers, engineers, accountants
2/     Technicians, engineering and account assistants, higher
level clerical officers, inspectors, superintendants.
3/     Artisans, mechanics, plant operators, drivers, draftsmen,
office support staff, meter readers.
4.06          NWCPC has prepared adequately detailed job descriptions for each position
s5hown in the organMization chart. Twvo senior executive posts (Chief Corporate Services Manager
and Chief Development Services Manager) are presently vacant and the functions are carried out
by acting assignments. Recruitment efforts are presently under way to fill these positions,
together with some vacancies at mid-management level. NWCPC's salary levels and benefits are
reasonably competitive with the private sector, ensuring a wide market for recruitment efforts.
4.07          NWCPC as a new and growing entity has a variety of requirements for the
training of its new staff as well as for the staff transferred to it from otlher government agencies to
develop professional competencies in line with the objectives and responsibilities of a
commercially- oriented organization that was not required of them under their earlier, civil
service roles. The need to assess NWCPC's training requirements and to develop a systematic
approach to address these requirements has been fully recognized by NWCPC's management.
4.08          As a first step to formulate an appropriate training policy and to facilitate the
preparation of a training program to be supported under the proposal Project, NWCPC prepared
an in-house study for discussion with the appraisal mission. The salient points of this study are
the following:
(a)    NWCPC appropriately decided to employ a full time training officer
(whoce scope of work is well definued in the study);



- 28 -
(b)   detailed assessment of NWCPC's training requirement is a prerequisite for
the formulation of an appropriate training policy;
(c)   training should initially focus on the following areas: public utilities
management, financial management, accounting and auditing, and water
resources management. Attention should also be given to improved
computer literacy and to the training of technicians and plant operators.
4.09         The study also emphasizes the use of training facilities in Kenya, as the most cost-
effective way of training. Beside formal (classroom) training (basic and refresher courses), it is
proposed that priority should be given to in-house and on-the-job training which can be tailored to
NWCPC's most pressing needs. The Project would provide funding for training equipment and
materials to support NWCPC's effort in developing and providing in-house training facilities.
4.10         Training activities in Kenya should be supplemented by overseas training,
especially at higher and mid-management levels. To facilitate overseas training, the Project
would provide for the financing of post-graduate and diploma courses in engineering,
accountancy, and computer studies and participation in selected workshops, seminars and short
courses in engineering, water resources management, financial management, and management and
administration of water utilities, including visits and short-term exchange programs with selected
water authorities abroad.
4.11         An outline training program has been developed jointly with NWCPC during
appraisal (Annex 14). During negotiations agreement was reached that NWCPC would submit a
detailed training program for each fiscal year for the period FY92/93 through FY95/96
satisfactory to the Association as a condition for disbursement for the training component for each
year.
Corporate Development Plan
4.12         A necessary prerequisite for establishing proper objectives and goals over the
medium term for NWCPC, which has just started the transition from government to commercial
practices and policies, will be the preparation of a 5-year Corporate Development Plan, which
would be supported under the Project. The Corporate Development Plan will be expected to
identify the priority activities, policies and operational and financial targets to be achieved as well
as provide recommendations on the proposed management organization required to carry out the
plan. An important feature of the plan will be the preparation of a specific 5-year investment and
financing plan which considers the Corporation's requirements for maintenance and operations as
well as the likely revenues and requirements for outside borrowings. Included in the consultancy
to assist NWCPC to prepare the Corporate Plan will be a requirement to provide
recommendations for developing a corporate planning capability within NWCPC.
4.13         Since the inception of NWCPC, many of the responsibilities for water sector
operations, management and policy formulation which previously fell under the domain of MWD
and municipalities are now shared with the Corporation. In order to provide a framework for
identifying needed strategies and policies and a clearer delineation of responsibilities for NWCPC,
it will also be necessary to undertake a background study of the water sector. This proposed
water sector study is included in the consultancy to prepare the Corporate Development Plan.
The terms of reference for the consultancy for the Corporate Development Plan, including a tariff
study, were agreed during appraisal and are presented in Annex 9. The Corporate Development



- 29 -
Plan is scheduled to be prepared by end-December 1993. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that NWCPC would submit the Corporate Development Plan for review and comments by
the Association not later than December 31, 1993.
Accounts and Audits
4.14         NWCPC has already begun the process of shifting over from government
accounting to commercial accounting procedures. Financial statements, in a commercial format,
have been prepared by NWCPC for its first two years of operations in FY89/90-FY90/91, and
auditing its FY89/90 accounts was underway during project appraisal. The audit report for
NWCPC's FY89/90 which was submitted prior to negotiations was in line with the previously
reported unaudited accounts.
4.15         Project accounts would be prepared by NWCPC for each year during project
Implementation. The project accounts would identify all sources and uses of funds in carrying out
the Project, including a detailed accounting of the use of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and the
operation of the Special Account. The project accounts' audit reports would also contain a
separate opinion on the statement of expenditure (SOE) procedure, when utilized.
4.16         Tn order to monitor the flnancial performance of NWCPC, agreement was reached
during negotiat. ins that its financial statements (Income Statements, Sources and Applications of
Funds Statements and Balance Sheets) along with the project accounts would be audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA and the reports would be submitted to IDA within nine
months of the end of the fiscal year. The period of nine months is considered reasonable, based
on the first year's experience whereby the audit was completed in about twelve months. Future
audits should be completed in a shorter period when NWCPC completes the installation of its own
computer system (para 4.21). The audit reports would contain a separate opinion on compliance
by NWCPC with all financial covenants under the IDA Credit and operation of the Special
Account. It is expected that the Controller and Auditor-General would either carry out the audits
or appoint private auditors to carry out the audits on its behalf.
Billing and Collection
4.17         Ihe current billing system for Mombasa and the Coastal Region is basically a
metere(A billing system, although the system now bills many consumers by estimated water
consumption due to faulty meters. It is currently estimated that about 40-50% of the area's
53,000 meters are malfunctioning. To address this shortcoming, the proposed Project will
provide funds to replace about 25,000 meters over a 2-year period.
4.18         Meter readings are carried out on a monthly basis by the area's meter readers
(about 60) and sent in batches to the Government Computer Center in Nairobi for processing of
bills. Where meters are far apart as in some rural areas, the readings i.ake longer than one month
and are a cause of delay, since the billing cycle cannot presently be closed unless all the meter
books are entered. Therefore, billings are currently behind by about 2 months. Payments of bills
are received at Mombasa Headquarters and sub-area offices (7) in the region. Funds collected are
initially banked in Mombasa until all accounts are reconciled and then transferred to NWCPC's
main account in Nairobi. Disconnections are undertaken in principle for consumers who are 45
days late in payments but in practice are undertaken on a sub-area basis, causing disconnections to
be up to six months late. Currently, it is difficult to quickly locate consumer Information to
verify bills paid and as a result, some consumers who have paid are disconnected.



- 30 -
4.19         Examination of NWCPC's income statements and customer accounts for FY89190
and FY90191 for the Mombasa and Coastal Region shows that there was substantial overbilling of
water revenues. The quantity of water billed was about twice the amount estimated to be
available with the result that the average calculated tariff of KSh 10.5/r3 was about double the
average official tariff of about Ksh 5/rn (see para 5.05). The primary factor contributing to
overbilling is considered to be the continuation of billing of accounts which have been closed.
Bills are currently sent to tenants, not landlords, of the properties supplied with water. Due to
the delays in the billing cycle, the final bill for an account which has been closed is produced
about three months after the consumer has vacated the property with the effect that the bill
becomes impossible to collect. Since the closed accounts for these customers show outstanding
balances due, the current computer billing program continues to produce bills for the minimum
amount. To address this problem, NWCPC staff have recently begun verifying accounts which
have been closed and are modifying the computer program to discontinue billing of these
accounts. In addition, payment of all future accounts must now be guaranteed by landlords, and a
program of identifying landlords of prior customer accounts has been initiated. Another factor
contributing to overbilling occurs when meters are replaced which have different readings than the
old meters, but the readings are not properly recorded in the computer system in a timely manner.
4.20         In order to improve the billing and collection cycle, NWCPC must have correct
and up-to-date information of its consumers' accounts to permit accurate and timely action to be
taken. NWCPC has accorded high priority to improving the financial performance of the schemes
it inherited. With French Government assistance, NWCPC has embarked on a program of
verification of consumer accounts and follow-up, review of meter reading and billing procedures
along with replacement of meters on a pilot basis in Mombasa city (part of North Mainland).
Further assistance would be provided under the project to extend this pilot effort to all sections of
Mombasa and other urban areas within the Coastal Region and review the requirements for an
improved overall financial management and management information system. The terms of
reference for this consultancy were agreed during preappraisal and are presented in Annex 9.
The financial systems improvements are scheduled to be completed by end-December 1993.
4.21         In addition, NWCPC has already initiated a consultancy to develop a
computer billing system which will be operated at the regional office without reliance on the
Government Computer Center. The software is also being designed to permit transactions to
be entered on a continuous rather than on a batch basis, which will contribute to shortening
the billing cycle. The first phase of this consultancy has been completed, and the Project
would provide for the completion and installation of the software as well as for the hardware
requirements, which are expected to be completed by end-June 1992. To provide further
support for revenue collection, meter replacement and disconnections, additional vehicles and
motorcycles would be provided under the Project to better serve the various sub-areas.



-31 -
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Past Einancial PerAfrmance of NWCPC
5.01          NWCPC's income statements and balance sheets for consolidated water activities
for its first two :tears of operation are shown in detail in Annex 12 and summarized below:
Table 5.1: NWCPC Summary Financial Performance, 1989/90-1990/91
1982/9       1990/91
--------('000 KSh)-------
Summary ncome Statement for Years Ending June 30
Operating Revenues - Mombasa/Coastal Region a/      193,120      254,373
Operating Revenues - Other Regions aL                12,482       25,084
Miscellaneous Receipts                                  406         1,998
Operating Expenses                                  113,063       191,423
Operating Income before Depreciation/Interest        92,945       90,032
Depreciation                                          1,599        2,065
Interest                                                  0            0
Net Operating Income                                 91,346        87,967
Government Subsidy for Startup Expenses                   0        12,657
Net Income                                           91.346       100i624
Summary Balance Sheets at June 30
Fixed Asse                                          216,294      448,052
Net Fixed Assets b/                                  11,190        14,453
Work-in-Progress                                    205,104      433,599
Curre     ts                                         69,259       145,776
Cash and Bank                                         6,590        2,570
Other Current Assets                                 62,669       143,206
IQTal Assets                                        285.53       593.828
Equity and Retained Earnings                        273,907      490,561
Long-terinDbt                                             0            0
Current Liabilities c/                               11,646       103,267
Total Equity and liabilities                        285,553      593.828
a Represents water billings, not actual collections.
bL Excludes water scheme assets which have not as yet been valued but will be valued under
the Project.
c/ Excludes consumer deposits which have not as; yet been valued but will be valued under
the Project.



- 32 -
5.02   Analysis of NWCPC's FY89/90 and FY90/91 financial statements also reveals that
revenues from operations have been far too low to permit the Corporation to adequately operate
and maintain its water schemes. It is only because depreciation was not as yet being charged on
its water scheme assets, as these assets have not been valued, and because NWCPC was not
paying any interest charges on loans which were incurred by MWD, that NWCPC generates a
positive net income. NWCPC's cash position is even tighter than the income statements suggest,
since water revenues collected In Mombasa and the Coastal Region, NWCPC's largest cost center
(accounting for about 90 percent of revenues), were only about 65 percent of billings during
FY89/90, due to the continuing billing of a large number of closed consumer accounts (para
4.19). This situation of inadequate revenues must be viewed in light of the fact that water tariffs
had not been increased since 1978 until the recent tariff revision which became effective on
October 1, 1991 (para 5.04). Although the average rate of increase is estimated to be about 50%,
further adjustments will be required to allow NWCPC to properly operate and maintain its water
schemes and service the debt associated with the proposed project.
5.03   NWCPC's assets and capital structure has not been fully established. Although a letter
from the Office of the Vice President and Ministry of Finance confirmed that the water scheme
assets would be transferred as an equity contribution and free of any encumbrances from MWD to
NWCPC (Ref. No: CONF, 3/08 (34) dated October 18, 1991), the values of the assets
transferred still need to be evaluated. NWCPC has also accorded high priority to resolving this
uncertainty concerning its capital structure and possible financial obligations and has prepared
terms of reference for a consultancy which will be supported under the Project to value the assets
and liabilities. These TORs were reviewed and agreed on by the Bank during preappraisal and are
included in Annex 9. NWCPC expects to retain a panel of three joint lead consultants, including
a civil engineer, a valuer and an accountant, to steer the valuation process, and their TORs were
reviewed by the Bank during preappraisal/appraisal and found acceptable. These TORs are also
included in Annex 9. The consultancy to value the assets and liabilities is scheduled to be
completed by end-FY92/93, at which time the valuations would be included in NWCPC's
financial statements. During negotiations agreement was reached that NWCPC would ensure that
the consultancy to value the assets and liabilities would be completed by no later than end-June,
1993.
W>ter Tariffs
5.04   As noted above, until recently water tariffs for MWD water schemes, including those
schemes transferred to NWCPC, had not been increased since 1978, despite continuing inflation
and inadequate revenues to support operating and maintenance costs. As a result, most water
schemes have been poorly maintained and many are in serious states of disrepair. Prior to the
negotiations the water tariffs for water schemes under the jurisdiction of both MWD and NWCPC
were increased by an estimated order of some 50% (versus a minimum 20% increase expected by
IDA) under The Water Act, Cap. 372, by legal notices Nos. 496, 497, 498, 499, 500, and 501,
effective as of October 1, 1991, published in the Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 654 dated
October 14, 1991.
5.05   The water tariff rates prior to the recent tariff increase effective as of October 1, 1991,
are summarized below:



- 33 -
Water Consumption          Mombasa/Coasa           Other Urban       _ural
per month                                   (KSh/m3)--------  ----------------
0 - 9m3                        2.90                     2,00        1.67
9m3 - above                      5.75                    2.00         2.65
Where no meters have been installed, domestic customers were to pay a charge of KSh 48 per
month in the Mombasa and the Coastal Region, KSh 30 per month in other urban areas and KSh
15 per month in rural areas. The new tariff rates are summarized in Annex 16.
5.06          Mombasa is a major tourist center and the second largest city in Kenya, and the
Mombasa and Coastal Region is the most sophisticated water supply system in the country outside
of Nairobi. A substantial portion (about 50 percent) of water usage is consumed by industrial,
commercial and hotel enterprises, but NWCPC had a uniform water tariff for all categories of
customers within areas and differentiates the tariffs only by two consumption levels. The average
incomes of its residential customers are estimated to be about the same as Nairobi, yet its average
tariff for Mombasa (about KSh 5/m3) was only about 60 percent of the prevailing average tariff
in Nairobi (about KSh 8/m3).
5.07          NWCPC and Government are aware that further substantial water tariff increases
will still be required over the medium term to generate sufficient internal funds to cover operating
and maintenance costs, provide adequate debt service coverage for the proposed project and to put
NWCPC on a sound financial footing so that it will be in a position to borrow the large expected
loans for, and generate enough funds to contribute to the capital cost of, the follow-on main
investment project. During negotiations agreement was reached that Government would approve
and NWCPC would implement such tariff increases as necessary beginning in FY92/93 so that
total revenues from NWCPC's water supply services will be sufficient to meet all operations,
maintenance, and interest expenses in each fiscal year as well as 40 percent of depreciation in
FY92/93, 65 percent of depreciation in FY93/94 and 100 percent of depreciation in FY94/95 and
thereafter and provide a reasonable contribution (i.e. not less than 10 percent of the projected
annual cost of the acquisition of assets for expansion of NWCPC's operations) to reserves by
FY94/95 and each fiscal year thereafter. The impact of the tariff increases would be analyzed at
the end of March in each fiscal year to determine the rate of the next increase. It is expected that
large tariff increases (roughly of the order of magnitude of 35-50 percent per year in nominal
terms) will be required over the medium term to meet the financial objectives for NWCPC.
While the annual tariff increases may initially appear high, they are not considered unreasonable
when compared to inflation (as measured by the Nairobi CPI) which has exceeded 220 percent
over the past 13 years, during which time no tariff increases were implemented. With these
levels of tariff increases, water tariffs in Mombasa should approximate more closely those of
Nairobi by the time the follow-on main investment project is underway. Furthermore, after the
water tariff study (para 5.08) is completed, future water tariffs would be expected to be set in line
with economic considerations to better ensure the efficient allocation of resources in the sector.
5.08          Merely increasing the general level of tariffs will not address the issue of whether
the design of the tariff structure is the most economically efficient, whether it would maximize
revenue and whether it is consistent with other concerns - such as equity, administrative
convenience and cost of collection. Therefore, under the Project, consultants would be retained
to examine the tariff structure through a water tariff study. The study is expected to review the
appropriateness of uniform urban and uniform rural tariff structures versus regional and individual



- 34 -
water scheme tariff structures and the appropriateness of cross-subsidies through the tariff levels
and structures across and within regions. In addition, the ability to introduce greater
diff,rentiation of tariff structures would be examined, taking into consideration the mix of
government, hotel, industrial, commercial and domestic consumers within schemes and regions.
Lastly, the study would provide recommendations on the ways and means to protect the needs of
the lowest income groups through the tariff structure. The terms of reference (TORs) for the
water tariff study (included in the TORs for the Corporate Development Plan) were agreed with
NWCPC during appraisal and are shown in Annex 9. During negotiations agreement was reached
that the water tariff study, as part of the Corporate Development Plan (para 4.13), would be
completed by December 31, 1993.
Future Financial Performance
5.09         Projections of NWCPC's financial performance over the period FY91/92-
FY96/97, including income statements, sources and applications of funds statements and balance
sheets, are shown in Annex 12. The projections have been prepared assuming NWCPC would
introduce, beginning in FY92/93, further annual water tariff increases; the water scheme assets
would be transferred to NWCPC as an equity contribution; and the valuation of its water scheme
assets would be completeO by no later than end-June 1993 after which time depreciation will be
properly charged (see para 5.07). For the purpose of the analysis which was carried out jointly
with NWCPC, a notional value of the assets of KSh10.8 billion (US$400 million) was used.
Furthermore, water production in the Mombasa and Coastal Region is assumed to increase from
95,000 m3/day currently to 115,000 m3/day in FY91/92 when additional supply would become
available from a German-funded augmentation scheme and then to 155,000 m3/day mid-way
through FY93/94 when the proposed Project is expected to be essentially completed. Also, it has
been assumed that the terms of borrowed funds for the Project would carry an interest rate of
16.65 percent, with a maturity nf 20 years including a 5-year grace period.
5.10         With the introduction of agreed tariff increases (see para 5.07), the financial
projections indicate that NWCPC's financial position could gradually improve so that by the time
of the main investment project, NWCPC would be in a position to contribute at least 10 percent
of the capital cost of that project and service the large loans required as well as the loan for the
proposed Project. Interest coverage and the current ratio would be maintained well above
adequate levels of 1.5 and 2.0, respectively. Significant cash balances would accumulate during
the latter project years which would be required subsequently to supr!ort NWCPC's contribution
of at least 10 percent (roughly estimated at about US$20 million) of the .apital cost of the follow-
on main investment project as well as the costs of its other capital work-s. The operating ratio
(operating expenses/revenues) would decrease from about 68 percent pre;z-- ly to a more
acceptable level of about 27 percent by end-FY95/96. With replacement of faulty meters and
completion of the revenue collection improvement consultancy, overbilling of customers' accounts
would be expected to be eliminated. The water accounts in arrears would be expected to be
reduced from about 225 days presently to a more acceptable level of about 90 days by the end of
the project period. To properly monitor financial performance and to provide the basis for
determining water tariff increase requirements, agreement was reached during negotiations that,
on an annual basis beginning in FY91192, NWCPC would prepare a report, by no later than end-
March, containing six-year financial projections to be reviewed by the Association.



- 35 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Projegt Benefits
6.01         The proposed Project would help the Govermnent and NWCPC in preparing a
Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project to augment and secure the water supply
infrastructure in the region. The present water deficit of about 60 percent seriously affects not
only the population as a whole and the urban poor in particular, but also the economic
development and eatning capacity of the region, especially in the tourism industry, Kenya's
largest foreign exchange earner. The rehabilitation/augmentation of the existing water supply
facilities under this project are expected to reduce the water supply deficit to about 35 percent in
the short run and allow a more equitable distribution of the available water.
6.02         The Project would also provide support to NWCPC to ensure its institutional,
operational and financial viability for carrying out the proposed project in particular and for
fulfilling its broad mandate in the water supply sector in general.
6.03         In addition, the project would also ensure that adverse environmental impacts of
the follow-on project and of the rehabilitation/augmentation works under this Project would be
minimized, and the works would be carried out at minimum disturbance to the ecology.
Least Cost Solution
6.04         The preinvestment studies and engineering designs carried out under the proposed
Project would ensure that the least cost alternative would be selected for implementation under the
follow-on main investment project. The rehabilitation/augmentation work would significantly
improve the water supply situation in the region at minimal cost, and would improve the
operational reliability and efficiency of the system.
Economic Rate of Return
6.05         The estimated incremental project revenues 1/ were used as the measure of the
economic benefit of the Project. Incremental water revenues were valued at the proposed average
water tariffs calculated in real terms. Other benefits, including health benefits resulting from
improved water supply and benefits resulting from impact on urban development, tourism and
recreation were not quantifiable. All costs related to the augmentation/rehabilitation works (land,
civil works, equipment, engineering designs and construction supervision, physical contingencies
and recurrent costs were included in the analysis and adjusted to exclude taxes, interest charges
and inflation. Costs as well as benefits were considered over a 35 year period. On this basis, the
economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated at 23 percent. Shadow pricing the foreign
exchange and labor costs (using factors of 1.15 and 0.75 respectively) the Project yields an ERR
of 22 percent, the difference being less than the margin of error in the cost estimates. This, for
water supply projects unusually high ERR demonstrates the merits of the immediate improvement
measures included under the project.
1/ Generated by the sale of the additional water produced by the augmentation/rehabilItation
works.



- 36 -
6.06         Sensitivity analysis was carried out assuming (i) higher and lower investment costs
and (ii) higher and lower than predicted average tariff rates (revenues). The calculations are
presented in Annex 13 and are summarized in Table 6.1 belcw:
Table 6.1I             ECONOQM!C RATE OF RETURN        (%1/
Change in Incremental Cost
__~~~~..    . .   .. . .  ,. ... . . .  .   .. . . .. . . .
Change in Incremental       Base Case
Revenue Benefits               0 %           +10 %          +20 %
+10 %         27.1   (26.3)   23.2 (22.5)   19.9 (19.3)
Base Case      0 %        23.2   (22.5)   19.6 (19.0)   16.5 (16.0)
-10 %        19.2   (18.6)   15.9 (15.4)   13.1  (12.6)
-20 %        15.2   (14.7)   12.1  (11.7)   9.4   (9.1)
1/ Values in parentheses are calculated with shadow pricing.
PWoJect Risks
6.07         The introduction of an appropriate tariff policy which is expected to require
significant increases in current water tariffs could be difficult to achieve in view of political
constraints. To reduce this risk, the Project would provide for carrying out a tariff study and for
strengthening NWCPC's revenue collection and financial management systems. In addition, there
would be annual reviews in the Bank to agree on the following year's tariff requ,rements and
agreement was reached that the results of these analyses would be implemented and agreement
was reached that the results of the analysis of the annual tariff requirements would be
implemented. Government's firm commitment to the Project and to the objective of establishing
an independent, self-financing corporation was demonstrated by an initial tariff increase of about
50 percent, versus the minimum 20 percent required as a condition for negotiations. The
introduction of a differentiated, block tariff system lessened the impact of tariff increases on the
low income groups and would help to defuse the political/social issues of increasing the cost of
water for the consumers. Inadequate allocation in the Government's development budget for the
IDA Credit and counterpart funds due to financial and budgetary constraints would be another
risk. To reduce this risk a detailed schedule of the counterpart fund requirements had been
prepared jointly with NWCPC and Treasury, and agreement was reached that Government's
contribution would be deposited on the project account in a timely manner. The initial deposit
required for FY91192 was made a condition of Credit effectiveness. Some unforeseen difficulties
could arise from a relatively new institution in spite of its qualified staff, but these difficulties are
expected to be reduced through institutional support and the hiring of consultants to assist in
project preparation and implementation activities. Monitoring of NWCPC's performance in these
areas would be a fccus of IDA supervision.
Proiect Monitoring System
6.08      The key indicators to be monitored during implementation concern physical progress
of the project, operational performance of NWCPC, progress with actions on tariff and financial
performance of NWCPC. Suitable indicators for monitoring project implementation and for
measuritng performance are set out in Annex 15. After completion of the proposed Project,
NWCPC would prepare a 'Project Completion Report" on the basis of an outline to be agreed
with the Bank.



- 37 -
VII. AGREEMENTS R1EACHED AND RECOMMEN1DATION
Agreements Reachd During Negotiatiqns
7.01         During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)    Government would provide the counterpart contribution of 11 percent of
total project cost as an equity contribution to NWCPC (para 3.13);
(b)    Government would provide the portion of the IDA Credit utilized to
finance consultancy/advisory services under the institutional support
component, training, and preinvestment studies/engineering services for
the follow-on project ([JS$ 25.8 million equivalent) to NWCPC as an
equity contribution. The balance utilized to finance
rehabilitation/augmentation works (including associated engineering
services), vehicles and equipment (US$ 17.4 million equivalent) would be
on-lent to NWCPC as a loan at an interest rate of 16.65 percent per
annum. The loan to NWCPC would have a maturity of 20 years
including 5 years grace (para 3.14);
(c)   Government would provide in its annual development budget allocations
for the IDA Credit and counterpart funds for FY93 through FY96 in
accordance with an agreed schedule, and at the beginning of each quarter,
Government would deposit to the project account opened by NWCPC in a
commercial Bank the necessary amount to cover its contribution to the
local project expenditures during the quarter (para 3.15 (i) and (ii));
(d)    Government would establish and operate the Special Account for NWCPC
(para 3.24);
(e)   NWCPC would submit the Corporate Development Plan including the
tariff study for review and comment by the Association not later than
December 31, 1993 (paras. 4.13 and 5.08);
(f)    NWCPC would have its financial statements and its project account
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the audit
reports would be submitted to the Association within nine months of the
end of the fiscal year (para 4.16);
(g)    NWCPC would ensure that the consultancy to value the assets and
liabilities be completed by no later than end-June 1993 (para. 5.03);
(h)    Government would approve and NWCPC would take all necessary
measures including, without limitation, adjustment of the structure or level
of its tariffs, beginning in FY92/93 so that revenues from NWCPC's
water supply services will be sufficient to meet all operations,
maintenance, and interest expenses in each fiscal year as well as 40
percent of depreciation in FY92/93, 65 percent of depreciation in
FY93/94 and 100 percent of depreciation in FY94/95 and thereafter and



- 38 -
provide at least a 10% contribution to reserves by FY94/95 and each
fiscal year thereafter (para 5.07); and
(i)    NWCPC would, for the purpose of monitoring NWCPC's financial
performance and for determining water tariff increase requirements, on an
annual basis beginning in FY91/92, prepare a report by no later than end-
March containing six-year financial projections to be reviewed by the
Association (para 5.10).
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
7.02         During negotiations agreements were obtained regarding the following conditions
of effectiveness:
(a)    execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and
NWCPC under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.14);
(b)    counterpart contribution of US$820,000 equivalent in KSh for FY91/92
has been deposited by Government in an account opened by NWCPC in a
commercial bank (para 3.15, (ii)); and
(c)    establishing the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which would be
headed by the Project Coordinator and would have four key staff, all with
terms of reference and'experience satisfactory to the Association (paras.
3.16 and 4.03).
Conditions for Disbursement
7.03         During negotiations, agreement was obtained regarding the following conditions
for disbursement:
(a)    NWCPC submitting a training program not later than March 31 of each
year, satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition for
disbursement for the training program in the following fiscal year (para
4.11); and
(b)    NWCPC submittin1, -a Environmental Action Plan, satisfactory to the
Association, for the I.v bilitation/augmentation works, would be a
condition for disbursement for the physical implementation of this
component (para. 3.25).
Rlecommndin
7.04         Subject to the above, the Proiect is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$43.2 million
equivalent at the standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years. The Borrower would be the
Government of Kenya.



f31SAS UNUSIXV3 JIOAI Al OwUHXs
I31JAS AIddJlS 8gLVM 1VISVO3 GNY VSVUWOI
N    V Y      3             O           N      v       I      a      N      I
i H Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W                vwm                 im m          W M  
IL  ,  * . ._. ._   j   .  ._   .        .        F  ,  ,  ,         T* O~WI  "vi
.  =~~~  I  72~~~~~~1  I'
Q i :~~~~~~~~~~~~U.              :               -m -             Iq
F , ~vm   w   v" 
a~~~~~~g      v                                            , ,.
a..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MK
.- .                                                N                   s Ie
rO ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                              u__   __ ___
. - *A_ _~~~U, 
so nILm           u  w.m-
P         WhY ~~~~~~mam 22  awminsuiuw
So~Ud VW                                             mv*.AW



ANNEX 2
IMA                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page Icof 7
SECOIWN MUiNIISA MD, LOASIL MATER SUPPLI ENSINEERING MND R1ELITATION PROJECT
Table :   Detailed Cost Estiiites for Institutiosal Support by Component and Year    (IuS$ '00
~~~~~~------------ ----------------------------                                 .----
Base Cost   Contingencies        Totdl           Foreign
Coaponent                         lEnd-90 Pr.) Physical Prite   Cost       2      Cost       X      91119    9213    97194    94195    95196
A.1 CEUILTIICI MID AIVISORY
SERVICES
Valuation of Assets
an& Liabilities               2441.46   122.07  636.47  3200.00     23.2     0.00      0.0   290.00  1510.00  1400.00    0.00     0.00
Improvement of Rev. Call.,
Fin. Hgqt. and WIS.           3019.54   150.98  329.48 3500.00      25.4  2726.10     77.9     0.00  2927.00  573.00     0.00     0.00
Corporate Developsent Plan
(inrl. Tariff Study)          699.00    34.40    77.60   800.00      5.8   LOO.00    75.0     0.00   700.00   100.00     0.00     0.00
Software Development for
Billing [Phase 11), Fin.
Iqst. and NIS.                 502.96    25.15   71.90   b00.00      4.3   450.00     75.0    20.O0   210.00  210.00   160.00     0.00
Coord.JLaison/lgst Cons.
and Ady. Srs.                  793.58    39.18  102.24   925.00      6.7   693.75     7'.0   180.00   290.00  290.00   100.00    65.00
Sub-total, A.1              7435.54   371.78  I117.69  5025.0P    65.4  449.85      49.5   49Q.00 5637.00 25.73.00   260.00    65.00
A.2 VEHICLES AND 1RISC. E2U1PNT.  It
Vehicles                       1161.04   116.10  122.96  1400.00     10.1  1120.00     BG.0     0.00  1400.00    C.O     0.00     0.00
Pisc.Equipst. ind Machinery     381.40    36.15   40.37   460.40      3.3   360.00     50.0     0.00   460.0o    0.00     0.0     0.00
Office Equipment and
Computers                      331.72    33.17    35.10  400.00      2.9   320.00     S0.0     0.00   400.00    0.00     0.Q0     0.00
Computerization of Billing
System (Coast Region)          556.58    55.65   07.76   700.00      5.1     0.00      0.0    O0. 00  200.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Radio Coamuniration Equipat.    199.03    19.90   21.06   240.00      1.7   192.00     e0.0     0.00   240.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Water Meters                    912.24    91.22   96.53   1100.00     8.0   80.00      80.0     0.00  1100.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Sub-total, A.2              3542.1l   354.21  403.69  4300.00     31.2  2880.00     67.0   500.00  3B00.00    0.00     0.00     B.00
U.3 TRAtINN6
Training Courses                332.80    16.64   75.5b   425.00      3.1   220.00     51.8    0.00   102.t0   119.00   119.00    85.00
Training Equipment               43.20    2.1b     4.64    50.00      0.4    40.00     80.0    0.10    40.00    10.00     0.00     0.00
Sub-total, 6.3               376.00    18.80   80.20   475.00      3.4   260.00     54.7     0.00   142.30  129.00   11.C9    85.00
TOTAL (institutional Support)       11353.64  744.9   1701.57 13800.Q    100.0  7609.85     55.1  990.00 9579.00   2702.0    379.00   150.00
It Detailed list is shown on Table 5.



ANNEX 2
KENY'                                                                                                                             Page   2 of   7
EECEONU r,oIASA AND COASTAL NATEIR SUPPLY EISINEERINS AND 8EHABIL17ATIN PROJECT
Table 2:   Detailed Cost Estimates for Preinvestient Studies and Engineering      tUS$ '0001
ease Cost   Contingencies          Total            Foreign
Component                           (End-Y" Pr.1 Physical Price     Cost       I      Cost        7      91192    92/9Z     93/94    941/5    95196
---------           -----         -----         -    ---------           ------------------------------- ----------- ----------- --
8. COTSUATNCY SERViCES
Svurce Works (Pulk Supplyl
DevLeopErt                     7004.17    350.21   94M.62  8304.00      42.6  6300.00     75.9   1500.00  2800.00  2000.00   1000.00  1000.00
isstributim Network
lhproneen't S Ext.             Z241.36    262.07   696.57  62100.00    31.    4600.00     74.2     0.00   3200.00  2500.00   300.00    20.00
Instrumtatitin, teletry                                                                                                                                                     4
And System Coaurication          50. 5     l25.03   74.39   6QD.         3.1   500.00     83.3      0.00   10.00   230.00   220.00     50.00
Sewerage, Drainage and
Sanitation Studies             3579.30    17B.97   b41.73  4400.OC      22.6  3300.00     75.0     0.M0      0.00  2000.00  2000.00    400.00
TOTALW(reinvestment Studies & Eng.) 16325.41     8:v.27  2358.32 19,500.00    100.0 14700.00      75.4  1500.00  610D.00  6730.00   3520.00  1650.00
__ -   ___ ---   __ -_ ---   -  ---  -  -  __ -- - -- - -- -   -- -   -_ __ -  -- - -- - -   -  -  --  -   -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   --  -  7-----



ANNEX 2
KENYP                                                                                                                        Page    3 of 7
SECD It O9WASA AND COASTAL NATER SoPPLY ENBiNEERINS AND REHAMILITATION PROJECT
Table 3:    etaild Cost Estimates for Rehabilitation and Augmentation Vorks by Component and Year       (US  '0001
----~~~~~~                    -- ----------------------------------------------------- --------------
Pase Cost   tontingmncies         Total           Foreign
Cooponent                          (End-90 Pr.. Physical Price    Cost       Z      Cost       2      91192    92/93    9X/94    94195     95/96
C.1 CVNDULTAWV SERVIC.ES
kroumdvater Investiptiors
aid Hydrgnloqical Studies
(Sabakillaridho)               266.82    13.34.   19.84   300.00       1.9   200.00     66.7   300.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Mklifield ksiqn Jrtcl. River
Crossing and Associated
Worksl                           B7.9'     4.40     7.I    100.00      0.6    90.09     90.0     0.00   100.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Engintering for Rehab. Iorts    353.10     17.66    29.16   400.00      2.6   350.00     B7.5   100.00   300        0.00     0.00     0.0O
Construction Supervision
of Rehab. and Augsent. Works    489.01    24.40    97.59   600,00      3.9   400.00     6b.7     0.00    70.00   300.00   230.00      0.00
Sub-total, CA                1196.00    59.80   144.20  1400.0       9.1  1040.00     74.3   400. n   470.00   300.00   230.00      0.00
C.2 PHYSICAL SORKS
Sroundwater Exploratioc
'Test Drilling)                 155.49   15.60    28.41   200.00       1.3     0.00      0.e   100.00   S10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
oellfield Develapmen'
ICivil Nks. & Supply Contr.)  4021.70   402.17   616.13   5C40.00     32.7  3503.55     69.5     0.00  1240.00  3800.00     0.00     0.00
Rehabilitation Works
(Civil Wks. I Supply Gontr.) 4U36.69    438.67   674.64   5500.00     35.7  3814.20     69.3     0.00  2000.00  3000.00   596.00     0.00
Distribution Uetworl
lam. lopr. Measures            798.18    79.82    122.00  1000.00      6.5   693.12     69.3     0.00   400.00   500.00   100.00      0.00
kzima Pipeline (Rehab. Works)   803.10    80.31    1[6.5   1000.00      6.5   6531.3     69.3     Q.00   650.0M   250.90    50.00     50.00
Building Vorks                  962.23    5b.22    141.54  1200.00      7.8   832.67     69.4     0.00   650.00   420.00    50.0      50.00
Sub-total, C.2             11127.9   1112.79  1699.31 13740.00     90.52  95516.67  346.Eg   0O0.Q0  507O.{0  7970.00   700.00    102.00
C.3 LND AVQfiSITiDN                     44.69     4.47    10.86    60.00      0.4     0.00      0.0     0.00     6C.00     0.00     0.00     0.0G
TOTAL IRehab. and Auqs. Varks)       12368.57  1177.06  1854.37 1540.00    100.00 10576.67   421.16   500.0   5600.00  8270.00    p30.00 q10.00



on1                                                                                                                                                                              ANI? 
_        0 m C   . WTK  N   f.  EMIEf3hI    ES EIILITAtIN MfEIt
Table     rn.st tat ad F          kW  rmts by Tow         fuh NC                                                                                                                 Page 4 of 7
91192                            9)s3                             93194                            "4"                               51
holedt cba     ta                       tcal       Foreip                Local      Fartius               Loca       Fartipo LOl                      Frcip                 Lalc      Fhrdp
--     TDtV - --- Ittal                         Total                             l    ----             -         Total                  --       Total
Cmtsrj.    31     1D            rCuaterp.  IDA      DA           Conterp.   IDA     1D           tozuter.   ID       IIA         tCantwp.    IDA     TM
L IKIVTU ISFUrt
1.  r   TAYE  0   wN
(0 hIguths of Aits
d Liablitti.                 20.0              0.00  290.00 110.00              0.00 1510.00 1400.C0             6.00  1400.00   0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00
fill Irw"mt of ha. C1al.,
fit. Ipt. adIL                         0.00    0.00    0.00           680.00 2247.00 2m.00              91.90  47.O    573.00             0.00    0.0     0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00
3I01 Cuwat, Ins"iout PIN
hadt. Trlff Studrl                    0.00     0.00    0.00           175.00  525.00  700.0D           25.00    75.08  100.00            0.00     0.00    0.00            0.00     0.00    0.00
Ihl    tw     Utt ngut 4w
filli1 (FM%* I111, flg.
N19t. a6d OIL                          5.40   [5.00   20.00            52.50  157.50  210.00            52.50  157.50  210.00            40.D0  120.00  160.00             O.M0    0.00    0.00
I) Caerd.JLaomimpt cbr.
aad Adi. er,.                         45.00  135.DD   110.00           72.50  217.50  20.00            7Z.50   217.50  290.00            25.00   75.00  100.00            16.25   49.75   65.00
Sub-Ltot1,3.1              290.00   50.00  150.00   490.00 1510.00   60.00 3147.0. SU7.00 1400.00    243.S0  929.10 25n.O00     0.00   65.00  195.00  260.00     0.00   16.25   43.73   65.00
2. EKICaES AW ilSC. E91OUiIT.
(il Vuiclas                                0.0     0.00     0.00   u4.0   196.00 1320.00 1400,00             0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00             0.0D 0   O.D    0.00
6i) Wist.Aui3po. and NacOiJny               0.0e    0.00     0.00   27.60   64.40  368.00   460.00            0.00    0.00    0.00             O.00    0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00
fill DElict Eutlpet aed
Coutns                                 0.0     4.00    0.00    24.00   56.00  320.00  400.00             0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00
(ivl CuleaterizAtlu o li lls
lysts. Olmst  qim)           50.O0             0. O0  500.00  200.00            0.00  200.00    0.00             0.00    0.00    O.O0             0.00    o.o0    0.DO             O.O0    0.00
(vi bins   Commuicative Eqspat.            0.00    0.00     0.00   14.40   33.60   192.00  240.00            0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00
IV]i Nitar Wters                            0.00    0.00    0.00   6W.00   154.00  N0.00   1100.00            0.00    0.00    o.0o             0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00
Slb-tata, B.2              500.00    0.00    0.00   500.00  416.00  50.00     0.00 3800.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.0o    O.OD    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
3. r130111
(ti Tralmiug Casn                          0.0     0.0e     0.00           45.20   52.50   102.00           57.40   61.60   119.00           57.40   61.60   119.00           41.00   44.00   B5.00
U1) Trailing Eplpit.                        0.00    0.00    0.00     2.40    5.60   52.00   90.09     0.60    1.40    8.00    10.00            0.00    o.o0    0.00             0.00    O.00    0.00
S   di-ft., A.3              0.0o    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.40   54.50   B4.90   142.00    0.60  5.9O    69.60   12?.00   0.00    57.40   61.60   119.00   0.00.   41.00   44.00   B5.00
TOTE. A tiuttitatlmal tpwt)        190.00   50.00   150.o0  9Y0.00 1921.40 1533.50 6230.50 957Y.00  1400.60  302.70  "B.70   2702.00    0.00  022.40  25L.0   379.00     0.00   57.25   92.75   150.00
1. FIU     EU  SfTSES AM EKIKEElI
ll Sorce wrks (hit Seplyl
sOnelplift                           363.40 1338.60  1500.0          674.70 2i25.30 2B00.00           401.S0  151.O 2000.00         241.00   759.00 1000.O0           241.00  759.00  3000.00
liil Iiatrnbti n lUtNort
lepriveuet I Est.                      0.00    0.00    0.00           825.90 2I74.20  3200.00          645.20  3B54.90 2500D00          77.40   222.60  300.00           51.60   148.40  200.00
Hilil Instrautrticn, Telmtry
arn Snstem Cuounlcatin                 0.00    0.00    0.00            16.70   83.30  300.00            30.30  191.70  2S0.00           36.70   103.30  22D.00            8.30    43.70    0.OD
liv) Sreeal, Dralufi aid
Sanitatim Studies                      0.00    0.00    0.00             O.O     0.00    0.00           500.00 1500.00 2000.00           500;00 IS0O.00 2000.00           100.00  300.00  400.00
TOTaul I PrOelnstat.Studiu I Eng.!   0.00  361.40 1139.60  350.00     0.00 1517.20 4592.20 6100.0      0.00  3665.40 5064.60 6730.00    0.00  855.10 2664.90 3520.0C     0.00  400.90 1249.10 065D.00



-                                                                                                                                                                                     AM= 2
-       111       0    . mill.T WtL  1WIEB 1111 A  EIM   ITIDO    WEMT
tileS O  ctlcmolo         Prejgt Cut m. Feaa l     Iqlrtnts il YW          (E1Ui 0000                                                                                                 13g    5 of 7
93192                            12i93                             S.E94                            94095                            SS19b
YesIut raqinmts                         LKca       Foreigp                Local      Foreip                Local      Forein                 Local     Foroila                tocal      Fortei
-ota                              Totl                                                              Total -                           -ital
cuatw.     1N      1n           ComutHp.    IU      IPA           Couterp.   IDI     1m            Coutt"       IDA   IDA           ouOtErp.  JDR     1i
c. #watLinvramill A7
t. 111,l_ 11I KIRC-111
M A cN.iavi d $Win
tUaIIA    rlchie                     10D.0   200.00   30.0              0.09     0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00     0.0$            0.00    0.00     O.O             0.00    0.00    0.0
111) hIlileid haipl 1(Id. 30W
11u1siq iidi   hu{lcls.4In
Crnmiq JW iq^It
Wks?                                   0.00     0.00    0.00            10.00    0.00   100.00            0.00    0.00     0.00            0.00     0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00
tlill 2itwlseui for OAd. Srts                12.S0   37.50  100.0             37.50  2i2.50   300.00            0.00     0.30    0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00     0.00
UI) Ctostn,ctlm tqeide.
Eo A". am Iqat. 6w5                    L.OD     0.00    0.00            23.30   46.10   70.00           100.00   200.00  300.00           76.70   153.30  230.00             0.00    C 00    0.00
30-totl, C.d                 0.00   112.50  287.53  400.00     0.00   70.t0  399.20   470.0U     .OD 0 O0.00 -200.00   300.00    0.00    76.70  I53.30  230.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
C.2 9323111 10
fil krmudwtir Coplwrtlu
(Tnt rWIllIsgI                34.00   70.00    0.00   100.00   30.00    70.t0    0.00  100.0     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
f1i) SollIteil l"l int m,
(Civil *1   a Selv C.ti.)    0.oD     0.00    0.0t     0.00  113.60  24.63    90l."  120.00    347.53  310.91  2641.56 3600.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    o.00    0.00     0.00    0.00          .
611111 kiAiltatIt  hWts
(Civil Ms. I Sqpl1 C4tr.)      0.00    0.00    0.00     4.00  193.90  429.1t 1396.99 2000.00    275.t4 U43.67 200.47 3000.00      45.99  107.2t   34t.75  5M0.00    0.00     0.0D    0.00    0.00
(iv) 111   tlstim Mbt_rt
IN.   7r-.  a                  e.00    0.00    0.00     0.0    3.33     35.93  277.75  400.00    4L.03  107.41  34L.50   500.00    9.21   21.43    61.30  100.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
hl) kiss fiptl. Ci  A&. hIkl       4.N0     0.00    9.00    O.N     59.U1  137.63   450.53  050.00   23.02   53.71   173.29  250.00    4.0     10.74   34.66   50.00     4.60   10.14   34.66    50.00
(d) hIIti   vswig                   .00    0.00     0.00    6H      02.45  145.71  471.05   00.00    38.57   90.00   291.43  420.00    4.59    10.71   34.69   50.00     4.59   10.71   34.08    50.00
Stt, L2                     30.00     0.      0.00  10.00    43U.42 113."   3443.f0 5o70.00   731.01  1705.61  533.30  7970.00   4.38   150.21  485.41  700.00     9.19   21.45   6t.s3   100.00
LS up3 m     i3111E                  1.01             3.00    0.00    00.00             0.00   60.00    0.00             0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00    0.00     0.00             0.00    0.00
fC           . of    p. SF01        3#J0    332.50  2.50     30.00   546.42 15.75 3H7.30 s0.00        731.01 105.09 5733.31 3270.00      64.39  220.91  033.71   930.0e    9.19   2.45      9.35  100.00
1IT  11      U                      353.00  59.10  1570.10 2190.0   2414.12  4203.11 14542.4021279.00 2131.61  3773.73 1179.11 17702.0  64.34 3206.41  35.21 49.00         9.19   479.60 0431.20  100.00
1  a    . 4 111lT                   27.42                             u.u                              12.44                              1.33                             0.49
-aul                                               2173.0                           lo0.13                           15570.37                          4764.62                           1190.31
Cwlatw                                             2170.00                          20"74.13                         3"54.57                          41309.1                           43200.00



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
Table 5
VEHICLES & EOUIPMENT
(Part A.2 of the Project)
DESCRIPTION                    NO.          UNIT COST          TOTAL COST
(US$ equiv.)       (US$ equiv.)
()  Vehicles
Land vehicles (4 w/drive)       16              32,000             512,000
Saloon car (2000 ccm)           4               18,000              72,000
Lorry, 14 ton                    1              45,000              45,000
Lorry, 7 ton                    4               38,000              152,000
Lorry, 7 ton, with
superstructure for mobile
workshops                       2               42,000              84,000
Motor cycle (100 ccm)          50               6,000              300,000
Water tankers (10 ton)          4               42,500              170,000
Tractors with trailers           4              15,000              60,000
Sub-total (i)         1,395,000
Equipment
Excavator, truck wheel           1             117,000              117,000
Forklift (2-3 ton)              2               34,000              68,000
Mobilo Generating Set           4               12,500              50,000
Misc. tools & equipment
for mobile workshops, and
pipe repair/maintenance teams                   Allow               75,000
Misc. tools and machinery,
and spare parts for workshops                   Allow               150,000
Sub-total {ii)          460,000



- 46 -
ANNEX 
Page 7 of 7
(iii)  dQffig EQdupmet and Computers
Fax Machines                       3
PABX Machines                      2
Typewriters                       12
Photocopiers                       6
Duplicating Machines               6
Computers (PCs) with
Printers and accessories         16
Standard Software
(Word Processing, Lotus
Database, etc.)
Billing Terminals and
Cash Printers (incl.
accessories)                     8
Misc. Office Equipment
(Cashing Machines,
Safes, etc.)
Allow               400,000
Smb-total (iii)            400,000
(iv)   Computerization of Billing System
Mombasa/Coast Region (ICL)                                              700,000
Sub--tl (iv)              700,000
(v)    Radio Communication Eguinment
Mobile radios (portable
and vehicle mounted)              16                2,500                40,000
Base station Radio
Transreceivers                     5               40,000               200,000
Sub-tota (v)              240,000
(vi)   WZater Meter
Master meters (50.300 mm)                           Allow               145,000
Domestic meters (12-40 mm)    30,000                   32               960,000
Sub-total (vi)           1,105,000
TOTAL (VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT)                    4,300,000



-47-                                             Annex    3
KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
I
PROJECT INPLENENTATION SCHEDULE
IPROJECT COMPONENT
Activity                  t 1991/92     t 1992/93    1 1993194     1  1994I95   t 1995/96     I    Comsents       t
a _ _ ___        _                         a            a     .             .            _                           a __.__.____|___ 
a-  - - - -  - --  - - - - -  - - - - - -  --  - - -- -   - -- - - -               a     -- -- -  -- - - --  - -- - - -- - - -
IINSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT       I                                       a             a                                 a
t    Valuition of Assets     I          XXKlXXXKXXNIKX  K ------                                ISubstantially coqp-I
a      and Liabilities       I            I                          a                           leted by mid-1993   1
t    Revenue ColloctilonFin.F          xxxlxxxxxxxxxxxx'xxxxxxxxx    II
I      Ngmt.,NIS. Studies    I             t                         I I 
I    Corp.Dev.PIan, Tarift             xxxlxxxxxxxxxxxxlxxxxxx---    :             I            ISubstantially coou-1
I      Study                              t             Iileted by end-1993                                          1
I    Computerization/Soft-   I         XXXXiXXXXXXXXaXXXXkXXXXXXXXaXXXXXXXXX       I
x    Due Jevelopment                                                                                          I
Cowrdination/Laiso/     I         xxxlxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx       a                                 a
I       3xPt. Cons. afnd Adv, a           a                                                                          I
I      Services              I                          t
I    Procurosent of HisC.                     XXKXXXXXXXXXXXIIXXXXXXXXt                         t
I       isc.Equipeent and    t             I            I            I             a             a
I      Machinery             I             I            I            I             t
I    Training Activities     t             IXXXXXXXXXXXXIXXXXXXXXiaXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXI
I                                                                    It            a            a I
IPREINVESTHENT STUDIES AND   1                                                                                       I I  I
2 ENGINEERING                              t                                                                         I I
I    Source Works (Bulk      2      xxxxxxtxxxxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxxxxI ------a----- ------          Procurement activi-l
Supply) Development   I             I            t            t             tties in FY95-FY96                I
I    Distribution Netmork    I             IXXXXXXXXXXXaXXXXX-XXXXX-XI----          P------     lProcurement activi-!
I      tiprovenent and Ext. I              i            I            I             t             Ities in FY95-FY9&  I
I    Instrumentation, Tele- I              i      xxxxxxNxxsxxxxxxxxxlxxxxxx------------       IProcurement activi-I
I      metry and System      1             1ties in FY95-FY96                                                        2
t      Communication        1                          t            t 
I    Sewerage and Sanitation!              I            txxxxxxxxxXXtxxxxx     X--------        tSubstantially coup-I
I      gStudies                            I t a                     a                    I      leted by end-l994   1
IREHABILITATION/AUGMENTATWNI               I            I                                                            I
I WORKS                      t                                       I             I      
1    6roundwiter Inves-          Xxxxxxxxl              i            a             a            a                    a
tigaticns,            I             I                                                    a 1
t     uillfield Design       I             ixxxxxxxxx   I                          t
I    Engineering for Rebhb./I          xxxIxxxxxxxxx    1                         t            t                    I
Aur  ntation vcrks    I                                                                                       I
I    Construction Superv.    I             iXXNXXXXXIXXX   XXXXXXXXXXXXKXXXXXXXXi               I                    t
I    Test Drilling           I          KIXxx ax                    at
I    melltfeld Developeunt   I                       X XXXXXXKXXXXX KIt
I    Rhab. of the Sabaki                             xxxixxxxxxxxixxx X            I
I      System                                           1            1             a
I    DlstribUtion Isprovbnt1                         XXKXXXXXXIXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXi
I    Rehab. of the NziBI     I                xxXXKXXXXIXXXXKXXXXIXXXXXXXXKXXXXaXXXXXK
II     Pipeline              I             I                         I t
I    Building Works          I             I      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxlxx
INAIN INVESTMENT PROJECT     I      t      I                          .a.    .... ....... ..........    continued ....
---                                                   a             a     . .  - ---------- I--a.---------- I------------ ----- -- i------------ --------:-



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
KENYA
SCQND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Bank FY and                        Disbursed          Cumm-ulative      Disbursements
Quarter Ending                     in Quarter           Acco-nnt          % of Total
1992
March 31, 1992                     0.50                0.50               1.2
June 30, 1992                      1.67                2.17               5.0
1993
September 30, 1992                 3.35                5.52              12.8
December 31, 1992                  4.54               10.06              23.3
March 31, 1993                     5.44               15.50              35.9
June 30, 1993                      5.47               20.97              48.5
1994
September 30, 1993                 5.72               26.69              61.8
December 31, 1993                  4.32               31.01              71.8
March 31, 1994                     3.51               34.52              79.9
June 30, 1994                      2.02               36.54              84.6
1995
September 30, 1994                 1.47               38.01              88.0
December 31, 1994                  1.26               39.27              90.9
March 31, 1995                     1.10               40.37              93.4
June 30, 1995                      0.94               41.31              95.6
1996
September30, 1995                  0.59               41.90              97.0
December 31, 1995                  0.53               42.43              98.2
March. 31, 1996                    0.46               42.89              99.0
June 30, 1996                      0.31               43.20             100.0



- 49-
ANNEX 5
KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
WITHDRAWALS QF PROCEEDS OF THE CREDIT
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in          % of Expenditure
CATEGORY                             US$ Equivalenta         to be financed
(1)   Consultancy and Advisory                 23,400,000          100%
Services under Part A. 1 (ii),
(iii), (iv) and (v), and
under Part B and Part C of
the Project
(2)   Vehicles, miscellaneous                   3,100,000          100% of foreign
equipment and machinery,                                     and 70% of local
office equipment, water                                      expenditures
meters and training equipment
under Part A.2 (i), (ii), (iii),
(v) and (vi) and under Part
A.3 (ii) of the Project
(3)   Training costs under Part                  350,000           100%
A.3 (i) of the Project
(4)   Civil works and supply                   11,400,000          100% of foreign
contracts under Part                                         and 70% of local
C.2 of the Project                                           expenditures
(5)   Refunding of Project                       750,000
Preparation Advance
(6)   Unallocated                               4,200,000
TOTAL                                    43,200,000



Annex 6
KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY                 Page I of 4
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
NWCPC's WATER SUPPLY SCHEMES
U -
mE Ur          _=              %     Ji   .6                lb be1at" I 01l 8ut 1   _5nW  No1^M1 "
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                    I cm   io   to   w "  .   .
-          . .. _    - .  -    _   -  -                                 _  _   . _
ftM Mu              ON  1      bU  a   V            NW   Sull rdilom tsdh..t FslIt Mwitt
.     -         -    -   - .        - - -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&ub mw                      trw w% J4PW
U- 13 l  I cmui.mI hiad,  Imiw,  cmm
mu           Id3 11                 1 _,1 _ _ 6ir           b1 tmtt        ullt Filly  h iit
_ __ S______ 
%Mwt"w** Iqp      _   3 _    _0, _       a   I     Thuhi.. Em             ally FIUt? wii Utm aFlt 
Makfhqlyt    no     Oi   3      Mt 1t,             1 d_t     u ll tUsiinal bdy lu Fully 1r,ily
bm    ell      t     3-1  X    3."32 1   U   I       ||lSit Rim  ul amtiul ttuIdt t lhstws  Rtui Urha tee*r
Lidi~t _u _pI                          _  ~ 3l 1Z        lte                  lim biiaity
___________  1  *fipies I  50lis dS .U ty *s
-   -   -   -   I' -I-  -   -           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _t k



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
NEWuR             omo um mmnu MD     WuIaCF wua  SW      IPUmrf u     RK'II IW   m
mwu nw 
WI -.  )  E   RN WE IRI0MM W O*
U%mt VMu 94*                        I           Rpi Riw~  Odeinum mg?  Hiiftu  ElEn hgiWabflWst
kamuw awu (h)1 b1    6 )UM  MlO(  I !U  431343           Ful mmmatimul triatukl hste,J mt 1W1Ig
______ _____ -    t-"   _; .                  -              i  t   S
9itil Rawawl  l, Z      400  3sl    E     D  0  ?  liIJ1m  Fdl mutiol trutwi  lUliftflUlift Bilgil twip
______           __in    ___c =- _a NV
*~ ~ ~ _sI RiR                                     _                                 inMifI~d



Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
F~ -* 
ME               soKI  mm gmffmm (F aNEam   sea1  1Ei1If I MsL  wis RNE  mm
ma    m         - - 
.S                         .  _   _i._ ,  .  _
-~~~ ~ -          __ -   -  -  r -t -r   -  -
Loihbtww   .*i,a                       _      t  ul r t ift
gaiwou',wI noAm26                   f  it   Tw,mi  Fllidicm  i   hauml   *lift
ad few Lm  -on   sIS h r3u bidsji                    H'l
-  -  -.-. -                   . -        ._____________
ii_ ____                                 ____
S~} b60. Ei _l_  . b1  . 



Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
RIEW                      mimem    via WAF=       mmaii mu  5         ii RD  9  umm
b') #Ih4)  EI ERX WE E lw                           a
spado"w p13              is  160  U0         S   _uFl        imal  tt uiV st
- MW r   - 9,OU I         2.4  51   0 1 __iwr        Fdal cmainl It iidu Uiftli*ft
E~np MwS*  1  El  50   :   j IaU         idh 0W   Fill amtim. ]tmt _uliftflf iift
9iibli iir qq*     E         ?,  405 20   _    u_ a _ i  f en mm&th tmt  LNift*Iifi __
Utita M     1a          IO U      ,3tC _  4,TV _  2  Itw air h}l mijuil b'uet liftIUiMift Satifa .lkbm 
Dab"*q odewl ka hl  8,CS 45  ai.      313     Ira Riuw  Nakutun     lWY griy
Ks N_e SqI1  lwu  t1O   14   43S  s   Eho  2   RI'-     Filultwt    LeIiftf@lft
IIPW WAZi 9*iy  Rai  W,U0  3  3,10 51 a its  f me intfEd  FuiI cmirI TMe  ift!i'ppp
Enuwfai W WItw  Ord  WM Mc  ),m  Hm  23 -      hqsI* uin Fenl mint 2ad tntn auF
_   _  _  _       i T  _      _ _l0D            sm _ __ ._                    _   _  _
______                  __ -                                       ftI1     .it
*U 9qNDhB1J2 4D  l a5|te Rxiuhfm I  fPistif



NATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION AND PIPELINE CORPORATION                     Annex 7
Organization Structure
NWCPCBoard
taplm"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
pa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ea
AWl Vahy   Arni     E'IxdMV
5~eg.on  aw*osmwa AccmuV)t
Ttemknwt                        W~~~~~~~~~~ahagItn  ITtAM mIA~
3~Pgo           M
H:                 ,    g               1    1        , :.FM  E] i
D SS 1-' I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~maLdam 
.,                                .  , . .^_.d , 1,~~~~~QW'  A
HZ                             i tII                      < 
aai Mm*o"T i+



- 55 -
0I
U)~~~~~~~~~~c
QDw 
LTd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q~
~~~~Sc~~~~~~~c
rl$,ilts i'gD,a
.wg
I  - . . . -.  - I  ...   i  ..
4m L*
1s  gi  j   S    i,1iiF g 
14 iXS~J



Annex 9
-56-
Page 1 of 32
A.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR
VALUATION OF ASSETSILIABILITIES
INCLUDING CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND BALANCE SHEET
OBJECTIVES
The National Water and Conservation & Pipeline Corporation
wishes to carry out a comprehensive identification and
valuation of ali its assets and liabilities, to facilitate
the full and proper functioning of the corporation and with
particular reference to:
1.1.      Location,  identification    and  registration   of
assets.
1.2.      Maintenance, repair and replacement of assets.
1.3.      Assessment  and recording   of the  forms of  legal
title, together with any encumbrances thereto,
relating to assets.
1.4.      Insurance of assets against destruction or   damage
and insurance of the corporation against public
liability to third parties, arising from the
ownership, location end use of svch assets.
1.5.      Inspection  of certain   assets, particularly  dams
and similar structures, against potential safety
hazards.
1.6,      Assessment end  record of   physical and  financial
depreciation of assets, to facilitate planning for
replacement and the recording of depreciation in
accordance with standard accounting practices.
1.7.      Assessment  of  choices regarding   the  retention,
disposal,     replacement,      enhancement     and
rehabilitation of assets, based on appropriate
cost/benefit analysis.
1.8.     The  taking of  operational decisions   relating to
whiclh assets to operate at maximum capacity, as
contrasted with those to be held for standby or
reserve purposes.
1.9.      Assessment, for purposes   of financial performance
measurement, of the expected or actual financial
end economic returns from asset operation, for
comparison with the Corporation's cost of capital.
1.10.     Assessment of  the potential for the generation of
revenues from the operation, leasing or disposal
of assets.



-57-                         Annex 9
Page 2 of 32
.11.     Assessinent. of  all  l1:3bilities releting  to  the
assets, including:
1.9.1.    Lc.ny-term loans.
1.9.2.    Claims  by  cont.ract.ors,  donors,  self-help
organzations    arid  other    commlunities  or
indlviduals   claiming  not   to   have   been
adequately compensated   for t.he  provision or
financing of asset.s.
1.9.3.    Other cont-ingent liabilities.
1.10.    Assessment of financial and  other liabilities not.
directly related to the provision of assets,
including those to:
1.10.1.   Customers,  in respect  of consumer   deposits
and refunds due.
1.10.2.   Suppliers of goods and services.
1.10.3.   Banking and financing institutions.
1.10.4.   Central Government, other   public authorities
and ut.ilities.
1.1l.   As  a   consequence  of  the    identification  and
valuation of its assets and liabilities, the
Corporation wishes to prepare, for audit by its
stat.utory auditors, a  statement of affairs, drawn
up   in   accordance   with    generally   accepted
accounting principles and thereafter incorporated
into its books of account, so as to determine its
overall assets, liabilities and equity capital.
1.12.   In addition,  consistent   with its  position as  a
responsible public body, the CorForation wishes to
discharge its lawful obligations to its creditors.
It also wishes to hand over to their rightful
owners, or alternatively to compensate for, any
assets to which the Corporation has no legal
title.



Annex 9
-58-                            Page 3 of 32
2.   SPECIFICATION OF TASKS
2.1. Vluationof Assets
The assets of the Corporation consist, in the main, of
moveable  and    immoveable  installations,    pipelines,
plant, equipment,   stores, machinery,  dams, buildings,
vehicles, office furniture, etc. These are located at
the Corporation's water projects and    regional offices
and at its head offices in Nairobi. Comprehensive
valuation of these assets shell take into consideration
matters which, in the professional opinion of the
valuer, are relevant, with a view to advising the
Corporation on their current monetary value, in the
light of:
O    past working life and serviceability;
O    estimated remaining economic life; end,
O    changes   in  monetary  values  since   assets  were
purchased and/or put into service.
2.2.1.    Water Suplies._ ams and PL2elirs
Each of the operational water undertakings, dams
and   pipelines   shall   be  valued   t.aking  into
consideration the various components of the water
supply, such as, but not necessarily limited to:
O    intakes;
o    raw water mains;
O    treatment plants, where applicable;
O    pumping stations, where applicable;
O    power plants;
O    water     storage     facilities     (retaining
structures);
O    distribution   and  reticulation   systems  and
pipelines;
O    laboratory facilities, where applicable;
O    master consumer meters;
O    tools and equipment;
O    office buildings;
O    office furniture end equipment;
O    stores,   including  pipes,  fittings, meters,
parts etc;
O    workshops, where applicable;
O    yards end depots;
0    staff quarters; and,
O    transport facilities, where applicable.



Annex 9
_59_                             Page 4 of 32
While carrying out. the assessment, t.he Valuer must
teke  care to identify   and to differentiate those
installations which  have been  developed by   non-
MOWD agencies, such as self-help groups, NGOs, and
other institutions and   are now incorporated  into
the supply system.  A separate valuation   of these
assets is required.
For each of the above-named components, a thorough
and detailed assessment. of the value is required,
including a justification  and explanation of how
that value has been arrived at.
Whilst "as-built" dr-awings, hand-over reports,
contractors contract documents, etc. can provide
useful initial information for the valuer, the
Corporation will expect, as an integral part of
the valuation reports, updated maps showing routes
and location of principal installations. This will
require a significant amount of surveying, mapping
end drawing.
2.1.2.      ngQ   eational l4ndertakins
For undertakings currently under construction, the
valuers' assessment of the monetary value should
be guided by:
O    totel contract value for construction;
O    cost   of   pre-investment    and  feasibility
studies;
O    costs   of   design     and   supervision   of
constrvction;
O    administrative  end    legal  costs   properly
assessable against the fixed asset cost; and,
O    where  applicable,    for  long   construction
periods,   changes    in  money   values   and
financing costs during construction.
The Corporation operates the Dam Construction
Unit, together with its rigs and heavy machinery.
A full valuation of the Unit's machinery and rigs
shall be undertaken, with particular attention to:
O    depreciation;
O    current  state   and   serviceability  of the
machinery and equipment; and
O    current  disposal values   as used  equipment,
compared  with  current    market  values  for
replacement.



-60-                          Annex 9
Page 5 of 32
2.1.4.    Heedquarters and Regiona1 Offices
A full valuation of tthe moveable and immovable
asset.s held by the Corporation at its Headquarters
and at. its various Regional Offices shall be
carried out, including, but not. limited to:
0    office buildings;
O    office furnitture and equipment;
O    communications and data-processing equipment;
O    vehicles;
o    st.ocks and stores; and
Cl   service facilities.
Standard valuation practices should be used in
establishing the  current monetary valve   of these
assets.
2.1.5.    Land
With respect to buildings and other   installations
occupying land, the value of such land should be
appropriately incorporated. Costs or valuations of
such lend and of rights over, on or under land,
should include appropriate valuations of land
already in the public domain. Unused land, in the
Corporation's  ownership,    should  be   similarly
valued.
2.2. jasurance
As soon as the identification and valuation of any
significant part of the Corporation's assets have been
completed, the consultant should report this to the
Corporation, together with his recommendation as to
which assets should immediately be insured against
damage and/or public liability risks. The valver should
also be prepared to suggest suitable policies and
covers for the Corporation's consideration.
2.3.   ssseto_ibitS
The  Corporation   has  assurned   a  large  number   of
liabilities as the successor to MOWD undertakings in
operating and implementing water supply systems. In
addition, in its own right, the Corporation has been
assuming new current liabilities, as well as potential
long-term and contingent liabilities as it performs its
mandated responsibilities.



-61-                            Annex 9
Page 6 of 32
The magnitvde of the inherited and newly arising
liabilities has not yet been fully determined. Thus,
the consultant is required to identify and assess the
value of all:
O    inherited liabilities;
O    current contractual and other liabilities; and
O    potential   and  contingent   liabilities  that  may
arise in the course of the Corporation's execution
of its services.
In making the identifications and assessments, the
consultant is reqvired to advise the Corporation on the
extent and likelihood of possible claims, either for
settlement or indemnification.
2.s.1    El. I Ete _Iiabilities
As the successor to MOWD in respect of operational
water undertakings, the Corporation has legally
assumed some of the liabilities obtaining at the
water supplies prior to 1st July, 1989. The
principal   liabilities  in   this  connection   are
expected to consist of:
O    cont-actors' and consultants' claims;
O    suppliers unpaid invoices;
O    consumers water deposits   and claims on water
accounts; and
O    wayleaves and   unsettled claims   arising from
past developments.
The  consultant    is   expected   to    provide   a
comprehensive   listing  of these   liabilities  and
their value for each water undertaking under the
Corporation's charge as at 1st. Jvly, 1989.
2.3.2.             iCk.lJties
Since its incorporation, the Corporation has been
ga'ining additional liabili.ies arising from the
development of new water facilities, continued
provision   of   water   services   in   operational
schemes,   establishment    and   growth    of   the
Corporation, acquisition of personnel, provision
of supportive services, etc.
These current and growing liabilities are of two
main forms - contractual obligations and potential
or contingent liabilities. These both carry risks
and may be suitable for indemnity considerations
and insurance coverase.



Annex 9
-62-
Page 7 of 32
ONGOING ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING
3.1. As described in Section 1, the Corporation will have to
est.ablish, report and submit, for audit, its initial
financial position, based on the Statement of Affairs
to be prepared as a result of the valuations of this
consultancy.
3.2. Thereafter, for each svbwequent account.ing period,  the
Corporation will be required to keep its accounts and
to prepare its financial reports, in accordance with
generally accepted accovnting principles, applicable to
commercial organizations.
3.3. These accounting principles prescribe that depreciation
be charged, periodically, in the accounts and reported
upon in the annual financial statements. Whilst methods
for doing this may differ in detail, the most common
standard practice used in the accounting profession is
to charge and to record depreciation on the "straight-
line" method. This method would require to be based
upon a declaration cf a "gross" value of each category
of the fixed assets, against which there would be
annual charges, based on assessed working lives and
likely disposal values.
3.4. For the purposes of this valuation, the "gross" values
of the assets should be an assessment of what they
would have cost, when new, revalued to allow for
changing money values since they were put into service.
Assessment of the current asset valves, in accordance
with   this   consultancy,   would   then   become,  for
accounting purposes, the declared "net" values. The
difference between the "gross" and the "net" values
would   then   be,  bv   definition,    the  accumulated
depreciation.
3.5. However, the Corporation fully appreciates that, for
this consultancy, it will be possible only to make
approximate assessments in this matter. Furthermore, it
may be that only credible "net" values can be declared,
egainst which future deprecietion will then be charged.
3.6. Whatever position is arrived at, resulting from the
above  assessments,   it  will   be  necessary  for  the
consultants   to  present    the   Corporation  with   a
methodology for its ongoing depreciation charges, both
to conform to its mandated accounting requirements and
also   for   management    accounting   purposes.   This
methodology should include a schedule of appropriate
depreciation rates to be used, by whatever method
recommended.



-63-                           Annex 9
Page 8 of 32
3.7. In   addition  t.o  it's  legally mandated    reporting
requirements,  the Corporation will  wish, for  its own
management purposes, to make periodic assessments of
the rate of return on the investment of its funds in
operating assets, to compare with its costs of capital.
Furthermore,  since public  funding is involved,  it is
appropriate for such an assessment to be compared with
any imputed  real (economic)  costs of  capital to  the
Kenya  economy. In addition,  such assessments might be
required to be reported to outside investors, including
international financing entities, as part of their
conditionality  in rmiaking  funds available  for   the
Corporation 's capital investment program.
3.8. Whilst currently prevailing accounting practices, for
the purposes of legal reporting and auditing, do not
necessarily provide for annual revaluation of assets,
rate of return assessments can only be credible if they
incorporate annual "net" fixed asset values and related
depreciation charges which are based on current values.
3.9. This consultancy should,   therefore, recommend  simple
ond inexpensive procedures, whereby, after the initial
establishment of the values of the fixed assets, these
may   be   periodically   revalued  for   purposes   of
calculation of rates of return. It is recognized that
such valuations may not necessarily be incorporated
within such of the Corporation's accounts and financiel
reports as may be prepared for other purposes. They
may, however, be presented as supplements to the annual
financial stat.ements.
4.   PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS
4.1. The tasks defined in Section 2, above, indicate that
this valuation  consultency needs a  sufficiently large
and varied corps of professional staff, fully competent
and experienced in the followirng dornsans of expertise:
(a)  valuation, of:
O    land and wayleeves;
O    plant, machinery and equipment;
O    water pipelines and fittings;
O    buildings and site works;
O    water retaining structures;
O    moveable office furniture and equipment;
o    electronic         data-processing        and
telecommunications equipment;
0    stocks and stores;
(b) water engineering;



-64-                        Annex 9
Page 9 of 32
(c)  land curvey;
(d)  insurance;
(e)  accounting and finance4
(f)  law,  including that  relating to  insurance, real
property,     contract,     tort.    and    pvblic
administration; end,
(g)  management   of   water    retaining   structures,
including siltation end safety inspections.
4.2. Hence, the consultency will be expected to assemble
competent, experienced and qualified multi-disciplinary
team,  comprising,   as  a   minimum,  all   the  above
disciplines.   There  must  also  be  a  competent  and
efficient management and communication st.ructure to
facilitate the teamwork necessary for the successful
execution of the specified tesks.
4.3. For some of the activities, Kenya's law or professional
practices may require that certain public declerations
be made (or particular documentation certified) only by
professionals qualified by examination or license. This
may apply, for example, to lawyers, accountants and
valuers. The Corporation will require the names end
credentials of such persons, together with all other
registered professionals expected to participate.
S.   DURATION
S.1. Time is of the essence for this consultanlcy, as many of
the on-going mctivities of the Corporation will be
effected by its results. The urgency for the insurance
for insurable assets  and indemnifiable liabilities  is
self-evident.  The findings  of this consultency   will
also form important inputs into the preparation of the
Corporationi's annual financial statements for 1992/93,
which closea on  30th June, 1993. Such  statements will
be   necessary  for  the   Corporation  to  affirm   its
financial credibility and credentials to the Goverinment
and to potential investors, including international
financing entities.
5.2. With  these considerations in mind, a maximum pemiod of
9 calendar months is proposed, of which 6 months may be
utilized  for field work,  with t.he remainder reserved
for renport-writing.



-65-                           Annex 9
Page 10 of 32
REPORTING
6.1. The consultency is being managed and coordinated, on
behalf of the Corporat.ion, by a teami of Joint Lead
Corzsultertt,  recruited  and  retainied  under  separate
terms of reference.
6.2. The conrsdltancy is expected  to retain close  relations
with the Joint Lead Consultants, through the provision
of regqlar progress reports, briefings and meetings. In
this connection, the consultant is expected to indicate
the  }ey  staff  who  may be   contacted  by  the  Lead
Consultants in case of need.
6.3. An inception report, detailing how provision of the
various services has been initiated, explaining the
extent  to which  the  financial  end  time  budget   is
expected  to be  adhered  to, and  suggesting  poss4ble
modifications in task execvtion, shall be submitted one
month after the commencement of services.
6.4. Thereafter, monthly progress reports shell be submitted
and regular briefing meetings arranged as needed by the
Joint   Lead   Consultants.  Interim   reports   should
concentrate on the presentation of information which
can be incorporated into  the Corporation's records end
activities. Reference to the administration of the work
should be minimized, preferably confined t.o exception
reports.
6.6. A  full Interim Report shall be submitted not, late then
31st December, 1992. The Draft Final Report shall be
available  on 31st. Janvary, 1993, with the Final Report
submitted nr,- later then 30th April, 1993.
6.S. The Finel Report shmll comprise:
o    an executive summory of the principal findings and
recoinmendeticns;
O    an  aggregated statement of affairs,   showing the
assets, liablitiec and equity capital of the
Corporation as n whole;
o    a   statement   of   the   insurable  asseto   and
liabilities of the Corporation, accompsnied by
suggetions and recommendationn on various options
f or insurance and indemn3ty;
O    appendices on the  variouts assets and  liabilities
for each wnter vndert kang; nnd
o    appendices on  the detailed  methodologies applied
an  valuation  of assets    and  determinntion  of
liabilities.



-66-                       Annex 9
Page 11 of 32
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR
THE JOINT LEAD CONSULTANTS
FOR VALUATION OF ASSETS/LIABILITIES
1     Review the Terms of Reference for the valuation of assets and liabilities, and
comment on them. These comments should be addressed to the NWCPC particularly
in those areas if any where the TOR need to be changed or strengthened;
2     Approve the suitability of consulting personnel proposed by each of the contracted
consulting firms to undertake the various tasks of the TOR for which they have been
proposed;
3     Develop suitable contractual agreements for signature between the various consulting
groups and NWCPC;
4     Determine the appropriate methodology for valuation of NWCPC assets and
liabilities; Draft a manual describinig the appropriate methodology as a basis for
briefing the consultants for the assignment. The manual will include well designed
data collection forms wlhich are recommended for field work;
S     Determine how the various consulting groups shall be deployed for the exercise in
terms of locations, and ensure each group is headed by a suitable team leader;
6     Develop a detailed work programme for execution of the assignment in conformity
with the reporting requirements provided, and ensure adherence to the same;
7     Determine the most cost-effective arrangement for transport of consultants during
field work, and the procedures for control;
8     Determine a workable arrangement for per diem for the consultants, including
method of application, disbursement, and accounting;
9     Provide proper mechanisms for supervising consultants during field work including
that of asre(taining how much time each consultant's inputs to particular assignment
details;:
10    Propose -t method of calculation of fees by the various consulting groups, billing and
approval procedures, expenses claim and accounts control:
11    Ensure 6rely expenditure returns to NWCPC on a periodie basis;
12    Enre satisfactoyy reporting of findings including progress reports, draft and final
reports.
13    Compile the final report to NWCPC.



-67-                            Annex 9
Page 12 of 32
C.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
IMPROVEMENT OF REVENUE COLLECTION
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND
MANAGEMENT INFORMATIO1N SYSTEMS
1,   BACKGROUND
1.1. Since the  early seventies,   the  Government of  Kenya,
through the Mlinistry of Water Development, has invested
heavily in the development of both rural and urban
water  projects. In this direction, the Government has
vigorously endeavored to provide easily accessible
water to Kenya's growing rural end urban population for
domestic, institutional commercial and agricultural
use.
1.2. It is  estimated that  by 1990,   six million  rural and
urban residents were being served with potable water.
Furthermore, average distances travelled by members of
rural households in search of safe water had beers
reduced  considerably   by  1990.   In  spite  of  these
worthwhile development efforts, svbstantial additional
investments are needed to realize the Government long-
term objectives of providing good quality water in
sufficient quantities and at close proximity to all.
2.   ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION &   PIPELINE
CORPORATION
In the late eighties, the Government of Kenya became
increasingly concerned with lack of effective management and
poor financial performance of    both rural  and urban  water
supply. The concern thereof led the Government to establish
the National Water ConservatLon and Pipeline Corporation as
a vehicle to introduce svitable reforms in financial and
operations and maintenence management of water supplies. The
Corporation so established became operational on lst. July,
19B9 and has in its portfolio 24 operational water supplies,
including the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply.
3.   OVERALL PROJECT OBJECTIVE
The principal objectives of the Improvement. of Revenue
Collection, Financial Management and Management Information
System Project are to improve revenue collection, develop
sound accounting procedures and implement a comprehensive
management. information system that will be responsive to the
functional end administrative needs of the Corporation.



Annex 9
-68-                             Page 13 of 32
The consvltants' proposals should include, but not be
limited to the assessment end resolution of the following
concerns:
earol-AdMinistrtive_end-Financlil_Management
3.1  Review the existing organization structure, with a view
to  assessing  its  capability    to  deal  with   those
administrative  procedures  which    are  necessary  for
efficient financial management within the Corporation.
3.2  Assess the effectiveness of duties end responsibilities
in    ensuring    strong   financial    controls     and
accountability.
3.3. Review the staff reqvirements of the Finance Department
and data processing sections with a view to making
recommendations on appropriate recruitment and training
needs, related to skills and professional experience.
3.4. Develop and install budgetary procedures which conform
to   the  Corporation's   budgetary   policies   and  to
corporate plans, to facilitate the monitoring and
evaluation   of  overall    financial  and   operational
performance.
3.S. Develop and install operational, administrative and
accounting   procedures,  detailing the   following, but
not limited to:
3.5.1.    Revenue collection  through cash   offices and
the rural and urban banking network, so as to
facil.tnte   prompt   updating   of  consumer
records,     to     forestall     unjustified
disconnections.
3.5.2.    Corporation-wide   integration  recording  and
reporting of revenue billing and collection.
3.5.3.    Authority  to   commit  the   Corporation   to
-apital and recurrent expenditure, consistent
with readily available funds.
3.S.4.    Procurement  and  storage  of   materieln and
equipment.
3.5.5.    Recording of the acquisition,    depreciation,
and disposal of fixed assets.
3.S.$.    Monagement  of  cash,   including  prompt  and
accurate reconciliation with bank statements.



Annex 9
-69-.
Page 14 of 32
3.5.7.    Record  of the  incurrence  and discharge  of
individual   accounts    for  debtors    and
creditors, together with independent controls
relating thereto.
3.5.8.    Processing of peyrolls  and the establishment
and   updating of    all  relevant  ert.ployee
record 5.
3.5.9.    Cost accounting  for purposes  of performance
monitoring and control.
3.5.10.   Management of long-terrn and short-term debt,
together with other contributions for the
financing of fixed assets or the sdditional
capitalization of the Corporation.
3.5.11.   Periodic financial statements for purposes of
both performance monitoring and stewardship
of funds.
3.7. Design and implement a management information system
which  will  facilitate   an  improved  decision-taking
capability by operational and administrative managers,
based  on  the  combination  of financial date    with
operational information and statistzcel analysis.
3.7. Ensure  that  the   development  of ell  systems   are
integrated within sound systems of internal financial
control, including the appropriate separation of duties
for internal check and inclusive of internal audit.
3.8. Usinlg such information as may become available fromn
pilot ground or aerial sutl/eys,   including  any block;
mapping to be carried out under other consultancies or
projects, ondertake a consumer survey, covering Itombasa
and other coastal urban areas served by operational
systems of the Corporation. This s5urvey will have t.he
purpose of identifying the   location and registration
details of all water consumers and other users of the
Corporation's services, with   a  view  to  creating  a
comprehensive customer data base, taking account. of any
deficiencies in the existing customer date base.
3.9. Design  and  install a    consumer management  system,
covering, inter alia:
3.9.1.    Identification   and   registration  of new
customers.



Annex 9
-70-                         Page 15 of 32
3.9.2.    Meter reading and billing procedures.
3.9.3.    Maintenance of customer ledgers.
3.9.4.    Payments by customers and credit control.
3.9.5.    Disconnection, reconnection and   other action
for the recovery of outstanding accounts,
including the development of court cases.
3.9.6.    Reporting of system faults, svch as damage to
pipes or equipment.
3.9.7.    Customer relations, including   counselling on
the settlement of overdue accounts.
3.9.8.    Recognition of revenue end its analysis under
appropriate    accounting     and    reporting
distinctions.
3.10.     Recommend the organizational   strvoture, location,
staffing, eqvipment and facilities needed for the
proper functioning of the revenue collection and
customer  accounts  department    and  its  various
branch offices.
3.11.     Formulate  training    procedures  for   the  steff
charged with the tasks of meter reading, billing
and customer relations.
4.   INFORMATION TECHNOLGY
It is recognized that there is rapid and extensive progress
being made, world-wide, in the development of information
technology. It is clearly inappropriate to immediately
introduce the latest of these technologies to the operations
of the Corporation. However, the consultant should design
systems which, to the extent reasonably possible, will keep
open the potential for the introduction of such of such of
these technologies as are appropriate, after they have been
tested and proven thoroughly reliable elsewhere.
S.   QUALITY CONTROL
S.1. After  the  completion   of   the  consultency  and  the
implementation of the various recommendations, the
Corporation will wish, for its own management purposes,
to monitor the overall operation of the new systems,
with  particular   reference  to   their   effects  upon
maximization  of  service  to    customers  and  general
management efficiency.



Annex 9
-71-                           Page 16 of 32
S.2. It would, therefore, be appropriate for the consultant,
beae-d  on   his  professional    experience,   to  give
quantitative limits of tolerance within which the
verioVs installed systems of financial administration
could be expected to operate, as performance targets.
5.3. In particular, the consultant should give an assessment
of the likely performance criterion to be obtained with
the proper operation of the collection and billing
system, expressed as a percentage of billed amounts
likely to be fully recovered from customers.
5.4. Other examples of quantitative performance targets
might be the average number of days:
5.4.1.    From meter reading to billing of consumers;
S.4.2.    Deviation   from  a standard  monthly  billing
date.
S.4.3.    Outstanding on receivables.
5.4.4.    To process a particular document, such   as an
invoice, purchase order or request for a
supply,
S.   TIME SCHEDULE AND WORK PROGRAM
The consvltents shall submit details of the time schedule
proposed for the works to be undertaken. Details of input on
a calendar basis for the proposed project should be given.
As a guideline, the whole project is expected to be
completed within a maximum of three years.
4.   QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE OF CONSULTANTS
The above consultoncy services would be expected to be
carried out by a firm of management consultants, experienced
in the financial management and revenue collection sysyems
of water undertakings similar in size, structure and
operations to the Corporation. The consultants should have
experience of working in developing country situations,
preferably in Kenya or in similar African countries. The
consultency  would    expect   to   include   qualified   and
experienced  accountants,    together  with   specialists   in
revenue collection, data systems management and internal
financial control.
Hence,  the  consultancy   will   be  expected  to   assemble
competent,  experienced   and   qualified  multi-dinciplinary
team, comprising, as a minimum, all the above competences.



Annex 9
-72-                          Page 17 of 32
Proposals for the consu}tancy wovld also be accepted from a
joint ventvre, comprising all the necessary skills and
experience.
There must also  be a competent and efficient management and
communication structure to facilitate the teamwork necessary
for the successful execution of the specified tasks.
For some of the activities, Kenya's law or professional
practices may require that certain public declarations be
made  (or  particular   documentation   certified)  only   by
professionals qualified by examination or license. This may
apply, for example, to accountents. The Corporation will
require the names and credentials of such persons, together
with  all   other  registered    professionals  expected   to
participate.
REPORTING
6.1. An inception report, detailing how provisLon of the
variovs services has been initiated, explaining the
extent  to which  the   finan'ial  and  time  budget  is
expected to be adhered to, and suggesting possible
modifications in task execution, shall be submitted one
month after the commencement of services.
6.2. Thereafter,   quarterly   progress   reports  shall   be
svbmitted end regular briefing meetings arranged as
needed by either the consvltants or the Corporation.
The   interim  reports    should   concentrate  on   the
presentation of   information which can  be incorporated
into   the   Corporation's  records   and    activities.
Reference to the administration of the work should be
minimized, preferably confined to exception reports.
6.3. A full Interim Report shall be submitted not late than
31st December, 1993. The Draft Final Report shall be
available  on 31st Jenuary, 199S, with the Final Report
fubmitt.ed no later than 30th April, 1995.
6.4. The Final Report shall include:
O    an  executive summary   of the  principal findings,
recommendations and implementations;
O    detailed  description of all systems,    procedures
and records, together with   instructions as to how
these are to be operated, managed and controlled;
O    a stdtement  of how   the various  systems will  be
coordinated within the overall administration and
operations of the Corporation;



Annex 9
-73-                             Page 18 of 32
O    detailed eppendices on the   sub-systems for   each
water undertaking, to the extent that these are
significantly different from  the general systems;
and
0    any other  matters which,   in the  opinzon of  the
consultant,   are  necessary    to  bring   to  the
attention of the Corporation.



Annex 9
-74-                              Page 19 of 32
D.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
NATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION AND
PIPELINE CORPORATION
CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
1,0     BACKGROUND
1.1     In the late 1805, the Government of Kenya became increasingly
concerned with the lack of effective management and poor financial
performance of both rural and urban water supplies. The concern thereof
led the 6overnment to establish the National Water Conservation and
Pipeline Corporation as a vehicle to introduce suitable reforms in
financial and operations and maintenance management of water supplies.     The
Corporation so established became operational on 1st. July, 1989, and has
in its portfolio 24 operational water supplies, including the Mombasa and
Coastal Water Supply.
1.2     Even prior to the formal commencement of its activities in July
1989, the corporation had identified the neea for a Corporate Planning
capability to assist its management. To fulfill its mandate, the
Corporation needs systematic, coordinated and integrated planning,
involving all of its departments and operations. The establishment, in May
1990, of a Corporate Services Department was intended to facilitate this.
2.0     THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
2.1     Among the more important matters which the Government of Kenya must
address within the nation's water sector are the following:
(a) overall development and Management of water resources and the
allocation of these resources to Meet a variety of concerns;
(b) agricultural irrigation and rtural development;
(c) abstraction, treatment, delivery and sale of potable water, for
domestic, commercial, industrial and public purposes;
(d) provision of rural water supplies, principally for domestic
consumption, at affordable prices which will not necessarily
cover costs, thereby performing a social and public health
function), intended to benefit the rural poor;
(e) protection of the natural environment, including the conservation
of water to sustain wildlife; and
(f) oublic sanitation with either on-plot or mains sewerage as well
as other aspects sf wastewater disposal.



-75-                           Annex 9
Page 20 of 32
2.2     Prior to the establishment of the Corporation, many of these
matters were the responsibility of the Ministry of Water Development (MWD).
Since the inception of the Corporation, some of these responsibilities are
now shared.
2.3     Within the larger towns, with the notable exception of Mombasa, the
delivery end sale of potable water for domestic, commercial, industrial and
public purposes has been - and continues to be - principally a municipal
responsibility. Urban sewage disposal has also been a municipal service.
2.4     However, MWD was responsible for domestic, commercial, industrial
and public water supply services:
(a) for the Coast Region, including Mombasa;
(b) for small urban and rural centers; and
(c) as a bulk supplier of water to municipalities, either as the
sole source of supply or as a supplement to the local sources.
2.5     Following the Corporation's establishment in 1988, these specific
Ministry functions were transferred to the Corporation, for the areas
legally designated.
3.0     THE MANDATE AND PURPOSE OF THE CORPORATIOr'
3.1     The Corporation's present mandate is to manage and develop the
water projects legally entrusted to it, including the supply of bulk and
retail water within those project areas. Its mandate also includes the
responsibility to assist the Government in the formulation and execution of
a national water policy.
3.2     Implicit in the selection of the responsibilities transferred to
the Corporation, taken together with the policy of the Government, is the
requirement that the Corporation will operate on a fully commercial basis,
covering all of its costs and contributng substantially towards its
investment programs from funds rjenerated from its operations.
3.3     However, the Corporation, whilst dealing with a vital national
resource, cannot be seen to be doing so in isolation from other national
concerns for water development, conservation and use. Thus, the
Corporation, presently( a fledgling institution, wishes to establish a clear
and distinct role for itself which will optiMize its contribution to the
sector, without compromising its requirement to operate commercially.
3.4     The Corporation will, therefore, expect to take over for
construction and operation such schemes as can be declared in the future to
be within its legal, technical, economic, financial and managerial



Annex 9
-76-                           Page 21 of 32
conpetence. In the course of time, this night include, but in any case not
be linited to, any or all of the schemes currently operated independently
by municipalities and MWO.
4.0     OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
4.1     The objectives of the study are four-fold:    (1) to undertake a
water sector study (delineation study) in order to more clearly define and
distinguish the Corporation's role in the water sector from other agencies
responsible for water supplies and sanitation services; and (2) to prepare
a S-Year Corporate Development Plan, based on the expected role of the
Corporation over the medium term, including an investment and financing
plan and policies, (3) to develop a planning capability within the
Corporation; and (4' to undertake a water tariff study that will lead to a
tariff structure and tariff levels that will ensure a commercially
succeosful future for the Corporation.
5.0     WATER SECTOR STUDY
S.1     In order to provide a framework for identifying needed strategies
and policies and a clearer delineation of responsibilities for the
Corporation, it is necessary to undertake a background study of the water
sector. This should include, but not be limited to:
(a) a review of the historical development of the water sector
since 1950S
(b) an overview of past problems in the water sector, with respect
to finance, personnel and social reach;
tc) a general review of the performance of existing water supply,
sanitation and sewerage schemes;
(d) a review of technological appropriateness and importance of
engineering design criteria and their application in existing
water supply schemes5
(e) a review of the causes of past poor operational performance of
water supply, sanitation and sewerage schemes;
(f) a review of the constraints placed on scheme performance by poor
or inadequate maintenancet
(g) a review of the effects of Government policies upon the
activities of the Ministry of Water Development, municipalities
and of the Corporation;



-77-                           Annex 9
Page 22 of 32
(h) a review of the effects of Government policies on the planning,
construction and management of water supply, sanitation and
sewerage services in the country; and
(i) an assessment of likely future concerns arising in the sector,
towards the resolution of which the Corporation might be expected
to contribute.
To assist the Corporation in placing the review in perspective, the
Consultant should draw on the experience of similar institutions in other
developing countries.
5.2     From the results of the review carried out above and the experience
of similar institutions, the Consultant should develop recommendations
concerning:
(a) the delineation of activities among the Ministry, the
Corporation and the municipalitiesi
(b) policy changes required to harmonize development and manage-
ment of water supply, sanitation and sewerage projects in the
country and how and when such changes should be instituted;
{c) reforms relating to existing rural water supply projects, to
improve their long-term performance, including review of scope
for greater community participation and district focus;
(d) strategies to be adopted for further development of urban and
rural water supply schemes.
6.0     S-YEAR CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
6.1     Based on the Corporation's current responsibilities, the Consultant
in liaison with the Corporation should prepare a five-year Corporate
Development Plan The Corporate Development Plan would be expected to
include, but not be limited to:
(a) a clear definition of the Corporation's aims and objectives
over the medium term;
(b) identification of the priority activities, policies and
operational and financial targets to be achieved over the same
time period;
(c) recommendations on the proposed management organizatLon
required to carry out the plani
(d) identification of a specific 5-year investment plan along with



-78-                          Annex 9
Page 23 of 32
a propoeed financing plan which ctnsiders the Corporation's
requirements for maintenance and operations as well as the
likely revenujes and requirements for outside borrowings;
(a) a manpower development plan which would help to ensure that the
appropriate manpower skills are available in order to properly
implement the plan; and
(f) an assets and liabilities management plan.
7.0     DEVELOPMENT OF A CORPORATE PLANNING CAPABILITY
7.1     Elaaning.   Using the initial recommendations as a starting point,
the Consultant should advi6e on the staffing and organization of the
ongoing corporate planning function, most probably centered on the
development of the Corporate Planning Division within the Corporate
Services Department.
7.2     It is also expected that it will be necessary to establish a Joint
Planning Panel. This Panel is likely to be the forum for the exchange of
information and opinions among the various senior managers of the
Corporation. It will be likely chaired by the Chief Corporate Services
Manager and include the following functions:
(a) ensuring that the allocation and utilization of available
resources are rational and systematic;
(b) providing a continuous link among the various operational and
administrative departments; and
(c) providing a mechanism for ieriodic, formal joint reviews of
the Corporate Development Plan, whereby it can be kept contin-
uously updated and current, consistent with newly available
information.
7.3     ProoranMino and Bjudgjtin.   Actions to be taken as a result of the
corporate planning process cannot be expected to be meaningful unless
related to the availability and timing of resources.    The Corporate
Development Plan must, therefore, be related to policies which incorporate
such resources, including but not limited to financial resources.    Actions
will therefore need to be planned and scheduled within a strategic multi-
year programming and budgeting system, extending far beyond the immediate
formulation of single-year administrative budgets.
7.4     These programs and budgets, to which the plans relate, Thould not
be mere funding allocations. Instead, they should be related h' the need
for - and the potential availability of - human and material resources.
Emphasis should be placed on how such resources will be organized, within
the Corporation, to effect the desired results.



Annex 9
-79-                         'Page 24 of 32
7.5     Furthermore, regard should alsc be given to the eAternal
administrative environrment within which the Corporation must operate.   Many
decisions to be taken in this wider environment will be beyond the
Corporation's direct control. These decl5lons are, however, capable of
being influenced by the Corporation, provided that they are anticipated
well enough in advance.   Thi5 must also form part of the planning and
programming process. Based on these considerations, the Consultant will be
expected to provide recommendations for institutionalizing an appropriate
planning, programming and budgeting process within the Corporation.
8.13    WATER TARIFF STUDIY
8.1     As indicated above, the implementation of actions under the
corporate plan will depend significantly upon the availability of financial
resources. This, in turn, will relate to the potential of the Corporation
to generate funds from its operations and to raise eA.ternal capital.
8.2     This generation of internal and e>ternal funds must be grounded iii
the profitability and financial integri-ty of the Corporation, which as a
financially autonomous enterprise will relate significantly to its pricing
policies.
8.3     It can be taken for granted that the Corporation and the Government
are both closely and continuously concerned with the need to increase the
general level of tariffs and charges for the Corporation's services, given
the present relatively unsatisfactory level of financial performance.
d3.4    However, merely increasing the general level of prices does not
address the issue of whether the design of the tariff structure is the most
efficient for the maximization of revenue, equity, administrative
convenience and cost of collection. Furthermore, glven the imminent
necessity for significant increases in the general tariff level, it is
necessary to pay particular attention to the issues of public and political
acceptability and perceptions of fairness.
8.5     The Consultant is, therefore, requested to examine the present
tariff structujre and to consider and report upon its general suitability
and applicability to the concerns of the Corporation, indicating any
serious shortcomings which require to be remedied. The Consultant should
consider and provide recommendations on, but not necessarily be limited to,
the following:
(a) the definitions of consumer classifications: between rural
and urban; and among residential, commercial, industrial,
hotel and governmental customers,
(b) the cost of providing service to each consumer class: costs
should (i) differentiate between direct and indirect costs and



Annex 9
-80-                            Page 25 of 32
(ii) be calculated separately on (1) the traditional basis,
using the revalued cost of asset5 u3ed to provide service and
(2) the marginal cost ba5s5, 4sing the cost of incremental
water supply over the mediurm  to lonc term;
(c) the subsidy provided each customer class based on currerntly
effective tariffs;
(d) the appropriateness of uniform urban and uniform rural tariff
structures versus regional urban and rural tariff structures or
individual town/rural area tariff structures;
(e) the appropriateness of crcss-subsadies through the tariff levels
and structures across and within regions;
(f) the ability to introduce more economically and financially
efficient tariff 5tructure5 taking into consideration the cost
of provision of service to, and elastlcity of demand of,
government, hotel, industrial, commercial and domestic
consumers wtihin schemes and regions; and
(g) ways and moeans to protect the needs of the low income groups
through the tariff structure.
9.0     TIME SCHEDULE
9.1     Whilst the Consultant will be expected to propose his own time
schedule, the anticipated time for the completion of the Consultant's
obligations is 12 months, after which time the Consultant shall have
submitted his Final Report for the whole study.
9.2     The Consultant shall also allow time for discussion of Plans or
Reports and implementing the amendments called for by reason of any
comMents so given, and making a final submission of the Plan or Report.
9.3     The Corporation will require the Consultant to submit for approval
a programme in the Programme Evaluation and Review Technique or Critical
Path Method showing the order of procedure for carrying out the Study and
the dates for various submissions to the Corporation. The programme will
be detailed to show field work, office work, report preparation and other
activities as appropriate. This programme will be submitted as part of the
proposal of the Consultant.
9.4     The Corporation will require the Consultant to report on a
bimonthly basis for the duration of the Study on the progress achieved in
comparison with the approved programme.   Where delay in any activity is
indicated, the Consultant shall provide explanatory notes or information as
to the causes thereof.



Annex 9
-81-                           Page 26 of 32
10.0    CONSULTANT'S 5a FF
10.1     The Consultant shall provide staff for the study who are qualified
and experienced in their respective fields as shall in the opinion of the
Corporation be deemed appropriate for the proper fulfillment of the
Consultant's obligations. The principal staff shall be coordinated by a
Project Manager who shall also be responsible for liaison and discussion
with the Corporation as necessary or called upon from tine to tine. All of
the principal staff shall be resident within Kenya for the duration for
which they shall be providing services on the Study.
10.2     The principal staff provided by the Consultant should include, but
not necessarily be limited to, the following personnel:
(a)  Project Manager - experience working in the water sector in
Africa essential, experience in Kenya would be an advantage.
Preferably experienced in planning and operation of both rural
and urban water supplies run by public bodies. Must have
experience in coordinating professionals of varying fields in
water engineering related projects. Must have a minimum work
experience of 1S years.
(b) Water Engineer - experience in developing countries essential,
preferably in Africa. Must have wide experience in a range of
water supply projects from small rural scheMes to large
municipal supplies. Varied experience in planning, design,
construction, rehabilitation, augmentation, operation and
maintenance preferred.
(c) Electrical/Mechanical Engineer - must be a graduate in either
electrical or mechanical engineering. Wide experience with
pumps, electric motors, diesel engines, switchgear and controls
mandatory. Should have experience in the maintenance of water
supply related plant and instrumentation.
(d) Economist - experience in Africa essential, preferably in Kenya.
Must have wide experience in macro-economics preferably with
regard to the effects of utility pricing on commerce, industry
and the national econormy as a whole.
(e) Sociologist - must have experience in Kenya relating to social
infrastructure and public health. Experience with rural
communities both with and without potable water supplies
desirable.
(f) Institution Specialist - experience in Africa mandatory,
preferably in Kenya. Must have experience with public bodies,
bureaucratic processes and institutional design. Should have
experience in issues arising from environmental policies,



-82-                           Annex 9
Page 27 of 32
legislation, management, information systems, and administrative
processes. Experience in the water sector will be an advantage.
(g) Financial Analyst - must have experience in cost accounting,
particularly overheads assessment and distribution. Should have
experience in audit and financial control assessments for large
public bodies preferably in developing countries. Must have
experience in financial and cost projections, forward budgeting,
investment appraisal, and revenue and expenditure control.
Experience with selection and implementation of computer-based
accounting Systems will be an advantage.
(h)  Human Resource Special .st - experience in Africa mandatory.   Must
heve experience in manpower planning and forecasting,
organizational structures and staff training programmes. Must
have experience in designing structures for staff assessment and
incentive generation. Experience in the water sector and with
public bodies is desirable
10.3     The Consultant shall provide other supporting staff and from time
to time engage or consult with specialists in fields peripheral to the
needs of the Study, as necessary,
11.0    REPORTING
11.1     The Consultant shall submit to the Corporation, and to such other
parties as the Corporation shall direct, a Plan of Action, an Interim
Report and a draft Final Report for each of the principal components of the
Study. The Plans of Action shall be submitted in draft form for discussion
end subsequent submission in the final form. The Interim Reports shall be
submitted on completion of the Consultant's activity in regard to each
component of the Study, and the Final Report on completion of the Study.
11.2     It is expected that the Plans of Action shall permit early
discussion and agreement upon the way and means by which the Consultant
shall carry out his obligations, and the scope and direction of his study
and investigations. The Plans shall therefore be brief and contain only
the information and recommendations pertinent to this purpose. In the
Plans, the Consultant shall include the nature and extent of any field
investigations he proposes to carry out, the persons and ins itutlons to be
interviewed or whose views are to be sought, and the nature of publications
and literature to be reviewed and noted on various possibile alternatives
which may require investigation in order to arrive at recommendations.
11.3     The Interim Reports shall enable the Corporation to have advance
information of the recommendations the Consultant has arrived at for each
principal component of the Study. The Corporation also envisages being
enabled to proceed immediately with any of the recommendations which may be



Annex 9
-83-                           Page 28 of 32
considered an immediate need, in advance of the submission of the Final
Study Report.
11.4     The Final Study Report will be submitted in two parts, namely:
(a) a brief and concise executive document presenting the principal
recommendations and their basis in a format suitable for the
information of persons in top managemen,t positions. This
document shall be prefaced by a single page listing the aiMs and
findings of the Study; and
(b) the detailed Report on the Study, providing all the necessary
background to the Study and fulfilling the requirements of the
Consultant's obligations.
11.5     Reports shall be submitted in a minimum of 10 copies, except for
the Final Study Report which shall be submitted in 20 copies. The Reports
shall be circulated as directed by the Corporation. In the event that the
Corporation requires any further copies to be circulated, the Consultant
shall do so as an additional service,



Annex 9
-84-.
Page 29 of 32
E.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
PROJECT CODNTI N/LIAISQNLMANAGEMENT
CONSULTANCY AND ADVISORY SERVICES
INTRODUCTION
1.    The National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation requires the services of a
firm of Consulting Engineers to provide Coordination/Liaison/Management Consultancy and
Advisory Services for the Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Engineering and
Rehabilitation Project. This project is to proceed with the assistance of the World Bank and
will involve a wide range of complementary services provided by various consultants from
several countries and covering several related disciplines.
2.    To coordinate these various activities and to liaise between the Client (Project
Coordinator), the consultants and the funding agency(s) requires the services of an
organization experienced in the field of water supply with knowledge of Kenya and of
working with international funding agencies.
SCQPE SQF F.QKSORQQOORDINATIQN
3.    Under the Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Engineering and Rehabilitation
Project, activities are to proceed under three principle headings, namely;-
(i)      Institutional Improvement and Capacity Building;
(ii)      Rehabilitation and Augmentation of the earlier Mombasa and Coastal
Water Supply Projects (Sabaki Water Project and 1st Mzima Pipeline),
and immediate improvement measures in the distribution systems in the
coastal region.
(iii)     Pre-investment Studies and Engineering for a follow-on Second
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project.
4.    Activities to be coordinated, reviewed and liaised under (i) would include (but not
necessarily limited to):
* the valuation of all recently acquired assets and liabilities of the National Water
Conservation and Pipeline Corporation comprising some 43 water supply systems,
25 of which are under operation and 18 are under various stages of development
and extension;
* the preparation of an opening balance sheet including recommendations for
ensuring an adequate capital structure;
* improvement of revenue collection to be achieved through a series of inter-related
measures including;



Annex 9
-85-                                 Page 30 of 32
aerial surveys, block-mapping and registration of consumers with establishment of
all procedures necessary for meter reading, billing and revenue collection;
staff training for future consumer surveys and for operating of the improved
systems;
leak detection studies.
These activities will be undertaken in Mombasa, Malindi and in about 9 other centers
in the Coastal Region.
* Improvement of financial systems and the establishment of a management
information system which will include:-
-   improving of budgeting procedures, accounting, procurement and control systems;
-   review of management information requirements and installation of new
management information system;
training of staff in use of new systems;
* preparation of a Corporate Developnient Plan to include:
-   Preparation of a 5 year Corporate Plan;
-   a tariff study;
-   a long-term investment program;
5.    Activities to be coordinated, reviewed and liaised under (ii) would include, (but not
necessarily limited to);
* the rehabilitation of sections of the first Mzima Pipeline, particularly in the initial
sections of the pipeline between Mzima Springs and the first break pressure tank,
and in the vicinity of Voi;
* augmentation works to increase output levels of the Sabaki Water Project, most
probably by the development of groundwater under die North Bank of the Sabaki
river, a short distance upstream of the Baricho Intake, by the sinking of upto 4
wells, and the conveyance of water across the river to Baricho;
* the rehabilitation and completion (to stage II output) of the various components of
the Sabaki Water Project which would include, but not necessarily limited to:
-   replacement to all but the most recently installed mechanical, electrical equipment
and chemical dosing plant, including booster pumping equipment;
-   refurbishment and improvements to civil works at the intake (structures) and the
water plant treatment;
-   refurbishment of components along the transmission main, installation of limited
additional clear water storage reservoir at Nguu Tatu and of branch lines;
-   construction and installation of new booster pumping station;
-   improvements to the telecommunication system.
6.    To facilitate these activities a firm of Consulting Engineers has already been retained
(under KFW financing) and is presently engaged on a hydraulic model study of the Baricho
Intake, and has recently completed design proposals for the exploitation of groundwater from
a two well wellfield under the South Bank of the Sabaki River and for limnited improvement
works within the Baricho Intake and in the clear water pump sump at the Baricho Treatment
Works.



Annex 9
-86-                              Page 31 of 32
These works together with an expansion of the Malindi reticulation system are shortly
to proceed to implementation under supervision provided by the same consulting firm.
7.    Activities to be co-ordinated, reviewed, liaised and managed under (iii) would include
the following consultancy services to be provided by an as yet to be appointed firm(s) of civil
engineering consultants:
(a) Source works (bulk supply system) development;
(b) Distribution network improvement and extension;
(c) Instrumnentation, Telemetry and System Communication;
(d) Sewerage and Sanitation Studies/
8.    The above consultancir s will be carried out in phases. Phase I would include:
* updating of earlier feasibility studies to confirm the appropriateness of a second
Mzima p.peline and/or other alternative source development for the next major
expansion of the Mombasa and Coastil Water Supply including:
-   geological and hydrological studies to the abstraction of additional water from
Mzima Springs for direct conveyance to Mombasa and including the effect of
such withdrawals on the Tsavo-Ath-Sabaki rivnr system.
-   the ecological effects and consequences of such withdrawals and of any other
alternative bulk water supply to be considered under the Project (Environmental
Impact Assessment);
-   preliminary engineering fieldwork for the proposed alternative(s).
* demographic studies and water requirements in the supply area up to year 2000
and bevond;
* review of the existing distribution network and proposals for immediate
improvement measures to be carried out under this Project.
* proposals and preliminary engineering designs for network extension(s).
Phase II would include:
* detailed engineering design of all project components including source works,
treatment facilities, transmission pipelines and ancillary structures, terminal
reservoirs, distribution system extension and expansion in Mombasa and other
key urban centers;
* sewerage and sanitation studies;
* Preparation of bid documents;
* superintendence on bidding and evaluation of bids.
* feasibility studies for long term water supply source expansion.
SERVICES REOUJRED
't.   The Consultants shall offer, on a full-time basis the services of an Advisor who shall
be supported as necessary by specialists of other disciplines (Consultant's Head Office back-
up). The Advisor (and the back-up specialists) shall be provided with office accomodation,
secretarial services and with an IBM compatible PC by the Corporation at its headquarters in
Nairobi.



Annex 9
-87-                              Page 32 of 32
10.   The principal functions of the Co-ordination/LiaisonlManagement Consultant shall be:
to assist NWCPC in co-ordinating all activities pertaining to the proposed Second Mombasa
and Coastal Water Supply Engineering and Rehabilitation Project including, but not
necessarily limited to:
1. compilation of necessary documents for each individual project components;
2. contractual and administrative matters concerning procurement and the execution
of the works;
3. providing information and progress reports related to the studies and construction
of works as the Ma-iaging Director may within reason, request from time to time;
4. interpretation of any ambiguities or discrepancies found in the scope of work or
the contract documents and in the issue of instructions in respect thereof;
5. ensuring that Progress Reports are prepared and submitt Wd at the stipulated
intervals;
6.  preparation of notices as may be required to be given to the Consultants or the
Contactors;
7. monitoring the observance of all statutes, ordinance regulations and laws by the
consultants and contractors;
8. keeping accurate and systematic records, minutes, measurements and all work
programmes for each individual project component;
9. information regarding any changes in prices, quality and quantity of the works or
studies as shall be deemed necessary or desirable;
10. the testing, storage and inspection of materials or equipment during manufacture
and on site, and to ensure compliance with the specifications;
11. evaluation, commissioning and carrying out substantial and final completion
inspections of all works pertaining to each project component;
12. appointment of Consultants to carry out studies and supervisory works;
13. liaison with all parties whose interests may be affected by the works and with all
relevant authorities to ensure the orderly progress of the works and to assist in the
upkeep of good public relations;
14. co-ordinating other related activities pertaining to the overall supervision and
execution of all the project components in consultation with the World Bank;
15. establishing a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and in providing on-the-job
training to the PIU.



Annex 10
Page 1 of 37
A.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SiRVICES FOR
SUDY AND DESIGN TO INCREASE BULK WATER SUPPLY FOR
T1E SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTiAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
A.    Background
1.   The Mombasa and Coastal Water supply system, serving a 1990 population
of about 1,640,000 and having a supply area of approximately 5,700 sq. km,
is the second largest regional water supply scheme in Kenya, and supplies
by far the largest area.
2.   The overall responsibility for tne water supply in the Mombasa and Coastal
Region (which rested until recently with the Ministry of Water Development)
was transferred to the newly formed National Water Resources and Pipeline
Corporation established in 1988 under the State Corporation Act (Cap 446)
Section 3 by Legal Notice No.270 of 19C,8.
3.   The supply is in urgent need of attention both to increase the total water
supply volume as demand already exceeds capacity of existing source and
transmission-works, and also to improve the water distribution system(s) in
the supply area.
4.    Following and also simultaneously with the implementation of the last
extension project (Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project,1975-1982)
a number of studies were carried out to identify alternatives for further source
work extensions. The most comprehensive of these studies was the
"Feasibility Study on Water Supply Augmentation Project of Moimbasa -
Coastal Area Hinterland" (JICA, 1981).
5.    Even prior to the formal commencement of its activities in July, 1989, NWCPC
reviewed the various alternatives for the source work d&velopments, and
identified, as the most viable option for providing additional water to
Mombasa in the shortest possible time, the increased abstraction from
Mzima Springs, one of the existing sources ("Second Mzima Pipeline
Project). As a result of interest evident during 1988, NWCPC in collaboration
with its Consultant, drew up an "Invitation for Firm Proposals for Engineering
and Design Services, Construction of the Works and Financing" for the
second Mzima Pipeline. As this 'turnkey' approach did not materialize, and
also keeping in mind that,the second Mzima project alone would not provide
an adequate amount to eliminate the deficit in supply, it has now been
decided to follow a two-phased approach.
6.   The National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation, with the support
of the Government of Kenya, and in consultation with the Ministry of Water
Development, decided that short and long term plans are to be prepared for
the expansion of the water supplies to Mombasa and the Coastal Region



Annex 10
-89-                           Page 2 of 37
under an engineering and rehabilitation project,followed by a phased
implementation of these development plans. NWCPC intends to meet these
commitments during the planning and implementation stages with financial
assistance from international development agencies under guarartee from
the Government of the Republic of Kenya (GOK).
7.   It has also been decided that the first phase project ("Second Mombasa and
Coastal Region Water Supply Engineering and lRehabilitatibn Project") will
provide Interalla for (a) the preparation (engineering)and implementation of
rehabilitation/augmentabon measures, to allow for near term improvements
and (b) for studies and engineering required for medium and long term
Improvements (i.e. preparation of the next main investment project). These
preparatory works will be carried out under separate consultancy
assignments with respect to (i) sourcework developments, (i) distribution
network improvements and extension,and (iii) specialized services for control
and tele-communication system(s). NWCPC also intends to retain
independent consultants for project coordination/liaison/maragement
services.
8.   The consultancy services under this Terms of Reference are in respect of
study and design of bulk water supply. The following sectons describe the
objectives of this assignment the scope of work and general guidellnes,and
specific guidelines for carrying out the services. It also Includes the tme frame
for the services and the sources of information as known by NWCPC.
S.   Objectives And Approach
I1.  Built upon the previous studies the NWCPC wishes to pursue the next major
expansion of the water supply facilities for Mombasa and the Coastal Region.
It is intended that the expansion of source works will satisfy the requirements
In the supply area until the year 2010. As it is recognised by NWCPC that the
optimal development of the sources of supply (including those previously
identified and other possible sources) does not necessarily coincide with a
set design horizon,the consultants shall propose a phased development
plan with the main objective being that the present water deficit in the supply
area shall be reduced as early as possible.
2.   In accordance with the main objective set above, the consultancy assignment
will be carried out in the following phases:
Phase 1
(i)   The inital stage of phase 1 shall include the review and update of all
existing  previous studies, reports, and proposals relating to the
existing souirces and relating to source works developments
(including studies, reports, and proposals prepared by NWCPC and
other government agencies), with special regard to the proposed.
Second Mzima Project. This review will also include an initial
assessment of environmental impacts of the studied alternatives. It is
expected that this stage will conclude with the formulation of the
source works development component (Project Definition) of the
follow-on main investment project, which shall also provide for



Annex 10
-90-                            Page 3 of 37
additional investigations for source development for the long-term.
(i)   The second stage of phase 1, after review and approval of the of
phased development plan and the selected atternative(s)for the next
major investment project uShort-Term Implementation Plan' will
comprise the pr!iminary engineering (layout) design, detailed
environmental impact assessment of the proposed components, the
preparaton of a draft environmental action programme and refined
project cost estimate.
Phase 2
(i)   Detailed engineering designs, contract packaging, preparation of bid
documents, pre-qualification of Contractors (as required) and
preparation of final environmental action programme.
(ii)  Assistance to NWCPC during appraisal of the main investment project
by the lending agencies.
(iii) Evaluation of bids.
C.    Scope Of Work And General Guidelines
I1.  The Consultant is to carry out comprehensive studies and prepare
development plans to meet the objectives, and in accordance wifth the
approach to the project, as described under section 3.
2.   It Is to be noted that detailed assessment of the present and future water
demands in the Service Area of the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply
System (See section D) will be carried out simultaneously,but under a
separate consultancy assignment, aimed at the rehabilitation,improvement
and extension of water distribution network(s) in the Service Area. For the
purpose of this assignment (in the initial study stages), regarding demand
forecasts, the Consultant will be guided by the information presently available
in the previous studies, (supplemented with information provided by
NWCPC).
3.    The Consultant should also note, that engin tring and implementation of
rehabilitation/augmentation measures to allow for near term
improvement(see Section A, para 7), form a separate component of this
project. These activities will be carried out simultaneously with this
assignment and centre around the existing Sabaki river intake near Baricho,
and include groundwater exploration in thWs area (as a confirmation of current
activitles for water supply extension for Malindi). The restults of this effort
should be taken into account, but shall not be duplicated under this
assignment.
4.    The phased source development plan, and the following preliminary and
detailed engineering designs shall also include, beside the actual source
works, the water treatment facilities (as and where required)transmission
mains (including pumping stations and all other ancillary structures) from the
new source works to and including both on route and the terminal
reservoir(s).
5.   In addition, the Consultant shall assess the condition of the existing Mzima
Pipeline and prepare proposals, layout and detailed designs for its repair and



Annex 10
-91- 
Page 4 of 37
rehabilitation, to enable the inclusion of these measures under the
rehabilitaton component of this project.
6.    The Consultants carrying out this assignnment shall liaise and coordinate their
acwttles with the Consultants employed to carry out other components of
the project through NW'CPC and/or directly,as appropriate.
7.    Ust of sources of information as knowri by the Corporation are given on
section F of this TOR.
8.    Reports submitted must provide a suitable basis for approaching
International financing agencies for funding. The Consultant shall prepare
supplementary reports and supply any additional data necessary to support
Government's/NWCPC's loan finance application to donor agencies.
9.    Progress reports (in addition to other reports specified separately) shall be
submitted and reviewed with NWCPC, the lending agency(s)and other duly
authorised institutions ever three months.
10.  The Consultants shall follow the following general guidelines In the
performance of the services:-
(i)  Study, verify, analyze, evaluate, update and amend all available data,
studies or reports in the light of current strategies,development,
informatfon or techniques.
oi)  Carry out additional surveys, studies or tests necessary to reach
sound engineering conclusions, including topographical,
hydroiogical,environmental and field surveys. In addition, carry out
surface geological inspections and field surveys related to
establishing design data,foundation and construction materials,
mapping and drilling requirements.
lii)  Advise NWCPC on the need to carry out any special surveys and
investigations which may be necessary to supplement the information
already available including mapping, drilling, geo-technical,
hydrogeological surveys or investigation, prepare the necessary
documentation to facilitate the award of such surveys or investigations
when authorized by NWCPC, supervise and make such site visits as
are necessary to ensure that the persons or firms carrying out such
surveys or investigations are executing generally according to the
agreements and otherwise in accordance with good engineering
practice, certify the amount of any payments to be made by NWCPC
to the persons or firms carrying out such surveys or investigations
under he Consultant's direction, and advise NWCPC on the results
of such survey or investigations.
(iv)  Advise NWCPC on the need to carry out any special tests,prepare the
necessary documentation, arrange for such tests when authorised by
NWCPC, supervise and certify payments for such tests and advise
NWCPC on the results of 3uch tests.
(v)   Prepare the necessary docLm'neniation for the appointment by
NWCPC of any architect in connection with the architectural treatment
of the works and consult any such architect appointed by NWCPC.
(vi)  Prepare such documents as are reasonably necessary to enable



Annex 10
-92-
Page 5 of 37
NWCPC to consider the Consultant's general proposals in light of the
Investigations carried out by him. The Consultat shail consider and
evaluate the various available alternatives pointing out their merits and
constraints and submit recommendations as to the most
advantageous,least cost solution, taking into account Investment,
operation and maintenance costs.
(vii)  Prepare designs and bid drawings for the works.
(viii) Advise NWCPC as to the appropriate conditions of contract to be
incorporated in any contract to be made between NWCPC and a
Contractor.
(l)  Prepare such bid documents, specifications, schedules and bills of
quantities as may be necessary to enable NWCPC to obtain bids or
otherwise evaluate and award a contract for carrying out the works.
(x)  Advise NWCPC as to the suitability for carrying of the works of persons
or firms bidding and further as to the relative merits of bids, prices and
estimates received for carrying out the works.
(xi)  Advise NWCPC on the preparaton of formal contract documents
relating to accepted bids for carrying out the works or any part thereof.
D.   Specific Guidellnes
The areas of work identified in Sectons B and C will be carried out by the
Consultant in accordance with the following specific guidelines. The studies,
designs and the respective reports shall cover and Include,but not
necessarily be limited to a the topics listed under this section.
1.   Water Resources and Demands
1.1  Study and Service Area
Refine (in collaboration with NWCPC and their consultants) the boundaries
of the study and service area shown approxmately on the attached map. In
determining the service area the following aspects shall be considered.
(a)  Nationa' catchment boundaries of the lower Athi River,the Mzima,
Tsavo, Galana and Sabaki Rivers, the Vol, Goshi and Rare Rivers, and
all other rivers and water eourses south of the rivers mentioned above.
(b)  Present and future land use, and settlements in area south of the
Mzima, Tsavo, Galana and Sabaki Rivers.
(t)  Areas presently served by the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply
Scheme ana NWCPC's future ewdension plans.
In the course of the study of the water resources (See para 1.2 below), the
study area wil be divided into appropriate sub-areas depending on their
potential water sources, land use, population pattern,present and future
demand and water use (See para 1.3 below), including drinking water,
agricultural (livestock, irrigation), hydro-electrical, industrial demands and
use.
The study will indicate for each sub-area or group of sub-areas as
appropriate, the water authorities and/or agencies responsible for or
presently in control of water resources development, operation and water
use in the respective areas.



Annex 10
,93.                          Page 6 of 37
1.2  Watw Resource
The Consuftant shall investigate all available and potential water sources
tviet or relevantto, the study area. The study shall include, but not be limited
to the following:
1.2.1 Review and update all existing relevant studies and reports,and other
available informaton;
1.2.2 Catalogue, study and analyze all exploitable sources as approprlate,and In
the manner and sequence described in section B and C, with special regard
to the following:
(a)  Subsurface Water:
- geological and hydrogeological study;
- quantitative analysis of subsurface (groundwater)
resources,natural and artificial recharge, water table fluctuations,
present status and methods of subsurface water exploitation;
- qual,ty of the available subsurface sources (chemical,and
bacteriological) and sources, type and degree of pollution;
(b)  surface water;
- the surface flow network, and flow regimes in general,including
geological, geomorphological and hydro-meteorclogical aspects;
- carry out updated hydrological analysis of the basin's maJor rivers
to define the ultimate limit for the resources available within the
study areas as a whole and at the points of the existing and
proposed abstractions for the short-term and long-term
requirement proposals.
- provide water quality profile3 of the major rivers of the basin (and
specifically at the existing and proposed abstraction points),
including sediment load, chemical characteristics, and
sources,type and degree of pollution caused by industrial,
agricultural or other human activities.
(c)   recirculation of treated sewage effluent;
- quantitative and qualitative analysis.
(d)   direct harnessing of rain water;
quantitative and qualkative analysis.
1.3 Water Demand
As described In Section C, para 2, the detailed assessment of present water
use and requfements and water demand forecast will be carried out under
a separate consultancy assignment, which will be provided as an additional
Input to this consultancy as and when available. For the purpose of this
assignment (in the initial stages)the Consultant will be guided by the
Information presently available in the previous studies (supplemented with
information provided by NWCPC). However, the Consultant shall make his
own initial assessment regarding water requirements in the vicinity of the
potential sources of supply, and along the transmission mains from the
source area to the terminal reservoirs in the supply (service) area(s).



Annex 10
-94-
Page 7 of 37
2.   Immediate Measures
In order to maintin and improve the supply from the existing sources to the
suppty (service) areas, the consultant shall (as indicated in Section C,
para5), assess the conditions of the existing Mzima Pipeline and prepare
proposals, layout and detailed designs for its repair and rehabilitation, for the
Inclusion of these measures under the rehabilitation component of this
project.
In developing the proposed measures, the Consuttant shall give dufe regard
to NWCPC's capability to finance the cost of these works and/or acquisition
of plant and equipment, and materials. The Consultant will also seek to
maxmize the operational benefts as early as possible.
3.    Short-Term Implementation Plan
(Follow-on main investment project)
Prepare and submit proposals, economic and financial analysis,and
Implementation programme for the Short-Term Implementation Phase of
source development works in accordance with Secdon B of this T.O.R. The
proposals shotuld give due consideration to future water resource
developments wiThin the study area, and should cover, include, but not
necessarily be limiVed to the following.
3.1   Preparatory Works and Hydrological Studies and Environmental
Impact Assessment Studies.
(a)  Review, update and refine existing studies relating new source works
development with special regard to the proposed Second Mzima
Project;
(b)  Identify and execute further studies and investigations necessary for
the preparation of the phased development plan and for the
preliminary and detailed engineering designs of the selected
alternatives(s)for the Short-Term Implementation Plan;
(c)  Arrange for the preparation of all additional surveys and mapping
required for the Short-Term Implementation Plan;
(d)  Review and summarize of all available geological and hydrological
documentation in respect of the Mzima Springs, the Athi and Tsavo
rivers and the Galana-Sabaki rivers (including silt erosion and
sediment transportation);
(a)  Carry out a comprehensive geological survey of the Mzima Springs
area (about 1,000 hectares) and mapping thereof at an appropriate
scale;,a
(es  Analyze and describe the foreseeable environmental and human
ecologic consequences of all alternative proposals. Due weight
should be given to these environmental impact assessments in the
selection of proposed alternatives. The studies should satisfy the
attached T.O.R. generally applicable to all source development
alternatives and the attached T.O.R. applicable for the further
development of the Mzima Springs source.2Some special aspects,
which should be covered, but not necessarily be limited to, and related
to the Mzima source development are listed below:
1/ See Annex 11, Part A,  2/ See Annex 11 Part B



-95-                      Annex 10
Page 8 of 37
- The furthsr development of the Mzima Springs will Involve the
abstraction of an Increased volume of water from this source.
Presently the unabstracted water from the Springs forms the base
(dry weather) flow of the Tsavo river downstream of the Mzlma
confluence and, during periods of nil surface flow In the Athi River,
the base flow of the Sabaki river also.
- The Tsavo river and upper sections of the Sabaki river provides
the primary water source within the Tsavo Game Parks, and during
drought periods are effectively the only source.
- The lower Sabaki river at Baricho is the source of water for Malindi
and the north mainland areas as far as Mombasa itseif under the
Sabaki Water Project.
- The environmental impact assessment study of the effects of
additional abstraction of water from Mzlma Springs must therefore
assess the implication of such an abstraction on both the natural
environment and a on the Sabaki Water Project.
3.2 Proposals and Design
(a)  Source, Storage and Conveyance works,
- Prepare preliminary general arrangement drawings for the
proposed alternatives(s).
- Carry out cost benefit analyses, technical and economic
justification of the proposed alternative(s).
- Carry out topographical survey as necessary and prepare the
mapping to support the engineering studies and final design of the
works, including:
- source development;
- conveyance works;
- access roads;
- storage reservoirs
- Prepare contract documents for the subsurface investigations
required at the sites of the major works and the sampling and
testing of materials, as necessary for:
- preparation of final design of the works;
- identification of construction materials;
- preparation of detailed cost estimates of the works;
-  Prepare outline designs and cost estimates for the works
including:
- source work development;
- conveyance works;
- access roads and bridges;
- miscellaneous ancillary works such as staff housing.
- storage reservoirs
- Prepare detailed designs and bid documents for all components
of works as appropriate.
(b)  Water Treatment Works
- Prepare general arrangement drawings for required water
treatment works for the proposed atermative(s), as appropriate;
- Carry Out topographical survey as necessary and prepare the



Axnnex 10
-96-                         Page 9 of 37
mapping for the planning and design of water treatment;
Prepare outilne designs and detailed cost estimates for the water
treatment works, recommending as appropriate, a staged
development programme.
(c)  Prepare documents for the pre-qualification of Contractors and assist
NWCPC In the evaluation of pre-qualification applications in respect
of the Works;
(d)  Assist NWCPC in advertising for bids and prepare detailed evaluations
of all bids received for the construction of the Works and for the supply
of goods required, and make recommendations for the award of
contracts.
(e)  Land Acquisition
define the land requirements for the major works (sources,water
conveyance, treatment, ancillary structures), and assist NWCPC
in the preparation of land acquisition plans.
(f)  Environmental Action Plan
_ prepare necessary documentation in consultation with NWCPC
and government, as appropriate, and assist NWCPC in the
preparation of the Environmental Action Plan, including
resettlement plan, as appropriate.
4.    Long Temi Development Plan
Consider the studies on resources and demands for Mombasa and Coastal
Region area and prepare long-term source development plans for the region.
The scope shall cover the water supply facilities required for an integrated
uLilisation of the region's water resources to the benefit of all users in the
area.
(a)  The development plan shall be based on the regional water resources
studies and also be compatible with the Short-Term Implementation
Plan.
(b)  The Consultant shall prepare proposals based on available data,
previous studies, field reconnaissance surveys, operational data of
existing source works (both surface and sub-surface sources) fora
systematic plan for future exploratory works, including
hydrological,engineering and related environmental studies.
(c)  The proposals shall recommend a phased programme for carrying
out the required studies and exploratory works, and will include the
estimateci cost of these activities, to enable NWCPC to include the
recommended activities, or parts of them in the follow-on main project.
E.   Tme Schedule
The anticipated time schedule to realize the tasks outlined in these terms of
reference is about 18 months. It is to be noted that the figure is only indicative
and the consultants are required to make their own estimates of man-months
input required, supported by bar-charts showing time efforts by each team
member for the various activities in the scope of work.



Annex ! n
-97-                      Page 10 of 37
F.    Source Of Information
Substal Informatlon relevant to this study is available and the client will
assist the Consultant to obtain the existing information (as known to
NWCPC). However, the Consultant will be solely responsible for verifying the
reliabilfty and interpretations of any such information.
An Initial list of reports to consult would be:-
(1)  Feasibility Study on Water Supply Augmentation Preject of Mombasa-
Coastal Area - Hinterland.
(JICA 1981)
(2)  Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project with Reference to the Immediate
Implementation of the Second Mzima Pipeline Project.
(NWCPC 1991)
(3)  National Water Master Plan.
(MOWD 1991)
(4)  "Invitation for Firm Proposals for Engineering and Design Services,
Construction of the Works and Financing" for the Second Mzlma Pipeline.
(5)  Investigation into Additions! Source to Provide the Necessary Immediate
Augmentation of the Mombasa Pipeline Board Supplies.
(S.W.K. & Partners- March 1972)
(6)  Dry Weather Flow in the Lower Sabaki River at Baricho -A preliminary
Assessment
1990
H. P. Gauff
(7)   Baricho Intake Study
1989
Vol. II, Chapter 6: Hydrological Update
H. P. Gauff
(8)  Report on the Hydrology of the Sabaki River
November 1973
Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners
(9)  Water Resources of the Athi and Tsavo River Basins Under Drought
Conditions
August 1979
MOWD - Master Planning Section
(10) The Chyulu Hills Water Resources Study, Kenya
1984-87
Vol 1I Chapters 7-12
British Geological Survey



Annex 10
-98-                          Page 11 of 37
B.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR
DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS' IMPROVEMENT AND EXTENSION
FOR THIE SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
A.    Backtground
1.   The Mombasa and Coastal Water supply system, serving a 1990 population of
about 1,640,000 and having a supply area of approximately 5,700 sq.km, is the
second largest regional water supply scheme in Kenya, and supplies by far the
largest area.
2.   The overall responsibility for the water supply in the Mombasa and Coastal
Region (which rested until recently with the Ministry of Water Development) was
,-insferred to the newly formed National Watar Conservation and Pipeline
Corporation established in 1988 under the State Corporation Act (Cap 446)
Section 3 by Legal Notice No. 270 of 1988.
3.    The supply is in. urgent need of attention both to increase the total water supply
volume as demand already exceeds capacity of existing source and
transmission-works, and also to Improve the water distribution system(s) In the
supply area.
4     .Following and also simultaneously with the implementation of the last extension
project (Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project, 1975 - 1982) a number of
studies were carried out to Identify alternatives for further source work
extensions. The most comprehensive of these studies was the "Feasibility Study
on Water Supply Augmentaton Project of Mombasa - Coastal Area Hllnteritnan
(JICA, 1981).
5.    Even prior to the. formal commencement of Its activities in July, 1989, NWCPC
reviewed the various afternatives for the source work developments, and
Identified, as the most viable option for providing additional water to Mombasa
In the sh6rtest possible time, the increased abstraction from Mzima Springs, one
of the exing sources ("Second Mzima Pipeline Projec). As a result of interest.
evident durIng 1988, NWCPC in collaboration with its Consultant, drew up an
ilnvitation for Firm Proposals for Engineering and Design Services, Construction
of the Works and Financing" for the second Mzima Pipeline. As this 'turnkey'
approach did not materialize, and also keeping in mind that, the second Mzima
project aj would not provide an adequate amount to eliminate the deficit in
supply, it has now been decided to follow a two-phased approach.
S.    The National Water Conservation and. Pipeline Corporation, with the support of
the Government of Kenya, and in consultation with the Ministry of Water
Development, decided that short and long term plans are to be prepared for thq
expansion of the water supplies to Mombasa and the Coastal Region under an
engineering and rehabilitation project, followed by a phased Implementation of



99                        Annex 10
Page 12 of 37
these development plans. NWCPC intends to meet these commitments during
the planning and Implementation stages with financial assistance from
international development agencies under guarantee from the Government of
the Republic of Kenya (GOK).
7     .It has also been decided that the first phase project ('Second, Mornbasa and
Coastal Region Water Supply Engineering and Rehabilitation Project') will
provide interalia for
(a)  the  preparation   (engineering)  and  implarrientation  of
rehabilitation/augmentation measures, to allow for near term improveiennts andc
(b) for studies and engineering required for medium and long term
improvements (i.e. preparation of the next main investment project). These
preparatory works will be carried out under separate consultancy assignments
with respect to (i) sourcework developments, (ii) distribujtion network
improvements and extension, and (iii) specialized services for control and
tele-cornmunication system(s). NWCPC also intends to retaini independent
consultants for project coordination/liaison/management services.
8.   The consultancy services under this Terms of Reference are in respect of
distribution network improvement and extension. The follow,ving sections
describe the objectives of this assignment, the scope of work and general
guidelines, and specific guidelines for carrying out the services. It also includes
the time-frame of the services and the sources of information as known by
NWCPC.
B.   Objectives and Approach
1.   The National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) wishes to
pursue the improvement and expansion of water supply facilities for Mombasa
and the Coastal Region. It is intended that in addition to the expansion of source
works, a systematic improvement and extension of the distribution systems
(including the transmission mains and the regional trunk distribution system) will
be carried out, to ensure adequate water survey to the consumers up to tie year
2000 and beyond.
2.   In accordance with the main objective set above, -the Consultants shall review
all aspect6 of equitable distribution of water to the consumers. The work should
be carried out in a manner that would allow the NWCPC to provide Improvement
to the consumers in the near term (immediate rehabilitation measures), In the
short term up to year 2010 (follow-on main investment project), and would also
facilitate the planning and design for long-term expansion.
3     .In order to improve the water supply in Mombasa and the Coastal Region in the
near-term and satisfy the demands in the short-term, It is necessary to optimise
the performance of the existing facilities, Including rehabilitation, red.ction of
physical losses and unaccounted-for-water, Improvements and modiflcations,
and to improve the metering of the consumption.



-100-                     Annex 10
Page 13 of 37
4.    The increase in the volume of water borne waste (principally domestic sewage,
but also Industrial effluents) associated with the Increase In water demand
require the waste dlsposal systems to be expanded. it will be necessary to
assessthe present status of waste water disposal (and sanitation) and to Identify
the need for a future expansion of Mombasa's sewage system as well as the
measures required in other urban areas in the Coastal Region.
C.    Scope of Work and General Guidelines
1.   The Consultant shall carry out comprehensive studies and prepare development
plans to meetthe objectives, and in accorrsnce with the approach to the project,
as described under Section B.
2.    A brief description of the water supply system is given In Annex 1 of this T.O.R.
This description Is merely informative and the consultants shall assess the
situation both for the purposes of submitting proposals for the services and for
carrying out the services.
3.   It Is to be noted that the Consultants employed for carrying out the sourcs work
development studies (under separate T.O.R.), will bass their work, regarding
water demands, in the initial study phases on information presently available In
the previous studies (supplemented with information provided by NWCPC).
However, assessment of current water requirements and water demand
forecasts should be carried out by the Consultant under this assignment in the
early phase of the services, and the results of this assessment shall be made
available as Input to the consultants carrying out the source works development
studies, as early as possible.
4.    Reports submitted must provide a suitable basis to approach international
financing agencies for funding. The Consultant shall prepare supplementary
reports and supply any additional data necessary to support
Ljvernment's/NWCPC's loan finance applications to donor agencies.
5.    Progress reports (in addition to other reports specified elsewhere, or required
by NWCPC during the services) shall be reviewed with NWCPC, the lending
agency(s) and other duly authorized institutions every three months.
6.    The COnsultant shall follow the following general guidelines in the performance
of the services:-
i)    Study, verify, analyze, evaluate, update and amend all available data,
studies and report in the light of current strategies, development,
information or techniques.
ii)   Carry out any additional surveys, studies or tests necessary to reach
sound engineering conclusions including topographical, environmental
and field surveys related to establishing foundation and construcflon
materials, mapping and drilling requiremnents.



-101-                     Annex 10
Page 14 of 37
iii)  Advise NWCPC on the need to carry out any special surveys or
Investigations which miay be necessary to supplement the informatlon
already available Including mapping, drilling, geotechnical surveys or
Investigations, prepare the documentation of facilitate such surveys or
Investigations when authorized by NWCPC, supervise and make such
site visits as are necessary to ensure that the persons or flrms carrying
out such surveys or investigations are executing generally according to
the agreements an; otherwise In accordance with good engineering
practice, certify the amount of any payments to be made by NWCPC to
the persons or firms carrying out such surveys or Investigations under
the Consultant's dtrection, and advise NWCPC on the results of such
surveys or Investigations.
iv)   Advise NWCPC on the need to carry out any spacial tests, prepare the
necessary documentation, arrange for such tests when authorised by
NWCPC, supervise and certify payment for such tests and advise
NWCPC on the results of such tests.
v)    Prepare the necessary documentation for the appointment by NWCPC
of any architect In connection with the architectural treatment of the works
and consult any such Architect appointed by NWCPC.
vi)   Prepare such documents as are reasonably necessary to enable NWCPC
to consider,the Consultant's general proposals In light of the
investigations carried out by him. The Consultant snall consider and
evaluate the various available alternatives pointing out their merits and
constraints and submit recommendations as to the most advantageous,
least cost solution, taking into account investment, operating and
maintenance costs.
vu)   Prepare designs and tender drawings for the works.
viii) Advise NWCPC as to the appropriate conditions incorporated in any
contract to be made between NWCPC and the contractor.
ix)   Prepare such tender documents, specifications, schedules and bills of
quantities as may be necessary to enable NWCPC to obtain tenders or
otherwise award a contract for carrying outthe works.
x)    Advise NWCPC as to the suitability for carrying out the works of persons
or firms tendering and further as to the relative merits of tenders, prices
and estimates received for carrying oujt the works.
d)    Advise NWCPC on the preparation of formal contract documents relating
to accepted tenders for carrying out the works or any part thereof.
Specific Guidelines
The areas of work identified in Sections B and C will be carried out by the
Consultant in accordance with the following specific guidelines. The studles,



-102-                       Annex 10
Page 1S of 37
designs and the respective reports shall cover, jnQlLde. bij ngt negessarily Oa
i(mRied to the topics listed under this section.
1.    Water Resources and Demands
1.1   Study and Service Area
Refine (in collaboration with NWCPC and their Consultants) the boundaries
the study and service area shown approximately on the attached map. In
determining the service area the following aspects shall be considered.
'ta)  Natural catchment boundaries of the lower Athi River, the Mzlma, Tsavo,
Galana arnd Sabaki rivers, the Voi, Goshi and Rare rivers, and all other
rivers and water courses south of the rivers mentioned above.
'kb)  Present and future land use and settlements In the area south of the
Mzima, Tsavo, Galana and Sabski rivers.
/(c)  Areas presently served by the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply
Scheme and NWCPC's future extension plans.
In the course of the study of the water resources and water demands, the study
will be divided into appropriate sub-areas depending on their potential water
sources, land use, population pattern, present and future water demand and
water use, including drinking water, agricultural (livestock Irrigation),
hydroelectrical, industrial demands and use.
The study will Indicate for each sub-area or group of sub-areas as ap,roprlate,
the water at.thorities and/or agencies responsible for or present;y In control of
water resources development, operatlon and water use In the respective areas.
1.2  Water Resources
As described In the previous sections, absessment of water resources and
proposals of their phased development will be carried out under separate
consultancy assignment. It is expected that the commencement of consultancy
services regarding source development will precede the servicos under this
T.O.R. The results of the source works development consultancy shall be used
as input for services under this T.O.R.
1.3  Water Demands
1.31  Demographic Studies
- Population growth rates 'snatural), age and sex patterm;
- Rural/urban migration pattern;
- Employment opportunities;



-103-                         Annex 10
Page 16 of 37
-  Income patterns, ability and willingniess to pay for water services fespecial!y ai
the rural areas);
- Irnpact of niral development plans oa popultition pattern 'I~ncluding the eff 'c
of improved future water stupply services);
-  City growth patterns, planning and land use forecasts.
1.32 Present Water Consumptlon and Demand Forecast:
- Assessment of present water demand and demand forecasts for the various
consumer categories as:
domestic 'fsepaxately for high, medium and low Licome areas);
I Industrial;
.  commercial;
- institutional bpublic and government), for each recognized sub-area within the
city;
Same as above, for each recognized sub-area outside the city. The
assessment shall include any other water use additional to those listed
above, such as water demand for livestock, small scale irrigation system,
any other agricultural water use t4present and/or planned), water
consumption and demand of game parks /~including tourism facilities),
hydroelectric power.
Assessment of unaccounted-for-water, present and forecast, 'fire use,
parks use, and estimated amounts of physical leakage in the system).
Note: assessment of unaccounted-for-water should be tied up with
distribution system analysis, present and recommended conservation
measures. Records of water consumption and water production shall be
compared for like periods and the reliability of these records is to be
assessed. gSee Section D, para 2.2t%d) of this T.O.R).
Assessment analysis and evaluation of seasonal and short-term variation
of consumpdon to determine seasonal and daily peak factors, for the
various recoghised sub-areas within and outside of the city, and weighted
peak factors applicable at the various terminal storage tanks, pressure
zones, treatment works and source works.
2.    Imnedlate Measures
In order to meet the objectives under Section B, the Consultant shall prepare a
program of Immediate measures which would bring about a rapid improvement
t.n the qualIt4 of watar supply services In Mombasa, coupled with the reduction
of unaccounted-for water. The proposal for immediate measures shall consider



-104-                              Annex 10
Page 17 of 37
the studies carried out under Section D, Part 1 of this i.O.R. together with the
existinrj lacilities, and will Include outline designs, construction schedules, and
contract documents. In developing the proposec measures, the Consultant will
give due consideration to NWCPC's capability to finance the proposed
measures. The Consultant will also seek to maximize the operational benefits
as early as possible. The Immediate measures shall cover, Include, but not
necessarily be limnited to the following:
2.1    Existing System
(ta)  Prepare and submit system flow diagram with. concise des&ription,
indIcating:-
mean, minimum and mnaxmum flows, where applicable-;
main performance characteristics of the individual parts of the system;
systemts) operation's limiting factors ',bottlenecks);
parts of the system, where available iix-formation or date are not adea,uate
for ifll evaluation.
1,b)  Prepare and submit general la,yout    plan(s) of the water supply
(distribution) system(s) in appropriate scales, showing:-
# source works and terminal reservoirs;
* pumping stations;
* transmission lines;
.  treatment facilities;
*  storage facilities;
. primary distribution mains;
*  distribution zones; and
*  the main technical features and performance characteristics of the
individual parts of the systemt.s);
'ic)  Prepare and submit detailed record plans of the distribution system, in
appropriate scales, showing all existing mains and other services as far
as the details are reasonably available,
2.2   Network Aiialysis
(ta)  Assess and tabulate demands at the nodes in the principal network of



Annex 10
-105-                          Page 18 of 37
the various distribution zones rilating to the . ecJs up to 2000 and 2010
using results of the water demand studies and the updated plan(s) of th1
distribution system;
/kb)  Prepare the computer model of the existing network(s) in the various
distribution zones;
1kc)  Study, analyze and evaluate the present distribution network in the
various distribution zones, related to the available sources, average and
peak demands, and describe flow patterns and pressure levels in the
distribution zones;
id)   Study, analyze and evaluate present practices with regard to wastage
and wastage control, assess unaccounted-for water (physical leakage,
fire and park use, administrative losses).
2.3  Immediate measures: Proposals and Design
'Ra) Prepare and submit proposals for technically and economically feasible
immediate measures to improve performance of the system for:
distribution network;
* water conservation measures.
The proposals should list separately the work to be carried out by NWCPC and/or
by Contractors, and/or by Specialist Consultants.
O%b)  Inspect the existing pressure reduicing/control valves and report on their
condition, suitability and maintenance requirements. Where appropriate,
the need for additional or replacement equipment is to be Identified. The
report shall include assessment of the conditions of service and
consumer metering, based on existing and ongoing studies.
(tc)  Prepare detailed designs and contract documents for the works to be
carred out by contractors, and prepare detai,ad design, specifications,
schedule of materials and implementation schedule for the works to be
carried out by NWCPC and Terms of References of any other works for
which employment of specialist consultants would be recommended.
(d)   Prepare documents for the pre-qualification of contractors and assist
NWCPC In evaluation of pre-qualification applications.
*e)   Assist NWCPC in advertising for bids and prepare evaluation of all bids
received for the construction of the works and make recommendations
as to the most appropriate bids for acceptance by NWCPC and the
lending agency(s), as appropriate.



Annex 10
-106-                         Page 19 of 37
3.    Short-Term Implementation Plan
(Follow-on main investment project)
Prepare and submit proposals, economic and financial analyses and
implementation program for the Short-Term Implementation Plan of Distribution
twork improvements including leakage control monitoring (leak detection and
repair policy), operational and maintenance instructions. The proposals should
give due consideration to futura water source developments (carrcied out undar
separate consultancy assign.i3nt), anc should cover, Include but not
necessarily limiteu to the following:
3.1   Proposals and Design
(wa) NWater flistrlbution
Prepare outline designs and cost estimates for the expansion of the
network of prin ipal mains as abbasis forplanning staged development of
the system up to year 2010, including syste.;; storage reservoirs and
pumping stations. The plan hould relate to thie recommendations of the
studies and works carried out under Section D, P-aas 1 and 2 of this
T.O.R.
Prepare detailed designs and contract documents for the recommended
works ',primary mains);
Prepare detailed designs, cost estimates, schedules of materials and of
works for the secondary and minor mains, in sufficient detail for NWCPC
to execute the consruction under contract and/or force account;
tkb)  Prepare documents for the pre-quallfication of contractors and assist
NWCPC in the evaluation of pre-qualification applications, as appropriate;
(^c)  Assist NWCPC in advertising for bids, prepare bid documents and
evaluation of bids received for the works and supply of goods, as
appropriate;
/4d)  Land Acquisition
Define the land rea,uirements regarding the improvement aud extension
of the distribution system's) /,primary mains, storage reservoirs, pumiping
stations), and assist NWCPC in tiOe preparation of land acouisition plans.
3.2   Leak Detection and Leakage Control
At present, no active leakagF control monitoring is in force. Leakage control
and repair is passive and based on physical visual leakages observed and
reported. Due to the aged transmission and distribution systems, leakage is
expected substantial. However, no adequate figures can be given due to the



Annex 10
-107-                        Page 20 of 37
unreliability of production figures and consumer billed consumptions. As
leakage represents a wastage of resources, inefficient operation and
rraintenance due to financial constraints, NWCPC decided thiat in the future a
systematic approach shall be followed regarding detection and leakage control.
rhe consultant, therefore, shall prepare proposals, and carry out as pait of the
assignment the following services, which should cover, Include, but not
necessarily limited to the topics described below.
/a)   Study the alternative leakage control state-of-the-art methods. The
methods should be practical considering the prevailing conditions in the
network. These studies should include the resources required for each
and the costs of implementing leakage control.
'kb)  Collection, collation and analysis of production and consumption data in
order to estimate leakage levels from existing data. The consultants will
be expected to allow for meter errors and give due cornsideration to the
estimated consumptions on stopped or under-registering meters.
Exception reports from the existing billing system should be analyzed
historically in order to see the trends and get any meaningful correlation.
The need for a practical and specialised leakage control Engineer is
paramount for this analysis.
'c)   Proposals for measurement of leakage for the various components of the
systems reservoirs, transmission mains, and on the clistribution system
should be determined appropriately to determine their relative
magnitudes. In oLtaining this information, there will be need to:-
i)    Study of the existing network to determine suitability of location of
macro-metering.
ii)   For suitable flow controls suitable flow measuring equipment and
Instrumentation should be recommended for installation for:-
* continuous flow recording and automatic digital data logger units at
measuring stations;
* assessment of net night flows;
* assessment of amount of leakage and of its increase/decrease;
* assessment of approximate area of network leakage through aaalysis of
day to day flow variations.
(d)   Recommernd suitable leak detection, location, and pipe locator
equipment bearing in mind the materials of the pipes, cost implications
and the nature of the long transmission mains. Consideration In
recommendations for such equipmrent or method should Include
operational requirements and training needed; availability of repair and
maintenance facilities, cadre and number of manpower requirements,
vehicular requirements, and conditions of the water supplies. Due



Annex 10
-'08~                        Page 21 of 37
consideration should be given to the low pressure situations particularly
within the distribution system and the sometimes intermittent supply
situation.
'xe)  Proposals for determination of the leakage levels shall be given in
consideration of data from exisling data and the measurement of the
leakage.
'4)   Calculation of the unit cost of leakage to give the economic benefits
accruing either through increased revenue or as reduction in operating
costs or deferment of capital expenditure resulting from the saving of
water as a consequence of leakage control measures.
(,g) As the main objective is to reduce the unaccounted-for-water, estimates
should be made of the reduction in leakage with the different control
programmes. Estirnates of expected leakage reductions should be made
with a view to setting up leakage reduction targets.
t4i)  The annual cost of leakage and leakage control should be worked out
for each method proposed.
(4)  Selection of the method which provides the greatest net benefit in
economic terms should finally be recommended taking into account local
factors while considGring benefits provided by some methods which may
be difficult to quantify in economic terms.
(:J)  As a final measure a leakage control policy should be recommended
implementation. The stages of implementation should be specified
depending on the met,lod recommended. Such stages may Include but
not limited to
Site and flow surveys to determine the most suitable meter locations;
. Installation of meters;
Operation of meter system to measure leakage levels;
Establishing and training of leak detection and repair gangs to reduce
leakage levels.
/Jc)  Finally the proposals for regular monitoring to determine the performance
of the scheme and effectiveness of the leakage control policy and
determine future or further action.
(1)   Propose a management information system development which should
be incorporated as part of the computerised operational management
control system currently under development. The proposals should
include requirements for software and hardware.



-109-                           Annex 10
Page 22 of 37
4.    Phasing of Programme
It is recognized than an effective leak detection, control and monitoring should
be a continuous programme. However, as this continuity wiil be undertaken by
the Corporation after the dotermination and adoption of the proposed policy In
the technical proposals, the consultant should propose appropriate phasing with
the attendant costs. The proposed phasing should show a time schedule but
the total time sha;l be 3 - 5 years. As a guideline the phasing should include:-
PhaseScope
Stage 1 :Collectlon and analysis of existing o*.a.
Instnumentation ke.g. macro-metering, leakage detection and pipeline location
eaquipment).
Ceneral overview of the network and leakage level.
Appropriate training.
Stage 2:Field collection of data from stage 1 and the analysis.
Determine leakage levels.
Analysis of alternative methods.
Propose leakage control pplicy.
Propose immediate urgent steps to be taken to reduce wascage
Stage 3:Leakage control policy adoption.
Leakage control policy implementation.
Comprehensive training,
Settingup of leakage contzol unit within the region.
Future proposals.
The above proposals give orily the basic outlines, but specifically the phasing and time
for eac.. stage will depend on Consultants' themselves and of the existing network
situation.
5.    Long-Term Development Plan
Consider the studies on resources and demands for Mombasa and Coastal
Region area and prepare long term strategic development plans for distributlon
system(s) extensions. The scope will cover the water supply facilities required



Annex 1 0
-110-
Page 23 of 37
to provide the benefit of safe potable water to all users in the area.
'ta)  The strategic (phased) development plan shall be baseu on the regional
water resources studies, and also be compatible with the Short-Term
Implementation Plan, both for source work devetopments and distribution
system(s) extensions.
4b)   The proposals shall also recommend, if necessary, ac,c;itional studies and
consultancy services in respect of distribution network(s) extensions to
be carried out under the follow-on main investment projects, including
costing and time-frame for these activities.



Annex 10
-111-                            Page 24 of 37
ANNEX I
THE MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
Iltroductlon
The Mombasa and Coastal Water Supplies consists of a complex of rural and
urban water supplies in Killfi, Kwale, Taita Taveta, Lamu and Mombasa Districts.
Very few schemes have independent sources as the entire system is an
interlinked and extensive netvwork of major pipelines of Mzima, Sabaki, Marere
and Malindi being the most prominent.
1.1   Mombasa Distribution System
The distribution system in Mombasa was conceived to take an ultimate
capacity of 43,000 m3/day this being the capacity for Mzima and Marere
sources. The commissioning of Sabaki pipeline in 1981 brought an extra
35,000 m3iday without the corresponding upgrading of the distribution
system although it had been intended to do so. In order to satisfy
Mombasa's immediate water demands in the short term, It is necessary
to optimise the performance of the existing distribution system including
rehabilitation, augmentation and reduction in unaccounted-for-water.
1.2  South-Coast Distributlon System
This system is provided with water from Marere springs and the Tiwi
groundwater boreholes. These boreholes produce about 4,OOOm3/day.
There is major cievelopment in tourism along tne South Coast stretching
from Shelly Beach to Diani Beach. The existing distribuTion system
particularly in Diani is hardly adequate to cater for the current demand.
There is also a high density residential area of Likoni which Is served by
old distribution system again needing rehabilitation.
&.3  Kwale Distributlon System
Kwale is one of the major urban centres served from Marare source works
and needs upgrading of the distribution.
1.4  Baricho Distribution System
Malindi, Watamu, and Kilifi form the main distribution system of Baricho.
While Malindi distribution is currently undergoing upgrading, there is need
to rehabilitate and augment distribution systems in other areas including
off-takes enroute to Mombasa.
2.    Present Water Production
Mombasa receives the bulk of water produced from the sources. However, the
system in Mombasa and the environs is characterised by low pressures in the
distribution system.



Annex 10
-112-                       Page 25 of 37
2.1   Marere Pipeline
This system was developed In 1923 and has a maximum production of
12,000 m3/day. Most of the water Is consumed enroute such that about
4,000 m3/day gets into Changamwe reservoirs.
2.2   Mzilma Pipellne
This is a 220 km long pipeline built in early 1950's with an expected outr
of about 40,000 m3/day although only about 32,000 m3/day gets to
Mazeras and Is then further reducea by off-takes before getting to
Mombasa. There has been consistent breakdowns due to bursts
particularly on sectlons w;in black cotton soil resulting In shut-downs,
hence intermittent supply.
2.3   Sabakl Pipeline
This is the main pipeline serving the North of Mob-nbasa inclusive of
Malindi, Kilifi, and North Coast. Only about 35,000 m3/day gets to Nguu
Tatu reservoir for distribution to North Coast and ultimately to Mombasa.
Continued breakdown In the pumping installations hes also resulted in
reduced prod6jotion levels.
2.4   Tiwl Boreholes
These produce about 4,000 m3/day which is fully utillsed in SoUth Coast.
-.i   Distribution Systems
Water is distributed to consumers through individual meters and water
retailer kiosks. The latter are used in high density areas. Although
distribution network pipeline drawings are available at the rsgional level,
they are not up to date and relate to early 1970's except newer mains laid
In M&Iindi. Extensions on smaller distribution mains done later area  t
shown on the drawings. The information on statws of the existing
distribution mains is also scanty. However, most of the mains in the main
distribution areas of Mombasa Municipality are A.C. However, ductile
Iron, PVC and steel pipes form also part of the distributions. Consultants
should take notice of this as there will be need to locate such pipes where
not shown on the networks.
It Is expected that aerial survey block-mapping, and network analysis
would be carried out under a separate works programme concurrently In
order to update the drawings and render implemeirntation of an
appropriate leak detection and repair policy operable.
2.6   Metering
Production figures are not reliable as the meters are generally out of



Annex 10
-113-                        Page 26 of 37
order. Consumers are metered through consumer meters of sizes
150mm to 15mm. However, a high percentage of consumer meters (at
least 30%) are out of order while an unknown percentage are
under-registering. Most of the major consumer meters are out of order
resulting in estimated consumption. Consequently, while billing system
is metered the accuracy of water sold is questionable. Hence with
unreliable production figures and water sold data on the unaccounted for
water is unreliable. No bulk zonal meters are installed at the moment
within the distribution systems.



Annex 1
-114'                     Page 27 of 37
C.
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR THE
REHABILITATION/AUGMENTATION OF THE SABAKI
BULK WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
(SABAKI WATER PROJECT)
The Sabaki Water Project was originally put forwi.rd as one
of a number of alternatives for consideration in the early
1970's when the then project consultants produced a report
on the results of their "investigations into an additional
.source to provi%.X the necessary immediate augmentation of
the Mombasa Pipeline Board Supplies". The terms of
reference required that a water source be found to provide
sufficient additional water to meet expanding demand in
MoMbasa up until 1990.
This, it was estimated would require augmentation by about
55,000m3/day; however initially and on the basis of
economic merit the report recommended a scheme based upon
the Pemba river yielding approximately, 32,000 m3/day with
the alternatives at the higher supply figure, in order of
their preference, being schemes based upon the Sabaki
river, the Mwachi river or a second pipeline from Mzima
Springs.
The Client decided that the scope of the original study
should be widened to consider and compare methods by which
water supplies could be augmented and water supplied not
only to Mombasa but also the entire coastal region north of
Mombasa.
In particular the consultants were asked to investigate
further a scheme for the development of the Sabaki river
and as a result submitted a supplementary report in July
1972.
In the supplementary report, three alternative schemes were
considered, two of which were based upon a development of
the Sabaki river while the third was based on a further
development of Mzima Springs. It was concluded that for the
1990 supply to the entire area, estimated at 72,000 m3/day,
a schem based upon the Sabaki river was most suitable.
Studies for possible intake sites concluded that the most
promising river reach was on a lOkm section of the Sabaki
di>   Investigation into an Additional Source to provide the
bRec.ary Iinediate Augmentation of the xombasa pipeline board
Supplies", S.W.K & Partners March '72
c2>   Supplemntary Report on Alternative Schems for supplying water
to Mombasa and the North Coast. Bs.w.. & Partners S.W.1 
Partners July '72



Annex 10
-115-                         Page 28 of 37
river between Chakama ard Baricho, whilst the Baricho area
also offered the possibility of a dam site with a reservoir
storage potential of over 1100 million cubic metres.
In discussing the alternative sites, recommendations were
made for a full site investigation, initially at Baricho.
It was indicated that there would be need for some form of
low impounding structure behind which water would be stored
to enoure that, regardless of how the low flow channels
changed course, there would always be an adequate depth of
water adjacent to the intake structure.
It was recognised that the provision of any type of fixed
impounding barrier across the Sabaki would involve
overcoming two major problems. In the first place the pond
behind the barrier would rapidly silt up during floods and
secondly the scour problems downstream of any fixed
structure were considered to be formidable.
The possibility of utilising an inflatable weir that would
be raised during low flow periods and deflated during
floods was suggested.
An a result of the supplementary report, the consultants
were instructed in May 1973 to proceed with the preliminary
design of the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project wwith
the Sabaki river as the source.
The resulting preliminary design report proposed the
construction of:-
i)   aan intake on the Sabaki river about 40 km west of
Malindi; near the village of Baricho;
ii)   a raw water pumping station at the intake site;
iii)   a modern water treatment plant, including
pre-settlement tanks to remove the heavier silt
concentration during periods of flood flows in the
river;
iv)   a treated water pumping station;
v)   a main transmission pipeline to the existing service
reservoir installation at Changamwe in the West
Maidand district of Mombasa;
vi)   two booster pumping stations on the main transmisuion
pipeline;-
<3>   Mombasa and Coastal water supply Project.
Preliminary Design Report, S.W.K. ?Partners April '74.
<4>   Mombasa and Coastal Water supply - Sabaki River Project
S.W.K. E Partners '82.



-116-                     Annex 10
Page 29 of 37
vii)   subsidiary transmission pipelines serving Malindi,
the inhabited coastal areas between Malindi and
Mombasa, and the Kilifi hintrfrland;
viii)   bulk storage reservoirs at the head of the
distribution systems, including augmentations to the
existing bulk storage installations at Changamwe,
Nguu Tatu (serving the North Mainland) and Ganda
(serving Malindi);
ix)   distribution systems in the areas which. were not
currently served by a public water supply and
augmentations to existing distribution system  in
areas which were served.
A two stage project was envisaged with stage I being
capable of supplying 54,000 m3/day to be expanded betwsan
1980 and 1984 to an ultimate amount of 72,000 m3/day of
which 67,400 could be pumped towards tdombasa , sufficient
for the period up to 1990.
Before finally deciding on the intake site, four were
initially considered. The requirements at preliminary
design stage were seen as a site where water could be
abstracted at all times whatever the prevailing conditions
of the river; a site where the channel and valley widths
were minimal ar;d the channel form and alignments favourable
to the operation of an intake, and where rooks at shallow
depth on the intake/raw water pumphouse site would offer
secure and simple foundations adjacent to and a steep
inerodible hillside that would facilitate thhe provision of
all weather access to the pumphouse and would rise well
clear of all flood water.
The site termed the 'lower Baricho site', 62 km from the
sea was confirmed as most suitable being locited just
downstream og the Lango Baya fault scarp where t.he river
entered a confined reach where the inerodable valley sides
were only 250 m to 300m apart and the hill slopes
relatively steep.
The position for the proposed intake was on the outside of
the shallow southward-facing bend at a point where the
river impinged against a hard bank at the: foot of a steep
hillside.
The report continued, "the raw water pumphouse will be
located on the edge of the right bank where the foundations
will be on ro6k. It will have a short bunded access raised
to a level well above the maximum design flood level.
xediately adjacent a short intake structure will feed
water from the river to the pumphouse sump.
"The control structure is at a point on the river where the
required regulation of water-levels can be simply achieved,
where the founding and construction of the control weir and



Annex 10
-117-                       Page 30 of 37
ancilla.-y structures can be econonaically achieved and where
it seems there will be no particular constvaction problems.
River training, if needed, will require only simple stone
spurs. Normal or catastrophic flood flows and levels will
neither restrict the operation of the intake nor lead to
such conditions as might endanger its immediate security or
restrict its useful life.
"It also has the long term advantage of being closely
adjacent to and downstream of a potential impounding dam
site although the feasibility and need for this has yet to
be proved".
The control structure  proposed was now to comprise " a low
fixed-river structure lying in the bed of the channel and
contained between training walls on either bank. It will
have a downstream apron to contain the standing wave which
will form at low and medium flows and the whole will be
contained within sheet piling driven into the bed.
"The crest of the weir will be horizontal and continous
except on the right bank where there will be a small gat;ed
flushing sluice for flow regulation and local sediment
control. The gate will be mounted on a frame which can be
swung back against the adjacent training wall and clear of
the uncontrolled flood flows and thu associated debris
which might otherwise accumulate and foul the intake
imediately upstream". No reference to a inflatable weir an
previously put forward was repeated.
The proposal at that time for the raw water pumping station
and intake envisaged using equal sized submersible pumps or
possibly vertical spindle wet well pumps fed from an intake
capable of operating over the full raange of flows and at
all times avoiding "drawing in water heavily laden with
silt if better is available".
The form of the intake openings was evolved from
discussions held with the Hydraulics Research Station,
Wallingford, england, the intake being designed to draw in
the best available water and "by smooth flow and low
threshold velocities, discourage the entry of the coaaer
sediments which adversely affect pump wear and add to the
sediment load carried through to the treatment works.
The prelimhinary design for the intake, control structure
and training works was submitted to the Hydraulics Research
Station (HRS), Wallingford, UK for testing by means of a
hydraulic model.
Following field surveys and design modifications, the model
<5>   Mombasa and coastal water supply, Kenya
Sabahti River Raw Water Intake, Model Study.
Report EX 786.  HRS, Wallingford, U.K. July 1977



Annex 1 0
-118- _
Page 31 of 37
was constructed and the first phase of testing took place
between October and December 1975.
A second phase of model testing took place between March
and May 1977 and provided the basis for the detailed design
and subsequent construction of these components.
The conclusions and recommendations made in the ERS report
included: -
a) The crest level of the intake channel walls should be
horizontal at a level of not less than 52.0 m above
datum (weir crest SO.Om).
b) The bed of the intake channel should be horizontal in
cross-section but slope gradually downwards between the
entrance and the floww control sluice gate.
c) If the deep water =hannel remains near the south bank,
the entrance to the intake channel should be
satisfactory for most floods. If it moves away and large
shoals move downstream then spurs to scout the bed near
the channel entrance should be constructed.
d) The lower intakes should be used for the extraction of
water when the level is lesso than 51.0 m above datum.
Above thia level the lower intakes should be closed and
the upper intakes used.
e)             sb         excdetel       e     ed
sedimen load. Provision must be made for the removal of
this from the intake sumps.
f) The sluice gate must be closed at low discharges and
fully open at high discharges.
On rising stage it may be opened at a stage of 50.4 m
above datum.
g) Sediments accumulated in the bypass channel and stilling
basin will be flushed away at high discharge provided
the deep water channel remains near the south bank.
h) Large floods may cause accretion in and near the intake
channel. Under such circumstances sediment will have to
b2 removied mechanically.
Construction work commenced in October 1977 and was
substantially completed in late 1981. The spurs referred to
in the HRS report were constructed as part of the contract.
The Works was commissioned in early 1982.
Problems were experienced in a number of areas almost from
the time of commissioning.
These include:



Annex 10
-119-                       Page 32 of 37
i)   intake system unable to cope with river silt/sand
load particularly during flood flow.
ii)   disinfection system operational shortcomings.
iii)   sand settlement in inlet balancing tanks at treatment
works.
iv)   communications.
v)   supply and delivery fo water treatment chemicals
vi)   rapid deterioration and breakdown of a number of
mechanical components including bandscreens at
intake, chemical dosing pumps, and clarifier rotary
scrapers.
In addition a number of components of the scheme as
initially envisaged were never completed or fully executed.
These included:-
i)   instrumentation
ii)   training of Personnel
iii)   site residential infrastructure
iv)   improvements in the Accountting and Revenue Collection
Systems.
v)   expansion of the Mombasa reticulation system.
These Terms of Reference provide the basis for Consultancy
Services for rehabilitation and completion of the stage I
Sabaki River Project and for its expansion to stage XI
output, the latter if necessary, by means of exploitation
of groundwater at Baricho.
2.    Ogoing Ass9ciatd rks
An a part of the Malindi Pipeline Project which enables
water to be pumped to Malindi and Watamu from the! Baricho
Treated Water Pumping Station, certain measures have or are
being undertaken at Baricho that benefit the Sabaki River
Stage I Water Project.
These have so far included:
i)   replacement of the original disinfection system.
ii)   limited emergency modifications at the inlet to
convert the intake channel into a partial settling
basin to try and reduce sand load entering the intake
3tructure.
iii)   identification and locationi of the old palaso river



Annex 10
-120-                   Page 33 of 37
channel in the vicinity of Baricho and confirmation
of its worth as an exploitable aquifer.
iv)   consideration of alternative means of securing and
delivering sand free water to the Baricho Intake but
at reconnaissance level only. One of these involving
the construction of off-river storage near Chakama is
considered of sufficient interest for further
consideration now.
Additional Measures planned or scheduled include:
i)   a dry running/low amperage pump protection system for
the five newly installed KSB raw water pumps.
ii)   further limited improvements within the pump intakes,
including a permanent desludging pump system.
iii)   initial exploitation of the old palaeo-channel under
the south bank upstream of Baricho for the Malindi
water supply system.
iv)   modifications to the sub-structure of the treated
water pump house and installation of a washout to the
clear water pump reservoir.
v)   construction of a chlorination contact tank for
groundwater prior to this water entering the Malindi
compartment of the clear water sump.
v)   a new hydraulic modbi study of the Sabaki river in
the vicinity of Baricho to confirm further measures
to reduce/eliminate sand load entry into the intake
structure.
3 * 2.= 
Further measures now required to ensure the successful
comnpletion and full design capacity operation of the Sabaki
- Mombasa system include:-
* investigation and study to full feasibility level
(preliminary design) of the Chakama off-river atorage
scheme. (See section 5).
* design of works necessary within river at intake entry
to secure intake capacity to at least stage I design
level of 54,000 m3/day. (suibsequent to the hydraulic
model study of the river reach and determination of the
most efficient intake basin configuration which is
proceeding separately).
* a geological study of some six sq. km of land in the
vicinity of Lango Bay& fault on both banks of the Sebaki



Annex 10
-121-                     Page 34 of 37
river and upstream anid downlstream of th1e fault.
*   a reconnaisance surv7ey of the Sabaki river between
Lugards Falls and Barialho to note all pertinent river
bank and bed geologicaa features that might influence
recharge of the Baricho palaeo channel aquifer.
*   extension of the 1988 seismic sirvey and delineation of
the old palaso channel extended upstream of the Lango
Baya fault to enable a North Blank production wellfield
to be located axnd developed complete with North to South
Bank transfer pipe manifold.
*   a field hydrological study of the low flow
inter-relationships between the flows in the Athi at
Munyu and Thwake; in the Tsavo at !zima; at the Tuavo -
Athi confluence and in the Sabaki at Lugards Falls and
Baricho.
* design modifications identified as necessary to
facilitate operation and maintenance of Baricho
Treatment Works,
* detailed specifications of all rehabilitation measures
necessary at Baricho and within the Sabaki - Mombasa
pipeline system including Jaribuni Booster Pumping
Station.
* design of anid specifications for necessary new and
replacement pumping plant for the successful operation
of the system.
* design of Dida Booster Station.
* confirmation and design of any other measures found to
be niecessary to complete and utilise the Baricho Works
and Sabaki - Mombasa Pipeline.
* establishing a detailed and effective training programme
for operational staff.
4.   Qnaizaicion o-f Wrks
A package of measures will be determined and finalised as a
result of the relevant Engineering and Design Services.
These are epected to include but not necessarily be
limited to:
* Sinking of at least 4 production boreholes each
approximately 50 metres deep and each yielding upto
12,000 m3/day on the north ban of the Sabaki river,
probably located upstream of the Lango Baya Fault.
* Installation of manifold collection pipes including
cross river transfer pipe and possibly of an additional
risitng main to clear water pump sump at Baricho



Annex 10
-122-
Page 35 of 37
treatment works.
t Supply and installation of all electro-mechanical
pumping plant within boreholes, construction of access
road from Baricho road bridge site and provision of
electrical power lines from B3aricho Intake.
*  Modifications to upstream training works within Sabaki
river.
Modifications at Baricho Weir crest.
*  Upstream extension to intake structure within river to
form a stilling basin.
Supply and installation of new electro-mechanical raw
water pumping equipment in the intake structure.
Supply and installation of new electro-mechanical
treated water pumping equipment in treated water pumping
station.
Modifications to treatment works balancing tanks and
primary sedimentation system to facilitate de-silting.
System modification including total replacement to
chemical dosing equipment, other than the disinfection
equipment.
Refurbishment to clarifiers.
Refurbishment to rapid gravity filters.
Limited modifications to buildings and other structures.
* Reconstruction and extension to site residential
facilities including housing, medical and educational
facilities, etc.
Completion of telephone system from Kikoneni.
*Refurbishment of civil and electro-mechasnical works at
Jaribuni pumping station.
Construction and installation of electro-mechanical
equipment at Dida Booster Station.
Provision of necessary transport and other vehicles for
conveyance of chemical and personnel to the various
sites.
* Rehabilitation as necessary of the Sabaki - Mombasa
pipeline service road.
Supply and installation of Hydrographic cabling and
associated flow measuring equipment at Baricho.



Annex 10
-123-                      Page 36 of 37
During the initial preparatory stage for the Baricho Intake
Study, a topographically attractive off-river site some 7
km. upstream of 1oaricho near Chakama and on the south bank
had been noted from the 1:50,000 topographical maps. A
subsequent study of the relevant aerial photographs made
the site look more attractive, sufficient to justify both
an initial survey and to warrant a visit from the Study
Geologist.
A 20 metre high dam, 110 - 150 m long, would be practicable
and provides a storage volume of about 27 mio. cu. metres.
Because of the very small catchment, a small flood ou-..flow
unit would be all that was required. The geology of the dam
site is also promising being a steep sided quartzite gorge,
with coarse grained Mazeras sandstone sides.
Material for a rockfill dam could probably be won from a
quarry in the gorge itself.
At reconnaissance level, there would appear to be two ways
of filling and utilising such storage.
(a)   Gravity Inflow (Dual Purpose)
The 1:50,000 topographical maps indicate that the
gradient of the Sabaki river some 30 - 35 km.
upstream of Baricho has a short section somewhat
steeper than average gradient.
It would seem practicable to take advantage of this
to divert by gravity into a reservoir in the
off-river Chakama site.
A side channel intake with gravity pipeline and
tunnel or deep cut channel into the Chakama reservoir
and onward gravity flow to the Baricho Intake,
therefore appears possible, but is subject to
confirmatory field survey, in relation to intake
levels.
By appropriate sizing of intake and gravity inflow
pipe, it would be practicable to utilise the
reservoir both as a low-flow augmentation reservoir
and a; an indirect water source during periods of
high flow. In this way, no abstraction either
directly at Baricho or at the upstream intake would
be made during high-flow, high-suspended load periods
and instead at such times water would be drawn from
the Chakama reservoir.
(b)   Pumped Inf low (Single Purpose)
In terms of utilising suchi storage for the single
purpose of augmenting dry weather flow, an



Annex 1 0
-124-
Page 37 of 37
alternative would be to install low-lift pumps at
13aricho and to pump water up into the Chakama
reservoir during periods of moderate river flow to be
able to draw from such storage during periods when
the natural river flow was insufficient. The pipeline
between Baricho and the Chakama reservoir would serve
as both the rising main and the return flow gravity
main.
Such an option would have a significantly lower
capital cost than option (a), but higher operating
costs. It could be used to both augment dry weather
and avoid direct abstraction of high sediment located
water during flood, but would be more practicable as
a single purpose low-ilow augmentation scheme.



-125-                        Annex 11
Page 1 of 38
A.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
AN ENVIRONMMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSEMENT OF TlE PROPOSED
SECOND MOM BASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Applicable for all source works development alternatives)
Introduction
1.   The purpose of this terms of reference is to guide and structure the
preparation of an environmental impact assessment of the Second Mombasa
Water Supply Project.
2.   The development project to be assessed Is presently not yet specffied as to
the fnal technical afternative to be developed. However, the situation leading
up to the present project consideratons and pre-planning are as follows: The
area of the Kenyan coast under review for augmented water supply through
the project includes primarily greater Mombasa (island and mainland), the
north coast up to Malindi, tie major development centres on the immediate
South coast, and the hinterland along this coastal strp. This area covers
approximately 1000 square kilometres and has presentty (1991) an estimated
populaton of nearly 1.7 million inhabitants.
3.   The estmated average daily demaid for fresh water in this area is around
200,000 cubio meters. The demand from the Mombasa urban centre and
surroundings, which is the focus of the present project proposal, counts for
nearly 125,000 cubic meters of the above amount. However, the pres; !'f total
average public supply is less than 85,000 cubic meters of water, leaving a
deficit that means strict water rationing wKth consequent restrictions on
development and human use. Projections for future water demand in the
Mombasa and surrounding area is estimated to almost 200,000 cubic meters
daily by the year 2000.
4.    The present public sLupply is provided from four sources;
Mzima Springs in Tsavo National Park  approx  35,000 cu.m
Marere Springs/Pemba River           U        9,000 cu.m
South Coast (Tiwi) boreholes                  4,000 cu.rn
Baricho treatment works on Sabaki River      35,000 cu.m
5.    The Baricho treatment works operates at 2/3 capacity while the rest works
at full capaciy. The Baricho treatment works has a very high operating cost
while the Mzima Springs has very low operating costs. Mzima Springs
provides gravity fed clean spring water while Baricho cleans and treat
extremely silt-polluted water from the river and pumps it to the consumers.
A solution to the unsatisfactory water situation and provision of adequat.9
fresh water supplies to satisfy the demand in Mombasa and surroundings is
considered the highest political and development priority at the moment.
6.    Responsibility for the executing arrangements for the environmental
assessment rests with Kenya Government as potential borrower of project
funds from the World Bank. The National Water Conservation and Pipeline



Annex I 1
-126-                       Page 2 of 38
Corporation (NWCPC) represents the Kenyan Government on technical
project matters and will be the contracting partner for the consultant
undertaking the Impact assessment. The World Bank's guidelines for
environmenta impact assessments will apply.
Background Information
7.   The major components of the proposed project have not yet been agreed
upon. The specific requirements of the assessment will therefore be
formulated at a later stage.
A first phase of the project consisting of the rehabilitation of the old system,
InstiUon building, and the preparations for the main investment is dealt with
as a separate project and is presently under appraisal. This limited proJect
was initially classified a C-category according to the World Bank's
Operational Directive 4.00 (needing no assessment), while the second phase
was expected to be a category A, needing full assessment. However, the first
phase project has a part (part II: Rehabilitaton and augmentation works);
(see below) which is a category B component needing llmited assessment
8.    FIRST PHASE PROJECT COMPONENTS:
1.   Institutional support/capacity building:
A.    Consultancy and advisory services:
- Valuation of fixed assets and assessment of associated
liabilities.
- Improvement of revenue collection.
- Improvements of financial system.
- Management information system.
- Preparation of corporate development plan.
B.    Equipment and vehicles:
- Computer hardware, vehicles and various equipment.
C.    Staff development training.
II.   Rehabilitatlon and augmentatlon works: (needs full assessment)
A.    Construction of production wells and weilfield development,
including access roads, power supply, pumping equipment
and pipeworks.
B.    Transmission Main from wellfield to clear waxer well near
existing treatment plant, including river crossing.
C.    ImprovemenUremedial works at the Sabaki Intake Works.
D.    Improvement/remedial works at the existing treatment plant.
E.   Transmission main Sabaki/Mombasa including booster
pumping stations.
F.   i3ehabilitation/extension of branch lines.
G.    Remedial works and expansion of terminal reservoirs, with one
additional reservoir.
H.   Telecommunications system improvements.
1.    ,stribution system improvements (Mombasa).
J.    Staff housing.
K.    Mzima Springs pipeline repair and rehabilitation works.
L     Supply of consumer meters.



Annex I 1
-127-                          Page 3 of 38
l11.  Studios and engineerIng.
A.    Stop I
Review and update of existing feasibility studies with special
regard to the proposed Mzima Springs Project, Including
review of population and demand projections,
environmental impact studies and preliminary engineering
for the selected alternative.
B.   Step 2
- Preparation of studies, detailed engineering designs, bid
documents and evaluation of bids for all components of the
Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project main
investment phase (phase 2), (excluding project
supervision) that is for:
- the selected alternative for source work development.
- water treatment.
- transmission mains with all ancillary structures (access
roads)
- terminal reservoirs
- distribution systems in Mombasa and other coastal centres.
- ancillary structures (telecom., offices, housing, equipment
etc.
- review of existing sewerage, drainage and sanitation
systems.
- feasibility studies for long-term water supply source
expansion.
C.    Rehabilitatlon and augmentation works.
- Hydrogeological/geophysical studies for groundwater
development near Baricho.
- Consultancy services for engineering designs, bid
documents and evaluation.
- Sabaki Intake Model study.
10.  Total project cost for all the above components of the first project phase is
estimated to be US$ 40.00 million.
The major Investment project to follow is not defined, but is expected to have
a cost of an estimatedl US$ 200.00 million.
11.  The need for this project is without question and the objectives it is intended
to meet is to provide relief for the population from the precarious water
situation in the project area. The urgent need for adequate and clean
freshwater supplies to the population and for coastal development should be
met without unnecessary delays, but the urgency must not lead to hasty and
wrong decisions causing or leading to long-term negative or damaging
external impacts affecting the sustainability of the natural resource base of
the region.
12.  The implementing agency is the National Conservation and Pipeline
Corporation (NWCPC). The Corporation and its institutional systems and
operations are also in need of rehabilitation and strengthening. This is



Annex 1 1
=.12
-128-                         Page 4 of 38
planned as an integral part of the first phase of the project.
13.  Consultants were already In the early 1970's Investigating additional sources
for the augmentation of the "Mombasa Pipeline Board Supplies", seeking
altornatives to provide sufficientaddftional water to meet expanding demands
In Mombasa up to 1990. The client later decided to Increase the scope of the
study to Incorporate not only supplies to Mombasa but to the entire coastal
region north of Mombasa. Three alternative schemes were identified, two of
which were based upon development of the Sabaki River while the third was
based on further development of the Mzima Springs. (The existing Mzima
pipeline dates back to the early 1950's.) One of the Sabaki River alternatives
was preferred and implemented, but the project has never reached the
capacity originally foreseen for several reasons.
14.  A Japanese funded study of 20 identified alternatives for water supply to the
coastal region was finalized in 1981. This study concluded in the end that
water tfom the Sabaki River led into a storage reservoir at the Rare River and
from there to Mombasa after treatment was the best alternative, with Mzlma
11 and a regulating dam on the lower Tsavo river as the second best
alternative.
15.   Due .o various delays leading to the present critical water supply situation
on the coast which gives serious urgency to a solution, a second pipeline
from Mzilma Springs together with various rehabilitation works are now being
considered as the easiest to realize with the lowest possible operational costs
(A separate Terms of Reference for this alternative has been elaborated).
However, recent discoveries of potentially rich water bearing layers in the
subterranean old plaeo channel of the Sabaki River now gives rise to
optimism as to the potential for significant borehole production in the close
proxImy to Baricho. Other dam- or impoundment solutions may also be
considered.
16.  Current status and timetable of the proposed project; Appraisal of the first
rehabilitation and institution building phase together with the engineering
credit facility is expected to take place in June/July 1991. The successful
negotiation of this component could release funding of the US$ 40.00 million
package by early 1992. The main component phase, still to be decided, could
have a partly overlapping parallel development leading to its possible
conclusion by thA latter part of the 1990's.
17.  There are none associated projects planned or in progress within the region
which may compete for the same resources, although private development
of local waterworks along the coast is a common result of the present
situation. Particularly the large tourist hotels and certain industrial complexes
are desperate to get adequate water supplies and are seeking alternative
solutions. It is not expected that this will significantly affect the proposed
project.
Objectives of the Environmental Impact Assessment.
18.  The main focus of the environmental assessment will be on the water
producing capacity of the selected source alternative, the pertinent



Annex 1 1
-129-                           Page 5 of 38
catchment area, and the effects on the downstream vegetation, wildlife,
ecology and aquder recharge of a reduced waterflow In the river systems as
a result of the project. It will also focus on the disturbance created by project
activtes on wildlie in the Tsavo National Park and the impacts on tourism
and the local population to the extent that may be signiflcant.
19.  Most of the activitles covered by the first project phase consisting of
rehablitation works and Institutional strengthening Is likely to have llmited
negative environmental Impacts. This has been anticipated by its
classffication as a C category project although this was later changed to a B
category. Since this project phase is likely to lead directly into, or follow
parallel to the preparation and design of the main project (second phase),
the environmental impact assessment should take place as soon as possible.
EnvIronmnental Anessment Requirements
20.  The regulations and guidelines which will govern the conduct of the
assessment include:
- World Bank Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A: Environmental
Assessment, and Annex B: Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir
Projects, and pertinent Operatonal Directives, Operational Policy Notes,
and Guidelines cited in Annex A2 thereto;
- National laws and/or regulations on environmental revlews and impact
assessments.
- Regional, provincial or communal environmental assessment regulations.
- Environmental assessment regulations of any other financing
organizations involved In the project.
Study Area
21.  Almost independent of which major second phase alternative is selected in
the end, the boundaries of the influence area to be studied by the assessment
incorporates in broad terms an area that includes the south eastern flanks
of Kilimanjaro within Kenya as the upper watershed of the Tsavo River, the
Chyulu Hills as catchment area for Mzima Springs and other springs to the
east of the Chyulus, Tsavo East and Tsavo West Nationai Parks and the area
between these hills, national parks and the sea, including the Immediate
offshore area. Particular attention will be focused on the rivers and springs
in this area, inciuding the Mzima River in its fuil length, the T savo River from
its upper reaches to the confluence with the Galana River, the Galana
(Sabaki) river from its confluence with the Tsavo River to the sea, the
immediate ofshore area near the mouth of the Sabaki River that includes the
coral reefs, the Voi and Rare rivers, Pemba river and the water distribution
areas The study area, include the areas used by wild animals that relates to
the river ecosystems and water supplies. The study area also includes a
broad belt of influence along pipelines and construction areas, related roads,
dams, reservoirs and impoundments, camps and activities. Other areas
adjacent to or influenced by the project should be considered with respect
to impacts of the project. Such direct or indirect environmental influences or
impacts from the project may include, for example, transportation corridors
(e.g. access to water works and facilities, treatment plants and facilities,



Annex I 1
-130-                          Page 6 of 38
distributon facilities, pipelines and related works). The indirect effects,
pardcularly the influx of population caused or facilitated by access roads and
project-related facilities, and the activities of that population including
settlement, agriculture, poaching, pollution, and fuel gathering, may be more
significant than the direct effects of the project.
Scope of Work
22.  The scope is primarily to analyze the environmental impacts of the project,
In particular impacts on the ecology, wildlife and vegetation that depends on
the watersheds tapped by the project. Attention must be paid to the rivers
and riverine ecology in the whole area Including impacts on beaches and
coral reefs off-shore. It will include impacts on tourism, the local population
in general terms, and the tourism economy, considering also the impact an
Inadequate water supply may have on that industry and the population i the
project Is not Implemented. Attention will also be given to altemative solutions
and water sources, and to the stability of the upper watersheds.
Umnology, hydrology and geomorphology with particular attention on the
sustainable water production, water quality and water balance of the
complete area should be investigated, and safe water off-take limits under
different climatc seasons should be estimated with specified probability
margins. Specialized field studies or modelling activities may have to be
carried out and the consuitants will be asked to define the specific tasks In
more detail for contracting agency review and approval.
CONSULTANT TASKS:
Task 1.    Description of the Proposed Project:
23.   Provide a full description of the project and its general setting; and as
applicable:
The proposed project: general location and layout; size of area involved in
total and in the various components (e.g., catchment area, drainage area,
pipeline area, reservoirs areas, ponds and dams, camps and settlements,
project roads, project related facilities, water distribution areas, other
construction activities involved, staff required and new communities and
other facilities involved; operation and maintenance; planned public or
private off-site investments as a result of the project; life span.
Task 2.    Baseline Data - Description of the Environment:
24.   Assemble, evaluate and present baseline data on the environmental
characteristic8 of the study area, using, as appropriate, maps, aerial
photography and satellite imagery. The hydrologic balance of the area
should be estimated. Where there are inadequate existing data, a full year of
observations (to define a full annual cycle) is required as a minimum, and a
mufti-year monitoring program established. The baseline data shall be
described in a way so as to be useful for long term monitoring and
comparison.
Physical environment:
- Geology and geomorphology, seismicity and stability of the area.



Annex I 1
-131-                         -
Page 7 of 38
Task 7.    Identificatlon of Institutlonal Needs to Implement Environmental
Assesment Recommendatlons:
36.  Revlew the authority and capability of institutions concerned with project
Implementaton an environmental impacts, primarily the National Water
Conservation and Pipeline Corporation, but also the National Parks and
Wldlife Service, at provincial/regional and national levels and recommend
steps to strengthen or expand them so that the management and monitoring
plans in the environmental assessment can be implemented. The
recommendations may extend to new laws and regulations, new agency
functions, inter-ministerial and inter-sectoral arrangements, management
procedures and training, staffing, operation and maintenance training,
budgeting and financial support.
37.  Recommend the establishment and composition of an In-House
Environmental Unit in the National Water Conservation and Pipeline
Corporation with adequate budget and professional staffing strong In
expertise relevant to the project. It should be well represented at the project
site, and work in conjunction with existing government agencies. The Unit
should be established as early as poss!ble to help ensure that pro-project
baseline data rre collected and environmental problems anticipated at an
earty stage. The Unit shall be established through a formal agreement widt
the Bank, and the Unit should ensure that monitoring, evaluaton, and that
mitigating measures are implemented.
38.  Suggest the establishment and composMion of an Environmental Advisory
Panel of independent, internationalty recognized, environmental specialists.
The panel should advise the borrower periodically on all environmental
aspects of the project, including environmental plans, procedures, budgets,
and progress throughout the life of the project; and advise the In-House
Environmental Unit's staff on training, functions, and relations with the
Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resource, the Kenya Wildlife Service, tho
National Park authorities, the Environmental Secretariat and other related
governmental institutions. Panel reviews should be held twice a year during
preparation and implementation.
Task 8.    Development of a MonitorIna Plan:
39.  Review project monitoring plans and if needed, prepare a plan to gauge the
impacts, of the project and to monitor implementation of any mitigating
measures that may be recommended. This Is particularly important in terms
of the impact of additional water off-take from the rivers and springs in the
study area, particularly in respect to the long-term sustainability of river flow
patterns and riverine ecology, maintenance of wildlife and fish populations,
aquifer recharge and consequently the sustainability and lbng term viability
of the project. Include in the plan an estimate of operating costs and a
description of other inputs (such as training and institutional strengthening)
needed to carry it out. The In-House Environmental unit and tho
Environmental Advisory Panel should be involved in the long term monitoring.



-132-                       Annex 11
Page 8 of 38
operation.
- Impact on fisheries, fish migration.
- effects of drawdown regime - erosion, recreation, agriculture, fisheries,
wUdlife.
- Impacts on ground water regime, evaporation from dam.
- Induced seismicity, sedimentation, stability, preparation for natural
events.
- upstream considerations, land use, erosion, sedimentation, pollution,
constructions.
- downstream considerations, changed water flow regime and quality,
fisheries, traditional flood plain cultivation, Impacts on other water
projects, Impacts on estuaries and marine biota, salt intruslon from
reduced river flows, ground water level changes, effects on wildlife.
28.   Among other areas requiring particular attention, independent of any major
dam or reservoir construcUon, are the following:
- The basis for claimed sustainability of the hydrological regime and
waterfiows In the watersheds of the major river systems affected by the
project, and for the sustainability of the proposed additional off-take of
water.
- The status of the upper watershed for the springs and rivers with particular
attention to the Chyulu Hills and the upper Tsavo River catchment areas.
Threats to sustainability and potential future changes and Impacts that
may be expected.
- The expected primary impacts of project construction, e.g. pipelines,
roads, reservoirs and dams, treatment and distribution facilities, including
traffic disturbance, noise, injured aesthetics, Increased population
movements, erosion and pollution.
- The effectsa on the flora, wildlife and ecology of the area affected by the
construction, including new water intake facilities, (including noise effects
from new sheet piling installation), new tunnels, tanks, treatment works,
houses and camps. Time span and effects of physical and noise
disturbance to animals. Hindrance of animal migration. Irreversible
changes. Mitigating measures.
The effects on tourism, including changes in numbers of visitors, negative
International publicity, changes in income to the nationil nmrk and lodges,
permanent aesthetical injury, time frame of disturbance.
- The effect of additional water off-take on the downstream river water
regime, with particular reference to the sustainability of the riverine
ecology and the recharge of the aquifers along the Mzima, Tsavo, Galana
and Sabaki rivers. Particular attention should be given to the
environmental Impacts of changes in the hydrological systems in the area
affecting the Baricho water in-take and the well-field area.
- The effec:s on terrestrial wildlife movement patterns and drinking
requirements along the river system at different water flow alternma es.
The alternative of providing artificial wildlife watering points along the
pipeline. Positive and negative impacts.
- The long-term effects on composition and survival of the aquatic species
and habitats Involved, particularly hippo, crocodile and fish in the river



-133-                      Annex 11
Page 9 of 38
systems. Any effects on migratory fish species caused by reduced
waterfiows, and the potential for increase in water weeds should be
considered.
- The relationships between adequate water supplies to tourism
developments and population on the coast and the income and
protection of the coastal national parks.
- The long term Impacts of changes in the location and pattern of human
activities caused by the project, including increased erosion, polluton,
poaching, economic activities.
- The Impacts on human health in the water distribution and coastal area.
Particular attention should be paid to water borno diseases.
- Impacts on water discharge regimes to the sea with potental effects on
coral reefs, beaches, estuarine and marine Iffe or near-shore habitats.
(e.g. changes In sediment loads and pollution).
- The impacts on erosion and siltation in the Tsavo and Gedana/Sabaki river
systems if the land use practises In the upper Tsavo water catchment
area continues without control.
- Identffy specific studies which are required to fill In needed information,
particularly in terms of the water balance of the study area, Mzima Springs
and River sustainability and ecology, providing terms of reference for the
studies.
Task 5.    Analysls of Aernatives to the Proposed Project:
29.   DescrIbe altematives that were examined in thb course of developing the
proposed project and Identify other atematives which might have achieved
the same objectives. The concept of altematives extends to other water
sources, siting, project design, selection of technologies and operating and
maintenance procedures. Alternatives should be compared in terms of
potential environmental impacts; estimated capital and operating costs;
suitability under local conditions; and likely institutional, training and
monitoring requirements. When describing the impacts of the alternative
solutions, indicate which are Irreversible or unavoidable and which can be
mitigated. To the extent possible, quantify the costs and benefits of each
alternative. Include the alternative of not carrying out the project, in order to
demonstrate environmental and socio-economic conditions without it.
30.  In this case, as appropriate, questions deserving special attention may
Include:
- The alternative recommended as first priority in the Japanese consultant
study of alternatives of September 1981, which proposes a raw water
tunnel taking floodwater from the Sabaki River and leading this to a large
storage reservoir on the Rare river for later treatment and release to the
Mombasa/Malindi water system. The reservoir would collect considerable
amounts of flood silt from the Sabaki River and would have a large
capacity. This project has the significant environmental benefit of
reducing the flood silt discharge into the sea which is presently
threatening the coral reefs and white sand beaches near Malindi, with
potential significant negative effects on tourism to the area.
- The alternative of complementing a limited additional water off-take from



-134-                          Annex 11
Page 10 of 38
Mzima Springs with the addition of water from other springs in the region,
for example the Taveta springs, which could be connected to the Mzima
pipeline at Voi wthin a few years.
- The altemative of developing a production well field based on the likely
existence of a subterranean waterfiow in the old Sabaki plaeo channel
near Baricho. (This altemative is being looked into as part of the regular
project study).
- The alternative of desalinization of sea water.
Task 6.    Evaluatlon and Recommendatlons: Development of
Management Plan: MTitgatlon measures.
31.   On the basis of the analysis and evaluation of the potential impacts and
altematives, recommend feasible and cost-effective measures to accomplish
the objectives of the project while preventing or reducing significant negatie
environmental impacts to acceptable levels, if possible. Parficular care
should be taken to ensure that the rivers, springs, dams, ecology,
appearance and wildlife will be kept as unchanged as possible both during
the construction period and after the project is implemented.
32.   Mitigating measures proposed should seek to reduce the negative
environmental Impacts of the project both during the construction period and
long-term. This would include suggestions for minimizing construction and
operation disturbance and damage to wildlfe, tourists, aesthetics, noise etc.
Operatng criteria for all involved companies, firms and contractors should
be made to this effect, Including criteria for camp locations, the use of
machiner,r and people movements in the natonal parks.
33.  The need for additional or temporary artiflcially constructed water outlets and
dams linked to the new pipeline to cater for local people, livestock and wildlife
populations during the construction period should be carefully considered.
(Attention must be given to potential environmental problems since artificial
water points often result in vegetation damage and soil erosion or become
destructive to normal animal behaviour and migratory patterns). Well
managed water points can however be a useful temporary tool for the
management of people and wildlife movements.
34.  Investigate the possibility of incorporating the Chyulu Hills in the Tsavo West
Natonal Park, thereby securing the long term protection of the water
catchment area and the river systems originating In the area, particularly the
many springs and streams feeding the Tsavo and Galana river system, and
ultimately Mombasa.
35.   Estimate the impacts and costs of all proposed msasures, and of the
institutional and training requirements to implement them. Consider
compensation to affected parties, particularly to the National Park and Wildlife
Conservation authorities, for impacts which cannot be mitigated. Prepare a
management plan including proposed work programs, budget estimates,
schedules, staffing and training requirements, and other necessary support
services to implement the mitigating measures.



Annex I 1
-135-                       Page 11 of 38
Task 9.    Assist in inter-Agency Coordination and Public/NGO
Participation:
40.  In additon to the evaluation of concerned agencies described In "task 7" and
as necessary, the environmental assessment should ascertain the views of
all concerned government agencies; ensure participation in the assessment
of NGO's and to the degree relevant ascertain the views of any affected
groups. At the start of the assessment, the study team should organize an
inter-agency meetng to explain the proposed assessment, determine its
scope and reach agreement on the role of each agency and procedures to
follow. In addition, appropriate meetngs should be held to inform local
government agencies, tourist hotel managers, NGO's and representatives of
the local communities where applicable to ensure their participation, as
needed. The traditional system of consultation should be used. Records
should be kept of meetings and other communications activities.
Report
41.   Prepare the environmental assessment report, organized according to the
outine presented in Operaional Directive 4.00 Annex Al. The main text of
the report should present the findings, analysis, conclusions and
recommendations of the environmental assessment. Supporting data should
be presented in the appendices. Other agency requirements may be
included as long as the tollowing specifications are met:
- Executive Summary Including Analysis and Recommendatons.
- Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework.
- Project Description and General SetUng.
- Baseline Data.
- SignMcant Environmental Inmpacts.
- Analysis of Alternatives.
- Recommendations and Management Plan.
- Environmental Management and Training.
- Monitoring Plan.
- Appendices:
- List of EA preparers.
- References - additional supporting data and materials used in
study preparation.
- Record of inter-agency, NGO and other consultations.
Consuling Team
42. (a)    Composition: * (see footnote)
Hydrologist (team leader)                       2 months
Ecologist                                       2 months
Resource Economist                              2 months
Instftution Specialist                          1 months
*  Those consultancies may be covered by the projec engineerng consultant team with the
ofly addftlon of the ecologist.



Annex I 1
Page 12 of 38
43. (b)    Qualitlcations:
(i) 3General . All consultants must hold recognized professional
qualificadons In their respective fields. The team leader should have
at least 10 years relevant work experience and the other team
members at least five years.
(Ii  Team Leader (Hydrologlst) African working experience is essential,
experience In Kenya would be an advantage. Must be experienced In
various aspects of hydrology av, field hydrological studies, the
hydrological relationship to ecology and vegetation, environmental
issues, geomorphology, water utilization and waterworks.
(ill) Ecologlst - Africa experience mandatory. Must have broad
expedence in management of natural habitats, riverine ecology,
rangeland ecology, development and human impacts on Wildlife and
vegetation. Must be qualified to deal with both flora and fauna aspects
of the ecology, including river ecology and blodiversity.
(iv)  Wildlfe Speciallst East African experience mandatory. Must have
broad experience In wildlife ecology and management, including
range and habitat management, relocation of animals, and
development impacts on animal behaviour.
(v)  Resource Economist - African experience mandatory. Kenyan
experience desirable. Should be resource economist experienced in
assessing environmental impacts, impacts related to tourism and
natural resources, and in assigning economic values and costs where
feasible. Should be familiar with establishing costs and benefits of
proposed project activities and of measures that may be
recommended to protect the environment.
(vi)  Institutlon Specialist - experience in Africa mandatory. Work
experience in Kenya would be desirable. Must have experience in
analyzing and determining the impact of Government policies and
institutional design on the relevant sector. Should have experience in
dealing with issues arising from natural resources- and environmental
policies, legislation and Governmental organizational structure.
(vii)  Umnologist - experience in tropical limnology. Experience with all
aspects of water analysis. Experience with estimation of water habitat
changes due to eutrorIhifi'.^ation, changed oxygen levels, changed
chemical composition, s, ontents and contamination aspects.
44.(c)     Specific tasks:
(I)  Teamleader/Hydrologist - would be responsible for collating the
study eoordinating the work of other team members and for all
aspects of the assessment not assigned to the other team-members,
in particular the hydrology of the springs and river systems, including
the overall hydrological water balance of the whole study area.
(ii)  The Ecologist - would be responsible for the overall assessment of
the project's impact on the ecology of the study area and for
describing all aspects of the environment in the area and
environmental changes to be expected; and assess and describe
measures needed to protect the environment and safeguard
blodiversity and riverine habitats.



Annex I 1
-137-                    Page 13 of 38
(ii) The Wildlife speclalist - will assess the projects Impact on the wildlife
population and suggest mitigating measures Including habitat
management and the feasibility of any temporary management
measures for the wildlife population during the construction period.
(lv)  The Resource economist will deal with all economical aspects
relevant for the assessment, in particular assessing project Impacts
and any proposed environmental remedial measures in terms of
environmental costs and benefits. The project's impact on tourism
should be included.
(v)  The InstitutIon specialist will review relevant policy, legislative and
policy issues and assess whether these provide adequate
environmental protection or identdy measures for those purposes and
the necessary changes, if required. Institutions affected or Involved
will be reviewed as to their capacity of supporting the environmental
assessments recommendations.
(vi)  The Umnologlst will establish the present water quaiity baseline data
and prepare a long term water quality monitoring program for the
springs and rivers in the study area, and assess anticipated changes
due to the project, and propose mitigating actions.
45.   Data Sources
An initial list of reports to consult would be:
Feasibil ty study on water supply augmentation project of Mombasa - Coastal
area-hinterland. Final Report. Ministry of Water Development. 1981.
Mombasa & Coastal water supply project with preference to the immediate
implementation of the second Mzima pipeline project. National Water
Conservation and Pipeline Corporation. 1991.
World Bank project documents on the Mombasa and Coastal region water
supply.
National Water Master Plan. MOWD. 1990.
Environmental profiles and other data in the files of the National
Environmental secretariat, Nairobi, kenya.
Relevant reports in the Ministry of Water and in the National Water
Conservation and Pipeline Corporation, Nairobi, Kenya.
Reports in the library of the Kenya Wildlife Service. Nairobi.
Materials In libraries of United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), The
International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), World Wide Fund
for Nature -(WWF), African Wildlife Foundation (AWF), and Wildlife
Conservatich International, all in Nairobi.
Reports in the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment, and in the
Ministry of Tourism, Nairobi.



Annex I 1
-138-                        Page 14 of 38
B.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
AN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSEMENT OF THE PROPOSEID
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(with the Mzima Springs alternative)
Introducion
1.   The purpose of this terms of reference is to guide and structure the
preparation of an environmental Impact assessment of the Second Mombasa
Water Supply Project with special reference to the alternaive of tapping
additional water from the Mzima Springs in the Tsavo West Natonal Park,
Kenya.
2.   The development project to be assessed is at the time of writing this terms
of reference not yet specMed as to the final technical alternatfve to be
developed. However, the situation leading up to the present project
considerations and pre-planning are as follows: The area of the Kenyan coast
under review for augmented water supply through the project includes
primarily greater Mombasa Osland and mainland), the north coast up to
Malindi, tie major development centres on the immediate South coast, and
the hinterand along this coastal strip Including development areas along the
present Mzlma pipeline. This area covers approximately 1000 square
kilometres and has presently (1991) an estimated population of nearl 1.7
million inhabitants.
3.   The estimated average daily demand for fresh water in this area is around
200,000 cubic meters. The demand from the Mombasa urban centre and
surroundings, which is the focus of the present project proposal, counts for
nearly 125,000 cubic meters of the above amount. However, tne present total
average public supply is less than 85,000 cubic meters of water, leaving a
deficit that means strict water rationing with consequent restrictions on
development and human use. Projections for future viater demand in the
Mombasa and surrounding area is estimated to almost 200,000 cubic meters
daily by the year 2000.
4.   The present public supply is provided from four sources;
Mzima Springs in Tsavo National Park  approx  35,000 cu.m
Marete Springs/Pemba River          to       9,000 cu.m
South Coast (Tiwi) boreholes         "       4,000 cu.m
Baricho treatment works on Sabaki River  "  35,000 cu.m
5.   The Baricho treatment works operate at 2/3 capacity while the rest work at
full capscity. The Baricho treatment works has a very high operating cost
while the Mzima Springs Pipeline has very low operating costs. Mzima
Springs provides gravity fed clean spring water while Baricho cleans and treat
extremely sift-polluted water from the river and pumps it to the consumers.



Annex I 1
-139-
Page 15 of 38
A solution to the unsatisfactory water situation and provision of adequate
fresh water supplies to satisfy the demand in Mombasa and surroundings is
considered top political and development priority at the moment.
6.    Responsibility for the executing arrangements for the environmental
assessment rests with Kenya Government as potential borrower of project
funds from the World Bank. The National Water Conservation and Pipeline
Corporation (NWCPC) represents the Kenyan Government on technical
project matters and will be the contracting partner for the consultant
undertaking the impact assessment. The World Bank's guidelines for
environmental Impact assessments will apply.
Background Informatlon
7.   The maJor components of the proposed project have not yet been agreed
upon. The requirements of the assessment may therefore be changed to
some degree. This terms of reference describes the alternative of a
two-phased coastal water supply project that includes the Mzima 11 Pipeline
In the second project phase as detailed below, assuming additional
construcUion works at the Mzima Springs, but not the constuction of any
major open wator dam or reservoir on the Tsavo or Galana rivers, and no
resettlementof people. However, the tasks outlined by the terms of reference
include reference to the need for additional studies In the cases that additlonal
works may be likely.
The first phase of the project was initially classified a C-category according
to the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.00, while the second phase is a
categoryA, needing full assessment. However, phase t, part II: Rehabiltation
and augmentation works; (see below) is a category B component to be given
limited assessment.
S.   FIRST PHASE PROJECT COMPONENTS:
I    Institutlonal support/capaelty building:
A.   Consultancy and advisory services:
Valuation of fixed assets and assessment of assoc.liabilities.
Improvement of revenue collection.
Improvements of financial system.
Management information system.
Preparation of corporate development plan.
B.  *Equipment and vehicles:
Computer hardware, vehicles and various equipment.
C.    Staff development training.
II.  Rehabilitation and augmentatlon works: (needs full assessment)
A.    Construction of production wells and wellfield development,
including access roads, power supply, pumping equipment
and pipeworks.
B.   Transmission Main from welifield to clear water well near
existing treatment plant, including river crossing.



Annex 1 1
4-40-
Page 16 of 38
C.    Improvement/remedial works at the Sabaki Intake Works.
D.    improvement/remedial works at the existing treatment plant.
E.   Transmission main Sabaki/Mombasa Including booster
pumping stations.
F.    Rehabilitation/extension of branch lines.
G.    Remedial works and expansion of terminal reservoirs, with one
additional reservoir.
H.   Telecommunications system improvements.
1.    Distribution system improvements (Mombasa).
J.    Staff housing.
K.   Mzima Springs pipeline repair and rehabilitation works.
L    Supply of consumer meters.
Ill.  Studies and engineering.
A.    Step I
Review and update of existing feasibility studies with special regard to the proposed
Mzima Springs Project, including review of population and demand projections,
environmental impact studies and preliminary engineering for the selected
altemative.
B.   Step 2
Preparaton of studies, detailed engineering designs, bid documents and evaluation
of bids for all components of the Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply
Project main investment project (excluding project supervision), that is for:
the selected alternative for source work development (Mzima Springs?).
water treatment.
transmission mains with all ancillary structures (access roads)
terminal reservoirs
distribution systems in Mombasa and other coastal centres.
ancillary structures (telecom., offices, housing, equipment)
review of existing sewerage, drainage and sanitation systems.
- feasibility studies for long-term water supply source expansion.
C.    Rehabilitation and augmentation works.
Hydrogeological/geophysical studies for groundwater development near Baricho.
Consultancy services for engineering designs, bid documents and evaluation.
Sabaki Intake Model study.
Total project cost for all the above components is estimated to be US$ 40.00
mi!lion.
If the 11 Mzima Springs Pipeline alternative is selected, the actual



Annex I 1
-l141-                     Page 17 of 38
Implementaton of that component will probably include the construction of
the following components (to the cost of an estmated US$ 200.00 million):
9.   POTENTIAL SECOND PHASE PROJECT COMPONENTS:
(needing full assessment)
A.    SOURCE WORKS.
Additional works at the Mzima Springs to accommodate increased
water abstraction ftom the springs to an indicated capacity of 1.2
cu.m/sec. (present abstraction is 0.4 cu.m/sec.). Provision may also
be made for construction of offices, chlorine store and dosing
building, and project personnel housing.
S.   PIPES.
The laying of large diameter pipes from Mzlma to Mazeras reservoir.
This Is a distance of 219 kms. and the pipes must be able to supply
0.8 cu.m/sec. in a grevity system. Une valves, wash-outs, air valves,
access chambers, anchor blocks, thrust blocks, fittings and all other
relevant pipeline appurtenances and apparata.
C.   BREAK PRESSURE TANKS.
Construction of new tanks and the rehabilitaton of old tanks are
expected.
D.   STORAGE RESERVOIRS.
New storage reservoirs and rehabilitation of old ones along the original
pipeline alignment and in the vicinity of Mombasa may be done.
E.   PIPEUNE SERVICE ROAD.
The new pipeline is expected to fqllow an alignment close to the
existing pipeline. It will be necessary to rehabilitate the existng pipeline
road to gravel standard.
F.   INSTRUMENTATION.
Water level indicators, flow meters, and a pressure measurement
system will be installed as required.
G.    EXTENSION PIPELINES.
Pipeline extensions will be included to connect:
- Mazerap to Changamwe
- Mazeras to Kaya Bombo
- Mazeras to Nguu Tatu
- New pipeline to Mariakani
- Interconnections between the new and old pipeline.
10.  The need for this project and the objectives it is intended to meet appear
obvious to anybody familiar with the precarious water situation in the project
area. The urgent neqd for adequate and clean freshwater supplies to the
population and for coastal development should be met without unnecessary
delays, but the urgency must not lead to hasty and wrong decisions causing
or leading to long-term negative or damaging external impacts affecting the
sustainability of the natural resource base of the region.
11.  The implementing agency Is the National Conservation and Pipe!ind
Corporation (NWCPC). The Corporation and its institutional systems and
operatons are also in need of rehabilitation and strengthening. This is
planned as an integral part of the first phase of the project.



Annex 1 1
-142-
Page 18 of 38
12.  The project was originally put forward as one of a number of alternatives for
consideration elaborated by consultants in the early 1970's. The consultants
were at that time investigating additional sources for the augmentation of the
"Mombasa Pipeline Board Supplies", seeking alternatives to provide sufficient
additional water to meet expanding demands in Mombasa up to 1990. The
client later decided to increase the scope of the study to incorporate not only
supplies to Mombasa but to the coastal region north of Mombasa as far as
Malindi. Three alternative schemes were identified, two of which were based
upon development of the Sabaki River while the third was based on further
development of the Mzima Springs. (The existing Mzima oipeline dates back
to the early 1950's.) One of the Sabaki River alternatives was preferred and
implemented, but the project has never reached the capacity originally
foreseen for several reasons.
13.  A Japanese funded study of 20 identified alternatives for water supply to the
coastal region was finalized in 1981. This study concluded in the end that
water from the Sabaki River led into a storage reservoir at the Rare River and
from there to Mombasa after treatment was the best alternative, with Mzima
11 and a regulating dam on the lower Tsavo river as the second best
alternative.
14.  Due to various delays leading to the present critical water supply situation
on the coast which gives serious urgency to a solution, the above described
Mzlma II project together with various rehabilitation works nre now being
considered as the easiest to realize with the lowest possible operational
costs. However, recent discoveries of potentially rich waterbearing layers in
the subterranean old plaeo channel of the Sabaki River now gives rise to
optimism as to the potential for significant borehole production in the close
proximity to Baricho.
15.  Current status and timetable of the proposed project. Appraisal of the first
rehabilitation and institution building phase together with the engineering
credit facility is expected to take place in June/July 1991. The successful
negotiation of this component could release funding of the US$ 40.00 million
package by early 1992. The Mzima pipeline investment and construction
project phase could have a partly overlapping parallel development leading
to its possible conclusion by 1995 - 96.
16.  There are none associated projects plannod or in progress within the region
which may compete for the same resources, although private development
of local waterworks along the coast is a common result of the present
situation. Particularly the large tourist hotels and certain industrial complexes
are desperate to get adequate water supplies and are seeking alternative
solutions. It is not expected that this will significantly affect the proposed
project.
Objectives of the Environmental Impact Assessment.
17.  The main focus of the environmental assessment will be on the water
producing capacity of the Mzima Springs, and the effects on the downstream
vegetation, wildlife and ecology of a reduced waterfiow in the river systems



Annex I 1
-143-                       Page 19 of 38
as a resuft of the project. It will also focus on the disturbance created by
project activities on wildlife in the Tsavo National Park and the impacts on
tourism and the local population to the extent that may be significant.
18.  Most of the activities covered by the first project phase consisting of
rehabilitation works and institutional strengthening is likely to have limited or
Insignificant negative environmental impacts. This has been anticipated by
its classification as a C category project. However, since this project phase
Is likely to lead directly into, or follow parallel to the preparation and design
of the main project (second phase), the environmental impact assessment
should take place as soon as possible.
Envlronmental Assessment Requirements
19.  The regulations and guidelines which will govern the conduct of the
assessment include:
- World Bank Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A: Environmental
Assessment, and Annex B: Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir
Projects, and pertinent Operational Directives, Operational Policy Notes,
and Guidelines cited in Annex A2 thereto;
- National laws and/or regulations on environmental reviews and impact
assessments.
- Regional, provincial or communal environmental assessment regulations.
- Environmental assessment regulations of any othqr financing
organizations involved in the project.
Study Area
20.   The boundaries of the influence area to be studied by the assessment
Incorporates in broad terms the Chyulu Hills, Tsavo East and Tsavo West
National Parks and the area between these parks and the sea, including the
immediate off shore area. However, in a stricter sense it includes the Chyulu
Hills which are believed to be the main catchment area for the Mzima Springs,
the wider area around the Mzima Springs in the Tsavo National Park, the
areas along the Mzima River in its full length, the Tsavo River from the
confluence with the Mzima River and down to the Galana River, the Galana
(Sabaki) river from its confluence with the Tsavo River to the sea, the
immediate offshore area near the mouth of the Sabaki River that includes the
coral reefs, and the water distribution areas (to a lesser degree). The study
area along,these rivers, springs and seashore, include the areas used by
wild animats that relates to the river ecosystem and water supplies. The study
area also includes a broad belt of influence along the pipeline and related
roads, reservoirs, camps and activities.
Scope of Work
21.   The scope is primarily to analyze the environmental impacts of the project,
In particular impacts on the ecology, wildlife and vegetation that depends on
the Mzlma Springs and Mzima river, but also on the rivers and riverine
ecology further downstream and coral reefs off-shore. It will include impacts
on tourism, the local population in general terms, and the tourism economy,
conaidering also the impact an inadequate water supply may have on that



Annex I 1
-144f-_
Page 20 of 38
Industry and the population if the project is not implemented. Attention will
also be given to alternative solutions and sources, and to the stability of the
upper watershed.
22.  UImnology, hydrology and geomorphology with particular attention on the
sustainable water production and water quality of the Springs should be
investigated, and safe water off-take llmits under different climatic seasons
should be estimated with specified probability margins. Specialized field
studies or modelling activities for the Mzima Springs may have to be carried
out to secure their survival and the consultants will be asked to define the
specific tasks in more detail for contracting agency review and approval.
CONSULTANT TASKS:
Task t.    Description of the Proposed Project:
23.   Provide a full description of the project and its general setting; and as
applicable:
The proposed project: general location and layout; size of area involved in
total and in the various components (e.g., catchment area, drainage area,
pipeline area, reservoirs areas, ponds and dams, camps and settlements,
project roads, project related facilities, water distribution areas, other
construction activities involved, staff required and new communities and
other facilities involved; operation and maintenance; planned public or
private off-site investments as a result of the project; life span.
Tack 2.    Baseline Data - Descriptlon of the Environment:
24.   Assemble, evaluate and present baseline data on the environmental
characteristics of the study area, using, as appropriate, maps, aerial
photography and satellite imagery. The hydrologic balance of the area
should be estimated. Where there are inadequate existing data, a full year of
observations (to define a full annual cycle) is required as a minimum, and a
multi-year monitoring program established. The baseline data shall be
described in a way that they will be useful for long term monitoring and
comparison.
Physical Environment:
- Geology and geomorphology, seismicity and stability with particular
reference to the Chyulu Hills catchment areas and the Mzima Spring
system.
- Topography
- Soils
- Climate and meteorology, trends.
- Surface and groundwater hydrology, trends.
Biological Environment:
- Vegetation and flora with special reference to the riverine ecology.
- Wildlife, terrestrial and riverine fauna.
- Rare or endangered species
- Critical habitats, significant natural sites, etc.
- Estuarles, beaches and coral reefs.
SocIocutural Envlronment:



Annex 1 1
-145-                      Page 21 of 38
- Populaion (on the lower stretch of the Sabaki River, along the pipeline,
in the water distribution area, and in other areas affected by the project).
- Land use in areas affected by or affecting the project areas.
- Major planned development activities (other than the proposed project).
- Public health, particularly related to the fresh water supplies.
- Community structure, employment and recreation.
- Cultural properties.
Task 3.    Legislative and Regulatory Consideratlons:
25.   Describe the pertinent regulatons and standards governing environmental
quality in Kenya, health and safety, protection of sensitive areas, national
parks regulations, protection of endangered species, siting, land use control,
etc., at local, regional, national, and if applicable, international levels.
Task 4.    Determinatlon of the Potential Impacts of the Proposed Project:
28.   Distinguish between significant positive and negative impacts, direct and
indirect impacts, and immediate and long term impacts. Identify impacts
which are unavoidable or irreversible. Consider cumulative Impacts in cases
where there are other planned or existing projects with which this project may
Interact. Wherever possible, describe impacts quantitatively, in terrns of
environmental costs and benefits. Assign economic values when feasible.
Characterize the extent and quality of available data, explaining significant
infbrmation deficiencies and any uncertainties associated with predictons of
impact. Among the areas requiring particular attention are the following:
27.   The basis for claimed sustainability of the hydrological regime and waterflow
to the Mzima Springs, and for sustainability of the proposed additional
off-take of water without significant negative impacts on the Mzima Springs
itself.
The status of the upper watershed for the springs and rivers with particular
attention to the Chyulu Hills and the upper Tsavo River catchment areas.
Threats and sustainability, potential future changes and impacts.
The expected primary impacts of project construction, e.g. pipelines, roads,
reservoirs and dams, treatment and distribution facilities, including traffic
disturbance, noise, injured aesthetics, increased population movements,
erosion and pollution.
The effects on the flora, wildlife and ecology of the Mzima Springs area from
the construction of new water intake facilities, (including noise effects from
new sheet piling installation), new tunnels, tanks, houses and camps. Time
span and effects of physical and noise disturbance to animals. Irreversible
changes. Mitigating measures.
The effects on tourism, including changes in numbers of visitors, negative
international publicity, changes in income to the national park and lodges,
permanent aesthetical injury, time frame of disturbance.
The effect of additional water off-take from the springs on the downstream
river water regime, with particular reference to the sustainability of the riverine
ecology and the recharge of the aquifers along the Mzima, Tsavo, Galana
and Sabaki rivers. Particular attention should be given to the environmental



Annex I 1
-146-
Page 22 of 38
Impacts of changes in the hydrological systems in the area affecting the
Baricho water in-take and the well-field area.
The effects on terrestrial wildlife movement patterns and drinking
requirements along the river system at different water flow alternatives. The
alternative of providing aitificial wildlife watering points along the pipeline.
Positive a, id negative impacts.
The long-term effects on populations and composition of the aquatic species
and habitats Involved, particularly hippos, crocodiles and fish in the Mzma
Springs and river, but also downstream. Any effects on migratory fish species
caused by reduced waterifows, and the potential for increase in water weeds
should be considered.
The relationships between adequate water supplies to tourism developments
and population on the coast and the income and protection of the Tsavo
national parks.
the long tern impacts of changes in the location and pattem of human
activies caused by the project, including increased erosion, pollution,
poaching, economic activities.
The Imp&icts on human health in the water distribution and coastl area.
Particular attention should be paid to water borne diseases.
Impacts on water discharge regimes to the sea with potential effects on coral
reefs, beaches, estuarine and marine life or near-shore habitats. (e.g.
changes in sedinment loads and pollution).
The impacts on erosion and siftation in the Tsavo and Galana/Sabaki river
systems f the land use practises in the upper Tsavo water catchment area
continues without control.
Identify specific studies which are required to fill in needed information,
particularly in terms of the water balance of the study area, Mzima Springs
and River sustainability and ecology, providing terms of reference for the
studies.
Task S.    Analysis of Alternatives to the Proposed Project:
28.   Describe alternatives that were examined in the course of developing the
proposed project and identify other alternatives which might have achieved
the same objectives. The concept of alternatives extends to other water
sources, siting, project design, selection of technologies and operating and
maintenance procedures. Alternatives should be compared in terms of
potential envjronmental impacts; estimated cap,lal and operating costs;
suitability under local conditions; and likely institutional, training and
monitoring requirements. When describing the impacts of the alternative
solutions, indicate which are irreversible or unavoidable and which can be
mitigated. To the extent possible, quantify the costs and benefits of each
alternative. Include the alternative of not carrying out the project, in order to
demonstrate environmental and socio-economic conditions without it.
29.  In this case, as appropriate, questions deserving special attention may
Include:



Annex I 1
-147-                         Page 23 of 38
- The atermative of just ccllecting the return flow of approximately 0.7 - 0.8
cu.m./sec. which is presently returned from the sump tunnel to the lower
Mzlma pond. This would require only a slightly larger additional pipeline
from the existing Spring outlet, and could save the whole environmentally
disturbing and potentially damaging installation of a completely new
intake structure and facilities above and adjacent to the Mzima Springs.
- The alternative of adding water from other spring sources to the Mzima
pipeline system, that could complement a limited addifional water off-take
from Mzima Sprngs within a few years. One interesting option in this
respect could be to connect a side-pipeline from the Taveta springs to
the pipeline near Voi.
- The altemative of complementing a limited additional off-take from Mzima
with the development of a production well-field based on the likely
existence of a subterranean waterfiow in the old Sabaki plaeo channel
near Baricho. (This alternative is being looked into as part of the regular
proJect study, but without adequate consideration for the second Mzima
pipeline).
- The alternative recommended as first priority in the Japanese consusant
study of alternatives of September 1981, which proposes a raw water
tunnel taking floodwater from the Sabaki River and loading this to a large
storage reservoir on the Rare river for later treatment and release to the
MombasalMalindi water system. The reservoir would collect considerable
amounts of flood silt from the Sabaki River and would have a large
capacity. This project has the significant environmental benefit of
reducing the flood silt discharge into the sea which is presently
threatening the coral reefs and white sand beaches near Malindi, with
potential significant negative effects on tourism to the area.
Task 6.    Evaluation and Recommendations: Development of
Management Plan:rMlitgallon measures.
30.   On the basis of the analysis and evaluation of the potential impacts and
alternatives, recommend feasible and cost-effective measuires to accomplish
the objectives of the project while preventing or reducing significant negative
environmental impacts to acceptable levels,if possible. Particular care should
be takten to ensure that the Mzima Springs, dams, ecology, appearance and
wildlie will be lkept as unchanged as possible both during the construction
period and after the project is implemented.
31.   Mitigating measures proposed should seek to reduce the negative
environmental impacts of the project both during the construction period and
long-term. This would include suggestions for minimizing construction and
operation disturbance and damage to wildlife, tourists, aesthetics, noise etc.
Operating criteria for all involved companieF), firms and contractors sihould
be made to this effect, including criteria for camp locations, the use of
machinery and people movements in the national parks.
32.  The need for additional or temporary artificially constrticted dams linked to
the new pipeline to cater for the wildlife populations during the construction
period should be carefully considered although this alternative has several
wea.knesses (Areas around artificial water points easily becomo over-used



Annex 11
-148-                         Page 24 of 38
and destructive to normal feeding and migratory patterns). Well managed
waterpoints can however be a useful temporary tool for the management of
wildlife movements.
33.  Investigate the possibility of incorporating the Chyulu Hills in the Tsavo West
National Park, thereby securing the long term protection of the water
catchment area, not just for the Mzima Springs but also for the many other
springs and streams feeding the Tsavo and Galana river system, and
ultimately Mombasa.
34.   Estimate the impacts and costs of all proposed measures, and of the
Institutional and training requirements to implement them. Consider
compensation to affected parties, particularly to the National Park and Wildlife
Conservation authorities, for impacts which cannot be mitigated. Prepare a
management plan including proposed work programs, budget estmates,
schedules, staffing and training requirements, and other necessary support
services to implement the mitigating measures.
Task 7.    Identilfcatlon of Institutional Needs to Implement Environmental
Assessment Recommendatlons:
35.   Review the authorty and capability of instituions concemed wifth project
implementation and environmental impacts, primarily the Natonal Water
Conservation and Pipeline Corporation, but also the National Parks and
Wildlife Service at provincial/regional and national levels and recommend
steps to strengthen or expand them so that the management and monitorlng
plans in ttle environmental assessment can be implemented. The
recommendations may extend to new laws and regulations, new agency
functlons, inter-ministerial and inter-sectoral arrangements, management
procedures and training, staffing, operation and maintenance training,
budgeting and financial support.
38.   Recommend the establishment and composition of an In-House
Environmental Unit in the National Water Conservation and Pipeline
Corporation with adequate budget and p-ofessional staffing strong in
expertise relevant to the project. It should be well represented at the project
site, and work In conjunction with relevant government agencies. The Unit
should be established as early as possible to help ensure that pre-project
baseline data are collected and environmental problems anticipated at an
early stage. The Unit shall be established through a formal agreement with
the Bank, and the Unit should ensure that monitoring, evaluation, and that
mitigating measures are implemented.
37.  Suggest the establishment and composition of an Advisory Panel of
independent, internationally recognized, environmental specialists. The
panel should advise the borrower periodically on all environmental aspects
of tho project, including environmental plans, procedures, budgets, and
progress throughout the life of the project; and advise the In Hlouse
Environmental Unit's staff on training, functions, and relations with the
Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resource, the Kenya Wildlife Service, the
National Park authorities, the Environmental Secretariat and other related
governmental institutions. Panel roviews should be held twice a year during



Annex 1 1
-149-                       Anne
Page 25 of 38
preparation and implementation.
Task 8.    Development of a Monitoring Plan:
38.   Review project monitoring plans and if needed, prepare a plan to gauge the
environmental Impacts of the project and to monitor implementation of any
mitlgating measures that may be recommended. This is particularly important
in terms of the impact of additional water off-take from the Mzima Springson
the springs, river flow pattems and riverine ecology, and consequently the
sustalnability and long term viability of the project. Include in the plan an
estimate of operating costs and a description of other inputs (such as training
and institutional strengthening) needed to carry it out. The In-House
Environmental unit and the Environmental Advisory Panel should be involved
In the long term monitoring.
Task9.     Assist In Inter-Agency Coordination and PubiIc/NGO
Participation:
39.  In addition to the evaluation of concerned agencies described in "task 7 and
as necessary, the environmental assessment should ascertain the views of
all concerned govemment agencies; ensure participation in the assessment
of NGO's and to the degree relevant ascertain the views of any affected
groups. At the start of the assessment, the study team should organize an
inter-agency meeting to explain the proposed assessment, determine its
scope and reach agreement on the role of each agency and procedures to
follow. In addition, appropriate meetings should be held to inform local
govemment agencies, tourist hotel managers, NGO's and representatives of
the local communities whera applicable, to ensure their participation as
needed. The tradRional system of consultation should be used. Records
should be kept of meetings and other communications activities.
Report
40.   Prepare the environmental assessment report, organized according to the
outline presented in Operational Directive 4.00 Annex Al. The main text of
the report should present the findings, analysis, conclusions and
recommendations of the environmental assessment. Supporting data should
be presented in the appendices. Other agency requirements may be
included as long as the following specifications are met:
- E:Xec.Aive Surmmary including Analysis and Recommendations.
- Policy, Legal aid Administrative Framework.
- Project Description and General Setting.
Baseline Data.
_ Significant Environmental Impacts.
- Analysis of Alternatives.
Recommendations and Management Plan.
_ Environmental Management and Training.
- Monitoring Plan.
- Appendices:
- Ust of EA preparers.
- References - additional supporting data and materials used in
study preparation.



-150-                        Annex 11
Page 26 of 38
- Record of inter-agency, NGO and other consultations.
Consulting Team
41. (a)    Composition: * (see footnote)
Hydrologist (team leader)                       2 months
Ecologist                                       2 months
Resource Economist                              2 months
Institution Specialist                          I months
42.(b)     Qualtifcations:
(1)   General - All consultants must hold recognized professional
qualifications in their respective fields. The team leader should have
at least 10 years relevant work experience and the other team
members at least five years.
(i)  Team Leader (Hydrologist) - African working experience is
essential, experience in Kenya would be an advantage. Must be
experienced in various aspects of hydrology and field hydrologica
studies, the hydrological relatonship to ecology and vegeton,
environmental issues, geomorphology, water utilization and
waterworks.
(iii)  Ecologist  Africa experience mandatory. Must have broad
experience in management of natural habitats, riverine ecology,
rangeland ecology, development and human impacts on wildlife and
vegetation. Must be qualified to deal with both flora and fauna aspects
of the ecology, including river ecology and biodiversity.
(iv)  Wildlife Specialist - East African experience mandatory. Must have
broad experience in wildlife ecology and management including range
and habitat management, relocation of animals, and development
impacts on animal behaviour.
(v)  Resource Economist - African experience mandatory. Kenyan
experience desirable. Should be resource economist experienced in
assessing environmental impacts, impacts related to tourism and
natural resources, and in assigning economic values and costs where
feasible. Should be familiar with establishing costs and benefits of
proposed project activities or of measures that may be recommended
to protect the environment.
(vi)  Institutlon Specialist - experience in Africa mandatory. Work
experience in Kenya would be desirable. Must have experience in
analyzing and determining the impact of Govemment policies and
Institutional design on the relevant sector. Should have experience in
dealing with issues arising from natural resources and environmental
policies, legislation and Governmental organizational structure.
(vii) Umnologist - experience in tropical limnology. Experience with all
aspects of water analysis. Experience with estimation of water habitat
changes due to eutrophification, changed oxygen levels, changed
chemical composition, silt contents and contamination aspects.
*  These consultancies may be coverod by the project englneeflng consultant toam with tho
ory addtion of tho ecologist.



-151-                       Annex 11
Page 27 of 38
43.(c)     SPeCitic tasks:
Q)   Teamleader/hydrologist - would be responsible for collating the
study coordinating the work of other team members and for all
aspects of the assessment not assigned to the other team-members,
In particular the hydrology of the springs and river systems, including
the overall hydrological water balance of the whole study area.
(Jl)  The ecologist - would be responsible for the overall assessment of
the project's impact on the acology of the study area and for
describing all aspects of the environment In the area and
environmental changes to be expected; and assess and describe
measures needed to protect the environment and safeguard
biodiversity and riverine habits.
(li) The wildlife speciallst - will assess the projects impact on the wildlife
population and suggest mitigating measures Including habitat
management, including any necessary temporary management
measures for the Mzima Springs and Mzima River wildlife populatin
during the construction period.
(iv) The Resource economist - will deal with all economical aspects, In
particular assessing project Impacts and any proposed environmental
remedial measures in terms of environmental costs and beneftts. The
Mzima Springs economic importance for tourism should be included.
tv)  The Institutlon specialist - will review relevant policy, legislatve and
policy issues and assess whether these provide adequate
environmental protection or identify measures for those purposes and
the necessary changes, if required. Institutions affected or Involved
will be reviewed as to their capacity of supporting the environmental
assessments recommendations.
(vi)  The Umnologist - will establish the present water quality baseline
data and prepare a long term water quality monitoring program for
Mzima springs and river, and assess and project anticipated changes
due to the project, and propose mitigating actions.
44.   Data Sources
An inItial list of reports to consult would be:
Feasibility study on water supply augmentation projewA of Mombasa- Coastal
area-hinterland. Final Report. Ministry of Water Development. 1981.
Mombasa & Coastal water supply project with preference to the immediate
implementation of the second Mzima pipeline project. National Water
Conservation and Pipeline Corporation. 1991.
World Bank project documents on the Mombasa and Coastal region water
supply.
National Water Master Plan. MOWD. 1990.
Environmental profiles and other data in the files of tho National
Ernvironmental secretariat, Nairobi, kenya.
Relevant reports in the Ministry of Water and in the National Water



Annex I 1
-152-                       Page 28 of 38
Conservation and Pipeline Corporation, Nairobi, Kenya.
Reports In the library of the Kenya Wildlife Service. Nairobi.
Materials in libraries of United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), The
Internatonal Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), World Wide Fund
for Nature (WWF), African Wildlife Foundation (AWF), and Wildlife
Conservation Intemational, all in Nairobi.
Reports In the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment, and in the
Ministry of Tourism, Nairobi.



Annex I 1
-153-                                Page 29 of 38
C.
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR A LIMITED ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
OF THE SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Introduction
1.    The purpose of this terms of reference is to guide and structure the preparation of a
limited environmental analysis of the Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Engineering
and Rehabilitation Project.
2.     The proposed Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project will provide for:
(a)    institutional support for the National Water Conservation and Pipeline
Corporation (NWCPC), the implementing agency;
(b)    preinvestment studies and engineering for a follow-on main investment project
(including source works development and improvement/extension to the
distribution systems); and
(c)    rehabilitation/augmentation of existing facilities to improve the water supply in
the near term.
3.     The Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Scheme is a large regional water supply
system. The service area includes Mombasa municipality and its environs, the coastal strip
north of Mombasa up to Malindi, the south coast area, Kwale town and an about 10 km wide
strip of occupied land along the Mzima-pipeline and the Mombasa-Nairobi road and railway
line between Voi and Marere. The last extension of the system took place in 1972-79 under
the first Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project, with the construction of a surface water
intake oni the Sabaki river near Baricho, water treatment plant, and transmission mains to
Mombasa and other urban centers in the coast region. The project did not fulfill the
expectations. Except a short initial period, the source works did not operate at design
capacity, and due to cost overrun some of the originally planned project components
(telemetry and communication system, one of the booster pumping stations, storage tanks,
etc.) were not implemented and many components of the system are in a serious state of
disrepair. THe proposed project would provide, Inter alia, for the rehabilitation/ augmentation
of this bulk water supply system.
4.     The present water demand for Monmbasa and the coastal region is estimated at 160,000
to 170,000 m3/day, versus the available supply of about 95.000 mfday from all existing
sources.
S.     The theoretical output (design capacity) of the Sabaki/Baricho system is 55,000
r.3lVday. Tllis amount, however, cannot be obtained at present, due to problems of siltation
within the intake and due to limitations in pumping capacity. The present average production
from this source is about 41,000 m3/day.



Annex I 1
-154-                               Page 30 of 38
6.     Extensive hydrogeological investigations have been carried (under KfW financing) in
the last 5 years near Baricho for possible groundwater sources to augment the output of the
system, principally to improve the water supply in Malindi. The investigation identified the
old paleo-channel of the Sabaki river as a potential source; two large diameter wells are
presently under construction, with an expected yield of 10,000 m3/day each.
7.    The proposed project will provide for the continuation/extension of the
hydrogeological investigations. Based on the available data, it is expected that with the
construction of a new wellfield on the left-bank (flood plain) of the Sabaki river, an additional
40,000 m3/day can be made available from this source.
Environimental Imoact AsseSsMent (EAlM
8.    The project component for which this terms of reference apply, is the augmentation
rehabilitation of the existing Sabaki/Baricho bulk supply system. This component is classified
as B-category (in accordance with the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.00) needing
limited environmental impact assessment. While the responsibility for carrying out this
assessment rests with NWCPC, it will be carried out on behalf of NWCPC by the consultants
employed for the hydrogeological investigations and engineering designs of the
rehabilitation/augmentation works.
Obiectiv  o     EnviroiMental limpact Assessment
9.     The main focus of the environmental assessment will be to quantify in ecological,
economic and social terms any negative environmental impacts caused by the well-field
development, access roads, pipelines, reservoirs and associated works. The water catchment
area will be considered along with the effects on the downstream vegetation, wildlife,
ecology, aquifer recharge, subterranean river discharge, estuaries, possible salt intrusion and
impacts on nearby marine environments, and mitigating measures suggested.
Eivironmental Assessment Reequirements
11.   The regulations and guidelines which will govern the conduct of the assessment
include:
World Bank Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A: Environmental
Assessment, and Annex B: Environmental Policy for Dam and
Reservoir Projects, and pertinent Operational Directives, Operational
Policy Notes, and Guidelines.
National laws andlor regulations on environmental reviews and impact
assessments.
-      Regional, provincial or communal environmental assessment
regulations.
Enviroiinmental assessment regulations of any other financing
organizations involved in the project.



Annex 1 1
-155-                             Page 31 of 38
11.    The boundaries of the influence area to be studied by the assessment. incorporates in
broad terms an area that includes both sides of the Sabaki River from some kilometers above
Baricho, to the sea, and the immediate offshore area near the mouth of the Sabaki River that
includes the coral reefs. The study area does also include any areas used by wild animals that
relates to the river ecosystems and water supplies. The study area further includes a broad
belt of influence along pipelines and construction areas, related roads and transportation
corridors, dams, reservoirs and impoundments, treatment plants and facilities, distribution
facilities, camps and housing, and related works.
ScEoe of Work
12.    The scope is primarily to analyze the environmental impacts of the project, in
particular impacts on the riverine ecology, impacts on estuaries, beaches and coral reefs
offshore. It will include impacts on tourism, the local population in general terms, and the
tourism economy.
13.    Hydrology and geomorphology with particular attention on the sustainable water
production, water quality and water balance of the lower Sabaki area and Malindi with
surroundings should be investigated, and safe water off-take limits under different climatic
seasons should be estimated.
14.   The indirect effects, particularly the influx of population caused or facilitated by roads
and project-related facilities, and the activities of that population including settlement,
agriculture, poaching, pollution, and fuel gathering, may be more significant than the direct
effects of the project. Specialized field studies or modelling activities may have to be carried
out and the consultants are required to define the specific tasks in more detail in their
proposals.
Consultant Tasks
Task 1. Description of the oronosed Prpoject
15.    Provide a full description of the project and its general setting, as applicable:
-      The proposed project: general location and layout; size of area
involved in total and in the various components (e.g., catchment area,
drainage area, pipeline area, reservoirs areas, ponds and dams, camps
and settlements, proj"ct roads, project related facilitits, water
distribution areas, other construction activities involved, staff required
and new communities and other facilities involved; operation and
maintenance; planned public or private off-site investments as a result
of the project; life span.
k2Baseline Data - Descrintion of the Environment
16.    Assemble, evaluate and present baseline data on the environmental characteristics of
the study area. The hydrologic balance of the lower Sabaki river and delta area should be
estimated. Where there are inadequate existing data, a multi-year monitoring program must



Annex I 1
-156-                              Page 32 of 38
be established. The baseline data shall be described in a way so as to be useful for long term
monitoring and comparison.
Phsca  avionment
-      Geology, geomorphology and stability of the area;
-      topography;
-      soils and soil stability;
-      climate and meteorology;
-      surface and groundwater hydrology, trends.
Biological environment:,
-      Riverine ecology, vegetation and flora;
-      wildlife, terrestrial and riverine fauna;
-      rare or endangered species;
critical habitats, significant natural sites, etc;
-      estuaries, coral reefs and beaches.
Socio-cultural environment:
-      Population in the project and water distribution area;
-      land use in areas affected by or affecting the project areas;
-      planned major public development activities (other than the proposed
project);
public health, particularly related to the fresh water supplies;
-      cormnunity structure, employment and recreation.;
-      cultural properties.
k3. je    gislative and Regglatorv Considerations
17.    Describe the pertinent laws, regulations and standards governing environmental
quality in Kenya, health and safety, protection of sensitive aweas, protection of endangered
species, silting, land use control, etc., at local, regional, national, and if applicable,
international levels.
Task 4. Determinaio ofthe Potential-Impacts of the Propo -Ed P -oet
tion ofPod                           o
18.    Distinguish between significant positive and negative impacts, direct and indirect
impacts, and immediate and long term impacts. Identify impacts which are unavoidable or
irreversible. Consider cumulative impacts in cases where there are otlher planned or existing
projects with which this project may interact. Wherever possible, describe impacts
quantatively, in terms of environmental costs and benefits. Assign economic values when
feasible. Characterize the extent and quality of available data, explaining significant
information deficiencies and any uncertainties associated with predictions of impact.
19.    Among potential impacts that require particular attention in this case are the
following:
direct effects on people caused by the project - the need for
involuntary resettlement (covered by separate World Bank Operational
Directive) - unplanned people movement and settlements in the well-



Annex 1 1
-157-                               Page 33 of 38
field area. The long term impacts of changes in the location and
pattern of human activities caused by the project, including increased
erosion, pollution, poaching, economic activities.
the sustainability of the proposed additional off-take of water through
the well system. Threats to sustainability and potential future changes
and impacts that may be expected.
the expected primary impacts of project construction, e.g. pipelines,
roads, reservoirs and dams, treatment and distribution facilities,
including traffic disturbance, noise, injured esthetics, increased
population movements, erosion and pollution.
human health problems, water quality, pollution, the impacts on
human health in the water distribution and coastal area. Particular
attention should be paid to water borne diseases.
the effects of the flora, wildlife, ecology, biodiversity, and wildlife
habitat in the area affected by the project. Time span and effects of
physical disturbance. Irreversible changes. Mitigating measures.
the effect of additional subterranean water off-take on the ground
water regime, lowering of ground water levels, downstream river
water regime with particular reference to the sustainability of the
riverine ecology and the recharge of the aquifers, salt intrusion from
the sea due to reduced outflow.
impact on fisheries, fish migration, estuaries and marine biota,
shellfish and mollusks, water weeds.
effects on soils and riverbanks, erosion, land loss, effects caused by
the loss of agricultural lands, changes in traditional flood plain
cultivation, salt-intrusion, sedimentation, stability, preparation for
natural events.
upstream considerations, land use, pollution, constructions.
impacts on other water using projects in the Baricho - Malindi area,
including water using industries, hospitals, schools, tourism and
tourist hotels. Particular attention must be given to water-borehole
uses downstream of the well-field.
impacts on water discharge regimes to the sea with potential effects
on beaches, coral reefs, estuarine and marine life or short and near-
shore habitats.
identify specific studies which are required to fill in needed
information, particularly in terms of the water balance of the study
area, and its ecology, population and present uses, providing terms of
reference for the studies.



Annex 11
-158-
Page 34 of 38
Task 5. Analvsis of Alternaies to the Proposed-Project
20.    Describe alternatives that were examined in the course of developing the proposed
project and identify other alternatives which might have achieved the same objectives. The
concept of alternatives extends to other water sources, silting, project design, selection of
technologies and operating and maintenanc, procedures. Alternatives should be compared in
terms of potential enviromnental impacts; estimated capital and operating costs; suitability
under local conditions; and likely institutional, training and monitoring requirements. When
describing the impacts of the alternative solutions, indicate which are irreversible or
unavoidable and which can be mitigated. To the extent possible, quantify the costs and
benefits of each alternative. Include the alternative of not carrying out the project, in order to
demonstrate environmental and socio-economic conditions without it.
Tasks 6. EvYaluation and Reco-mmendations: _Development of Managzement
Plan: -Mitigation measure
21.    On the basis of the analysis and evaluation of the potential impacts and alternatives,
recommend feasible and cost-effective measures to accomplish the objectives of the project
while preventing or reducing significant negative environmental impacts to acceptable levels,
if possible. Particular care should be taken to ensure that the down-stream (of the well-field)
rivers, ecology, appearance and wildlife will be kept as unchanged as possible both during the
construction period and after the project is implemented.
22.    Mitigating measures proposed should seek to reduce the negative environmental
impacts of the project both during the construction period and long-term. This would include
suggestions for minimizing construction and operation disturbance and damage to the local
population, tourism, esthetics, wildlife, noise etc. Operating criteria for all involved
companies, firms and contractors should be made to this effect, including criteria for camp
locations and the use of machinery and people.
23.    Estimate the impacts and costs of all proposed measures, and of the institutional and
training requirements to implement them. Consider compensation to affected parties,
particularly to the local population for impacts which cannot be mitigated. Prepare a
management plan including proposed work programs, budget estimates, schedules, staffing
and training requirements, and other necessary support services to implement the mitigating
measures.
Task 7. Identification of lnstional Need.sto Implement Environmental Assessment
RBmmendations
24.    Review the authority and capability of institutions concerned with project
implementation and environmental impacts, primarily the National Water Conservation and
Pipeline Corporation, but also the Provincial and District Administrations and recommend
steps to strengthen or expand them so that the management and monitoring plans in the
environmental assessment can be implemented. The recommendations may extend to new
laws and regulations, new agency functions, interministerial and intersectoral arrangements,
management procedures and training, staffing, operation and maintenance training, budgeting
and financial support.
25.    Recommend, if appropriate, the establishment and composition of an in-house
Environmental Unit in the National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation with
adequate budget and professional staffing strong in expertise relevant to the project. It should



-159-                             Anr.ex 11
Page 35 of 38
be well represented at the project site, and work in conjunction with existing government
agencies. The Unit should be established as early as possible to help ensure that pre-project
baseline data are collected and environmental problems anticipated at an early stage. The
Unit shall be established through a formal agreement with the Bank, and the Unit should
ensure that monitoring, evaluation and that mitigating measures are implemented.
26.    Review project monitoring plans and if needed, prepare a plan to evaluate the impacts
of the project and to monitor implementation of any mitigating measures that may be
recommended. This is particularly important in terms of the impact of additional water off-
take from the subterranean rivers and ground water reservoirs in the study area, particularly
in respect to the long-term sustainability of the well-field and riverine ecology, aquifer
recharge and consequently the sustainability and long term viability of the project. Include in
the plan an estimate of operating costs and a description of other inputs (such as training and
institutional strengthening) needed to carry it out. The in-house Environmental Unit should
be involved in the long term monitoring.
Task 9. Assist in Inter-Aiency Coordination and Public/NGO Participation.
27.   In addition to the evaluation of concerned agencies described in "Task 7" and as
necessary, the environmental assessment should ascertain the views of all concerned
government agencies; in collaboration with NWCPC, ensure participation in the assessment
of relevant NGO's and ascertain the views of any affected groups. At the start of the
assessment, the study team should organize inter-agency meetings in Nairobi and Mombasa to
explain the proposed assessment, determine its scope and reach agreement on the role of each
agency and procedures to follow. In addition, appropriate meetings should be held in Malindi
and other project-affected ceiiters to inform local government agencies, tourist hotel
managers, NGO's and representatives of the local communities where applicable to ensure
their participation, as needed. The traditional system of consultation should be used. Records
should be kept of meetings and other communications activities.
RB1lQm
28.    Prepare the environmental assessment report, organized according to the outline
presented in Operational Directive 4.00 Annex Al. The main text of the report should
present the findings, analysis, conclusions and recommendations of the environmental
assessment. Supporting data should be presented in the appendices. Other agency
requirements may be included as long as the following specifications are met:
-      Executive Summary including Analysis and Recommendations.
-      Policy, legal and administrative Framework.
-      Project Description and General Setting.
-      Baseline Data.
-      Significant Environmental Impacts.
-      Analysis of Alternatives.
-      Recommendations and Management Plan.
-      Environmental Management and Training.
-      Monitoring Plan.
Appendices:
-      List of EA preparers.
-      References - additional supporting data and materials used



-160-                           Annex 11
page 36 of 38
in study preparation.
-      Record of inter-agency, NGO and other consultations.
onwalnem
29.   (a) Composition 11
Hydrologist (team leader)  2 months
Ecologist                  2 months
Resource Economist  2 months
Institution Specialist  I months
(b) Qualifications
(i) General, All consultants must hold recognized professional
qualifications in their respective fields. The team leader
should have at least 10 years relevant work experience and the
other team members at least five years.
(ii) Team InLeader :drologist). African working experience is
essential, experience in Kenya would be an advantage. Must
be experienced in various aspects of hydrology and field
hydrological studies, the hydrological relationship to ecology
and vegetation, environmental issues, geomorphology,
borehole production, water utilization and waterworks.
(iii) Ecologist. Africa experience mandatory. Must have broad
experience in riverine ecology, coastal environments, and
development impacts on the environment. Must be qualified to deal with
all aspects of tropical flora and fauna, including river, estaurine and
coastal species.
(iv)  Resource Economist. African experience mandatory. Kenyan
experience desirable. Should be resource economist
experienced in assessing environiental impacts, impacts
related to water, natural resources and tourism, and in
assigning economic values and costs where feasible. Should be
familihr with establishing costs and benefits of proposed
project activities and of measures that may be recommended to
protect the environmenit.
(v)   Institution Specialist. Expcrience in Africa mandatory. Work
experience in Kenya would be desirable. Must have
experience in analyzing and determining the impact of
Government policies and institutional design on the relevant
sector. Should have experience in dealing with issues arising
1/ Tle personnel may be covered by the project engineering consultant team with the addition
of the ecologist.



-161-                          Annex 11
Page 37 of 38
from water management and environmental policies, legislation
and Governmental organizational structure.
(c) Secific taks
(i)  Teamleader/Hydrologist. would be responsible for collating the
study and coordinating the work of other team members and
for all aspecs of the assessment not assigned to the other team-
members, in particular the hydrology of the well-field systems,
including the hydrological balance of the study area.
(ii)  Theacologist. would be responsible for the overall assessment
of the project's impact on the ecology of the study area and for
describing all aspects of the environment in the area and
environmental changes to be expected; and assess and describe
measures needed to protect the coastal environment and
riverine ecology.
(iii) :Be Rlesource Economist. will deal with all economical aspecs
relevant for the assessment, in particular assessing project
impacts and any proposed environmental remedial measures in
terms of enviromnental costs and benefits. The project's
impact on tourism shouild be included.
(iv)    e-Institution Snecialist. will review relevant legislative and
policy issues and assess whether these provide adequate
environmental protection or identify measures for those
purposes and the necessary changes, if required. Institutions
affected or involved will be reviewed as to their capacity of
supporting the environmental assessment's recommendations.
I)at Souc,es
30.    An initial list of reports to consult would be:
Feasibility study on water supply augmentation project of Mombasa Coastal
area-hinterland. Final Report. Ministry of Water Development. 1981.
World Bank project documents on the Mombasa and Coastal region water supply.
National Water Master Plan. MOWD. 1990.
Environmental profiles and other data in the files of the National Environmental
secretariat, Nairobi, Kenya.
Relevant reports in the Ministry of Water and in the National Water Conservation and
Pipeline Corporation, Nairobi and Mombasa, Kenya
Reports in the library of the Kenya Wildlife Service. Nairobi.



-162-                          Annex 11
Page 38 of 38
Materials in libraries of United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), The
International Union for the Conservation of Nature (UCN), and Wildlife Conservation
International, all in Nairobi.
Reports in the Ministry of Natural Resources at,d the Environment, and in the
Ministry of Tourism, Nairobi.



ITtUMAL ILTE9    S8MVATiGN M PIPELINE CRPMATIEN
MM0UDATED OPERATIGMS
jUE STA7EMUTS FP YM      S E5DIN-O .RE 30
('000 IGM ya  iIIiS)
,               ,__, . __ ___,  _._ _ .. ._ __ _ _. ..................................-...................____................ .. . ............................................................................................_.,... __ .. ., .. .. ..--.-.,-,,-
-- ----- - -amitd --------- --- ---------- --------- -Estimated -- -- --------- -- --- ----------------
198189     ?V959     199 J91   1991/2     199293    1993/94   1994/95    19659     1996/97
#UPW.8 AND CATwA R8GKa;:
tvai;Ese W.er S;=ty CrOday)                             95,0C0    95,00      95,0DD   115,000    135,00D   155,00D    155,030   155,000
Esr. Lhack oufcr-fLatc? (?,                                 30        30         30        30         30        30        30         30
Avaitabte SStes Volt= (r.S/ezy)                         66,5M0     66,500    66,500    30,500     94,50    108,500    108,500   108,500
varea  1'mnm C.f3fdrY)                                 196,000    202,8bO   29,960     217,309   224,915   232.787    240,934   249,367
Sates. voli    r (zitAy7                                66,500     66,500    66,50D    80,500     94,50D   108,500    108,500   108.500
Stn.z EWter Sste- VolurC (00 -31                        24.273     24.273    24,273     29,383    34,493    39,603     39,603    39,603
Avere Watrr ,ariff (f    i3                               7.96      10.48      6.28      9.42      14.13     19.78      28.68     38.72
tVrr? of Csvctions                                      66,W00     63,310    70,7D1    73,175     75,737    78,387     81,131    83,970
GyTfqeREGItCK5:
tngt Water    aTes V04uM ('00 Cs)                       33,110     48,533    48,533     58,140    58,140    58,140     58,140    58,140
Avcre- iatcr Tariff CrSbfrZ)                              0.38       0.52      0.88      1.32       1.98      2.77       4.01      5.42
Fiscot Pzr Inflation,t   (Z)                  10.65     11.60      12.05     10.50      8.50       7.50      7.50       7.50      7.50
Avera7e CGrralt Water Ta rif f                            3.55       3.E4      2.68      4.04       6.50      9.66      14.01     18.91
In:e
%&rwe sates - pcrbasaiCcess                          195 1      254,376   152,431    276,783   487,379   783S417 1,135.954   1,533,538                      c
U      5s [ Sat . - Otc Rcgia                         12,4S2     25,=      42,643     76,626   114,939   160,914    233,325   314,989
Hisceitrvou Receipts                           540       406      1.998     2.033     2,079      2,120     2,163      2,206     2.250
totat Imwrxe                                540    206,008    M145S     197,112   355,488    604,438   946,493  1,371.486 1,850,778
b ..... ......._..._.......... .....   ............   ...  -.   -   -- - -- -   ---- ----   -- - -- -   -- - -- -   --- -- --   ---------.
Satarics and Vbs                               Z13    31,161     76,4E8    50.000    60,000     72,00     86,400    103,680   124,416
A*4nistratio2 m                                       12,118     19.462    21,408    23,549     25.904    28,494     31,344    34,678
.r-,:t awratin- Expes                          94      7,958     6,000      7.200     8,640     10,368    11,405     12,545    13,800
Eictricity                                     0     23,656    42,00      50,400    60,480     72,576    87,091    104,509   125,411
Fuxt                                            0      1,5Z2     4.000      4,400     4,840     5,324      5,856     6,442      7,086
OCaeicats                                       0     15,118     28,00     33,601    48,4?c     61,563    77,950     93,540   112,248
Pair.tcrrxe                                   879     14,567     6.524      7,829     9.395     11,273    13,528     16,234    19,481
PrFCriSin for Bad VCbts                         0      6,963     8,949     (7,444)    5,371      6,468     5.806      2,285     9.940
Project Cralt7im    d Main'er  e                0          0         0
Totot lpcrating Expcnscs                   1,858   113,063    191,42S   167,395   220,746    265.476   316,532    370,580   446,860
N:et Qscs3:in ircna before Deprcc. & nt.      (1,348)   92,945    90,035     29,717   134,741    338,962   629,962  1,000,9D6  1,403,917
cepreciatien                                   467     1,599      2,065   325,435   342,456    365,343   388,021    391,246   413,056
e. Lperai-g Ircomc before Interest            (1.8157   97,346    87,90    (295,717) (207,7147   (26,381)  241,941    609,660   990.862
Tr-Itee-.t                                      0          0         0      1,163    23,210    62,752    194.928   531,420    865,770                  CM  z
Ster oprTtmi    Incom                         '1,815)   91,346    87,970   (296,880) (230,924,  (89,133)    47,013     78,240   125,092
Carratng StUbicd fran cove'rwr t                0         0     12,657 0
Hot ircK r                                    (1,815)   91,346   10D,627   (296,080) (230,9247   (89,133)   47,013    78,240    125,09 2



UATiAL INTER CMSERVAT1W NO PIPELINE CIRATIOI
#NISc.ATED OPEWATilWS
IIE STATSEV       FOR VMS ENDING AE 30
('000 KXa Sihtims)
_ _.................. ..... ........ e.............. ,_.... .. .. _............ ...... ..........____. ..... ..... ... ..._ .. -- .......... .... .............. .....
.)-Unadited .-........  -E--------------------Estiwuted -----------------------------
19U189    1989/90   1990iV7    19S7J92   1992IM 3  1993/4    199f4195  1995f96   1996/97
ASSETS
F i xed Jssets
tavw                                                                                1,80      1.80      1,800     1.8D,      1,80
Grc5s FRed Assets                           3.733    13.256    18,117 10,847,81a 11,415,187 12.178,097 12,934,017 13,041,517 13,768.517
Less: AcLumu,ited DCerec;,ticn               467      2,066     3.664   329,099   671,554  1,036,89r 1,424,918 1,816,163 2,229,219
Met fixed Assets                          3.266    11,190    14.453 10,518,718 10,743,633 11,141,2D0 11,509,09M 17,i25.354 11,539,298
btrk-inProgvess                                0    205.104   433,599   746,549 1.147,809 1,525,569 2.515,809 5,560.599 6,433,599
Total fixed Assets                        3.266   216,294   448,052 11,265,267 11,893,242 12,668,569 14,026,708 16,787.753 17,974,697
... .......  , .............  ..........  ......... ..  . ............  ............. ......... .  ... ......  ... ... .... _._ .... ............
Cvrren Assets
Cash ard 8*k Dqxsits                       4,919      6,590     2.570    41,865    53,252   164,961   295,334    345,193   511,030
Accounts teceiv*t7e                            0     69,632   159.118    84,684   138,392   203,075   261,139   283,989    383,385
Lzss; Provision for 8a Debts                   0      6,963    15,912     8,468    13,39    20,307    26,114    28,399     38,338
et Accounts geceivable                       0     62.669   143,206    76,216    124,552   182,767   235,025   255.590   345,046
lnow tories                                    0         0         0     11,457    15.677    19,5U0    24,334    29,054    34,704
Total Current Assets                      4,919    69,259   145,776   129,538    193,481  367,268   554.693    632,836   890,780
T7AL ASSES
8,155   2ZE,553    593,828 11,394,806 12,086,723 13,035,837 14,581.401 17,420,589 18,865,478
E0U1TV AND VAS?LMIES
eqjcty                                      W10000    195,024   311,051 11,446,651 12,139,094 12,947,984 13,066,886 13,121,162 13,121,162
Retaidn Edarnits                             (1,815)   ZB,883   179,510  (117,370) (348,294) (437,427) (390,414) (312,173) (187,081)
Iotat Equity                              8,1S5   273,907   490,561 11,329,281 11,790,799 12,510,557 12,676,472 12,8M0,98 12,934,O08
LcroTen oleet                                    0         0         0     14,100   267,227   493,397 1,869,366 4,572,090 S,887,284
ICurreret Cidb !i tiies
Accunts Payabte                                0     15,640    92,267    31,210    i4c48     15,584    18,694    22,051     26,042
Z4tomrs' Deposits                              0         0         0     15,216    t5,748    16,299    16,870    17,460     18,071
Overdraft                                      0        998    11,000     5,000
TotaC Ctyrert Liaitities                     0     11,646   103,267    51,425    28,696    31,883    35,563    39,511     44113
.. ,.... .... ........ .......... .......... ........ .. ...__._____. ._.... ........ .. ....... _.._...
TQTAL EQUITY -                            8,185   Z15.553   593,82  11,394,86 12,06,723 13,035,837 14,581,401 17,420,589 18,865,478               ,0
LIABILITIETS                                  ==                             ------              _________~  __=______  - -                      l
,*_,__ ,,___ ___..__...... __...... .... ..... ......... ...................... .. ._..._ ........ _ __ .. ................................           00 w
t
I-



I1XAlL IMIR a(SVATI    AI MD PIPELINE VCRMT1O
COSIDAED PWEUtATIOIS
S       ANID APPICAUTiON Co FIMS STATEITS FClt TEAS EDING JI  30
c'00 Kcnya ShitlirTs)
.--.-................... ... -. .... ...... ........ ............ ...................... .___._...................... __..... ............ . . , .._ 
....- '----------------Estinted- ...............................
1991/92   1992/93   1993/4;   199C.95   19951%    1996197
___. ... ___.............. . ,... ... ... .... __....... _............ _.__. ____............................. ____.. _........ ... ... ........
ZmS
tnterit Sources
Net ircam tefcre Interest                (295,717) (207,714)  (26,381)  241,941   609.660   990,862
eFeciatiw,                                325,435   342,456   365,343   388,021   391,246   413.056
Total l7teriul Sources                     29,717   134,741   338,962   629,962 t.OD0,906 1,403,917
....... ... ........... _ .. .......... ... ... ... _. _..... ....... _....... ...
Gavermm? Grant - Project                     75,60    385,243   304.890   118,901    54,276         0
G     Sverrwet Grut - Other Works           260,000   307,200   504,000        0          0         0
soverww't Grant - Asset Takever          !0,8OC 000
Sorrcsings
IDA Credit                                 14,10D   2533127   226.170    25.969     2,724         0
Gosrs - Fture Project                                                1,350.000 2,700.000  1.350.000 
Totat Bcrrowirgs                         1S,100   253,127   226,1M  1,375.969 2,702,724 1.3501000
TOTAL SLMCES                         11,179,41? 1,080,311  1,374,022 2.124,532 3,757.906 2,753,917
APPLICA71015
Fixed Asset Takeover frcrm Scve8,Oit     10,8.O00
Lad Acqpisition - Project                        0      1,WO
Cansssution teqLirn:ls
Prvps   Project                             3W000   152,100   239,100    21,000     3,000
other Onoing Projects                     260, 0    307,20W   504,000
Rhabilitati   orks                                   20.000   100,000   100,00    100.000    100,000
Future Projects                                                       1,500,000 3.0C0,000 1,500.000
Total Corstructicn Rczirecents          263.000   479,300   8S3.100 1.621,000 3,103,000 1.603,000
Engineering Services                        49.950    201,960   216,510   113,790    44.790
Tecmnicat Assistamre ard Training           29,700    287,370   81.060     11,370     4.500
Mebt Service
IDA Credit - interest                       1,163    23,210    62,752  63,553      85,920    86,145
- principal                                                                        34,806
Ocrms- interest                                                         111,375   445,500   779,625
- principat
Total Debt Service                        1,163    23,210    62,752   194,928   531.420   900,576
* ........... -   ----------   -- - ----   ---- ----   ----------   -- - -- -            OQ  S:
rncrrase (Decrease) in Working Capi tat     (3,691)   75,285    58,891    53.371     21,337    90.504                                  > 
TOTAL APPLICATICW                    11,140,122 1,068,924 1,262,312 1,994,459 3,705,047 2,591,080                               0   w
Surplus Funds                               39,295     11,387   111,709   130,373    52.859   162.83?
tpning Cah Sare                              2,570    41,86s     53,252   164,961   295.334   348,193
Ctosing Cat alwae                           41,865    53,.5Z    164,961   295,334   348,193   511.030
..... ....--__. -__ .---.......-...--...-.......-..........--.....-....... -----... .--..----....-...-----__-----.....-..-.........---...........-.................--.....--._-



NRTIOM    IVTER MRt: TZJ I AND PIPELINE CfW:ATIG
COWI0ATED PEIATIW1S
t5.;0S OF FIIKAIAL PEUREIM
. _ _ ~~~~~~~~..._               ,  . .............,  ,__  ,_... _  _.... Esim e  ... ... .. . ..................._....
Estimtsed -F----------*v--
1VWDJ90   I990/91   1991/92   1992/93   199/94    1994/95   1945;96   1996197
WERAU. ownI
ut  :maloat:
ite       inl4 er Voltle CZ)                            0         0        21         17        15         0         0
Increns in Water Tariff (C)                             0        26        50        SO         40        45        35
GrOmth tn Ihter 1.teru  CZ)                            32        (40)       82        76        61        45        35
Other tegias:
rncrew  in Wter Votul  (C)                             47         0        20         0         0          0         0
Trwreae in Water Tariff CZ)                             0        70        50        50        40         45        35
Grawth in Wter tevenwes CZ)                            101        70       80         SO        40        45        35
Cot idited Qrat iaws:
Gratt in coroti7cted Revenues C                        37        (30)      s0         70        57        45        35
Increme inOveralt hater Tariff (t)                      7        (30)      51        61        49         45        35
Cturent Assetslltrrent Liabilities            5.9       1.4       2.5       6.7       11.5      15.6      16.0      20.2
hsick Assets/current Liabitities              0.6       0.0       0.8        1.9      5.2        8.3       8.8      11.6
lWATI3G PV        a
omratinig Eapnses/   Qevvxs                    55        68        85        62        44         _3        27        24                                 0
MWITAUJITY
Retum a' Met Fixnd Assets                                         0.6        1.3      3.1        5.6       8.8      12.3
Retum rn  Equity                                                  0.5        1.2      2.8        5.0       7.9      10.9
ZE8T, FIAUCTAL LEWRAGE
Debt Service Coverae                                             25.5       5.8        5.4       3.2       1.9       1.6
Interest Coerage                                                 25.5       5.8       5.4       3.2        1.9       1.6
Lao-tem Ot/EqJity                             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.1        0.4       0.5
Lao-teru 0t/(0ebt - EqLity)                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.1        0.3       0.3
RECIN3LES - os#Cvestal Region
ReceivabdesJAmzl Psnts CDu (Qays)             130       225       200        180      10        120        90        90
o M



- 167 
Annx_ 12
Page 5 of 6
NATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION AND PMELINE. CORPORATION
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PRO               QINS
.COME STATEMENTS
1.     Available Water Supply. Assumes an increase of 20,000 m3Mday in FY92/93 with
completic;i of a German-funded augmentation scheme. An additional 40,000 m'lday is estimated
to become available mid-way through FY93194 with completion of the proposed project.
2.     Water Demand. Assumes 3.5% growth annually, in line with the national growth rate.
3.     Nu mr qf.CQnnW!tiQns. Assumes 3.5% growth annually, in line with the natiors.l
growth rate.
4.     LVater Salts. Average tariff multiplied by the annual water sales volume.
5.     Miscellanegus Receipts. Assumes a modest increase of 2% growth per year.
6.     S1aE      Includes a decrease of about 1/3 during FY91/92 corresponding to the decrease
in staff which were returned to the Ministry of Water Development, and assumes a 20% increase
annually thereafter.
7.     AdmiCisfratign. Assumes a 10% increase per year.
8.         olas- Oerating-Expnses. Assumes a 20% increase per year from FY91192 through
FY93194 and a 10% increase per year thereafter.
9.    jjfr  tT . Assumes a 20% increase per year.
10.    X.I. Assumes a 10% increase per year.
11.      5wigaI5. Assumes current average cost of KSh 0.385Imn Increases by about 20% per
year and Is multiplied by the volume of water sold.
12.    Mab%n=JS  . Assumes an increase of 20% per year to bring the rundown facilities into
better operating condition.
13.       D     S4y           Assumed at 10% of accounts receivables, in line with financial
policy.
14.    12Cgrjim. Assumed at 3% of gross fixed assets aHW assuming that total assets
transferred to NWCPC will be valued by end-FY92193. A notional value of KSSh 10,800,000,00
(US$400,000,000) for the fixed assets transferred has been included in the analysis in the
meantime.
15.     tci  . Assumes NWCPC will pay 16.5% on borfowings to be repaid over 20 years
with a S-year grace period on repayment of principal, corresponding to the implementation period
of the project.



- 168 -
Annex 12
Page 6 of 6
BAL&E1
1.     Gross FixedA=. Includes notional value of assets transferred to NWCPC as well as
the proposed project and other ongoing projects in the year of commissioning. The cost of
technical assistance and training is also included annually.
2.    WYrkwin-PE  gress. Includes construction costs of all projects and associated engineering
services until commissioning.
3.     Accounts Receivable. Assumes number of days of receivables will decrease gradually
from about 225 days of billings during FY90/91 to:
FY91192       200 days
FY92/93       180 days
FY93/94       150 days
FY94195       120 days
FY95196        90 days
4.     IIpentoris. Assumed at 25% of annual costs of fuel, chemicals and maintenance
expenditures.
5.     Accounts Payal. Assumed at 3 months of expenditures during FY91/92 and at 1 month
of expenditures thereafter.
6.     Customers' Deposits. Estimated at about KSh 14,701,000 as of end-FY90191 and
estimated to grow at 3.5% per year thereafter.
E              tCE_S AND ALCATIONS OF EUNDSSATMENTS
1.     Government Grant - Proiect. Assumes Government will provide 11% of the total cost of
the project as an equity contribution to NWCPC.
2.     Governnent- Ga    t -Oe    ok. Assumes Government will provide 100% of the cost
of other ongoing projects, previously arranged, as an equity contribiition to NWCPC.
3.     Gioernment G   r      a   k    r. Assumes Government will transfer all assets to
NWCPC as an equity contribution.
4.     BoMftings.       C      Assumes 89% of the cost of the project will be financed by the
IDA Credit.
5.     =orrowingS - Donors. -bturePrect. Assumes 90% of the cost of the future project
will be financod by donors with the bal ace of 10% to be provided by NWCPC.



169   --                                                Annex     13
KENYA                                              Page 1 of 4
SECOWNI) MOMBASA ANDCOASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILATnON PRQJECT
ECONOMC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION
Inrreu.  Incres.   incres.   Total   Increm.   Cash      ERR
Investat, Water Operation Incres. Revenue Flcw
Cost     Sales     Co5t     Cost   Benefits Base Pase Guesi:
YEAR   KSh mill.Mil. #3/yXSh ill.Ksh sill.Ksh *ill.Ksh uill.      25.00,
1       13.93     0.00      0.00    13.93     0.00      1$14)
2      150.53     0.00      0.00   150.53     0.00     ($151)
3      216.11     5.11     37.41   253.52    59.12     ($194)
4       23.10     10.22    76.04    99.14   148.60       $49
5        2.26     10.22    76.04    78.30   179.67      $101
6                 10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
7                 10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
8                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
9                 10.22    76.04    76.04   119.67      $104
10                10.22     76.04    76.04   179.67     f104
11                10.22     76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
12                10.22     76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
13                10.22     76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
14                10.22     76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
iS                10.22     76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
16                10.22     76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
17                10.22     76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
18                10.22     76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
19                 10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
20                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
21                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
22                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
23                 10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
24                 10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
25                 10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67      $104
26                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
27                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
28                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
29                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
30                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
31                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
32                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
33                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
34                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
35                 10.22    76.04    76.04    179.67     $104
ERR435y):   23.11



.4.
A4.
16C1t                                                            6              olittl1  0S                                             si              U'tttltIZt
9015               Sit$              LZI$              US                  1$               091               Bit                us5               9*5              IN S               985                                      S.I 
901S              till               MhS                M   ~             01$               091               5*5               oil                9*1               28                Sit5
9015              b11$               z2l                                   t IS aS1$0*iLl                                        on5               ea$               WS1               915*
to Is              Wls               ZZII              as                oil                09                WL                 us1               9*5a             309*               915                #Its
901$              bill               z21$              Ull                OLS               CIS               lug               ai5                9*1               e90               955                NIS$
9ol5              1115               z11$              zl.                01$               cis               5*5                us5               9*5               INS               915                sols                  a
9015              kilt15               It5             195               oil                091               8*5                a"                95$               899               985toi                                   S
9015               WS1               191$              Est                11$               095               ILI               681                99$               gsO               91$               *I$                    It
9015              tits               57.15             7.9                01                09$               Lis                as5               9*1               Bit               fit                lots                  IL
9011              5111               57.1$             7.9$              ML                 094                M                 66$               9*5               801               "S5                50Is                 la
9011              k11$               ails              7.9                01I               095               WS1                an                9*5                915              "aS                 o                     1
9011              kill               7.11$             as9                011               CIS               In                8u$                9*5               895               955$11             *o.7. 
lots1                   tits               191$              7.9$              all                09$               611o              WS                 9*1               1115              "85                l01                   Li
901$               bIll              1915              US9               0*1I               09$               8*5                got               9*1               29S               9103I                                    St
901$              tits               191$              ass3              01                 all               US1                t5                9*5               89                v35aOs                                   It
901$               WS1               191$              7.9,               01$               09                Ild                WS5               9*5               905               got                lots                  S
9015               Ws1               191$              7.9               Olt                091               551                865               9*5               891               f15                501t                  511
9015              k11$               Z115              7.9               011                of*               $11                as5               9*5                "       99591                       04                     I
9015              kits               191$              7.95               0*5               0tt               61$               as5                9*1               a's               "S1                Solt
I01S               WS1               1915              7.9                015               t*91 145591;                                                           L'S               99$                101
9015              511$               191$              us9                all               05$               Bit                Gas               901               895               915                 Wls         
S0M              *7111               *115              OD*               191                ass               9*8               98                 gas               cis               AS$                lots
ibizi)   litzli             (561),            USED1              MMiS              UY I S1           C9!.Z5l           t959si             119*1             IIOZSI            tOOLS,             01111
(181$)            119151             1191*1            119951            (til1)             (991$)            199151            (1911              199151            11l$16             S1911*            tlIi5
*111i   11s0'21   (W)1     loi)91   1515     10u9Z     UIII     )UO91    WS)      10091    (S1W     Z*9        95 1001t0IS  A   (till    100u1    1915)    1OJ'G     4si    ZO1" tll          U.l,c1   (IslU    1GaC.         I



Annex 13
-171-                                       Page 3 of 4
KENYA-Second Ilsbasa and Coastal Water Supply Engineering and Rehabilitation Project
Econouic Rate of Return Calculation with Shadow Pricing
Increm.  Incres.  Incres.  Total   Incres.   Cash     ERR
Investut. Mater Operation Incres.   Revenue   Flow
Cost     Sales    Cost    Cost   Benefits Oase Case Guess:
YEAR   KSh sill.hil. e3/yKSh sill.Ksh mill.Ksh sill.Ksh mill.  25.002
1       13.73    0.00     0.00    13.73     0.00     1$14)
2      154.43     0.00     0.00  154.43     0.00    ($1541
3      225.76    5.11    37.41   263.17    59.12    ($204)
4       24.04    10.22   76.04   100.0   148.60      $49
5        2.20    10.22   76.04    70.24   179.67     $101
6                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     9104
7                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     1104
8                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
9                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
10               10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67    $104
11               10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67    *104
12               10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67     9104
13               10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67    $104
14               10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
15               10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67    $104
16                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
17               10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67    $106
10               10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
39               10.22    76.04    76.04   179.67    $104
20                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     9104
21                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
22                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
23                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
24                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     *104
25                10.22   76.04    76.0*   179.67     $104
26                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     9104
27                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     9104
28                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
29                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
30                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     910l
31                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
32                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     $104
33                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     9104
34                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     *104
35                10.22   76.04    76.04   179.67     9104
ERR13Sy)s   22.489



1meii2t   -in?     outfits -20?         "ifats ,-0?-C   l,efs ',4?         Benefits -10?      Scowl its -20?    Iwiwf its -10?     Benefits -20?     Benefits '10?      Benefits Ito?      sent-fits +102
TM           cast Sase       Cost *,-0?        Cost #,-CZ         cost 410?          Cost '20?         Cost 410?          Cost '102          cost .202         Cost 420?          Cost #,-Ox         cost +10?         Cost 4,20?
kms    CAsh flow   FSts   CaS5   ic $10 Srzs  Cisi Fie*  Emns   Cash flog  Emns   Cast, Flop   eons  Cash Flow  Owns    Cash Ftow  Evess  Cash Flow   guess  Cash Flaw  Guess   CAsh Flow  Guess   Cash Flow  GUPSS  Eash Fits
I       2500       4524)  795.0-14    Isis)  270.00?     1114)   7S.=0      253)   20.00?     (116)   20.00?     IsSM    15.00?    25151    15.M 02      g 5 10 25.00?   45162  215.00?    (114)    73.00?    I1ls)   20.00?     (526)
7             412552             2~1154)  14      (5251)             (1270)             (Ills)            (1170)             15170)             11185)            [t1es2             (l1st)             (silo)            (11951
S            ~~~~~(1-04)         (5210)            (52262             (1230             (5257              (5gm"              11242)             (5263)            (5269)             ISM9)              45224)            (1251)
4                   It?                534                119               $37                1749               $24                59                II                  130              to3                55                 543
5             1200~~~ID           513                165                594               186                *7                159                $61                550               SIl9               1122              slot
6             5104~~~W            186                561                576               SE                 I7C                no0               570                152               1122              $114               5106
7                  SIDI                15,                 69               596                09                 179               100                170               552               1122               1124               5100
9                  1104                18                  69                176               so9                171               500                170               5Su               1122                1124              S10b
10                  viol                180               161                596                19                578                160                570               552               5122               $214              1100
II                  5204                186                56                190               $19B                171               10                 170                552              1122               $114               Slob
22                  slot                186               $61                190                $11                171               560                170                $52              $122               5114               1106
IS                  514                M9                 568               56                 so9                173               10                 170                55               1122               $114               5106
15                  1106                11                to9                19                 19                 1711              $60                170                552              $122               5224               5106
26                  1104                186               16                 591                199                171               50                 57                 152              5122               51114              1106
Is                  sl04                Su6                111               P6SEYIOI IN 17                                           6010                                  5                12                1114               5100
11                  slot               158                 169               596                to9                171               100                $70                152              9112               1114              I1106
p9                  1204                $II               $19                190                19                 17,               560                170                15               1122               5114               5106
Is                  Slog               1Su                 M1                $90                58B                $71               160                I70                552              1122               5114               $)00
22                  5104                156                168               196                so9                17                 16o               570                152              5122               fill               1100 
23                  1105                Su6                161                190               in9                178                160               170                652               1122               5114              s206
24                 1M0#                 196                168                110               183                179                160               170                152               1122              1114               1206
25                  104                fib       16       56                $6                 to9                178                510               170                552              $122               $1146              slob 1
26                  1101                554                161                196               53                 571                100               170                15                1122               1114              1100
27                  1104                116                5E8                516               to                 SIB                160               170                552              $1222               5114              slob
25                  1104                11                 561                190                M9                579                1fi0              570                152               1122               $Ill              1100
29                  tics                $96                188               696                Sao                171               510                570                552              S1222              Sil4                100
30                  fl04                gm1                II                596                SE9                617                100               170                15212                      1125124                     1106
2)                  1104                18                 to1               SU96                19178                                160               170               1IN                1122              $114               1l06
32             5~~~       ~~104    19                 161               596               1i9                 37910                                570si              552              $122               $114              $106
33            ~~~~~1104            lo6               1169               596                58                  78               100                170                152              5222               1114               1100
31                  1104                11                 168               196                185                179               660                170                152              S122               1124               11I0
35             1)04~~~lo           tab               109                190                198                179               $00                170                152              $1222               1124              1106
E191350:     22.43?             28.13%             MM61              19.99              10.0)?            15.412             11.70?             12.0?              9.M9              26.27              22.4R              19.28
Qto~
I-"    n
.5



- 173 -
ANNEXg 14
KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
OUTLINE OF TRAINING PROGRAM
For the period FY92193 - FY94/95
ESTIMATED
COST
DESCRIPTION                       MAN-YEARS           (US$ eguivalent)
Postgraduate courses in Engineering,             20                  200,000
Scientific Subject, Computer Studies,
Accountarcy, Personnel Administration and
Management
(Kenya and Overseas)
Diploma and Higher National Diploma Courses      40                   20,000
(Engineering, Management/Administration,
Accounting)
(Kenya)
Diploma courses in Electronics,                   8                   60,000
Telecommunication and Instrumentation
(Kenya and Overseas)
CPA, ACCA courses in Accounting, Auditing         20                  55,000
and Administration
(Kenya)
Selected Workshops, seminars and short                                90,000
courses (Engineering, Water Resources
Management, Management and Administration
(Overseas)
TOTAL                                     425,000
NO.E:
NWCPC to submit detailed training program for each fiscal year,
satisfactory to the Association as a condition for disbursement.



- 174 -
ANNEX 15
Page I of 4
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AMD REHABILITATION PROBECT
Projegt Monitoring Guidelines
General
1.    The following guidelines were prepared to facilitate planning and to evaluate achievement of
technical, financial, management and training goals. These will be included in quarterly reports to be
submitted to the Association. Performance targets for indicators (where applicable) are shown on the
attachment to this annex.
Monitoring Guidelines
2.     NWCPC would develop and maintain records on the following:
A.       at  stemOperation Dgta
1.    Water production: daily production at source works, water level recording in
the reservoirs, metered production at the treatment plant(s);
2.     Water consumption: metered monthly consumption and revenues billed for all
categories of water demand and consumption blocks including, but not
restricted to, the following uses: (i) residential; (ii) commercial, industrial,
and (iii) governmental/institutional.
3.     Unaccounted for water by month.
4.     Numbers of connections listed by consumer category and consumption blocks,
including residential connections of the following types: (i) private
connections; (ii) public standposts; (iii) water selling kiosks; and (iv) others.
5.    Interruptions in service: the extent to which water service was interrupted on a
quarterly basis with specific details of: (a) frequency, (b) duration, and (c)
cause of interruption.
1.    Quarterly forecasts of expenditures are to be prepared for each contract within
thlree mondhs of signiature of contract. Quarterly reports are to indicate



- 175 -
ANNEX I5
Page 2 of 4
percentage completion of original forecasts and revised forecast of expenditure
for remainder of contract.
2.     Descriptive report on progress with the implementation of the individual
project components (including progress on consultancies and physical works
on the rehabilitation/augmentation component.
C.     Financiat Indicators (required annually)
1.    Increase in Water Tariff (Coast Region - other regions);
2.     Growth in Water Revenues (Coast Region - other regions);
3.     Value of Gross Fixed Assets (with special regard to the progress of valuation
of assets and liabilities);
4.     Retum on Net Fixed Assets;
5.     Interest coverage;
6.     Current ratio;
7.     Operating ratio;
8.     Accounts receivable;
9.     Collection performance by category of customier; and
10.    Six-years projection of NWCPC's financial perfornmance.
D.     Staffing and TUrinin2
1.     Sltffng (end of financial year)
(a) Number of permanent employees;
(i)   Professional,
(ii)   Subprofessional.
2.     Train!in
(i)    Number of staff trained during financial year by category duration,
and type of training (viz., on-the-job, off-the-job),
(ii)   Detailed training program for next fiscal year.



- 176 -
ANNIEX 15
Page 3 of 4
E.     ComplianCe WIth!Credt-ConditionS
1.    Financial covenants (with special regard to auditing requirements);
2.     Other conditions of the Credit.
Consulion with theAsociation
3.     NWCPC will consult with the Association as required, but at least to the project cost estimate
and amendment of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement, and on tariff increases required by category
of customer. Supervision missions are planned in 3 to 4 months intervals.



- 177 -
ANNEX 15
Attachment
Page 4 of 4
KENYA
ISCQNL1) MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
INIEERNG AND REHIABILTATIO 
Etaonmnce largets
Coteoeries:
FY92/93        FY93/94        FY94/95        FY95/96         FY96/97
A.3.  Unaccounted for water                  40             35             30             25            <25
A.4. Nu6ber of cornections
by consumer category              Setting up   .  ........ Recording and Book Keeping .....
of Data Base
C.2. Growth in Water Revenue (t)
Ho*NZse Region                     82             76             61             45             35
Other Region                       80             50             40             45             35
C.3.  Value of Gross Fixed Assets       Valuotion In   <..-.-      Revalued Fixed Assets .-.   -.-.     -
Propresa
C.5.   interest Coverage                      5.8            5.4            3.2           L19             1.6
C.6. Current Ratio                            6.7           11.5           15.6           16.0           20.2
C.7. Operating Ratio                         62.0           44.0           33.0           27.0           24.0
C.B. Account Receivable                     180            150            120             90             90
(Days)



- 178 -
ANNEX 16
KENYA
SECOND MOMBASAEAND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Water Tariff Rates
(Effective,as of October 1 199L)
Water Consumption          Mombasa/Coastal        Other Urban            Rural
( m3 I month              --------------------- -----w---( Ksh / m3 )--------- -----*------------
No Meter                          30.00*             30,00*             30.00*
0 - 10                           30.00*             30.00*             30.00*
10 -30                             3.50               3.50               3.00
30- 50                             7.50               7.50               5.00
50-100                            10.00              10.00               5.00
100-                              12.50              12.50               7.00
* Flat Rate
Note: The new average rate of tariff is estimated to be increased by some 50 percent, over
the previous average rate of tariff.



IBRD 23240
sUDA      ETHIOPIA
UGANDA
/ R s_- o f 4 4~~~ KENYA                                                   0
0                 I;vban,I ;) )r 
1 ~ ~~~~~~ 0.~' Sl 1;0 >(<.                                             tII       . 
. ._  s  ' S t v \'2ES}E:RS  JCENITRAL
0... .-KISUMUANIA
0J >@t  /~ ov0K .  NAKURU                                       _   _,,,,,
\  )        - '-\ ;'"f  /     9 "p.                           - - 
- '         l                                     U ,  
0 NYERI C
0
/   MACHAKOS '-'
0   SOUTHERN
KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND
COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND                           0   0
REHABILITATION PROJECT
NATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION                                    COAST
AND PIPELINE CORPORATION        oANZANIA,0
OPERATIONAL REGIONS           TANZANIA
0  WATER SCHEMES
S  OPERATIONAL REGION HEADQUARTEIRS
   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  \             MOMBASA /
OPERATIONAL REGION BOUNDARIES
0   INDIAN
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          0 \/
\   /  OCEAN
I0LOhiETERS 0  50  100  150   20,
I     I     1.    1I     I                                       o 1
"ILES 0      50 1i.
SEPTEMBER 1991



IBRD 23241
\  hASTITRIMT Norrobi                                                                                  Th,Gw. ,,        .
                         /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
VALLEY                                                                                 /
LII
MALINDI        LINDY
2~~~2 ~~KENYA
COAST^rJ  V|VOS\   coasr   \S               SECOND MOMBASA AND
COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND
;  9</( KIUIFI K  1/     REHABILITATION PROJECT
t' |.in      t        <@9tFNATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION
AND PIPELINE CORPORATION
Coost Region
N T
R_ 5    -       MA .  ND                     WATER TRANSMISSION LINES AND
G.                            a IBOOSTER PUMPING STATIONS
\    SOURCE WORKS
-                                                                                                S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WS  WATER TANK(S
.UDAN                                                                                            MAINLAND       W      ES SUB-AREA OFFICES
ETHIOA       M   MBASA MOMBASA           LZ    SUB-AREAS
JS   t o i :   \  _.SS1WLIKONI  PROPOSED SITE FOR NEW WELLFIELD
Tu rurkrJno    o                   \                              /       E<J/                                       ROADS
dwMore  hfSOUTH                             GAME RESERVES
COAST  ~ ~~~~~~~----DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
DJ<J KENYA | TANZANIA                            \                                        / S iNDX-Im' PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Lake                                                   \                     /f                    OCEAN                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
r; 0NAIROBl       \                                      \             -                  .
TANZA IA    rJ  w  JN INTDrSeox                                                                         3  I,h  .,.,  "''' "'..''-, '
Iabs  NDIAN                                                                                      -    
os,_ * OCEAN                                                                                                                      1
_  5   I                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVErMsER 1991



