Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19474
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY ENGINEEERING
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2333-KE)
June 23, 1999
Water and Urban Unit
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoul
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings (KSh)
US$1.00 = 28.12 KSh Jan. 1992
US$1.00 = 36.13 KSh Jan. 1993
US$1.00 = 67.33 KSh Jan. 1994
US$1.00 = 44.48 KSh Jan. 1995
US$1.00 = 56.32 KSh Jan. 1996
US$ 1.00 = 54.78 KSh Jan. 1997
US$1.00 = 61.39 KSh Jan. 1998
US$1.00 = 60.75 KSh Jun. 1998
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FY         Fiscal Year
GoK        Government of Kenya
IDA        International Development Association
MCM        Municipal Council of Mombasa
MWR        Ministry of Water Resources
NWCPC    National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation
RoK        Republic of Kenya
RWSG/EA  Regional Water and Sanitation Group for East Africa
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
WSD        Water and Sewerage Department of NCC
NCC        Nairobi City Commission
Vice President       Callisto E. Madavo
Director             Harold E. Wackman
Sector Manager       Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader     Alain R. Locussol



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
[Credit 2333-KE]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .............................................1
A.  Project Identity                                          .I
B. Background .
C.         Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives & Components.                         2
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives                                 .4
E.    Major Factors Affecting the Project                                .7
F.  Project Sustainability                                       .8
G.  IDA's Performance                                             .8
H.  Borrower's Perforance                                          .8
I.  Assessment of Outcome                                         .9
J.  Future Operations                                          .9
K.  Key Lessons Learned                                          .9
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ................................................1  I
Table 1 - Summary of Assessments ................................................              11
Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................................... ,        .        .... 12
Table 3 - Project Timetable ....................................                               12
Table 4 - Credit Disbursements ....................................                            13
Table 5 - Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................       16
Table 6 - Key Indicators for Project Operations ....................................           18
Table 7 - Studies Included in Project .................................... 19
Table 8A - Project Costs ....................................                                  20
Table 8B: Project Financing ............................................................ ............................... 21
Table 9 - Economic Rate of Retum ..........................................R.                  22
Table 10 - Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                23
Table 11 - Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................ 25
Table 12 - Estimated Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................... 26
Table 13 - Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................                 27
ANNEXES
A.    Final Supervision and Completion Mission Report
B.    Borrower's contribution to the ICR
C.    Operational Plan By Borrower
Map - IBRD Nos. 23240, 23241
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2333-KE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Implementation Completion Report (PICR) for the Second Mombasa and
Coastal Water Supply Engineering and Rehabilitation Project in the Republic of Kenya, for which
Credit 2333-KE in the amount of SDR 31.8 million was approved on February 11, 1992, the
Development Credit Agreement was signed on March 13, 1992, and the Credit made effective on
September 10, 1992.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998 after three extensions from the original closing date
of June 30, 1996. The Credit was fully disbursed and final disbursement took place on March 18,
1999.
This ICR was prepared by Mr. Solomon Alemu, Water Supply Engineer (AFTU 1), with the
assistance of Messrs. Alain R. Locussol, Principal Water and Sanitation Specialist (AFTU1) and
Tejbir Singh Phool, consultant. The ICR was reviewed by Messrs. Jeffrey Racki, Sector
Manager, AFTU 1 and Harold Wackrnan, Country Director for Kenya.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during an IDA supervision mission in February 1998 and a
completion mission in December 1998, to which also participated Messrs.: A. Locussol (AFTU 1),
J.Ogallo, Financial Analyst (AFMKE) and J. Karuiru, Implementation Support Officer
(AFMKE). The PICR is based on materials in the Project file and data obtained during the
completion mission. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the PICR by stating its
views as reflected in the mission's Aide Memoire (Appendix A), and by providing an extensive
separate evaluation of the Project's preparation and implementation, that is attached to the PICR
(Appendix B).



i
KENYA
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2333-KE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   The Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Engineering and Rehabilitation Project
for which Cr. 2333-KE was approved in 1992 was supposed to be the first step of a long tenn
program aiming at improving the water supply and waste water disposal service in Mombasa and
the Coastal Region. Previous Bank group involvement in the Urban and Water sectors since 1970
in Kenya consisted of three urban development projects and five water supply projects. Four of
the latter aimed at improving the water supply and sanitation situation in Nairobi; the most recent,
the Third Nairobi Water Supply Project (Credit 2060-KE) closed in June 1998 (PICR No 18708).
The First Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project (MCWSP-I Loan 1167-KE), implemented
between 1976 and 1983, aimed at improving the water supply situation in Mombasa and the
Coastal Region by tapping surface water in the Sabaki river and enhancing the distribution
systems.
Project Objectives and Components
2.    Project Objectives. The objectives of the Project were to: (i) provide support to the
National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) to help ensure its institutional,
operational and financial viability; (ii) carry out pre-investment studies and engineering designs
for the extension of the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply System and the related waste water
disposal systems aimed at improving provision of safe water and better sanitation; (iii) reduce the
water supply deficit (presently about 60%) in the near tenn through rehabilitation/augmentation
of existing facilities; and (iv) ensure that adverse environmental impacts of the follow-on project
and of the rehabilitation and augmentation works under this project would be minimized.
3.    Project Components, Cost and Financing Plan. The Project included four main
components: (i) institutional support including mostly advisory services, supply of equipment,
computerization of billing and training; (ii) pre-investment studies covering mostly bulk water
supply, distribution network, sewerage, drainage and sanitation; (iii) rehabilitation and
augmentation works including mostly groundwater exploration, wellfield development,
rehabilitation of the Mzima pipeline, the Sabaki/Baricho scheme and the distribution network;
and (iv) environmental impact assessments and mitigation measures. The Project did not focus
on the incentive frameworkthat would have helped improve NWCPC efficiency. The Project
was appraised before it was completely designed, ignoring lessons learned from MCWSP-1. The
total cost of the Project was estimated at US$48.7 million equivalent, of which the IDA Credit of
SDR3 1.8 million (US$43.2 million equivalent) would finance about 89%, with the remaining
US$5.5 million, or about 11%, to be provided by the Government as an equity to NWCPC.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
4.    ProjectAchievements. The Project has achieved its objective of carrying out pre-
investment studies. The rehabilitation and augmentation works have been completed satisfactorily



ii
and have reduced the water supply deficit, but have not increased coverage significantly The
Project failed to help NWCPC achieve institutional, operational and financial viability.
5.    Project Cost and Timetable. The final Project cost at completion was US$50.7 million,
as compared with the appraisal estimate of US$48.7 million equivalent. A request to finance a
US$2.5 million cost overrun is being investigated.
6.    Project Implementation. The closing date of the Project was extended three times to
December 31, 1998 from its original date of June 30, 1996. Disbursement was suspended for
eight months in 1994/95 due to late submission of audit reports. A few components of the
original Project description were not implemented; the development of the Tiwi wellfield was
added to the Project in 1996.
7.    Factors Affecting the Project - Outside of Government Control. The Project was
affected by the depreciation of the Kenyan currency against the US Dollar which allowed
financing of the Tiwi wellfield, but also reduced NWCPC's capacity to finance regular
maintenance because of the increase of the cost of imported spare parts in local currency. Kenya,
like most Eastern African countries, faced torrential floods associated with the El Nino
phenomenon towards the end of Project implementation that resulted in damage to constructed
facilities, delays of completion of civil works contracts and finally led to additional costs.
8.    Factors Affecting the Project - Subject to Government Control. Late release by GOK of
counterpart financing led to delays in payments to contractors and eventually to additional costs.
GoK granted three taTiff increases to NWCPC in 1994, 1995 and 1997, the latter after two and a
half years delay. GoK performance as one of NWCPC's major customers was unsatisfactory,
with about 20% of NWCPC's accounts receivable with its agencies.
9.    Factors affecting the Project -Subject to Implementing Agency Control. NWCPC
implemented the physical components of the Project satisfactorily, although with significant
delays and possibly a cost overrun. NWCPC hasa share of responsibility in its deteriorating
performance by not making good use of Project funds to improve its commercial operations and
by not pursuing the metering program. Disconnection of chronic late payers was not strictly
enforced. Subsidies provided by NWCPC's operations in the Coastal Region to other operations
have limited its capacity to fund maintenance in the former.
10.   The sustainability of the Project is rated unlikely. Major deficiencies in NWCPC's
commercial management still remained to be addressed, particularly outside the Project area.
GoK is somewhat reluctant to address the fundamental issue of transfonning NWCPC into a
financially viable utility; at closing, NWCPC was insolvent. NWCPC experiences difficulties in
funding maintenance and some works built by the Project could rapidly deteriorate. The
likelihood of a follow-up water supply and sanitation project that would significantly improve the
service in Mombasa and the Coastal Region and effectively use the technical feasibility studies
financed by the Project is uncertain in the absence of a credible plan for improving NWCPC's
performance, probably involving private sector participation in delivery of services.
11.   Overall, IDA's performance was unsatisfactory. While lessons learned from earlier
projects show that establishment of the financial credibility of the utility should precede a major
investment, the Project focused mostly on technical issues. IDA did not encourage GoK to
investigate institutional arrangements that would have created incentives for addressing
NWCPC's shortcomings and to implement a cost recovery policy that would have signaled the
economic cost of service to customers. Though during supervision IDA's performance was
satisfactory, it suffered from the deficiencies of the Project design and did not result in NWCPC's



iii
financial viability. Overall, the Borrower's-performance was also unsatisfactory. Physical
components were implemented satisfactorily according to standards but with substantial delays
and possibly a cost overrun. NWCPC's commercial and financial performance were consistently
unsatisfactory, and non- compliance with Credit covenants resulted in a suspension of
disbursement in 1994/95.
12.   Project Outcome. The Project outcome is rated unsatisfactory. The Project did not
improve NWCPC's commercial and financial performance. Although the Project did
satisfactorily complete technical pre-investment studies and did initiate corresponding
environmental impact assessments and mitigation plans, it did not pay attention to two of the pre-
requisites for follow-up activities, i.e., the financial credibility of the water utility and the
affordability of an improved service. All physical components of the original description were
implemented and production increased by about 40,000 m3/day.
Future Operations and Lessons Learned
13.   Future Operations. NWCPC has produced an operation plan. It forecasts an increase in
water revenue of about 15% per year over the next three years which appears unrealistic since the
financing to enhance the distribution network is not available. Consequently, NWCPC's financial
problems are expected to continue. Also, NWCPC is likely to experience major difficulties in
financing maintenance of facilities built under the Project, as well as of the fragile Mzima
transmission line, unless key issues listed above are rapidly addressed. It is now unlikely that a
follow-up project to extend the water supply and waste water service to the unserved population,
and drastically improve NWCPC's commercial and financial performance in the Coastal Region
can become effective soon, since additional studies, in particular to investigate options for private
sector participation in the delivery of the service still have to be carried out and a consensus
among stakeholders on the preferred option still has to be reached.
14.   The main lessons learned from the Project are:
-  The water utility company implementing the Project should be financially viable; efforts
should focus first on establishing its credibility by addressing issues of corporate incentives
as well as sound commercial, pricing and financial practices, probably within a frame work of
private sector participation in delivery of services; provision of simple technical assistance
and operating equipment to improve commercial and financial performance is perhaps
necessary but often insufficient - some form of private sector participation seems a better
option; improvement of the financial situation of a water utility company depends as much on
regular tariff level adjustments as on improvement of commercial procedures, extension of
the customer base and the discipline of government agencies in paying their bills; and the
sustainability of a water supply and waste water management operation depends on the
proper assessment of the economic cost of providing the service and of the willingness to pay
of its potential customers.
* Detailed project preparation should be undertaken before appraisal; and introduction of new
components in the Project description may result in unforeseen cost overruns.



1
KENYA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT (Cr. 2333-UG)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
Name            Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Engineering and Rehabilitation
Project
Credit No    : 2333-KE
RVP Unit     : Africa
Country         Kenya
Sector          Water Supply and Sanitation
B.   Background
1.    The Republic of Kenya (RoK) covers about 583,000 km2 stretching inland from the
Indian Ocean to the Lake Victoria, straddling the Equator. The main stay of its economy is
agriculture which employs 80 % of the population and contributes to about 25% of the GDP and
to about half ofthe merchandise export. RoK's population reached 28 million in the late 1990s,
at an average annual growth rate of about 3.6%. About 8 million, or 30% of the total population,
live in urban centers.
2.    Mombasa, the second largest city of the country, is the main port of Kenya and for East
African countries. In 1998, the population of Mombasa and the Coastal Region, including the
towns of Malindi, Kwale, Likoni, and Kilifi, were estimated at I million and 2 million
respectively. The Coastal Region is water-scarce and requires costly water transfers. In 1916, a
scheme tapping the Marere Springs, located 40 km south of Mombasa, was developed. In the
1950s, part of the Mzima Springs was allocated to Mombasa water supply and a 220 km gravity
transmission line was built. In the early 1980s, a surface water supply scheme was developed
from the Sabaki river, 110 km north of Mombasa.
3.   The Bank Group has been involved in the Urban and Water sectors since 1970 in Kenya
and has financed three urban development projects and five water supply projects. Four of the
latter aimed at improving the water supply and sanitation situation in Nairobi; the most recent, the
Third Nairobi Water Supply Project (Credit 2060-KE) was closed in June 1998 (PICR No
18708). The water supply and waste water service in Nairobi is provided by the Water and
Sewerage Department (WSD) of the Nairobi City Commission (NCC): the WSD is not an
autonomous agency. The First Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project (MCWSP-I, Loan
1167-KE), implemented between 1976 and 1983, aimed at improving the water supply situation
in Mombasa and the Coastal Region by tapping surface water in the Sabaki river and enhancing
the distribution systems. Key lessons learned from these sector investments are:
* detailed project preparation should be undertaken before appraisal;
* the implementing agency should be financially viable and autonomous;
* institutional improvements and capacity building should be emphasized in project
formulation; and



2
implementation of the Government's cost recovery policy should be consistently pursued and
followed up beyond physical completion of individual projects.
4.    Recognizing the need for autonomy of agencies providing the water supply service, GoK
established in 1988 the National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) as a
corporate body under the State Corporation Act. NWCPC ' s mandate was to manage and develop
urban water supply projects within entrusted areas on a commercial basis. The Ministry of Water
Resources (MWR) then transferred 45 urban and regional schemes including those under the
Project area to NWCPC. MWR staff were also transferred to the fledgling institution. NWCPC
shifted from government accounting to commercial accounting procedures in July 1989.
NWCPC was supposed to assist GoK in formulating and executing a national water policy;
NWCPC undertook to develop a five-year corporate plan to identify priority activities, policies
and operational targets, tariffs, and an appropriate management organization plan. NWCPC
reports to MWR and operates under a Board comprising representatives of GoK ministries and of
the private sector; its chairman and managing director are appointed by the President. The
Ministry of Finance plays a key role in reviewing NWCPC borrowing requirements and acquiring
and guaranteeing loans. Water tariffs have to be approved by the Government. At Project
inception, in 1992/93, the operations in Mombasa and the Coastal Region served about 48,000
connections or 36% of NWCPC total customer base of 132,000, produced 33 million m3/year or
41% of NWCPC total production of 81 million m3/year, and generated revenues of Ksh250
million, or 76% of NWCPC total revenue of Ksh328 million.
5.    At Project inception, the Sabaki production scheme funded by MCWSP-I yielded only
20,000 m3/day out of a total capacity of 72,000 m3/day, because of recurrent siltation due to poor
siting of the intake in the river; the transmission pipeline capacity of 60,000 m3/day was largely
under-utilized. Distribution in Mombasa was uneven and pipe bursts were frequent in high
pressure zones; there was no reliable estimates of physical losses. While, in principle,
connections were fully metered, most meters were not working. Distribution networks in smaller
coastal towns were generally in better condition, but extension of the reticulation systems was
needed to keep pace with growth.
C.   Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives and Components
6.    Project Objectives. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 10093-KE, the
Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Engineering and Rehabilitation Project (MCWSP-II,
Cr. 2333-KE) was to be the first step of a long-term program aimed at improving the water supply
and waste water disposal service in Mombasa and the Coastal Region. The objectives were to:
*  provide support to NWCPC to help ensure its institutional, operational and financial
viability for carrying out the proposed preparatory project and the follow-on main project
in particular, and for fulfilling its broad mandate in the water supply sector in general;
*  carry out pre-investment studies and engineering designs for the extension of the
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply System and the related waste water disposal
systems, that would (i) improve provision of safe water and better sanitation to the
rapidly expanding population, (ii) protect the earning capacity of the Coastal Region,
especially in tourism, and (iii) allow for economic growth;
*  reduce the water supply deficit (presently about 60%) in the near term, through
rehabilitation/augmentation of existing facilities; and
*  ensure that adverse environmental impacts of the follow-on project and of the
rehabilitation and augmentation works under this project would be minimized.



3
7.   Project Components. The following main components were anticipated.
institutional support:
*  consultancy and advisory services for the valuation of NWCPC assets and
liabilities; improvement of revenue collection, financial management, and
management information systems; corporate development plan (including tariff
study); and coordination, liaison and management consultancy and advisory
services;
*  vehicles and miscellaneous equipment including motor vehicles, miscellaneous
equipment and machinery, office equipment and computers, computerization of
billing systems, radio communication and water meters; and
*  training including training courses and equipment.
* pre-investment studies and engineering consultancy services:
*  source works (bulk supply) development;
*  distribution network improvement and extension;
•  instrumentation, telemetry and system communication;
-  sewerage, drainage and sanitation; and
-  building works and rehabilitation of other schemes.
* rehabilitation and augmentation works:
-  consultancy services for: groundwater investigations and hydro-geological
studies, wellfield design including river crossing and associated works,
engineering for rehabilitation and augmentation works (Sabaki/Baricho bulk
supply system), and construction supervision of the rehabilitation and
augmentation works;
*  physical works including: groundwater exploration (well drilling), wellfield
development (civil works and supply contracts), rehabilitation works,
Sabaki/Baricho bulk supply system, distribution network immediate
improvement measures (civil works and supply contracts), rehabilitation of
Mzima I pipeline, and building works (extension to workshops, office and staff
housing), and
* land acquisition.
* environmental impacts assessments and mitigating measures:
* for the two major components of the Project: (i) rehabilitation/augmentation
works component; and (ii) pre-investment studies and engineering component.
8.    Additional Components. As a result of the appreciation of the SDR vis a vis the US
Dollar, IDA agreed in late 1996 to finance the development of the Tiwi wellfield South of
Mombasa to fiuther increase bulk water supply by an additional 5,000 m3/day. The Project also
financed consultancy services for improving commercialization of water supply operations in the
town of Malindi.
9.    Project Cost, Financing Plan. At appraisal, the total Project cost was estimated at
US$48.7 million equivalent, of which 68% is in foreign exchange, excluding taxes and duties on
imported goods, but including local taxes. The IDA Credit of SDR3 1.8 million (US$43.2 million



4
equivalent) was to finance about 89% of the Project cost, with the remaining US$5.5 million, or
about 11%, to be provided by GoK as an equity to NWCPC.
10.   Implementation Timetable. The Project was to be implemented in four years with an
initial closing date of June 30, 1996. The closing date was extended three times to December 31,
1998 to allow completion of those planned activities, mostly construction, that were delayed.
11. Evaluation of Objectives and Components. In view of the lessons learned from prior
sector investments, the objective of supporting NWCPC's institutional, operational and financial
viability was fully relevant, but the components designed to support this objective were limited to
the provision of equipment and technical assistance. The Project objectives did not address the
key issues of providing NWCPC with corporate incentives that would have resulted in improved
perfonnance. The preparation of engineering studies, environmental assessment and mitigation
plans was also fully relevant, but not sufficient to prepare a future large follow-up investment
program; in particular the issues of affordability of an improved service and demand management
through appropriate pricing were not addressed. In view of difficulties experienced by NWCPC
in operating the Sabaki surface water scheme, the objective of developing ground water as an
alternate source was fully relevant. However, lessons learned from MCWSP-I were ignored as
ground water investigations were not carried out before the Project was approved. Also, since the
Project mostly aimed at replacing an unreliable source of water by a more reliable one, it did not
include major extensions of the distribution system to unserved communities.
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives
12.   Overall Assessment. The Project has failed to achieve its objective of improving
NWCPC's commercial and financial performance. The Project has achieved its objective of
carrying out pre-investment studies for future expansion of water supply and waste water
facilities, but they have not led to the preparation of a follow-up investment program. The Project
has achieved its objective of reducing the water deficit in Mombasa and the Coastal Region.
Objective 1: Improvement of NWCPC's Commercial and Financial Performance
13.   This objective was not achieved. Most of the components designed to improve
NWCPC' s commercial and financial performance simply entailed the provision of technical
assistance and equipment; they had little or no impact. Only a limited number of meters were
procured. Billing and collection could not be improved because computers were not procured
and software was not developed. A good knowledge of the current and future customer base is a
pre-requisite for assessing the feasibility of large investment programs. At closing, NWCPC still
established most of its bills on an estimated basis and was unable to provide reliable data on its
commercial operations. However, billing improved slightly during Project implementation, with
the installation of an in-house computerized billing system. Also a lap-top based program for
tracking major chronic defaulters was developed. The Project supported an overhaul of the
commercial operations in Malindi, which represents only about 5,000 customers; improvement of
commercial operations in Mombasa is currently considered for bi-lateral financing.
14.   Revenues generated in the Project area were generally inadequate to meet associated
maintenance costs, but were used to heavily subsidize NWCPC's operations in non-Project areas.
NWCPC water tariff was slightly higher, but collection much better, in the Project area than in
other regions. In 1997/98, the NWCPC still generated 73% of its revenues in the Project area that
represented only 38% of its customer base and 41% of its actual water production (Table 6).
NWCPC revenue increased from Ksh 281 million in 1990/91 to Ksh 929 million in 1995/96



5
representing an annual growth rate of 27%. Draft financial statements for 1997/98 show an
increase in water revenue of about 5% per year since 1995/96.
15.   Between 1992/93 and 1996/97, NWCPC's financial situation deteriorated steadily despite
three tariff increases; it improved somewhat in 1997/98 (Table 6). NWCPC violated covenants
that required revenues to exceed operating costs and to progressively contribute to depreciation
and debt payments. At closing, NWCPC's revenues were just sufficient to cover operating costs,
and funding of maintenance was largely inadequate, a major problem with aging and leaking long
transmission lines such as that of the Mzima scheme. Between 1992/93 and 1997/98, accounts
receivables increased from Ksh545 million (about US$13 million) to about Kshl, 150 million
(about US$19 million). At closing accounts receivable were equivalent to more than 415 days of
billing, and GoK agencies accounted for about 20% of this amount. At closing, NWCPC was
near insolvency, with a negative cash balance of Ksh48 million (about US$0.8 million) and
accounts payable of Kshl95 million (about US$3.2 million). NWCPC also experienced major
difficulties meeting interest payment on its long term debt to GoK and was in arrears of about
Ksh300 million (about US$5 million). These deficits have been partly met with GoK subsidies.
Objective 2: Preparation of a Future Investment Program
16.   Studies were satisfactorily completed, but the follow-up construction program has not
taken off yet. Pre-investment studies for bulk supply development, water distribution network
improvement and expansion, sewerage, drainage and sanitation studies for the Coastal Region,
and studies for rehabilitation of schemes in four towns have been substantially completed.
Studies are generally of good quality, and can provide the basis for the preparation of
construction components of follow-up water supply and sanitation projects. However, in view of
the very large investment required to extend water production and transmission -- the replacement
of the 220 km Mzima pipeline was identified as the least cost solution - it was decided to first
proceed with an interim project that would focus on increasing somewhat the transmission
capacity from the Sabaki river and the Baricho wellfield and improving distribution. Processing
of this interim project was delayed because of:
* the deteriorating financial performance of NWCPC, and the absence of agreement on an
institutional arrangement that would provide incentives to improve it;
*  limited understanding of the economy of the provision of the water supply and waste water
service in the Project area where the long term marginal cost of water is likely to be over
US$2.0/m3, a very high figure, even for Africa; and the absence of agreement on a cost
recovery strategy that would eventually reflect this high cost of service as a means to manage
demand; and
* the limitation of the volume of activities financed in 1998 and 1999 by donors.
Objective 3: Reduction of the Water Supply Deficit
17.   This objective was achieved by tapping groundwater resources; it mostly aimed at
correcting an error in the design of the Sabaki river scheme financed by MCWSP-I, where the
poor siting of the intake resulted in recurrent siltation, major operating problems and progressive
decrease of the output of the production facilities in late 1980s and the early 1990s. However
only those customers already served before the Project saw their situation improved both in terms
of quality and quantity of supply.
18.   The construction program included in the Project for rehabilitating and augmenting water
production capacity eventually proved to be adequate. The Project initially supported modeling
of the Sabaki river intake to examine the potential for reducing siltation; when it was confirmed



6
that this could not be cost effectively reversed, the Project focused on investigating nearby
groundwater sources. After positive results were obtained, the Project supported development of
groundwater resources. These steps resulted in one of the Project's most notable achievements.
The replacement of surface water by ground water increased production so that the 60,000 m3/day
transmission capacity between the Sabaki river and Mombasa be fully utilized, but the expensive
intake and treatment plant built under MCWSP-1 are now idle. Because of the limited overall
increase in production capacity designed at appraisal, only a modest expansion of the distribution
system was originally included in the Project; even this modest increase was not implemented.
The visible improvement of the water supply situation has actually benefited mostly those who
had already access to piped water before the Project.
19.   Following the depreciation of the Kenyan currency vis a vis the SDR, that was expected
to result in un-spent resources, it was agreed in mid-1996 to include the development of the Tiwi
wellfield in the Project to further increase bulk supply. At closing, the drilling and development
of boreholes was completed, with a combined potential yield of about 5,000 m3/day. Pumping
equipment has yet to be financed and the intended benefits have yet to materialize.
Objective 4: EnvironmentalAssessments and Mitigation Plans
20.   This objective was achieved and the activities were conducted as appraised. An
environmental impact assessment (Category B) and a mitigation plan were prepared in 1993 for
the construction component of the Project, and the mitigation measures implemented.
Environmental impact assessments were also carried out for the two major components of future
projects. An environmental assessment (Category A) was prepared, under the Bulk Supply
(Source Work) Development consultancy, for future bulk water supply schemes, in particular for
the Mzima scheme that would affect the ecology of a national park; an Environmental Action
Plan was also prepared, but the planned stakeholders workshop was put off until a decision to go
ahead with further development of Mzima source is made. An independent envirommental impact
assessment of any significant increase of abstraction from the Mzima Springs would need to be
carried out if this scheme were to be developed. An environmental assessment (Category B) of
future possible sewerage and sanitation and drainage projects and extension of the water
distribution system for the follow-up (interim) Mombasa Water and Sanitation Project was also
conducted.
21.   Project Cost. Based on figures available during the completion mission, total Project
cost was US$50.7 million. The Dollar value of the IDA Credit of US$43.2 million at approval
increased to US$45.3 million, allowing financing of the development of the Tiwi wellfield.
GoK"s contribution to the Project was about US$5.4 million or slightly more than 10%. Out of
the total Project cost, about US$18.5 million or 37% of the total was devoted to construction
activities; the remainder of US$32.2 million was used to finance consultants for advisory services
to NWCPC (US$9.9 million or 19%), pre-investment studies (US$17.8 million or 35%) and
construction supervision (US$4.5 million or 9%), in line with what was agreed at appraisal. The
Ministry of Finance has requested IDA to finance a possible cost overrun of about US$2.5
million; the matter is currently being investigated by the Borrower and IDA.
22. Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The Economic Rate of Return estimated in the SAR was
based on the assumption that incremental project revenues net of incremental costs were a fair
representation of social benefits. Project benefits on public health, urban development, tourism
were deemed not quantifiable. Based on capital costs of the rehabilitation and augmentation
program and incremental operating costs associated with these operations, the ERR was estimated
at 23%. Shadow pricing of foreign exchange and labor inputs was attempted and yielded similar
results. A similar analysis was repeated at completion with the following changes: (i) capital



7
expenditures were based on actual costs; (ii) incremental revenues and incremental operating
costs for the period 1993-1998 were calculated based on changes over the year 1992; (iii) the
incremental net revenue was adjusted to real 1992 terms using available inflation indices for the
years 1992-1996, and assumed indices for through the year 1999. An analysis focused on the
Project area suggests that the realized ERR is approximately 12% only, partly because of lower
than projected tariff increases and unforeseen inflation
E.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
23.   Factors Outside Government Control. The Project was affected by a depreciation of the
Kenyan currency against the US Dollar from US$1=Ksh36 in 1993 to US$ l=Ksh 60 in 1998.
This depreciation allowed the financing of the Tiwi wellfield, a component not initially included
in the Project, but it also reduced NWCPC's capacity to finance regular maintenance because of a
higher cost of imported spare parts in local currency.
24.   Kenya, like most Eastern African countries, faced one of the most difficult weather
situations in recent memory towards the end of Project implementation. The virtual destruction
of the Mombasa highway and damage to access roads to Project sites led to suspension of project
execution. The torrential floods associated with the El Nino phenomenon also resulted in damage
to the wellfield at Baricho (forcing NWCPC to abandon a newly constructed well), construction
delays and eventually in additional costs.
25.   Factors Subject to Government Control. Late releases by GoK of counterpart financing
resulted in delays in payments to contractors and eventually in additional costs, that could not be
absorbed by NWCPC' weak financial situation. GoK granted three tariff increases to NWCPC
during Project implementation, in 1994, 1995 and 1997, the latter after a two and half years delay.
GoK's performance as one of NWCPC's major customers was far from satisfactory; at closing,
about 20% of NWCPC accounts receivable were with its agencies. While the dialogue between
GoK and the donors community on govemance issues occurred too late to affect Project
implementation, the resulting delays in availability of financing may erode the timeliness of the
pre-investment studies carried out under the Project.
26.   Factors Subject to the Control of the Implementing Agency. NWCPC implemented the
physical components of the Project satisfactorily, although Project implementation suffered
significant delays and possibly a cost overrun. NWCPC has a share of responsibility in its
deteriorating performance by not making good use of funds available under the Project for
improving its commercial and financial operations. While 100% of connections in the Coastal
Region are metered, only 40% of the bills are established on actual readings; only 40% of the
connections are metered in other regions. Disconnection of chronic late payers was not enforced
strictly. NWCPC management attempted to obtain timely tariff increases from GoK, with limited
success and, as already mentioned, the heavy subsidies provided by NWCPC's operations in the
Coastal Region to other operations have limited NWCPC's capacity to fund maintenance in the
Coastal Region.
27.    While the Municipal Council of Mombasa (MCM) was and still is responsible for
operating the sewage and waste water treatment systems, it was not initially involved in the
management of the sanitation study. As collaboration improved, MCM established a framework
for user participation in the design of waste management activities, and when it became clear that
the follow-up project would be delayed, MCM initiated immediate preparation of three pilot
projects focused on: (i) institutional strengthening, capacity building and financing; (ii)
environmental sanitation; (iii) improved O&M of existing sewerage, drainage and sanitation
services.



8
F.   Project Sustainability
28.   Project sustainability is rated as unlikely. Even if the Project achieved its objective of
reducing the water deficit in Mombasa and the Coastal Region, at closing:
*  major deficiencies in NWCPC's commercial management still remained to be addressed,
in and outside the Project area;
* NWCPC was insolvent despite three tariff increases; there is little prospect for rapidly
improving a financial situation while arrears are piling up, particularly outside the Project
area, and further tariff increases or enforcement of collection procedures are unlikely to
be accepted if customers do not perceive a major change in the way the service is
provided;
*  NWCPC experiences recurrent difficulties in funding maintenance, and works built by
the Project could rapidly suffer degradation as defect liability periods end; and
*  the likelihood of a large follow-up water supply and sanitation project that would
significantly improve the service in the Coastal Region and effectively implement the
recommendations of the feasibility studies carried out by the Project is uncertain in the
absence of a credible plan for improving NWCPC's performance.
G.   IDA's Performance
29.    Overall IDA's performance is rated unsatisfactory. IDA's performance during Project
identification, preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory. While it was obvious from lessons
learned from earlier projects that the key issues to be addressed before preparing a large
investment program were the establishment of the financial credibility of the utility and a good
understanding of the economy of the water supply and waste water service in the Coastal Region,
the Project focused mostly on technical issues. IDA did not encourage GoK to investigate
institutional arrangements that would have created incentives for addressing the main
shortcomings or to implement a cost recovery policy that would have given customers the right
signal on the economic cost of service. Finally, IDA did not adequately take into consideration
lessons from previous projects when it approved the MCWSP-II before detailed project
preparation was completed; specifically, a thorough investigation of ground water availability
should have been carried out before appraisal.
30.   IDA's perfonnance during supervision was hampered by the deficiencies of the Project
design. Suspension of disbursement for about eight months in 1994/95 because of major delays
in submitting audit reports did not result in full enforcement of remedial actions. IDA's
supervision of implementation of technical aspects, such as construction activities and major
feasibility studies was of good quality. IDA took a firm position against NWCPC's
recommendation to go ahead with a costly project involving a new pipeline from the Mzima
Springs, in view of NWCPC's weak financial situation and the absence of any strategy to
improve it. IDA took a positive step when involving the Nairobi based UNDP/World Bank
Regional Water and Sanitation Group for East Africa (RWSG/EA) in the early 1997 to facilitate
closer collaboration between NWCPC and MCM on sanitation issues.
H.   Borrower's Performance
31.   The Borrower's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory. Its performance during
preparation was unsatisfactory, as both MWR and NWCPC focused their attention almost
exclusively on technical issues, and overlooked commercial and financial issues. NWCPC was
and still is staffed with competent engineers and its performance during implementation was
generally satisfactory with regard to implementation of the construction component. All physical



9
components of the original Project description were implemented, according to standards but with
substantial delays; this rating may have to be reversed if it is confirmed that the Project cost was
overrun. NWCPC's commercial and financial performance were consistently unsatisfactory. At
closing, and after two IDA supported projects, the water supply and sewerage service in
Mombasa and the Coastal Region was still provided by a utility company unable to produce
reliable data on its commercial operations and in an alanning financial situation.
I.   Assessment of Outcome
32.   The Project outcome is ratedunsatisfactory. The Project did not improve NWCPC's
commercial and financial performance. Although the Project did satisfactorily complete technical
pre-investment studies and did initiate corresponding environmental assessments and mitigation
plans, it did not pay attention to two of the pre-requisites for follow-up activities, i.e., the
financial credibility of the water utility and the affordability of an improved service. Reaching an
agreement on these two points may involve long delays and the technical studies carried out by
the Project may later have to be updated when NWCPC is ready to implement their
recommendations, at an additional cost. All physical components of the original description were
implemented resulting in an increase of production of about 40,000 m3/day, but benefited mostly
those who already had access to piped water before deterioration of the operations of the Sabaki
river scheme.
J.    Future Operations
33.   NWCPC has produced an operation plan that is attached as Annex C. NWCPC forecasts
an increase in water revenue of about 15% per year over the next three years, as result of
expected increases in production and tariff. Even if NWCPC has a surplus production available,
these projections appear unrealistic since the financing to enhance the distribution network is not
available. Consequently, NWCPC's financial problems are expected to continue. Also, NWCPC
is likely to experience major difficulties financing maintenance of facilities built under the
Project, as well as of the fragile Mzima transmission line. After an identification mission for a
follow-up project carried out by IDA in February 1998, MWR and NWCPC agreed on terms of
reference for investigating private sector participation (PSP) options to improve the delivery of
service in Mombasa and the Coastal Region and to build the financial credibility of the
operations. This study could be initiated when GoK clarifies its priorities on the future IDA
supported program. It is now unlikely that a follow-up project to extend the water supply and
waste water service to the unserved population, and drastically improve NWCPC commercial and
financial performance in Coastal Region can be implemented soon.
K    Key Lessons Learned
34.   Some of the lessons learned during the course of implementing the MCWSP-II actually
date back to the MCWSP-I and are repeated along with the new ones.
Institutional Development
•  The water utility company implementing the Project should be financially viable and
autonomous; efforts should focus first on establishing its credibility by addressing issues of
corporate incentives as well as sound commercial, pricing and financial practices, probably
within a framework of private sector participation in delivery of services;
*  Cross-subsidies among operations of the same water utility are counter-productive; to build
the sustainability of NWCPC's operations in the Coastal Region, it would have been



10
preferable to fully separate them from that of other regions and to fully decentralize
management;
*  Provision of simple technical assistance and operating equipment to improve commercial and
financial perfonnance is perhaps necessary but often insufficient - some forn of private
sector participation seems a better option; and
*  Availability of good quality technical feasibility studies and environmental assessment and
mitigation plans is not sufficient to attract financing for a large capital expenditure program.
Financial Development
*  Improvement of the financial situation of a water utility company depends as much on regular
tariff level adjustments as on improvement of commercial procedures, extension of the
customer base and the discipline of government agencies in paying their bills; and
*  Establishment of the sustainability of a water supply and waste water management operation
depends on the proper assessment of the economic cost of providing the service and of the
willingness to pay of its potential customers.
Physical Implementation
3 Detailed project preparation should be undertaken before appraisal; it is prudent to first
investigate availability of ground water resources before approving a Project; and
Introduction of fiew components in the Project description may result in unforeseen cost
overruns.    -



11
KENYA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT (Cr. 2333-KE)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1 - Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial   Partial    Negligible  Notapplicable
Macro policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development     _
Physical objectives                       = 
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectives       _
Envirommental objectives      _
Public sector management
Private sector development                                        .
Other (capacity building)     _
B. Project Sustainabiliy        Likely            Unlikely        Uncertain
(1)               (1)               (i)
El]               W-              FK
C. Bank performance             Eighly
satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
(I)               (I)                )
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal                                         =
Supervision
D. Borrower's Performance       Highly
satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
(1)                (1)              (i)
Preparation                                       m
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation
E. Assessment of Outcome   Highlghly
satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
K]        K]~~E           F,]           F]



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan 714-KE: Nairobi  To develop the Chania-Kinakia-      1970       Satisfactory
Water Supply Project  Thika river system for meeting                 Closed in Sept. 1976
(US$8.3 million)     Nairobi's Water Supply
requirements
Loan 1520-KE:        To provide extensions for            1978       Satisfactory
Second Nairobi Water  Nairobi's water supply needs up to             Closed in Dec. 1983
Supply Project       1987-88
(US$30 million)
Credit 1566-KE: Third  To assist in the preparation of the  1985     Satisfactory
Nairobi Water Supply  Third Nairobi Water Supply                     Closed in June 1991
Engineering Project    Project (Credit 2060-KE)
(US$7.4 million)
Credit 2060-KE: Third  Augmentation of Nairobi's water    1989       Unsatisfactory
Nairobi Water Supply  supply, assist in improvement of               Closed in June 1998
Project              sanitation standards and improve
(US$64.8 million)    efficiency of WSD
Loan 1167-KE: First   Improved the water supply to        1975       Outcome:
Mombasa and coastal  Mombasa and the Coastal area by                 Marginally
Water supply Project  increasing production and                      Satisfactory
(US$35 million)      transmission capacity and                       Closed in June 1982
improving and expanding the
distribution system.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                        March 1990
Preparation                                                       May 1990-June 1991
Appraisal                                                         July 1991
Negotiations                                                      October 1991
Board presentation                            January 10, 1992    February 11, 1992
Signing                                       January 15,1992     March 13, 1992
Effectiveness                                 March 1992          September 10, 1992
Project completion                            June 30, 1996       December31, 1998
Loan closing                                  June30, 1996        December31, 1998



13
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR million)
Appraisal estimate         1.58   13.83   11.46    3.51    1.42
Actual                     0       3.07    1.61   3.61    9.30    6.50    6.91    0.80
Appraisal estimate         1.58   15.41   26.87   30.38   31.80
cumulative
Actual cumulative          0       3.07    4.68    8.29   17.59   24.09   31.00   31.80
Actual Cumulative as % of    0    19.90   17.40  27.30   56.70   75.80   97.50  100
Estimate Cumulative
Final disbursement took place on March 18, 1999, at which time all proceeds of the Credit were
fully disbursed.



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Part A: Institutional Support Component
1 Consultancy and Advisory Services
(i)  Valuation of Assets               Valuation of NWCPC assets and liabilities   Completed mid 1993
(ii)  Improvement of Revenue Collection    Consultancy for designing improvement of  Implementation
and Financial Management         revenue collection and financial management,  consultancy just
followed by consultancy for implementation or  completed, impact
recommendations                             yet to be assessed
(iii)  Corporate Development Plan and  Preparation of a five year development plan to  Completed in 1993
Tariff Study                      define NWCPC medium term objectives, including
investment plan, manpower development and tariff
study
(iv)  Software Development for Billing                                              Implemented, but not
Project fnanced.
(v)  Coordination, Management and                                                   Completed
Advisory services
2 Vehicles and Equipment
(i) Motorvehicles                     Supply of 16 Four-wheel drives, 4 saloon cars, 21   All procured;
lorries, 2 lorries with mobile workshop     assigned to regional
superstructure, 30 motor cycles, 4 water tankers    operations and head
and 4 tractors with trailers.               quarters
(ii)  Misc. equipment and machinery    Supply of 1 truck-wheel excavator, 2 (2-3 ton)  All procured
forklifts, 4 mobile generating set, misc. tools &
equipment for mobile workshops and pipe repair
teams, spare parts for workshop
(iii)  Office equipment and computers                                               Comnputers not
purchased
(iv)  Computerization of Billing System                                             Implemented, but not
Project financed.
(v)  Radio Conununication equipment    Supply of 16 mobile radios (portable and vehicle    All procured
mounted), 5 base station radio transreceivers
(vi)  Water Meters                     Supply of 30,000 domestic water meters       About 20,000 meters
procured
3   Training                          3 post graduate(MSc)degrees, long period courses  Completed, most
for 29 technicians, short managerial courses to 40   staff still with
staff, skill improvement courses to 290 staff  NWCPC



15
Part B: Pre-investment Studies and Engineering Consultancy
.                . . .     ....
I   Source Works (Bulk Supply)    Identification of potential sources of water    Completed.
Development                    supply and prioritization of investment to  Studies could form
reduce current deficit. Preparation of a water the basis for
resources development plan up to 2020,  preparation of a
detailed design for Mzima II pipeline with 1.2  follow-up project
m /s, including enviromnental impact
assessment and action plan. Preparation of
financial and economic analysis.
Modeling to assess the potential de-siltation
of the Sabaki river?
2   Distribution Network           Definition of long-term strategic development Completed.
Improvement and Extension      plan for the distribution system up to year  Studies could form
2020; preparation of designs and cost   the basis for
estimates for the phased investment for 2005,  preparation of a
2010, and 2020 horizon; preparation of  follow-up project
detailed design and tender documents for
short-term measures prepared
3   Instrumentation, Telemetry and  Not defined                             Not implemented;
System Communication                                                    deferred until scope
of the follow-up
project is defined
4   Sewerage, Drainage and         Preparation of study to prioritize areas for    Implementation
Sanitation                     sewerage, drainage and sanitation; preparation deferred until the
of feasibility study to assess various options   scope of the
and identify first phase development,   follow-up project is
preparation of detailed design and costing for  defined.
proposed investnent
5   Building Works and             Workshops and regional offices design,   Completed
Rehabilitation of other Schemes  rehabilitation studies for Kandara, Kahuti,
Litein, and Siayatowns



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (cont 'd.)
Part C: Rehabilitation and Augmentation Works
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           a
I   Consultancy Services
(i)  Groundwater Investigation in the   Geological mapping, seismic and resistivity    Completed
Baricho/Sabaki area and Design of investigation, exploratory drilling, and test
the Wellfield                  pumping leading to identification of lower
wellfield, computer modeling of aquifer,
wellfield potential 200,000 m3/day, Design
for six 1000 mm diameter wells including
access, interconnection manifold, rising main,
controls
(ii)  Engineering of Rehabilitation  Modification of inlet of intake, remodeling of  Completed
Works                          pumping arrangement, refurbishment of
treatment plant and surge equipment,
replacement of air valves, washouts,
chambers, water connections to kiosks along
Baricho/Mombasa line and branches,
duplication of pipelines, design of reservoirs
(iii) Construction Supervision      Construction supervision for physical works   Completed.
under (2) below
2   Physical Works
(i)  Baricho/Sabaki Wellfield       Construction of six 1,000 mm diameter wells  Completed;
Development                    (45 to 60 m deep), supply and installation of   construction of
casings, screens and gravel packs and   access roads
pumping equipment                       delayed by El-Nino
rains
(ii)  Rehabilitation and Augmentation   Construction of wellhead chambers, control   Completed; delays
Works                          rooms, pipeworks, 5,000 m3 contact/storage   towards the end
reservoir, 12.1 km duplication of 700 mm  due to El-Nino
pipeline, 5 No. treated water pumps, new  rains
switch gear and distribution panel, supply and
installation of large diameter 255gate valves,
255 butterfly valves, 101 flap valves, surge
reducing air valves and large diameter water
meters
(iii) Distribution Network                                                   Not implemented
Improvement Measures
(iv) Mzima Pipeline Rehabilitation                                           Not implemented
Works                                                                   (to be implemented
under follow up
project)
(v)  Building                       Extensions to workshops, offices and staff    Partially
housing                                 completed;
extension built only
in Coastal Region
(vi) Land Acquisition                                                        Completed



17
Part D: Additional Components
chkveMu
(i) Tiwi Wellfield Development    Drilling of 5 production and 7 observation  Completed; delays
bore- holes expected yield of 5000 m3.  towards the end
due to El-Nino
rains
(ii) Support to Malindi town Water    18 month consultancy service for improving   Completed;
Supply Commercial Operations    commercialization and management of water  sustainability to be
supply operations in Malindi.          proven



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Physical Indicators
Coastal Region                               ___
Population (estimated)      Million             1.68           1.81            1.87            1.93           2.0      2.09
Production Capacity        Miom'7-yr   41.9   35.4    56.6   35.4    56.6   35.4    56.6   35.4               50.7    50.7
Actual Production          Momyr   29.4   33.1    39.6   32.5    39.6   32.2    39.6   32.8                   31.5    39.8
Quantity Billed           MioFm'/yr   24.3   26.5    39.6   22.7    39.6   24         39.6   26.04           21.6    30.1
Unaccounted for Water*                _ _ 20           30     31      25      25      1_                      32      25
Water Sales                Mio Ksh            247            417             674             659             737
Average Water Tariff        Ksh/m3              7.3           22.8     _      22.8            26.5            26.5   _
Total Water Connections      '000      73.2   48.0    78.4   49.3    81.1   54.8    84.0   55.6              57.3    62.0
Metered Connections**         %               100            100             100             100             100     100
Non-Project Regions                                 _                                      _                        _
Population (estimated)      Million             2.65           2.84            2.94            3.07            3.16    3.28
Production Capacity       Mio mn'/yr          _58.9     _     58.9            58.9     ___  58.9             58.9    59.1
Actual Production          Mio m7yr J _[47.9   __ I_48.01   _                    3 1  --   f43.671         = _44.8   45.6
Quantity Billed           Mio mi/yr 1 33.1 1 43.0  1 58.1 1 38.4  1 58.1 1 38.2  1 58.1 1 38.4  1 _            39.2  1 41.1
Unaccounted for Water*        %                10|        __ 10    1 20    _j     19    |    12    |       | 13    [ 10
Water Sales             J Mio Ksh  J ___j  1         ___[87- I __  {229    1 - 126   1 ___  27-5    ____
AverageWaterTariff      IKsbm3  I  _ I  6.45 1              120.0   -_    -20.0i -             24.6      --- 1 24.6 r
Total Water Connections   J   '000    1 83.7 j83.7 r88.8   88.8UJ 91.5   9175    93.4T93.4   94.4 r 94.4  r 96.5
Metered Connections**   4     %      1 _ _ 32_ 1               34   _L        33              41   I         42   T  51
|       |   ~    ~ ~~A --      Ir      L-- 1          -f    -1        I             J
Staff employed                              I       I        I      I        II_ r                                   T
Total                              _1_   1199              1 1333  1        1539      1    11610  t       11613  1
Coastal Region                      I    J _ _           7 _  491 7L_        494___    5?  U 57   |       f489  I-
Staff /1,000 connections                    I r                     U- r L   I 1   A                I      r
Total                                    j    9.1             97            1o.5     - 7   10.8     ___ 10.6_r
CoastalRegion                                                                                  9=__     f _     1 10   L  1   ___-     9.1  r  8.6  17
_________ _   __  17   711 -_    __ 9L            876
Einanciallndicators        _         I      T       r T             I      I        1      1        1_     I       I
Operating Re-venues     I_ Miol Ks    ___  ____ [946  j621  -  1372 J 929-  j18I51-1 908 1 N/AF12   [1483
OperatingExpenses       [ MioKsh  {__                  M 316T500    t 3711680         447  J 626   1 f       865  T  592
Depreciation            |MioKsh             1         f l      4       391  4470   113 IA59               I 5    1_444
Interest                [Mfio Ksh  I _ _    [         1r95  L26 11 531  1 55 J        861    97 1 J_ 1     I1  94t 97
NetProfit                [MiooKsh  J - _  _          [ 47  J (149)  1  79 _76)   125   (274) 6             1 (366)_| 350
______V_J7 I47kV                                         _A   I   T   350_
Long Term debt         _[ Mio Ksh  I____   [ -58.7    ___  14.6         -  L330.6L        1-582.9- L-   1582.9  1~-
TotawaersaKe  T    I  L 1    1                    1      1      1        I        I-
Total_water_sales _                  1 _      328.3  _I 6041              A  903.2 U       1885.1    -   1011.41F 
Accounts Receivable        MioKsh  _        [543.6   T___ I                _ 102.8      __ 11383.5 1       1_1152.4
Accounts Receivable-    [   days   | 180    604        120  1 486 1 90   1 441   1         1 570   1       1 415 
*     The low Unaccounted for Water indicates over-billing rather than efficiency
**    A small percentage of meters function; readings are often inaccurate



19
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
1. Source Works     Identification of potential sources   Completed  Studies could forn
(Bulk Supply)     of water supply and prioritization             the basis for
Development       of investment to reduce current                 preparation of a
deficit. Preparation of a water                follow-up project
resources development plan up to
2020, detailed design for Mzima II
pipeline with 1.2 m3 Is, including
environmental impact assessment
and action plan. Preparation of
financial and economic analysis
2. Distribution     Definition of long-term strategic    Completed  Studies could form
network           development plan for the                       the basis for
improvement and  distribution system up to year                   preparation of a
extension         2020; preparation of designs and                follow-up project
cost estimates for the phased
investment for 2005, 2010, and
2020 horizon; preparation of
detailed design and tender
documents for short-term measures
prepared
3. Sewerage,        Preparation of study to prioritize              Studies could form
Drainage and      areas for sewerage, drainage and                the basis for
Sanitation        sanitation; preparation of                      preparation of a
feasibility study to assess various            follow-up project
options and identify first phase
development; preparation of
detailed design and costing for
proposed investment
4. Tariff Study     Review of tariff level and structure  Completed  Led to tariff
adjustments
5. Hydrogeological   Geological mapping, seismic     Completed      Was the basis for
Investigation     investigation, groundwater                      Ground water
modeling of the Baricho aquifer,               development under
estimate of groundwater potential              the Project
6. Financial        Performance review and           Completed      Provided base line
Management and  improvement study                                information for
Revenue                                                           management
Collection                                                       impro-ement
Improvement



20
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
'M ~ ~ ~~ A
A. InstitutionalSupport
(i) Consultancy and Advisory Services                  7.44        7.38
(ii) Vehicles , Miscellaneous equipment                3.54        2.25
-(iii) Training                                         0.37        0.23
Sub-Total Institutional Support    11.35        9.86
B. Pre-Investment Studies and Engineering
(i) Source Works (Bulk supply) Development              5.91       6.30
(ii) Dist. Network Improvement & Extension              5.24       5.27
(iii) Instrumentation, Telemetry & Communication       0.50        0
(iv) Sewerage, Drainage & Sanitation Studies            3.58       4.64
(v) Building works & Rehab. of other Scheme             1.10       1.58
Sub-Total Pre-investment Studies     16.33       17.79
C. Rehabilitation/Augmentation Works
(i) Consultancy Services                                1.20       4.49
(ii) Physical Works                                    11.13       18.51
- groundwater exploration test drilling              0.16      incl. in C(i)
- wellfield devout. (civil works & supply contracts)  4.02       2.24
- Rehab. works (civil works & supply contracts)      4.39       15.48
- distribution network improvement measures          0.80        0
- Mzima Pipeline Rehabilitation Works                     0.80        0
- Building works                                     0.96        0.23
- Tiwi Wellfield Development                         0           0.56
(iii) Land Acquisition                                  0.04        0.02
Sub-Total Rehabilitation/Augmentation     12.37       23.02
Total Base Cost      40.05
Physical Contingencies   2.74
Price Contingencies   5.91
Total Project Costs     48.70        50.67



21
Table 8B: Project Financing
IDA       10.3      32.9        43.2   10.3          35.04       45.34
GoK        5.5       0           5.5   5.33           0           5.33
Total     15.8      32.9        48.7    15.63        35.04       50.67
The IDA Credit of SDR 38.1 million was equivalent to US$43.2 million at appraisal in 1991; at
completion, it was equivalent to 45.35 million.



22
Table 9: Economic Rate of Return
Incr. Costs Millions of Kenyan She.   Incremental        Net Cash Flow
Year  Investment Operating    Total          Revenues    Nominal           Real
1993       287          2          289          -15          -304          -241
1994       105         42          147           75          -72            -47
1995       300         100         401          155          -245          -149
1996      736          125         861          412          -448          -251
1997       515         95          610          397          -212          -110
1998      618          118         737          475          -262          -122
1999       77          118         195          475          279            124
2000                   118         118          475          357            158
2001                   118         118          475          357            158
2002                   118         118          475          357            158
2003                   118         118          475          357            158
2004                   118         118          475          357            158
2005                   118         118          475          357            158
2006                   118         118          475           357           158
2007                   118         118          475          357            158
2008                   118         118          475           357           158
2009                   118         118          475           357           158
2010                   118         118          475           357           158
2011                   118         118          475          357            158
2012                   118         118          475           357           158
2013                   118         118          475           357           158
2014                   118         118          475          357            158
2015                   118         118          475          357            158
2016                   118         118          475          357            158
2017                   118         118          475          357            158
2018                   118         118          475           357           158
2019                   118         118          475           357           158
2020                   118         118          475           357           158
2021                   118         118          475           357           158
2022                   118         118          475           357           158
2023                   118         118          475           357           158
2024                   118         118          475          357            158
2025                   118         118          475           357           158
2026                   118         118          475           357           158
ERR    12%
A similar analysis for the NWCPC indicated an ERR of minus 2%



23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
CR          4.01(a)     2         C     Borrower to approve tariff increases  Tariff raised in
to enable NWCPC meet             01/95 and 06/97
requirements of Section 4.02 of PR
CR          4.01(b)     2         C     Borrower to agree to water tariff to   See comments
enable coverage of O&M, debt     above
servicing and expansion
CR          4.02(a)     1         C     Borrower to maintain (i) records and  Complied with
accounts,(ii) retain records for at
least one year, and (iii) enable IDA
to examine records
CR          4.03(a)     4         CP    Borrower to make equity          Actual
contributions on a declining scale as  contributions
agreed                           less than agreed
CR                      4        CP    Borrower to deposit equity        Only initial
contributions quarterly to NWCPC    contribution
account                          deposited as
conditions of
effectiveness,
subsequent
contribution
made through
budget
PR           2.06       5         C     NWCPC to establish and maintain a  PIU established,
PIU                             as a condition of
effectiveness
and maintained
PR           3.04       2       CD,CP  NCPC to carry out tariff study and    Study delayed;
consult with IDA for implementation
PR           3.05       2         C     NWCPC to prepare annually six year Complied with
financial projections and submit to
IDA for review
PR           3.06       5         C     NWCPC to submit training program   Complied with
in each year by March 31
PR          4.01(b)     1         C     NWCPC records, accounts and       Complied with
(i)                       financial statements to be audited for
each FY by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA



24
PR          4.01(b)     1        CP    Certified copies of NWCPC financial Not complied
(ii)                      statements and audit reports to be    with;
furnish to IDA not later than nine  disbursement
months after vend of FY:        suspended
between 12/94
and 08/95
because
FY92193 reports
not submitted
PR          4.02(a)     2        NC    NWCPC revenue to be not less than  Not complied
the sum of (i) total operating  with; mainly due
expenses; (ii) 40% of dep. In   to low
FY92/93, 60% in FY93/94, 100% in  production level
94/95 and thereafter (iii) contribution and inadequate
to reserve afterFY94/95         metering, billing
and collection
PR          4.02(b)     2         C     NWCPC to prepare financial forecast Complied with
to fulfill PR 4.02(a) above
PR          4.02©0      2        CP    NWCPC to take measures including  Revenue not
tariff adjustment to fulfill PR 4.02(a) sufficient to
cover
maintenance and
debt service
PR           4.03       5         C     NWCPC to complete valuation of its  Complied with
assets and liabilities
I =    Accounts/audits       8 =    Indigenous people        C =     covenant complied
with
2 =    Financial performance/  9 =    Monitoring, review, and    CD =   complied with after
revenue generation from      reporting                        delay
beneficiaries
3 =    Flow and utilization of   10 =   Project implementation not CP =   complied with
project funds                 covered by categories 1-9       partially
4 =    Counterpart funding   11 =   Sectional or cross-sectional NC =   not complied with
budgetary or other resource
allocation
5 =    Management aspects of  12 =   Sectional or cross-sectional
the project or executing      policy! regulatory!
agency                       institutional action
6=    Environmental          13 =   Other
covenants
7 =    Involuntary resettlement



25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
OD 10.60                 Complied with
Accounting, Financial
Reporting, and
Auditing
OD 13.10                 Complied with partially. Audits were submitted for all years, though they
Borrower's Compliance    were usually delayed, in FY92/93 disbursement suspended for 8 months
with Audit Covenants     because audit report was not submitted
OP 6.30                  Complied with albeit with delays. The Borrower's contribution totaled 10.5%
Local Cost Financing and  of total project cost versus the estimated contribution of 11.3 % projected at
Cost Sharing             appraisal
OD 13.30                 Complied with. The Bank allowed extension of the original closing date
Extension of closing dates three times to allow completion of construction contracts. The Bank also
allowed 4 months ( and 6 months for three contracts) after the project closing
date for disbursements for payments for services completed before the final
closing date
OD 13.55                 Complied with. NWCPC prepared its own evaluation of the project's
ICR preparation          achievements (the summary of the report is attached to the ICR) and
participated in the ICR preparation with the Bank team
OD 4.01                  Complied with. The Borrower carried out an environmental impact
Environmental            assessment and mitigation plan for the physical component of the Project
Assessment               during implementation. Environmental impact assessments were also carried
out for future investment programs
OD 4.30                  There was no involuntary resettlement under the Project.
Involuntary Resettlement



26
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
,~
Through Appraisal                    40.5                         115.2
Appraisal to Board                    16.7                         53.8
Board to Effectiveness                19.5                         62.9
Supervision                         136.1                         415.8
Completion                            5.0                          20.7
TOTAL                               217.8                         668.4
.. ._ 



27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Identification   03/90                    SE
Preparation    4/90                       SE,FA,
Appraisal      7/91       3         20    SE,FA,ES
Supervision    8/92                       SE                  N/A
Supervision    6/93       2        N/A    SE,FA                 2         1       PMP,PPAF
Supervision    11/93      1         6     SE                    2         1       PMP,PP,FP
Supervision    6/94       2        N/A    SE,FA                 U         U      PMP,FP,AF,C
C
Supervision    3/95       2         11    SE,FA                 U         S       PMP,AF,CC
Supervision    8/95       4         6     SE,FA,WRM,IT          U         U       PMP,AF,CC
Supervision    2/96       6        N/A    E,FA,SE,WRM,IT        S         S
Supervision    2/97       4         10    FA,SE,WSE,HYD         U         S          PMP
Supervision    6/97       1         10    FA                    S         S
Supervision    11/97      7         5    FA,E,WSE,SE,OA         S         U       FP,PMP,CC
Supervision    2/98       8         10    WSS,SE,E,FA,OA        S         U         FP,CC,
Completion     12/98      4         10    WSS,SE,FA,OA          S         U          FP,CC
Staff Skills                          Performance Ratings     Types of Problems
SE - Sanitary Engineer                I - Minor or No Problems   AF: Availability of Funds
ES - Environmental Specialist         2 - Moderate Problems   CC: Compliance with Legal Covenants
FA - Financial Analyst                3 -Major Problems       FP: Financial Performance
E - Economist                         S - Satisfactory        PDO: Project development Objectives
WSS - Water and Sanitation Specialist  HS - Highly Satisfactory    PMP: Project Management Performance
WSE - Water Supply Engineer           U - Unsatisfactory      PP: Procurement Progress
WRM - Water Resources Mgmt Specialist                         PS: Progress of Studies
HUD - Hydrologist                                             TA: Technical assistance Program
IT - Information Technology Specialist
SS -Sanitation specialist
OA - Operations Analyst



ANNEX A
Page 1 of 5
Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply
Engineering and Rehabilitation Project
Credit 2333-KE
Final Supervision and Completion Mission Report



ANNEX A
Page 2 of 5
Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Engineering and Rehabilitation Project
Credit 2333-KE
FINAL SUPERVISION REPORT
1.   An IDA mission comprising Messrs. S. Alemu (Water Supply Engineer, Mission Leader)
J. Ogallo (Financial Analyst, AFMKE), and J. Karuirm (Operations Support officer, AFMKE)
carried out a final supervision of the Second Mombasa Water Supply Engineering and
Rehabilitation Project, for which IDA Credit 2333-KE will close on December 31, 1998, and
initiated the preparation of the Project Implementation Completion Report (PICR) that must be
submitted to the IDA Board before end of June 1999. The mission was also joined by Mr. A.
Locussol (Principal Water and Sanitation Specialist, AFTU 1). The mission met Eng. E.
Mwongera, Pennanent Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources (MoWR), Eng. C. Koske,
Managing Director of National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC),
NWCPC senior staff in Nairobi, in Mombasa and the Coastal Region, and the consultants and
contractors who assisted the NWCPC in implementing the Project. The mission wishes to thank
the MoWR and NWCPC for its active collaboration and the courtesies extended.
2.   The present aide memoire reflects the findings and views of the mission. It was discussed
with the NWCPC senior staff and reviewed during a wrap-up meeting chaired by the PS, MoWR
on December 10, 1998. IDA final evaluation of the Project will be reflected in a draft PICR that
will be submitted to the Government for review in February 1999. The Government's views on
the Project also have to be reflected in its own completion report, to be prepared according to
Bank guidelines (a copy of the guidelines was provided), and sent to IDA by February 1998. An
unedited version of the Government's report will be included in the final PICR submitted to the
Board (if it contains less than 10 pages). The aide memoire also includes:
*  a first draft of main text of the PICR
*  Annex 1: Tentative Project Costs and Outstanding Issues
•  Annex 2: Financial Situation of NWCPC
*  Annex 3: Draft Project Operational Plan
Overall Assessment of the Project
3 .   Construction to rehabilitate and extend water production in the Coastal Region was
substantially completed early in December 1998. The quality of construction is satisfactory and
the increase of the production capacity has improved water supply, in particular in Mombasa.
However, while production capacity was increased by about 40,000 m3/day to match the existing
transmission capacity of 60,000 m3/day between the Baricho well field and Mombasa improved
the situation of already served communities and businesses, the overall coverage ratio was not
increased because the Project did not include an extension of the distribution system. The pre-
investment studies financed by the Project for (a) bulk water supply development, water
distribution network improvement and expansion and sewerage, drainage and sanitation in
Mombasa, and (b) rehabilitation of water supplies in four towns were also substantially
completed at closing. However, the design of the ocean sewer outfall in Mombasa could not be
finalized despite a third extension of the closing date that was granted mainly to accommodate it.
Some components of the institutional component of the Project, such as computerization of
billing, supply of computers and software development were not implemented at all. As a result
NWCPC commercial and financial perfonnance was not improved by the Project.



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 5
Outstanding Implementation Issues
4.   The Credit will be definitively closed on December 31, 1998, after three extensions from
the original closing date of June 30, 1996. Disbursement applications for works and services
completed before December 31, 1998 can be processed until April 30, 1999. IDA has agreed to
extend the closing date of disbursement to June 30, 1999 for three civil works contracts
(MCS2/WWI, MCS2/WW3 and MCS2/WW4) to allow for payment of retention money. It is
therefore essential to ensure that an amount corresponding to the retention money be kept in the
Credit for disbursement when the defects liability period expires in May 1999. NWCPC will
need to make advance preparation for clearance of this payments on time.
5.   The development of the Tiwi well field, a component that was added to the original Project
description, was financed with the understanding that NWCPC would finance equipment of the
boreholes from its own revenues. The boreholes have been drilled, developed and capped. The
mission requested NWCPC to submit a financing plan, an operational plan and a timetable for
finalization of this component.
6.   The El-Nino related flood late in 1997 severely damaged one of the eight wells dug in
Baricho, which is now out of operation, and undermined the integrity of two others. The need for
protection of the well field was stressed during the February 1998 supervision mission. It was
suggested that a proposal be submitted by NWCPC for financing under water supply component
of the El-Nino Emergency Project; this apparently did not materialize. The mission urged
NWCPC and MoWR to explore financing altematives for protecting the wells, as fuither damages
could lead to interruption of water supply.
NWCPC Financial Situation
7.   NWCPC financial situation steadily deteriorated over the last three fiscal years. NWCPC's
revenues are just sufficient to cover operation and maintenance expenses, which are in any case
inadequate. Over the same period accounts receivable have been increasing by an average of
Kshl80 million (approx. US$3 million) per year. As at end of fiscal year 1997/98 accounts
receivable had reached Kshl ,220 million (approx. US$20.0 million), equivalent to 508 days of
billing. NWCPC draft accounts for FY97/98 show that NWCPC is near insolvency, with a
negative cash balance of KSh48 million (US$0.8 million) and accounts payable of KShl95
million (US$3.2 million). NWCPC also had difficulty meeting loan interest payment obligations
and had accumulated of KSh297 million (US$5.0 million) of arrears.
8.   Billing has improved slightly with the installation of an in-house computerized billing
system. Draft accounts for FY97/98 show slight increase in water revenue of about 15% over the
previous fiscal year. Further increase in water revenue of about 27% is projected over the next
three years, mainly due to expected increase in production (15%) and tariff increase (34%). The
projection looks rather ambitious given NWCP C's inability to adjust water tariffs without
Government approval. Revenue projections over the next three years (Table 1) show that the
financial objectives will be achieved, subject to NWCPC being allowed, without limitations, to
increase water tariffs. NWCPC would need to justify such tariff increases by analyzing their
impact on demand and demonstrate an increased efficiency in its operations, including in
collecting arrears.
9.   NWCPC continues to accumulate huge arrears, which by June 30, 1998 amounted to
Ksh848 million, of which KShl86 million were due by the Government agencies. At the end of
FY97, water debtors amounted Ksh 1,090 million (KSh221 million for the Government); this was
about 123% of the total water revenue for FY97. As per draft accounts for FY98, average debt



ANNEX A
Page 4 of 5
collection period of 444 days is far in excess of the 90 days expected to be achieved by the end of
the Project. NWCPC has not complied with Section 4.02(a) of the Project Agreement, mainly
due to inadequate revenues resulting from low tariffs, and high depreciation charges from
revalued fixed assets, some of which are not deployed in revenue generating activities and are
lying idle in various sites. Although water tariffs have not been sufficient to cover operating costs
the corporation has also not been aggressive enough in pursuing cost cutting and efficiency
measures in its operations.
Table 1. NWCPC Summary Income Statements (Ksh million)
Fiscal Year           94/95   95/96  96/97   97/98    98/99   99/00   00/01
Revenues
Water Sales              604    903       884    1013    1467    1637    1852
Other                     32      26      22       15       16      16       16
Total                    636    929      906    1028    1483    1653    1868
Expenses
Labor                    99    110       120      174     192      210     231
Energy                  244    250       218      110     122      133     146
Maintenance              42      69      102       50      56       62      68
Miscellaneous            112    251      176      202     222      245     268
Total cash              497    680       616      536     592      650     713
expenses
Depreciation             244    470      459      435     444      453     462
Total Operat.            741   1150    1065       971    1036    1103    1075
Expenses
Operating Income       (105)  (221)   (159)    (57)    447         550     793
Interest                  26      55       57      94       97     100      103
NetIncome               (131)  (271)   (216)   (151)      350      450     690
Interest Coverage       (4.2)   (4.0)    (2.8)    (0.6)    4.6      5.5     7.7
Project Sustainability
10.  TheProject is unlikely to be sustainable. Even if the water production capacity has been
substantially increased to reduce deficit, the Project has failed to transforn NWCPC into a
financially viable entity. Also, additional investment are required to extend the distribution
system to reach new customers and thus to maximize the benefits of the investment financed by
the Project. NWCPC financial position does not allow financing of this extension; with limited
external financing available, the timetable for improvement is highly uncertain. NWCPC track
record with regards to maintenance is also not encouraging. While some of the works built by the
Project were still under defect liability, they could rapidly suffer from a lack of maintenance after
demobilization of contractors. Any tariff increase that may be needed to generate additional
revenues needed to fund maintenance and service the debt is unlikely to be accepted by
customers, unless they perceive that there is a major change in the way business is conducted.
11.  To achieve sustainability, NWCPC would need to address a series of issues to enhance its
efficiency: (a) reduce its fixed operating costs, in particular staff costs; (b) increase revenue,
mostly by expanding the customer base through extension of the distribution network, a more
"customer oriented" commercial policy and improvement of its overall commercial operations.
Involving the private sector in the provision of service, within the framework of contracts



ANNEX A
Page 5 of 5
providing incentives to perform is an option to be seriously investigated to improve efficiency of
operations, reduce costs and later attract of private capital.
Future Operations
12.  The Project having failed to improve NWCPC technical, commercial and financial
operations through its limited technical assistance component, the main objective during of future
operations should be to focus on this key aspect of the business. So far the preparatory activities
financed by the Project for a future IDA supported operation have exclusively focused on
engineering aspects, including the extension of the distribution network to maximize benefits of
the Project. MoWR and NWCPC have prepared terms of reference to investigate private sector
participation options, and are seeking financing for that. The preparatory activities should
include a study tour of selected stakeholders in African countries having already implemented
similar schemes and a stakeholder workshop to increase transparency and build consensus on the
option selected.
Key Lessons Learned
13.  Institutional Development
*  project objectives must address issues institutional identified during preparation and project
component should be designed to achieve objectives;
*  major institutional issues cannot be addressed simply through the provision of limited
technical assistance; and
* improvement of financial situation depends on a combination of appropriate commercial
policy to reach new customers, efficient commercial operations, reduction of operating costs
and appropriate tariff level and structure.
14.  Financial Development
m  IDA must carry out, at least once a year, a full supervision of the financial performance of the
utility company it lends to, in order to check accuracy of data, and prepare together with the
Borrower short-term financial forecasts and action plans; and
*  even simple financial covenants such as the ones of the Project are ineffective if the incentive
framework to improve efficiency does not exist.
15.  Physical Implementation.
* good quality preparation, proper contract management and continuity of the engineering
consultant throughout the project cycle, are elements that guarantee quality.



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 10
Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply
Engineering and Rehabilitation Project
Credit 2333-KE
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR



ANHTEX B
Page 2 of 10
NATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION
AND PIPELINE CORPORATION (NWCPC)
SECOND MOMBASA AND COASTAL WATER SUPPLY
ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 10
A. Statements/Evaluation of Objectives
1. Project Objectives
The main objectives as listed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were:-
a)   to provide support to National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC)
to help ensure its institutional, operational and financial viability for carrying out the
proposed preparatory project and the follow -on main project in particular, and fulfilling
its broad mandate in the water supply sector in general;
b)   to carry out pre-investment studies and engineering designs for the extension of the
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply system and the related waste water disposal systems
that would:-
(i)        improve provision of safe water and better sanitation to the rapidly expanding
(ii)        population,
promote the earning capacity of the coastal region, especially in tourism and
allow for economic growth;
(c)  to reduce the water supply deficit (presently about 60%) in the near term through
rehabilitation/augmentation of existing facilities and
(d)  to ensure that adverse environmental impacts of the follow-on project and of the
rehabilitation/augmentation works under this project would be minimised.
2. Project Components
There were five main project components
(a) Consultancy and advisory services for
> Valuation of Assets and Liabilities,
> Improvement of Revenue Collection, and Financial Management and Management
Information Systems,
> Corporate Development Plan (including tariff study), and
> Co-ordination, Liaison and Management Consultancy and Advisory Services.
(b) Procurement of vehicles and miscellaneous equipment
(c) Training including training courses and equipment
(d) Pre-investment and Engineering Consultancy Services for:-
> Source Works (Bulk Supply) Development,
> Distribution Network and Improvement and Extensions,
> Sewerage, Drainage and Sanitation,
> Instrumentation, telemetry and system control,
> Building Works and Rehabilitation of other Schemes, and
> Rehabilitation and Augmentation of Kandara, Kahuti, Litein and Siaya.
Page I of 9



ANNEX B
Page 4 of 10
(e)  Rehabilitation and Augmentation Works viz:-
i)       Consultancy services for groundwater investigations and hydrological studies,
wellfied design including river crossing and associated works, engineering for
rehabilitation works and the construction supervision of the rehabilitation and
augmentation works,
ii)      Physical works including: groundwater exploration, wellfied development (civil
works and supply contracts), rehabilitation works (Sabaki /Baricho bulk supply
system),? distribution network immediate improvement measures (civil works and
supply contracts), rehabilitation of Mzima I pipeline and building works (extensions
to workshops, office and staff housing), and
iii)     Land acquisition.
3. Project Cost and Implementation
The total project cost was estimated to be equivalent to US$48.7 million, out of this the
Government was expected to contribute the equivalent of US$5.5 million.
The technical assistance and advisory services provided under the project assisted the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) during the procurement process and in the general project
management and monitoring. The institutional, operational and financial viability could not be
attained through the technical assistance and advisory services. The financial viability of
National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation has not been attained even after the
project.
The pre-investment studies and engineering designs carried out under the project were
professionally carried out.
The rehabilitation and augmentation works carried out is considered appropriate instead of the
original concept of rehabilitating the surface water intake. However the rehabilitation of Mzima
Pipeline was not undertaken as the funds allocated could not undertake any meaningful
rehabilitation. Similarly considering, the state of the distribution networks, no meaningful
immediate measures could be undertaken considering also the higher cost of augmentation works
undertaken.
B. Achievement of Objectives
The pre-investment studies for proposed follow-on project were carried out satisfactorily. This
is despite initial delays in the procurement particularly for the Source Works (Bulk Supply) for
which proposals had to be submitted twice. However the financial viability of National Water
Conservation and Pipeline Corporation was not attained by the completion of the project.
Page 2 of 9



ANNEX B
Page 5 of 10
Objective I. Provide Support to National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation to
ensure its institutional and financial viability in fulfilling its mandate in the sector in
general.
Inputs related to this objective were the technical assistance and advisory services and
consultancy services for valuation of assets and liabilities, improvement in revenue collection
services for Corporate Development Plan (including tariff study). A billing software was
developed under the project which enabled National Water Conservation and Pipeline
Corporation to undertake own billing instead of using the Central Government Computer Center.
The Corporate Development Plan was not implemented and the tariffs recommended were not
implemented at the desired time. However although 3 tariff increases have been implemented
through the project, this did not improve the financial situation to ensure financial viability.
These tariff charges did not reach cost recovery level. The situation was made worse when the
assets were included in the account statements after the valuation of the assets was completed.
There was hardly any improvement in financial management and management information
system as the computerisation both for the accounts and in general was carried out. The desired
institutional, operational and financial viability was not achieved.
Objective 2. Carry out pre-investment studies and engineering designs.
The pre-investment studies and engineering designs have been satisfactorily completed and
hence the objective attained.
Objective 3. Reduce the Water Supply deficit (60%) through rehabilitation and
augmentation of existing facilities.
The augmentation works to increase the water production through wellfied development has
increased production potential to about 91 ,OOOm3/day. However out of this only 60,000m31day is
pumped towards Mombasa due to the limited transmission capacity of the Sabaki Pipeline
without boosting. There is potential for production from the five boreholes drilled in Tiwi but
have not been equipped.
There was no works undertaken in the distribution system. While there is a general
improvement in the water supply situation in Mombasa, there are higher losses due to the
improved supply situation. To realise the full benefit of the production capacity there will be
need to equip the Tiwi Boreholes and also utilise fully the production from Baricho wellfied.
Objective 4. Ensure that adverse environmental impacts of the follow-on project and the
rehabilitation/augmentation works under the project would be minimised.
Environmental impact asessements and identification of mitigating measures were carried out for
both the rehabilitation weeks and pre-investment studies and engineering component. The
mitigation measures under the rehabilitation component were implemented. For the engineering
components detailed environmental impact assessments were carried out.
Page 3 of 9



ANNEX B
Page 6 of 10
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors outside Government Control
The exchange rate fluctuations has a major effect on the project costs. This is particularly where
the escalation formula was used particularly for consultancies longer than 12 months.
Consultancies with major Kenya Shillings component were particularly affected. This was due to
the variation in cost of living index in Kenya and hence the man-month rates in Kenya Shillings
were grossly affected. Where payments were foreign currency the budgetary allocations were
affected as commitments in the books in the Ministry of Water Resources are entered in local
currency.
The El Nino rains affected the rehabilitation and augmentation works. Works were suspended
over some time due to the site being inaccessible. Damages were also caused to the upstream
wellfield rendering well No. I unusable. Damages also occurred along the Sabaki pipeline. All
these caused extra costs to be incurred.
Factors Subject to Government Control
a)    There was initial delay in effectiveness of the Credit due to meeting the conditions of the
effectiveness.
b)    The counterpart funds although reflected in the printed budget did not get all the
exchequer releases on a timely basis particularly during the first 3 years of the project.
These delays cost extra costs in interest claims.
c)    There were budgetary allocation constraints which caused delays in payments to
contractors/consultants/suppliers. This resulted in claims on interest.
d)    The payments through the Special Account took much longer than expected. This caused
additional costs in interest claims.
e)    Non-payment of water bills owed by the Government affected the financial position of
National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation. The NWCPC was therefore not
in a position to assist in making local payments and other operational expenses
Factors subject to control of implementing Agency
The rehabilitation and augmentation measures were satisfactorily implemented. However some
institutional issues affected the project. These include:-
a)    The NWCPC did not set up an operational and effective management information system
to assist in the day to day management decisions
b)    The revenue collection has not been very effective resulting in an ever increasing arrears.
The financial position of NWCPC remains unacceptable.
c)    Although meters were bought and installed there was no noticeable effect on the
improvement of revenue and estimated consumption for billing purpose.
d)    The quality of data on production and consumption, remains doubtful. Hence losses does
not reflect the true position.
Page 4 of 9



ANNEX B
Page 7 of 10
D. Project Sustainability
The sustainability of the project is unlikely unless some critical issues are attended to. These
issues include:-
> The acceptance that water is an economic geed by the beneficiaries. This cultural change
needs to take place otherwise the consumers will continue not to honour their payments. The
belief in 'free water' is still widely spread particularly among the rural households.
> The full benefits of the added production will not be realised unless some investment is made
in the distribution networks. Even if a new bulk supply is developed, this situation will still
be the same.
> The NWCPC operations are still not commercially-oriented and hence the financial
management still needs improvement.
> The financial position of NWCPC will affect sustainability as revenue collected is just
enough to meet basic operational costs but with little improvement in the infrastructure.
> The willingness to pay by consumers will remain low as long as there is no improvement in
the level of service. New tariff increases will therefore be resisted.
> The systems taken over by NWCPC were already in need of rehabilitation. Unless the
Government raises an initial capital investment to rehabilitate these systems, the NWCPC is
unlikely to improve on the level of service at the current revenue levels. Even is NWCPC
collected a 100% of the revenue billed, it is still not possible to rehabilitate all the projects
under its portifolio.
> The remuneration levels paid by NWCPC is not able to attract and retain qualified manpower.
For sustainability, the turnover of staff should be limited. However the incentive to perform
is currently not there.
E. IDA Performance
The financial perfonnance of the Corporation is the major criteria against which the Corporation
will be judged for future lending. However despite this critical role, the commercial and financial
aspects of the project were not given the appropriate weight. In this regard the performance of
IDA during the identification, preparation and appraisal could have focussed better in this aspect.
Even when the studies on institutional issues were carried out IDA did not even give their
comments even after NWCPC submitted theirs.
During Supervision Missions technical issues were given greater attention. An attempt was made
to implement a "Rescue Package" which again was not dutifully followed through. This
proposed way forward was therefore also not successful.
During the project 2 missions had the presence of a computer expert who looked at issues of
computerisation. However attempts to procure computer equipment were not successful as IDA
did not approve. Agreement was reached with IDA on the technical specifications of a billing
system and international shopping was recommended. However after the tour ended in
Washington DC due to the cost of the billing system identified as suitable (about $300,000) the
Procurement Division in IDA could not approve. Hence all efforts to procure both hardware and
software were unsuccessful. This is despite following the IDA advice. The performance of IDA
in this respect is considered unsatisfactory.
Page 5 of 9



ANNEX B-
Page 8 of 10
Recommendations were made for improvements of financial management systems and they were
supposed to be implemented. However it took about 3 years before the approval was given by
IDA. This was rather late in the project as there would be no time to see the systems work. This
performance in this respect is considered unsatisfactory.
The project has had several changes of IDA staff including the Task Manager and Financial
Analyst. When such changes occurred some changes were seen in terms of focus, approach etc.
F. Borrower Performance
The Borrower performance has largely been satisfactory despite problems during the first 3 years
of the project. The main areas of concern were:-
> The Borrowers took time to accept that the Letter of Credit could be utilised in the
procurement,
> Exchequer releases were at times not received despite budgetary allocations being available,
> Money owed to NWCPC by the various Ministries could not be paid directly by Treasury, and
> Timeliness of counterpart funding
The Ministry of Water Resources tried to assist National Water Conservation and Pipeline
Corporation to recover debts owed by the various Ministries but without much success. The
accommodation of the budgetary requirements within the ceiling limits was during the early
years of implementation a major constraint. This was however sorted out particularly towards
the last 2 years. Despite being a major player in the water sector, the Ministry of Water
Resources has not given NWCPC much consideration in the Water Policy.
The NWCPC performance in the implementation of rehabilitation and augmentation measures
was satisfactory. The pre-investment studies and engineering studies were also satisfactorily
completed. However the financial performance of NWCPC still remains unsatisfactory. This
reflects on the operational efficiency and the level of services which could not be enhanced due
to the limited financial resources. The NWCPC did not reduce the accounts receiveables and
water losses to the expected level. Due to the non-computerisation the NWCPC did not
computerise the billing outside the Coastal Region. This leads to low efficiency in billing and
hence reflects on revenue collection.
G. Assessment of Outcome
The engineering credit was expected to be utilised to prepare for a follow-on investment project
while undertaking some rehabilitation and augmentation measures to reduce the water deficit.
These latter measures were satisfactorily implemented and the potential production increased by
about 45,000m3/day. However a major objective of improving the institutional operational, and
financial viability of NWCPC was not achieved according to the financial statements over the
project period.
The wellfied development was very successful but due to the limited transmission capacity of
Sabaki Pipeline the project is unable to make use of the production potential without new
investments in the transmission system.
Page 6 of 9



ANNEX B
Page 9 of 10
The development of Tiwi boreholes was completed but NWCPC required funds to equip them.
Due to the financial position of NWCPC it may take time before these production facilities are
utilised.
There are high water losses in the distribution systems for which no measures were implemented.
The increased flow into the system will lead to increased losses.
Based on the above observations the project outcome is considered to be less than satisfactory.
H. Future Operation
In the past the Corporation has been undertaking corrective maintenance which has resulted in
deterioration of installations across the years. The pumping equipment installed particularly for
the high lift station is much easier to maintain than the turbine pumps earlier installed. The
NWCPC should put in place maintenance contracts with the manufacturers representatives so that
the electro-mechanical equipment will be maintained in accordance with the manufacturers
recommendations.
In order to maximise on the outputs of the completed project, the implementation of the stalled
Mombasa Water Supply and Sanitation Project should be done without delay.
1. Key Lessons Learnt
Project Management
The Project Implementation Unit should be properly staffed and the staff retained through the
project period. Lessons learnt are:-
>  A comprehensive database should be maintained at the PIU for both project related issues and
the institutional issues.
>  At the time of the project, the Project Co-ordinator should as far as possible devote his total
time to the project and not be assigned the normal duties although he may be consulted.
>  While the day to day activities within the project components may be under separate project
engineers/ accountants/managers etc., the Project Co-ordinator should in all respects be
consulted on aspects that affect the cost of the particular component and hence the project.
>  Cost control is very critical as suppliers/contractors/consultants tend to maximise on their
own components. Variation of costs should not be allowed without the consultation of the
PIl.
>  There should be a 'Project Steering Committee' where issues on the projects should be
discussed by all those dealing with the projects.
Page 7 of 9



ANNEX B
Page 10 of 10
Institutional Issues
The main lessons learnt are:-
The operation of the Special Account did not make the payments faster. It should be
reviewed.
5 Unless capital is invested to rehabilitate the major water supplies, there is unlikely to be an
improvement in the level of service and hence no meaningful improvement in financial
position of the corporation
The NWCPC should have its own Act and not be limited by the State Corporation Act. This
will be a step towards greater autonomy.
An organised Management Information system is critical to the operation of National Water
Conservation ajid Pipeline Corporation.
Page 8 of 9



ANNEX C
Page 1 of 6
Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply
Engineering and Rehabilitation Project
Credit 2333-KE
Operational Plan by Borrower



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 6
Preamble
The National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation was established in 1988
vide the Legal Notice 270 of June 24, 1988 under the State Corporation's Act (Cap 446
Laws of Kenya). The main functions of the Corporation are defined in the said Legal
Notice. The Corporation took over the management of some specific water supplies
hitherto under the purview of the Director of the Water Development.
The Project
1. There is water deficit within Mombasa and coastal areas which seriously
affects not only the population as a whole but also the economic development and
earning capacity of the Coastal Region especially in the tourism industry which in
previous years had been the largest foreign exchange earner. The water supply therefore
is in need of urgent attention both to increase the water supply production and also
rehabilitate the existing facilities in order to sustain the current production. The
rehabilitation and augmentation was to be carried out while preparations are being made
for the follow-on investment project. The conclusion of Second Mombasa and Coastal
Water Supply, Engineering and Rehabilitation Project was construed with this in mind.
Project Objectives
2.2 The Project was the first step towards the improvement and extension of water supply and
waste water disposal systems in Mombasa and Coastal Region to be followed by a follow-
on investment project. The main objectives were:-
(a) to provide support to the Corporation (NWCPC) to help ensure its institutional,
operational and financial viability for carrying out the preparatory project and the
follow-on main project in particular, and for fulfilling its broad mandate in the water
supply sector in general;
(b) to carry out pre-investment and engineering designs for the extension of the Mombasa
Water Supply System and related waste water disposal systems that would:
* improve provision of safe water and better sanitation for the rapidly expanding
population;
* protect the earning capacity of the Coastal Region especially in tourism, and
* allow for economic growth;
(c) to reduce the water supply deficit in the near-term through
rehabilitation/augmentation of existing facilities;
(d to ensure that adverse environmental impacts of the follow-on project and of the
rehabilitation/augmentation works under this project would be minimised.



ANNEX C
Page 3 of 6
Project Components
2.3 The project consisted of the following main components of:-
(a) Institutional support components uz
* Valuation of Assets and Liabilities
* Improvement of Revenue Collection, Financial Management, and MIS Study
* Improvement of revenue collection (implementation of recommendations of the
earlier study)
* Corporate Development plan (including tariff study and water sector study) study.
* Procurement of vehicles and miscellaneous equipment
(b) Pre-investment and Engineering consultancy services component consisting of
* Source works development (Bulk Supply)
* Distributions Network improvements and extensions
* Sewerage, Drainage and Sanitation
* Rehabilitation and Augmentation of Kahuti, Kandara, Litein, and Siaya
* Improvement of Radio Communication system
* Rehabilitation and Augmentation of Sabaki Water Works.
(c) Rehabilitation and Augmentation Works
The rehabilitation and augmentation works consisted of:
- development of 6 No. Wells and associated civil works
- installation of wellfied pumps, high lift pumps and associated switchgear and
electro-mechanical works
D Rehabilitation of Baricho-Nguu Tatu pipeline, duplication of the Lower Ribe - Nguu
Tatu section of the pipeline and the associated civil works.
Operation Plans
3.1 The Corporation intends to maximise the utilisation of the now improved production within
the Coast Region.
3.2 The production from each well will be restricted to a maximum of 12,000m3/day for the
sustainability of the aquifer to take account of the earlier experience from the first wellfield.
3.3 The collection of the wellfield data will be continued so that re-runs of the aquifer
modelling may be carried out to better understand the potential yield after sustained production from
the entire wellfield.
3.4 Regular quality monitoring of the water will as much as feasible be done on site and samples for
fuller analysis taken every 3 months for analysis. This will assist in detecting changes in quality of the
groundwater due to changes in surface water quality.
3.5 Programmed routine maintenance of the Baricho Borehole and the highlift pumps shall be
instituted in accordance with the Manufacturers' guidelines and in accordance with the operation
manuals. The NWCPC will enter into service contracts with competent local frms (Manufacturers'
Representatives) in order to achieve this. This will ensure the sustainability of the production.



ANNEX C
Page 4 of 6
3.6 The Switchgear will be checked regularly to ensure especially that the protection of the pumps in
view of the power problems being experienced. Continued liaison with KPLC will be maintained and
any damages associated with the in-coming power be discussed and compensation sought from them.
3.7 The rehabilitation of Well No. 1 will require KSh. 14 million. However the protection of the
whole Wellfied to secure the integrity will require a much higher investment cost. NWCPC will
approach KFW to see if any funds can be provided particularly for the upstream Wellfield.
3.8   During the project limited off-line water facilities were provided along the pipeline to avoid
vandalism. The NWCPC will regularly monitor the transmission mains to ensure that minimal losses
are made in transmission.
Distribution Network Improvements
3.9 No physical works were carried out in extension or reinforcement of any of the distribution
networks. Review will be made of the immediate measures recommended by the Consultants so that
installation of valves, by-passes etc that can be met under normal maintenance funds be made to
improve on the equity in distribution of the available water.
3.10  Increased leakage is expected within the distribution system due to the improved supply. Areas
of major leakage will be identified and physical leakage's attended to. Further reduction of physical
leakage may not be feasible without substantial investment in the distribution system. It is expected
that the AFD funding will be made available. If so we expect to reduce leakage at consumers' meters
since the funds may not be available for attending to leakage's at the connection ferrules.
Corporate Planning
3.11 The 5 year Corporate Development Plan is on the last year. It is noted that some of the
recommendations were not implemented. The plan will be reviewed and the next 1998/2003 plan
produced. This will take into account the new investment scenario and it is expected that the funding
for the Interim and Medium-Term Project will be more definitive in order to have a realistic plan. This
plan should include updated tariff recommendations.
3.12 The annual budget is currently being prepared following the Government circulars. There is need
to link the budget with the Government target dates. However the preparation of the Annual Business
Plan as recommended in the 5 year plan needs to be prepared. With improved strategic planning
capacity the NWCPC will prepare the 5 year plan and Annual Business Plan during year 1999/2000.
The second half of 1998/99 will be used to collect and collate data from the NWCPC's operations.
Financial Management
3.13 The NWCPC has to operate within the available resources. Realistic budgeting will be done so
that income will match the expenditure.
3.14 The operational costs shall be reduced by identifying obsolete assets and removing them from
the books of accounts.
3.15 The NWCPC will enforce the financial controls in accordance with the recommendations of the
consultants.
3.16 The Credit Control Division will be strengthened to have adequate capacity in order to reduce the
debtors and hence improve the cash flow.



ANNEX C
Page 5 of 6
3.17 Programmed staffing of qualified accounts staff will be done over the next 3 years in accordance
with the staffing norms that have been approved this year. This will improve financial operations at the
area (scheme) level.
3.18 The audit division will be strengthened in order to be able to do regular inspection audits at all
levels. The staffing levels will be in accordance with the staffing norms.
3.19 The preparation of the annual accounts has been manual resulting in delays to finalise the
accounts. The computerisation of the accounts will be on-line on current data from January. This
computerisation will facilitate production management information for decision making. This system
will be extended to the Regional level once the final trial runs are completed.
Billing and Revenue Collection
3.20 Errors in billing particularly the Coast Region continue to distort the true picture of the billing.
The following measures shall be enhanced to clean up the billing system.
* Fresh meter readings have been made and customer information data updated by use of the
customer study data from the distribution consultants. This will ensure correct current
billing.
* New meter readers have been hired as casuals and are under performance review. The
good ones will be checked at scheme level before submission for billing
* All meter readings will be checked at scheme level before submission to the Regional
Headquarters for Billing.
* When readings are submitted to Mombasa they will be checked by the Billing and Revenue
Superintendent before entry to the billing system.
3.21 A new billing system will be put in operation during the second half of 1998/99 year. The
system will only contain the current billing while the arrears are under review and reconciliation.
3.22 Separate teams for each operational area within cost have been set up and will continue to
analyse the arrears within the next 6 months. They will make their recommendations and once
approved NWCPC will follow up with each debtor for payments arrangements. Additionally a
Headquarters Team (consisting of an Engineer and an Accountant) have been assigned a specific
Region and will follow up the issues on arrears.
3.23 A disconnection policy will be implemented as approved by the Board. Fourteen days notice will
be given on the bill and disconnection effected before the next billing. Mechanisms
will be put in place to monitor the enforcement of the disconnection policy.
3.24 There has not been regular attendance to non-functional meters. Teams of technicians will be
trained from each area in order to initially flush these meters and if necessary take them for major
repairs to Mombasa.
3.25 Computer Billing Hardware have been bought for each of the Regions outside the Coast Region.
Although other regions are partially computerised all the regions will have computerised billing before
the beginning of FY99/2000.
3.26 Legal action will continue to be taken where feasible for major debtors.



ANNEX C
Page 6 of 6
Human Resources
3.27 Poor remuneration in NWCPC may not attract and retain qualified personnel. With improved
revenue collection qualified personnel will be progressively recruited at all levels in accordance with
the staffing norms.
3.28 The staffing levels in accordance with the staffing norms will be established and the excess staff
will be retrenched.
3.29 Training of staff will be enhanced particularly on-job training.
Non-Implementation of Follow-on Project
3.30 The reduction in un-accounted for water is likely to be maintained at current levels as no
investment was made in the distribution network.
3.31 The growth in expected revenue will not be realised.
3.32 The general health of people within coastal area may not improve due to poor sanitation and
sewerage systems. Drainage will continue to be a major problem in some critical areas.
3.33 The economic development potential of the coastal belt will not be realised.
3.34 Further costs will be incurred in future in updating project reports to cater for the scope of the
future project.
4. Monitoring Indicators
4.1   NWCPC will maintain records to enable the monitoring of its performance. The following
monitoring indicators will gauge the performance of NWCPC:-
* Water production for each of the production facilities (Baricho, Tiwi, Marere, Mzima,
Taveta Lumi etc.)
- Water quality records from sources and within distribution networks
- Unaccounted for water per month
* Interruptions in service records giving frequency, duration
- Consumer category and consumption blocks where metered.
* Annual financial indicators to measure financial performance of NWCPC
4.2 The monitoring indicators will be set in agreement with the World Bank.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 23240
SUDAN          ETHIOPIA
UGANDA                                                                                                       ThAon 
0~~~~~~
Sungoma                                                                                           KENYA
Kabarnet
Kckomega       -                    -_                                                           r,a  NAIROBI
0 Shitoli
Kapsabet
0  Maseno-
Kombewao-                                                                                TANZANIA            iNDIAN
GKISUMU                                                                                            o~o
Nkc               NAKURU'                             AM ofMop
P0CC                      ~~~~~~~~~Aguthi  Mothiro
Nakuru G           *  NYERI      Ndia
Kisil  Litoin  Chebangang  West  Gi.gil     O              E
*  *  *                       ~~~~~~ ~       ~~othoay  Erbu 
- -                                - - '-- ' | Naivashr  , K.h.h
\           @         ~~~~~~~     ~~Kaiiado   _-             
KENYA \9- 
SECOND MOMBASA AND                            \                      -            - 
COASTAL WATER SUPPLY                                       Loitokitok No-Turesh                                   4
ENGINEERING AND                                                *    Mzim                                     .(.
REHABILITATION PROJECT  :
NATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION                                         TaeaLm             - :Sabaki 
AND PIPELINE CORPORATION                                         * 
OPERATIONAL REGIONS                      TA,NZANIA         t1/
WATER SCHEMES
/9  OPERATIONAL REGION HEADQUARTERS                                                                      /:-
@1NATIONAL CAPITAL                                       L\MOMBASAav
---OPERATIONAL REGION BOUNDARIES                        1I\Mrr   ii/7 IDA
- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                               Mer * i         INDIA
\        /-  E OCEAN'
F OMZETERS   O    5O0    100   lSO       200 ...\  
A4LES    O S O 50.             100t'  ,,,,,,,~,,,,,,* 
SEPTEMBER 1 991



IBRD 23241
-7--,,7/7
EASTERN                                                                                                                                       To G.,seq,                      LAMU
T. No!, bi                                                                                                                                  TANA
RIVER
MALC\l-tAKOS                                                                 TANA
RIVER
VALLEY
I(APADO
N
SABAKI R
KILIFI
"'X/
COAST
KIIA-1
TA17A
c
SUDAN              ETHIOPIA
KWALE
z
TAN
KENYA               0
Lake
victor;o    NAIROBI
'A
rea of
TANZANIA                                                                            T. D., E Soloo.
NOVEMBER 1991



