Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2333 KE
       (Second Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Engineering
                    and Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
       NATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION AND PIPELINE CORPORATION
                       Dated March 13, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2333 KE
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 13, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NATIONAL WATER
CONSERVATION AND PIPELINE CORPORATION (NWCPC).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty one
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 31,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NWCPC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NWCPC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
NWCPC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Page  2
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS NWCPC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. NWCPC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. NWCPC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land aquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. NWCPC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, NWCPC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) NWCPC shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   NWCPC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by NWCPC of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.06. NWCPC shall establish and maintain until
completion of the Project a PIU, headed by a Project Coordinator,
who shall report to the Managing Director. The PIU shall have four
other key staff. All members of the PIU shall have experience and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of NWCPC
      Section 3.01. NWCPC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
Page  3
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
      Section 3.02. NWCPC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
      Section 3.03. NWCPC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04. (a) In carrying out Part A.1 (iii) of the
Project, NWCPC shall, not later than December 31, 1993, carry out,
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association a water
tariff study, (b) thereafter submit to the Association for review
and comment the results of said study, and (c) promptly thereafter
implement the recommendations of the study, taking into account the
views of the Association.
      Section 3.05. NWCPC shall: (a) with effect from the 1991/1992
fiscal year until completion of the Project annually prepare six-
year financial projections of its operations; and (b) not later than
March 31 of each year submit said financial projections to the
Association for review and comments.
      Section 3.06. NWCPC shall by March 31, in each year furnish to
the Association for its review and comments a detailed training
program.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) NWCPC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   NWCPC shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) including
                   those of the Special Account for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than nine months after
                   the end of each such year (A) certified copies
                   of its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and financial statements as well as the audit
                   thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NWCPC shall produce for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on June 30, 1992, total revenues equivalent to
not less than the sum of its (i) total operating expenses; (ii) 40%
of depreciation in FY 1992/1993, 65% of depreciation in FY 1993/
1994, and 100% of depreciation in FY 1994/1995 and thereafter; and
Page  4
(iii) a contribution to reserves by FY 1994/1995 and thereafter.
      (b)   Before July 1 in each of its fiscal years, NWCPC shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by NWCPC and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of such
review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that NWCPC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for NWCPC's fiscal years
covered by such review, NWCPC shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its water tariffs) in order to meet such
requirement.
      (d)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "total revenues" means the sum of total
                  operating revenues and net non-operating income.
           (ii)   The term "total operating revenues" means
                  revenues from all sources related to operations.
          (iii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.
           (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                  payments in lieu of taxes, and interest and other
                  charges on debt.
            (v)   Provision for depreciation shall be on a
                  straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 3%
                  per annum of the average current gross value of
                  NWCPC's fixed assets in operation, or other basis
                  acceptable to the Association.
           (vi)   The average current gross value of NWCPC's fixed
                  assets in operation shall be calculated as one
                  half of the sum of the gross value of NWCPC's
                  fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at
                  the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time
                  to time in accordance with sound and consistently
                  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Association.
          (vii)   The term "contribution to reserves" means not
                  less than 10% of the projected annual costs of
                  the acquisition of assets for expansion of NWCPC
                  operations.
      Section 4.03. NWCPC shall by June 30, 1993, complete the
valuation of its assets and liabilities.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Page  5
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NWCPC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
           (ii)   the date twenty years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify NWCPC of
this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For NWCPC:
            National Water Conservation and
              Pipeline Corporation
            P.O. Box 30173
            Nairobi, Kenya
                                          Telefax:
                                            545882
                                            Nairobi
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NWCPC, or by NWCPC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and NWCPC shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
Page  6
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Stephen Denning
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                        NATIONAL WATER CONSERVATION AND PIPELINE
                          CORPORATION
                        By /s/ Denis D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                           SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages.
3.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
a third-party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, NWCPC may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Workshop equipment, minor machinery, tools and spare parts
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,200,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.    Contracts for equipment, computers and training materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Page  7
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist NWCPC in carrying out the Project, NWCPC
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
