Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6970
THE WORLD BANK
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 756-IN)
September 30, 1987
Population, Human Resources,
Urban and Water Operations Division
Asia Country Department IV
Tins document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaion.



THI WORLD SANK                 FOR OFFCIL USE ONLY
Washiglton. DC 204 3
U.S A
Olke o Dowim Gw
Ohwateft twahaote
September 30, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on India
Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (Credit 756-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on India Second Calcutta Urban Development
Project (Credit 756-IN) prepared by the Asia Regional Office. Further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not
been made.
2
Attachment
Thil daunwnt haa mitsd dbiabution o  may be umdby mipifWnu o* in d pefonsu"*
of deit ofk  dudo.1 It otents mxynot sth"inbediclose witul WWdgEnk ootbodnnea.



COU TRY EXCHANGE RATES
Nam  of Currency (Abbreviation):         Rupees (Re)
Years SEchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average                   US$1 - Rs  8.66
Interveing Years Average                 US$1 - Re  8.79
Completion Year Average                  US$1 - Rs 11.58



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =  Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00           =  Rs 8.6 (at appraisal, November 1977)
US$1.00              Rs 9.75 (at credit closing, August 1984)
Rs 1 lakh             Rs 100,000
Rs 1 crore        =  Rs 10,000,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)               0.39 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                 c  39.37 inches (in) or 3.28 ft
1 square meter (m )         =  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m )          =  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km )               0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )        0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =   2.47 acres (ac) or 10,000 square meters
1 liter (1)                 =   1.057 quarts liquid or
0.26 US gallon (gal) or
0.908 quart dry (qt)
1 liter per capita
per day (lcd)             =   0.26 US gallons per capita per day
1 cubic meter per
second (m /sec)           =  86.4 million liters per day or 22 million US
gallons per day
1 million litet-s per day
(mld)                    =  0.01 cubic meters per second
1 million liters per
hour (ml/hr)              =  0.24 cubic meters per second
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIP      Bustee Improvement Program
BDP      Basic Development Plan for the Calcutta Metropolitan District
(1966-86)
CC       Calcutta Corporation
CIT      Calcutta Improvement Trust
CMC      Calcutta Metropolitan Corporation
CMD      Calcutta Metropolitan Corporation
CMDA     Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
CMWSA    Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority
CSSI     Government of West Bengal - Directorate of Cottage and Small-Scale
Industries
DMS      Department of Municipal Services
GOI      Government of India
GOWB     Government of West Bengal
HIT      Howrah Improvement Trust
I and W  Government of West Bengal - Irrigation and Waterways Directorate
SSE      Small-scale enterprises
WBHB     West Bengal Housing Board
WBSIC    West Bengal Small Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIL USX ONLY
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 756-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA SHEET .o.e..........o........e......,....,                i
HICHLICHTS .........................               ,i L
I.  INTRODUCTION ................................ .. ..           .       1
II.  THE SETTING  ..................                                       1
III.  THE PROJECT ..................         ........................       3
A*  Program          ..........         ,                            3
B.  Management Reform .0..... .......       ........        ....     4
C.  Local Government Reform .........................                4
D.  Project Design ...... * &*..............................         5
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....,          ......................,..       6
V.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .....  ..........                               7
A.  Project Cost ...........................................         7
B.  Financial Impact            ..................................   8
C.  Other Matters            ....................................    8
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT .............               8
VII.  PROGRAM RESULTS .......            ..........             .. 0        9
VIIl.  BANK PERFORMANCE ..................    ............ .......          11
A.  Project Design .*.  *........................................    11
B.  Supervision                    .........,                       11
IX.  EALAT.Institutional Sup ..........t.....................             11
X.  CONCLUSIONS..           ................ .......... *.    14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performpn,*
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwi be disbcloed without World Bank authoriktion.



Tablek d  C-of t   ('ont.)
Annexes
Pge .No.
Annex I     Description of the Projecte.........000... ...0    16
Annex TI    Five Year Investment Plans and CUDP Components.    19
Annex III   Covenants Dealing with Local Government.e.,..    20
Anex IV    Actual and Expected Physical Completion.*0.....    24
Annex V     Statement of Outstanding Projects..............    33
Annex VI    Sunaryof Status of Compliance with Covenants.    34
Annex VII   Sumary Cost Estimates for Components of CUDP II   39
Annex VIII  Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Costt..,...,,    40
Annex IX    Cash Flow During Implesentation Period*********   46
Annes X     Schedule of Disbursementso......,..............    47
Annex XI    Project Completion Report (Cr.756-IN), prepared
by Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority.
Annex XII   Comments from Borrower ....,...........,....... 80



INDIA
(CREDIT 756-1N)
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROZi^,CT COMrLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This report presents the results of a pe'formance review of the
Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (CUDP tI) for which Credit 756-IN
of US$87 million was made to the Government of India (G1I) in January 1978.
The credit became effective in April 1978 and was closed in August 1984* The
principal implementing agency was the Calcutta Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA).
The report consists of two parts:  the main report which sumtarizes
the overall experience, and a more detailed completion report prepared by the
CMDA which appears as Annex XI. The main report was prepared by the Urban
and Water Supply Division of the South Asia Pro3ects Departmnt with the
assistance of a consultant. It is based on a review of project documents,
Bank files and CMDA's completion report.
Following standard proceduirs ORD sent copies of the draft report to
the Borrower for its comts.  The camets which were receved have be
taken into account in preparing the final report and they ae reproduced a
Anne XII,



ii
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DRVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 756-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal   Actual
Estimate     Cost
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                            183.71      164.4
Overrun (%)                                                     
Total Amount of Credit (US$ million)                         87          87
Completion of Physical Components                         3-31-82      8-8-84 1/
Time Overrun (X)                                              -          62.5
Financial Performance                                                    Poor
Institutional Performance                                                Fair
Economic Rate of Return                                      20X 2/ See section
Ix
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                      Actual
First Mention in Files                                              3-21-75
Appraisal                                                          11-28-76
Negotiation                                                        10-11-77
Board Approval                                                     12-13-77
Credit Agreement Date                                               1- 6-78
Effective Date                                                      4- 7-78
Closing Date                              3-31-83                   8- 8-84 1/
Borrower                            Covernment of India
Executing Agency                    Calcutta Metropolitan
Development Authority (CMDA)
Follow-on Project                   Calcutta Urban Dev. III
Credit Number                       1369-IND
Amount (US$ million)                 147
Credit Agreement Date               6-8-83
11 Final Disbursement
2/ Estimated weighted average, calculated on area development, bustee (slum)
improvement, water supply, solid waste management, roads and traffic
improvements, which account for about 60% of total project cost.



iii
Cumulative Disbursements
FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY8S
Appraisal Estimate        8      25     45      65      83    85      87      87
Actual                    4.6   18.7   43.3   67.9    74    79.3   86.4    87
MISSION DATA
No. of                  Staff
Date         Staff        DaYS        Days
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal                             7/76           7           13          91
Appraisal                            10/76           2           7           14
Appraisal                            11/76           8          20          160
Appraisal                             2/77           3          14           42
Appraisal                             3/77           1           4            4
Appraisal                             8/77           1           3            3
Post Negotiation                     12/77           4          18           72
386
Supervision  1                        3/78           5          11           5S
Supervision  2                       10/78          10          25          250
Supervision  3                        2/79           3          16           48
Supervision  4                        7/79           7          16          112
Supervision  4a                      10/79           1          18           18
Supervision  5                        2/80          4           19           76
Supervision  5a                       3/80           1          14           14
Supervision  6                       9/80           6           14           84
Supervision  6a                      12/80           1            5           5
Supervision  7                        2/81           4           12          48
Supervision  8                        9/81           7           13          91
Supervision  9                        3/82           4            7          28
Supervision 10                        2/83           5          16           80
Supervision 11                       11/83           7           12          84
Supervision 12                        5/84           6           3           18
Supervision 13                       12/84           6           2           12
Total Staff Days    1,023



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 756-IN)
HIGHLIGHTS
i.      The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) was estab-
lished in 1970 to plan, oversee and finance efforts to halt and reverse
Calcutta's urban decay. IDA developed the first Calcutta Urban Development
Project (CUDP I) in 1972 to support CMDA and its program. A US$35 million
credit was made in 1973. During the course of CUDP l, CMDA was transformed
from being a planning, financing, and-coordinating agency, to one which
became extensively involved in implementing projects in a variety of sectors.
In addition, CUDP I laid the groundwork for reforms in state and municipal
government necessary to sustain programs for improving facilities and serv-
ices. Disbursements under CUDP I were completed in 1979, some 3 years later
than originally expected (paras 2.02 and 2.03). (See Project Performance
Audit Report and Project Completion Report dated June 11, 1982).
ii.     The second Calcutta Urban Development Project (CUDP II) was prepared
by CMDA, the Government of West Bengal (cOWB), and the Bank in 1976-77. A
credit of US$87 million was made in 1978. The project was large, ambitious,
and complex. It included financing for 54 sub-projects in 11 different
sectors, technical assistance for strengthening CMDA's management practices
and procedures, and support for a major program of municipal reform (paras
3.01, 3.02 and 3.03).
Mii.    After several adjustments to program content and costs, disbursements
were completed in 1984, about 2 years later than originally expected. Not
all project elements were completed. Some were time-slices of on-going
programs that continue to receive IDA support in the Third Calcutta Urban
Development Project (CUDP III) (paras 4.01 and 4.05).
iv.     The following highlights of the project are of special interest:
Institutional Performance
- Strengthening of CMDA (par& 6.01);
Policy Reforms
-  reforms to local government were extensive, e.g. legislative changes,
creation of a Central Valuation Board, reorganization of a government
department and introduction of formal training programs (para 15);
Poverty Alleviation
- The project gave increased attention to helping the economically
weaker sections through the extension of the bustee improvement
program and the addition of a basic plan for improving conditions in
the fringe areas of the Calcutta Metropolitan District (CMD) (para
3.07);



Flexibility in New Programs
new or innovative programs require flexibility in implementation,
requiring adjustments to fit local circumstances. This was the case
with sites and services and urban redevelopment (paras 3.08, 7.02(a)v
and 7.02(e));
Staffing and Management
-in general, the project proved to be difficult to execute.  The Bank
made available extensive resources for supervision. However, CMDA's
management and implementation capacity was stretched severely and
some of the more complex components required skills and knowledge
beyond the experience of CMDA's staff. Recruitment of new staff was
curtailed by legal problems, and the use of consultants to augment
staff did not prove completely satisfactory. CMDA operated for much
of the implementation period with a shortage of qualified staff in
some key areas (paras 4.03, and 4.07);
Environmental Improvements
the results of the project are difficult to quantify in all areas.
However, it is clear that the supply of potable water was increased,
drainage was improved, the environmental conditions of a large number
of bustee dwellings was improved, and there has been a lessening of
the incidence of water borne diseases. In addition, a basis was
established for an improved approach for the follow-on project, CUDP
III, through mobilizing local support and participation (e.g. anchal
(fringe area) development program) (paras 7.01, and 10.06);
Community Participation
mobilizing local support and participation can lead to improved
performance. This was the experience with one component, the
municipal and anchal development program (para -;.Q1);
Investment Planning and Coordination
planning the construction and/or expansion of large interconnected
systems so that benefits are added in pace with construction, may not
evolve easily from conventional public works practice. In the
experience of CUDP I and CUDP II, iniestments were made in parts of
systems (water supply, sewerage, and drainage) long before the sup-
plemental investments were in place to provide service to the
ultimate consumer. The economical planning of investments deserved
more attention than it received urder CUDP II (paras 7.02(a), 7.03
and 7.04). During CUDP II CMDA changed to emphasize planning and
coordination and shifted some of the responsibility of planning,
implementation and operation to other agencies (para 8.03); and



-vi-
Maintenance
in soae areas, the results were jeopardized by the failure to main-
tain the facilities constructed. Raising funds to perform the neces-
iary maintenance remains the major obstacle to the improvement of the
Calcutta environment. MdOntenance is more difficult to support than
new investments, and the effectiveness of the investments depend on
it (paras 5.03 and 10.03).



-1-
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 756-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    The Bank first became actively involved in Calcutta's development in
1973 when it made a loan of US$35 million (CUDP I, Credit 427-IN) to support
the Calcutta i4etropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and its program of
urban reconstruction and development. 1/ CMDA was newly established at that
time and had quickly become the focus of efforts to deal with the problems of
the city's physical decay. The Bank had only recently begun to lend for
"urban development" and CUDP I was one of its earliest efforts in the field
and, as a consequence of CMDA's mandate, the Bank's first to take a
metropolitan-wide approach, rather than a sub-sector approach. It was a
modest operation in relation to the task out important because of the prompt
support) it provided prompt support to the new CMDA, and it became the first
of a series. The Bank followed up with a second loan of US$87 million in
1978 (CUDP II, Credit 756-IN) for a larger and more ambitious project. This
was followed by a third, still larger project in 1983 (CUDP III, Credit
1369-IN, US$147 million), currently under implementation. This report deals
with the second of this series.
II.  THE SETTING
2.01    Ever since the inflow of refugees following the partition of India
in 1947, the Calcutta metropolitan area has been overcroi6ed, underserviced,
and economicatly depressed. World concern about the conditions of the city
were raised by a cholera epidemic in 1958 and, in response, WHO/UNDP produced
in 1966 a "Master Plan for Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage - Calcutta
Metropolitan District, 1966-2001". Concurrently, the Calcutta Metropolitan
Planning Organization, established in 1960 and strongly supported by the Ford
Foundation, produced studies of other urban sub-sectors, and of local
administration. These studies, together with the WHO Master Plan, were
brought together as a "Basic Development Plan for the Calcutta Metropolitan
District 1966-86" 'BDP).
2.02    Litt,e was done to implement the BDP until 1970 when CMDA was estab-
lished with GOI assistance as a coordinating and financing agency for
implementing an area-wide program of rehabilitation and development, guided
by the BDP. CMDA was provided with a Rs 160 crore four year budget towards
implementing the BDP. From among the sub-projects being implemented by CMDA
1/ Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) #4023 OED June 30, 1982.



-2-
the Bank identified a project in 1972, and a credit of US$35 million was made
in 1973 (CUDP I).
2.03    CUDP I assisted in the transformation of CMDA from a financing
organization into an implementing agency. It supported the formulation of a
plan for improving the financial performance of agencies and municipalities
of the Calcutta Metropolitan District (CMD), and measures to strengthen the
management of t.ie CMDA. Its project content was selected from CMDA's exist-
ing program.  It was, in fact, a loan to support an institution and a
program, tied to project elements of that program. CUDP I was prepared
quickly at a critical time in CMDA's development. The Bank saw the timing of
its assistance to be particularly important in this case.l/ CUDP I took six
years to disburse instead of the three years estimated at the time of
appraisal. The necessary changes in CMDA's organization as it expanded its
functions, proved more difficult than anticipated. Progress toward financial
reform was slow, material shortages developed, and GOI funds for the CMDA
program were less than anticipated. The experience disclosed deficiencies in
in-house planning and project preparation.
2.04    Discussions on a second project began soon after CUDP I got underway.
In 1975, CMDA proposed to focus on three sectors, water supply,
sewerage/drainage and urban transport. No action was taken, however, pending
further progress with CUDP I. The following year, CMDA prepared a new 4-year
investment plan and development perspective which proposed a shift in
development strategy for metropolitan growth from the bi-polar structure
suggested in the BDP, to a polycentric one, with implications for the pattern
of investment in basic infrastructure. [CMDA Completion Report (Annex XI)
paragraph 2.2].
2.05    In discusgions with CMDA in 1976, the Bank included, among the steps
necessary for appraisal, the revision of CMDA's investment program to provide
for a "higher social content". This meant a shift from a heavy emphasis on
public works to greater emphasis on bustee (slum) improvement, and on area
development for low income groups, including sites and services with social
support programs. 2/ CMDA's rethinking of its development strategy, and the
1/ Earlier the Bank had sought involvement in the water supply and
sewerage/drainage sectors, but the Calcutta Metropolitan Water and
Sanitation Authority (CMWSA), set up in 1966 to operate and maintain
systems on a metropolitan wide basis, never became operative. The
establishment of CMDA, actively seeking outside assistance, provided an
opportunity for the Bank to become active in Calcutta.
2/ CUDP I had included a "prototype large scale, self financing sites and
service project" (Baishnabghata-Patuli k.rea Development). It had made
little progress because of land acquisition problems. A slum redevelop-
ment project (Chetla) had run into legal and political difficulties.



-3-
Bank's concern with a broader range of program elements, found mutual rein-
forcement in the design of the second project. CUDP II was prepared during
1976 and 1977.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01    The project that emerged from this period of preparation was large,
ambitious and complex. The description of the project, as provided in the
Development Credit Agreement, is given in Annex 1. At the investment program
level, the allocations for water supply, sewerage/drainage and transport
became a much smaller proportion of the total than in CUDP I (down from 60%
to 40%), and also, a smaller proportion than in CMDA's total program (Annex
II). At the same time, the proportion of the project allocated to area
development and solid wastes management were increased, and allocations for
bustee and refugee colony improvement, municipal and anchal (fringe areas)
development, health, schools, and for small scale enterprise support, were
added. 1/
3.02    At the CMDA management level problems had been identified, and reform
in management structure, combined with the introduction of improved manage-
ment systems, were expected to overcome many of the implementation problems
encountered in CUDP I. To augment CMDA's capacity, new staff were to be
hired, consultants were to be used more extensively, and training was to be
pursued more systematically. At the level of state and municipal government
the Bank and the Goverrment of West Bengal (GOWdB), following up on the
general financial plan formulated under CUDP I, included a series of
municipal reforms and financing targets in the legal agreements. These were
designed, in part, to help the CMD to cope better with the increasing cost of
operating and maintaining the improved facilities and services resulting from
CMDA's investments.
A. The Program
3.03    CUDP II consisted of 54 sub-projects in 11 sectors, plus consultants
services, technical assistance, and training, drawn from a five year rolling
investment program. 2/ Some of the sub-projects were programmatic in nature
1/ Contributing factors to the shift in emphasis were (a) the Bank's reluc-
tance to include any component of the water supply program which depended
on water diverted from the Ganges by the Farakka Barrage because of the
dispute between India and Bangladesh over its use; and (b) the desire of
the new GOWB (1977) to increase the bustee program, add the anchal
program and reduce the transport program correspondingly.
2/ Originally there were 57 sub-projects but 3 transport sub-projects were
subsequently dropped.



-4-
e.g. Calcutta water distribution system, reduction of water logging, solid
waste management, bustee improvement and the health and schools programs.
The range of activities is widet varying from traditional public works and
redevelopment of existing urban areas, to innovative programs designed to
improve living conditions, education, and health in existing bustee areas,
and to open up new areas for low cost accommodations.
3.03(a) The size and distribution of investments by component for CUDP II in
relation to CtDA's five year program is shown in Annex II. With the excep-
tion of water'supply, parks and playgrounds, and basic mapping, CUDP II would
finance more than 50% of each component.
B. CHDA Management Reform
3.04    During project preparation, changes were made in CMDA's management
structure. Senior project management would now include a chief executive
officer and four directors, the latter with responsibility for four main
functionst operations, planning, administration, and finance. Progress was
also made in revised budgeting, accounting, appraisal, and financial manage-
men:. systems, for which design and assistance in implementation was done with
the help of consultants financed under CUDP I. The installation and opera-
tion of the new systems was the subject of a covenant stipulating that the
CMDA shall install and operate: (a) a project budgeting and accounting
system; (b) a management information system; (c) a project appraisal system;
and (d) a project monitoring system.
These systems were all introduced on April 1, 1979.
3.05    Another important management-related covenant required the audit of
accounts of CMDA and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) for each fiscal
year by independent auditors, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied. From 1980 onwards, audit reports (from 1982 for
audits of statements of expenditures) were submitted on a regular basis.
C. Local Government Reform
3.06    The problem of financing the operations and maintenance of the
improved facilities and services resulting from CMDA's programs of invest-
ments has been a major concern from the beginning of the Bank's involvement
in Calcutta. Improvement in urban services can only be sustained if they can
be paid for on a regular basis. The issue was posed under CUDP I as a condi-
tion that the GOWB indicate how it intended to finance the future needs of
the CMD. A "Financial and Institutional Plan to Secure Improved Performance
of Municipal and Other Units concerned with the Development Program" was
produced by the GOWB in 1975. It was followed up strongly by the Bank and
the GOWSB during the preparation stage of CUDP II. A program of changes in
the existing laws governing local government were proposed by the GOWB, and
supported by the Bank. These dealt with the central valuation of property,



-5-
the reorganization of the Department of Municipal Services (DMS), the system
for awarding state grants to municipalities, and charges for local services.
These plans and actions to be taken by local government, which primarily
dealt with improving the efficiency and viability of operations, were the
subject of a series of covenants. A major concern was simply to increase
revenues to better operate and maintain the facilities financed in part by
the Bank's funds. The covenants dealing with local government reform are
included in the "particular covenants" of the West Bengal Agreement, and are
listed in Annex III. (Compliance of these covenants is included in Annex
VI under West Bengal Agreement).
D. Project Design
3.07    The Bank and the CMDA put a great deal of effort into preparing CUDP
II. The Bank sent six missions to Calcutta during the period of preparation
and appraisal, July 1976 to August 1977. These involved 11 staff members and
four consult -ts, spending a total of 314 person days in Calcutta. The Bank
was far more involved in project detail, and contributed far more to the
design of individual project components, than was the case in CUDP I. The
scope of the project expanded during preparation. A small scale enterprise
component was added after the main appraisal had been completed, and required
a separate mission, and "issues meeting." Just when preparation of the
project had been completed COWB decided to extend the bustee improvement
program , and to add a program for anchal development, by reducing the
allocation for road construction.
3.08    In addition to institutional reform CUDP II included some novel
components such as small scale enterprise, health, schools, and an urban
redevelopment project (Howrah Fish and Pan Market). While the impact of
these schemes would be quite localized their demonstrated success could be
far reaching (e.g. the municipal development program under CUDP III evolved
from the municipal and anchal development program of this project). The
large number of sub-projects (54), and the large number of covenants (32
directly dealing with project operations), gave the project an appearance of
comprehensiveness. On the other hand, its focus was diffuse, and some of
its components were complex.
3.09    Although the project emphasized the strengthening of CMDA and the
reform of local government in the CMD, the investment program dominated the
project design. Much effort went into the preparation of different program
elements, even the small ones as, for example, the small scale enterprise
component. CMDA's management was to be strengthened and its capacity was to
be stretched to meet the needs of the program. Both additional staff and
consultants were to be hired to implement the program.



-6-
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01    The project was scheduled for implementation over the 5-year period,
1977/78 - 1981/82.  The target date for physical completion was March 1982;
actual completion was some two years later. In the course of implementation
both content and costs were revised (Annex XI, Ch.III). Some of the dis-
crepancies between the expected and the actual can be attributed to unrealis-
tic scheduling to the problems encountered in land acquisition, staffing, and
obtaining construction materials (see para 3.1 Annex XI). The record of
physical completion is given in Annex IV and further developed in paragraph
3.3 Annex XI.  Some project components are identifiable physical
suS-projects, while others are clusters of sub-projects, or programs: the
CUDP II component being an estimate of how much of the program was likely to
be carried out within the project period. The bustee improvement program
(BIP) is one example of the latter, the Calcutta water distribution system is
another. Among the sectors, the lags in completion are rost evident in area
development (East Calcutta) and solid waste management; there are also large
gaps between expected and actual completion in the BIP.
4.02    The speed at which land can be acquired for public projects seems to
be slow and unpredictable in the CMD. It has generally taken longer than
estimated. The experience of CUDP I was repeated in CUDP II. CMDA tried to
speed up the process by endeavoring to find alternative accommodations for
those displaced by the acquisition, as well as compensating the owners of the
land. However, the legal obligation of payment of compensation to owners of
land acquired, and the social obligation of findin, alternative accommodation
of those displaced by the acquisition, could not be avoided. Land acquisi-
tion delays affected some highway sub-projects, the area development
sub-projects, and, in particular, the health component.
4.03    The difficulty CMDA experienced filling staff positions caused some
operations to be inadequately staffed for long periods of time, with a cor-
responding impact on output. This problem arose in part from CMDA's special
status in the government structure. Many of its staff are on deputation from
various government departments, and some are directly recruited. While the
project was being implemented, a dispute arose concerning the position of
staff with regard to service and promotions. This went to litigation, and
while the outcome was pending, CMDA was unable to fill a number of important
staff positions. The problem of staffing, particularly at the middle manage-
ment and technical levels, is a recurring theme in the Bank's supervision
reports. Areas particularly affected have been traffic engineerinr0, solid
waste management, small scale enterprise, and estate management. The plan-
ning and design cell for drainage also needed strengthening at one time.
4.04    State-wide shortages of some construction materials (e.g. cement,
steel, stone chippings, and bitumen), in recent years also contributed to
slowing the pace of construction.



-7-.
4.05    The disposition of outstanding sub-projects on completion of CUDP II
is shown in Annex V. As indicated in the footnote to this annex, if there
was no cost overrun, or if the project was of a "program" nature, e.g. the
BIP, it would be financed under CUDP III after completion of disbursements of
CUDP II. Projects not qualifying will be completed from CMDA's investment
program, without IDA financing.
4.06    The legal agreements identified thirty-two actions to be carrie& out
or "'caused to be carried out" by the GOI (l), the GOWB (24) and the CMDA (7).
Eighteen were complied with, eight of these after some delay. Nine were
partially complied with. One (delinking water and sewerage taxes'and charges
from consolidated property taxes) was not complied with because of a change
of political will, and one was not yet due because of the delay in the com-
pletion of the area development projects. The remaining three have been
revised. The status of compliance with covenants is shown in Annex VI.
4.07    Realizing that CUDP II would severely stretch CMDA's staff resources,
the project financed CMDA's extensive use of consultants to provide new
skills required for the expanded program, supplement CMDA's capacity to deal
with its larger program, and introduce the institutional reforms. The
results have been mixed. The work of consultants in introducing the institu-
tional reforms in project monitoring and management information systems, the
new commercial accounting system, and in devising training programs for CMDA
employees, has been successful and appreciated. This is also the case with a
number of contracts dealing with engineering studies and design. However,
the genera' experience has not been satisfactory. CMDA has found that the
employment of consultants requires more in-house effort if they are to be
used effectively (see paragraph 5.3 Annex XI).
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Project Costs
5.01    The cost estimates for the sector components were revised from time
to time, as were also the schedules for disbursement and project completion.
As a result, the program was modified several times. Costs for some com-
ponents were changed (see Annex VII); a comparison of actual and appraisal
estimates of sub-project costs is shown in Annex VIII (See also Para 3.4
Annex XI).
5.02    The comparison of estimated and actual sub-project costs should be
viewed in the context of the project being programmatic in nature with chan-
ges in scope and size occurring during implementation. In addition, some of
the original estimates were not based on detailed sub-project studies. Of



-8-
the 44 sub-projects listed in Annex VIII 1/, 21 are shown to be physically
complete at full disbursement of the credit (see Annex IV). Eleven of these
were completed within the appraisal estimate and 10 were completed at an
average cost overun of 282. The 23 incompleted sub-projects include 6 where
costs already exceed appraisal estimates. One of these was a program, expan-
sion of the Calcutta water distribution system, where the appraisal estimate
was based on a rough estimate of what might be accomplished during the
implementation period. Many of the incompleted sub-projects show less has
been spent than estimated at appraisal, which is due in large part to their
incompletenesi (See paragraph 3.43 Annex XI).
B. Financial Impact
5.03    The facilities created by the project are providing more and better
"urban services", but they are also requiring additional public funds to
operate and maintain. CMDA has estimated that the annual cost of operating
and maintaining the assets created by CMDA's investments up to March 1982
exceeds Rs 31 crores (US$24 million in 1987 prices) (para 5.4 Annex XI).
While action taken pursuant to complying with project covenants has improved
the prospect for increased local revenues from user charges and taxes, actual
improvements are expected to be slow, and the overall deficit is expected to
increase before it will decrease.
C. Other Matters
5.04    Annex IX shows the cash flow during the implementation period, and
Annex X, the schedule of disbursements. After a slow start, disbursements
exceeded appraisal estimates in the fourth year, then took several years to
complete full disbursement.
VI, INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
6.01    In the course of CUDP I, CMDA was substantially strengthened, and
became increasingly competent in planning and executing large investment
programs covering a wide range of urban facilities and services (see
paragraphs 5.1, 5.2, and 5.4 Annex XI). Its management structure was
strengthened, and new management systems installed. A program for evaluating
the impact of investments on a sector-by-sector basis was introduced and used
to guide development of new programs (see Chapter VI Annex XI). In addition,
CMDA was tested by the constant pressure of its large program commitment, and
the continued detailed review of its progress by a steady stream of Bank
1/ A cluster of eight sub-projects is listed as a single project (Calcutta
outfall improvement), and neither the health program nor the small
enterprise component are included. This explains the discrepancy between
the 44 and the 54 mentioned above (paragraph 12).



-9-
supervision missions. CMDA has grown through this experience, end can now
look at its own performance critically. It did so, for example, when it
considered its problems with the use of consultants (see para 4.07).
6.02    The view of the Bank and the GOWB on CMDA's institutional role have
not remained static during this period. Efforts to strengthen CMDA have been
supported vigorously, and the limitations of the single dominant agency
approach have become increasingly apparent. With the formulation of CUDP
III, CMDA's role has been developed to take on a broader role in planning
and coordination, while other agencies assume a larger role in sub-project
implementation. The transferring of assets created by CMDA, and respon-
sibility for operating and maintaining them, are part of this process
(paragraph 5.4 Annex XI).
6.03    The progress in the reform of local government has also been substan-
tial during this period. They are a necessary condition for improving the
efficiency of service delivery in the State.
VII. PROGRAM RESULTS 1/
7.01    Some components of CUDP II made clear and measurable contributions to
the CMD. For example, the water supply to the CMC was doubled, waterlogging
was reduced in many parts of the city, and the BIP benefited more than two
million people in the economically weaker sections of the community with
improvements in environment, and a reduction in the incidence of water borne
diseases. Among the individual programs, the municipal and anchal develop-
ment program, designed to assist communities on the fringe of the
metropolitan area, was particularly successful.  It was the forerunner to
CUDP III's Municipal Development Program, in which the local communitiest
through their elected representatives, play a large part in planning their
own programs.
7.02    Some components concerned supervision missions throughout the period
and did not achieve expected results, due mainly to inadequacies in the
planning effort:
(a) Area development. No sites and services plots were handed over
during the project period. This applies to the project area carried
over from CUDP I as well. The projects were bedeviled by land
acquisition problems. East Calcutta site (CUDP II), and the BP site
(CUDP I), required large volumes of earth moved in order to reclaim
the land. The "sites and services' approach in Calcutta was new, to
be implemented and managed by a new organization with little or no
1/ See also Chapter VI and the attachment dealing with the health program,
of Annex XI.



-10-
prior experience in providing and managing urban shelter projects.
On the basis of experience thus far the original approach has been
changed (see paragraph 5.7 Annex XI).
(b) Organization of solid waste management. The project followed earlier
recommendations made for this sector. Consultants were employed at
the design stage. The delay in implementing the organizational
changes in this sector carried over from CUDP I. Land acquisition
was also a problem.
(c) Traffic engineering. This also represented a new approach to an
organization whose staff had been primarily experienced in road
construction. There was difficulty assembling a staff with the
necessary skills, and the use of consultants was not a satisfactory
substitute.
(d) Small scale enterprise assistance. The Bank put considerable effort
into formulating this pilot project. It considered the component an
important effort, with possible long run benefits to the economy of
the CMD. It was also innovative, and involved CMDA in a coordinating
role with several agencies and the nationalized banks. It was a new
area for CMDA and the Bank. Being small it was not reviewed as
systematically as other larger components. In the latter years of
the project, the component was regarded as successful although it
never achieved the results expected at appraisal.
(e) Urban Renewal. This innovative and complex component suffered from
land acquisition, legal, and marketing problems (see paragraph 5.7
Annex XI).
7.03    In some cases the completed investments did not produce benefits for
users and potential users during the project period because of the absence of
necessary complementary investments. This occurred with some investments in
water supply, sewerage and drainage (para 7.6, Annex XI).
7.04    While results in the more traditional fields, including the BIP and
municipal and anchal development program were more predictable, the impact
studies undertaken by CMDA showed ways in which the impact of some of the
programs could have been increased:
(a) improve maintenance of drainage works;
(b) undertake expansion of networks in a manner that maximizes use of new
facilities in the process--sewerage/drainage and water supply
sectors; and
(c) improve coordination of related activities, for example,
coordination with traffic police in traffic improvement schemes.



-11-
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
A. Project Design
8.01    On the other hand, the efforts to bring measures of local government
reform into the project, and to set the investment program in a broader
context, was a strong feature of the project. The project was more complex
than necessary to give it an identifiable impact on CMD and its institutions.
In retrospect, it stretched CMDA's capacity too thinly. Strengthening
management systems and making greater use of consultants were not sufficient
to provide the capacity to perform well in all the many fields in which CMDA
had project responsibility. Project design also made Bank supervision more
complex than necessary.
B. Supervision
8.02    Once the loan was made the Bank supervised this operation strongly
and thoroughly. During the six year period, December 1977 to December 1984,
14 Bank supervision missions visited Calcutta, spending 1,023 man-days on the
progress and problems of CUDP II. The missions were regularly spaced and
well staffed. Their views were put before CMDA promptly and in detail. CMDA
also acted accordingly.
C. Institutional Support
8.03    The Bank gave support to CMDA not only through the supervision exer-
cise focused on project components and covenants, but also helped introduce
new management systems, including systems for monitoring progress and for
evaluating results. It pursued the institutional objectives set at the time
of appraisal in a systematic and consistent manner. As CMDA's planning
limitations became evident, the Bank strongly supported the change to a more
diverse strategy for program planning and implementation, and operation of
urban services. Bank support for changes in improving the efficiency of
local government by following up on the proposals of the GOWB must be one of
its more important contributions to the future urban development of the CMD.
IX. EVALUATION
9.01    The appraisal report limited the economic analysis to area develop-
ment, the bustee improvement program, water supply, solid waste management,
and roads and traffic improvement, which accounted for about 60% of total
project cost. The weighted economic rate of return (ERR) for these com-
ponents was estimated to be about 20%.
9.02    The area development, bustee improvement, and solid waste management
components have not yet been completed. No attempt therefore, has been made
to estimate the ERR for these components. In water supply the appraisal



-12-
estimate of the ERU was based on increases in incomes and productivity due to
reduced absenteeism from sickness. However, distribution systems9 to be
financed from Government sources, have not been completed, therefore recal-
culation of the ERR has not been possible. In roads and traffic improvements
a partial before/after analysis of the first traffic engineering scheme
indicated that, in economic terms, the investment paid for itself in less
than a year.
9.03    CMDA, however, did undertake an evaluation of the impact of ivest-
ments from 1970/71 to 1981/82, which includes investments in this project,
CUDP I, and its non-IDA financed investments. These analyses, based or
limited, available data, have been completed for water supply, sewerage and
drainage, bustee improvement, solid waste, and traffic and transportation.
The quantifiable impacts are summarized in the table below.



-13-                   I" (
et~~~~~
hum
= u _t   811   "         w  42           *2        S             aa~~~~~~~~~11.6o
8~~~~~n    as                   o       a0 U 
2.     0i3              3.1       4.0            1.8    (CO*4.8         .o.             4.00
701 3 2      *.0       '.8             346          8.0       .'. *-40
S)2*2    6 1 5
" wuowx " $a
4.Iog'lOg                00~~~~U 10e3    (3                  goooLAfIl
OaLlieuy               3~~      ~~4 3SIwaS   2$Ise"
bibeaSU3             I~~~~0a          I*m *    a.o at
X.~ ~ ~~u.
_~~~~~ 14114  348                                        ,
IS7                   1 p516 3mb
6332
-is   .5                         103                     (          S  C
Mam                      167?~"       2462           3eg mA.  _.IA
*inAi= .1                        a0        141.2            MOelaa I., CaIai
sg1em ..i                         17       29S12          2 1a .in    U..
dGROW. ILAN=31014                                          Us   .                   Wal)
9.AMM&L *obWI&                                2 VLBL
"gm 4mammo- Wac
31 ~    ~       m 99 110          30        413
am m.euesw           1e                        8.4           1.4     2.1 0           4.01
BamUM20        3      s          %Oa     .     0 44          07   UX206 
AIMO La leeeL      Tom.
%1618 top2                  _        U               *      36.0 .3S.4              10.4.
las Ie.aL ,osei
ALM=
.10.aine Opmsag   3-ulele1"                                            nl             J*0
3-ania              01.          1.0          04.            043     a...&.
ums        b _ ..044                                        2         .'             104
M em
1341sm Oem 
us tommum
124dmss opwsw      131.M         14,06        6340          1.60      13.             331.700
- a
4L.ie   job
u-el-
-"woe
am  .9op    CJJO X" " ad,"io  on.) 
pauMo  jg                                             m
3'I"ie(s.1 awa 64                                o  ii
% camsr @1?gUe a
3-fIa1  3-aet e _



-14-
X. CONCLUSIONS
10.01   The project represented a bold effort by the Bank, the CMDA and the
COWB to make an impact in Calcutta. A large and varied program was carried
out. CMDA was strengthened and local government was prepared for taking a
larger role in providing resources to sustain the improvements in urban
services.
10.02   The project marks a transition to a new role for CMDA and the Bank.
The Bank's concern with project detail in CUDP II should not be as necessary
or desirable in future operations. CMDA's responsibilities for the medium
and long term stragetic planning of Calcutta's development should be
enhanced.
10.03   At this point the most critical issue facing Calcutta's future
development is financing the cost of operating and maintaining its urban
services. While planning, investment and evaluation are important, improve-
ments cannot be fully effective without assured funds for operation and
maintenance.
10.04   CUDP I initiated a program to address certain major deficiencies in
urban services. It focused on physical improvement and took preliminary
steps to improve financing while creating liabilities. The second project
focused more attention on the problem of financing operations and main-
tenance, and major reforms were made in municipal laws that would make
progress possible. However, actual progress in increasing revenues from user
charges and taxes remains a promise for the future. The financing problem
remains the most pressing if the gains from the recent past are to be main-
tained.
10.05   When CUDP II was being formulated the Bank was concerned that CMDA's
program be shifted from its heavy emphasis on public works to become a more
comprehensive "urban development program". At that time this meant more
programs directly benefiting the urban poor. Today, considering the Calcutta
experience thus far, it would be necessary to give financial viability a more
prominent place in any definition of a future urban development program.
10.06   The impact evaluation carried out by CMDA commencing in 1980, comple-
mented by the findings of the Municipal Finance Commission report of March
1982, confirmed the concern of the Bank and GOWB over the paucity of funds
available for the operation and maintenance of investments created by CMDA.
It also pointed to the concentration of investments in the Calcutta-Howrah
area, which arose through faulty planning on the part of CMDA. In the
preparation of CUDP III therefore, COWB made the following decisions: (a) to
reduce the level of investment in the Calcutta-Howrah metrocore area; (b) to
increase the level of investment in the surrounding municipalities, which
hitherto had received little; (c) to decentralize the identification and the



-15-
planning functions to the local bodies of investments in their respective
areas to the extent possible, based on the favorable experience gained in the
implementation of the municipal and anchal development program; (d) to resus-
citate a number of implementing agencies which had bee. "absorbed" by CMDA in
the early days of CUDP II; and (e) to involve the local bodies to a greater
extent in the implementation of their programs. The above approaches have
been incorporated into the design of CUDP III, including an innovative
municipal financial management program which rewards good performing local
bodies while cutting back planned investment funding for the poorer perform-
ing ones. While the pace of CUDP III implementation, like that of CUDP I and
II, has not matched appraisal projections, the success of the project's
Municipal Development Program continues to be a good example for the sector
of applying the lessons learned from earlier projects.



-16-
ANNEX I
Page  1 of 3
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 756-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Description of the Project I/
Part A:     Area Development
(i) Sites and Services: The provision of sites and services on
about 175 ha of land at East Calcutta for residential lots
for all economic groups, and for industrial and commercial
prrposes, and also education, health and community facilities
and off-site infrastructure for water supply, sewerage,
electrical power, wastewater treatment, roads and drainage;
(ii) Fish and Pan Market: Redevelopment of the existing fish and
pan (betel leaf) market at Howrah;
(iii) West Howrah Site: Preparation of about 240 ha of land
including adequate landfill for future implementation of an
area development scheme; and
(iv) Provision of industrial and business loans through commercial
banks and of housing loans for economically weaker sections
and low income groups through West Bengal ager.cies.
Part B:     Improvement of Bustees
Provision of basic infrastructure in about 400 bustees.
Part C:     Primary School Construction and Remodelling
Provision of about 40 new primary schools and remodelling and
extension of about 400 existing primary schools in the CMD.
1/ Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement.



-17-
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
Part D:     Health
Provision of one project health headquarter unit, about two
primary health centers and about 10 subsidiary health centers.
Part E:     Small-Scale Enterprises
Provision of loans through selected commercial banks to
small-scale enterprises and strengthening of extension service.
Part F:     Water Supply
Renovations of the Palta-Tallah headworks, provision of fringe
area water supplies and implementation of water supply augmenta-
tion schemes.
Part G:     Sewerage and Drainage
Design and construction of schemes for removal of water logging,
sewering the unsewered areas, drainage improvements, branch and
lateral sewers, rehabilitation of Bagjola Canal to improve sur-
face water drainage and cleaning and renovation of existing
sewers.
Part H:     Solid Wastes Management
Rehabilitation of the existing system of refuse collection,
street cleansing and night soil collection, and development of
improved methods of and facilities for solid waste disposal and
the carrying out of training programs, pilot projects and initial
implementation of new systems in solid wastes together with
studies to improve solid waste management.
Part I:     Sanitary Latrines
Provision and installation oi prefabricated concrete flush
toilets.
Part J:     Municipal and Anchal Development
Provision of roads, water supply, drainage and sanitation; street
lighting and other infrastructure works in a number of fringe
areas (anchals).



-18-
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
Part K:     Traffic and Transportation
(i) Construction of the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass and the
Barrackpore-Kalyani Expressway; and.
(ii) Implementation of a program for improvement of traffic opera-
tion and management, including provision of vehicles, plant
and equipment, road repairs and street lighting, and improve-
ment of other roads and a bus terminal.
Part L:     Consulting Services, Technical Assistance, Training and Monitcer-
(i) Preparation of (a) a CMD development plan including sewerage
and drainage, (b) training; monitoring and evaluation systems
for Part D of the Project, (c) continued pollution studies,
(d) management information, and project monitoring and con-
trol system, and (e) studies for regulation and licensing
of tubewells and of groundwater supplies.
(ii) (a) Organization of a Central Valuation Board, (b) prepara-
tion of studies and monitoring of small-scale enterprises,
(c) preparation of public transport feasibility studies, (d)
preparation by the Authority and the Corporation of pilot
projects and studies of solid waste management systems, and
studies. design and monitoring of traffic engineering
schemes, (e) provision of accounting, stores and financial
management systems for the Corporation, (f) preparation and
implementation of staff training programs for West Bengal,
the Authority, the Corporation, local bodies and the Calcutta
Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority and (g) planning
and design of construction works included in the Project.



-19-
ANNEX II
FIVE YEAR INVESTMET PLAY AND CUDP EI COMPONENTS
(Figures in crores of Rupees)
Pioject                      Total Investment      CUDP II
Components                     (77/78 to 81/82)       Part
Area Development                     27.58             14.88
Dustee Improvement                   21.05             21.00
schools                               2.17              2.15
Helth                                 0.20              0.20
Water Supply                         37.92             10.57
Sewerage & Drainage                  31.51             20.00
Solid Waste Management                9.14              8.96
Conversion of Latrines                2.14              1.97
Municipal & Anchal                    6.00              6.00
Traffic & Transportation             50.39             26.16
Technical Assistance                  4.04              2.75
Parks & Playgrounds                   0.63               -
Basic mapping                         1.50               -
Design/Supervision                   16.86              6.91
Contingencies                        37.22             33.39
TOTAL            248.35            155.00
Source: CMDA



-20-
ANWEX III
Page  lof 4
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELWPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 756-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Covenants Dealing with Local Government 1/
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. West Bengal shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out any part of the Project
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices their operations and financial
condition related to the Project.
Section 3.02. West Bengal shall cause the Corporation to: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses apd related statements) for each fiscal year with effect from
the fiscal year commencing April 1, 1977 audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than nine months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Corporat:.on and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. West Bengal shall cause to be operated and maintained
efficiently, and shall provide the Corporation, Calcutta Metropolitan Water
and Sanitation Authority and other local bodies within CMD with sufficient
funds to operate and maintain adequately, (i) the existing municipal
services, and (ii) facilities and services created under the continuing
program of the Authority and transferred to the local municipal authorities
upon comissioning.
1/ West Bengal Agreement.



-21-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
Section 3.04. (a) West Bengal shall establish equitable beneficiary
selection criteria for the area development schemes included in Part A of the
Project.
(b) West Bengal shall develop appropriate operational policies and
proceduresp and shall install satisfactory organizations to administer sites
and services, rental and leasehold properties developed under Part A of the
Project.
(c) West Bengal shall cause the Authority and the West Bengal Housing
Board (or any other agency or authority) to determine and collect from
beneficiaries under Part A of the Project, charges adequate to recover all
costs of provision (excluding the costs relating to provision of health,
community and administrative facilities, schools and off-site road and
drainage systems) and costs of operation of facilities provided under said
Part A of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) for the purpose of revaluation of propertie- in
CMDV, West Bengal shall take all steps necessary to establish by December 31,
1978, a Central Valuation Board.
(b) West Bengal shall cause the. Central Valuation Board to complete
by March 31, 1982 or such other date as the Association may agree, a revalua-
tion of the properties in CMD and a new valuation roll for the Corporation
and all other local bodies effective April 1, 1982.
Section 3.06. For the purpose of achieving effective development and
efficient organization of local government services in West Bengal, more
specifically within CMD, West Bengal shall:
(a) reorganize DMS by March 31, 1979;
(b) commence implementation of training programs prepared pursuant to
Part L of the Project by December 31, 1978;
(c) consider and implement by April 1, 1979 appropriate improvements
to the senior management structure and accounting, stores and financial
management of the Corporation;
(d) prepare by March 31, 1979 a revised grant structure for local
bodies in CHD and take all necessary steps to implement such grant system
from April 1, 1980; and
(e) (i) prepare, or cause to be prepared by December 31, 1978 in
consultation with the Authority and appropriate local bodies in CMD, a
detailed plan of operations to provide for adequate maintenance of Bustees in
the GCD; and (ii) implement or cause to be implemented such plan from
April 1, 1979.



-22-
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Section 3.07. West Bengal shall, (i) by April 1, 1978, nominate such
areas and such local bodies within CMD as shall have the benefit of State
level public service employees in the operation of municipal services; and
(ii) prepare and implement by December 31, 1978, a feasibility report on the
organization, operation and financing of said arrangements.
Section 3.08. West Bengal shallS
(a) commission studies to be completed by March 31, 1979 to advise on
regulation and licensing if necessary of tubewells and groundwater supplies
in CMD;
(b) by December 31, 1978 develop proposals in respect of institu-
titnal responsibilities for water and sewerage revenue collection in CMD, and
implement such proposals by April 1, 1980;
(c) by September 1, 1978 draw up a program for metering of water
connections to be implemented from April 1, 1979 through March 31, 1982;
(d) take the necessary steps to enable the Corporation, and cause the
Corporation to establish and operate in accordance with satisfactory finan-
cial practices from April 1, 1978 a separate water supply and sewerage fund,
and transfer to it from the general revenues of the Corporation such funds as
will be necessary from time to time to meet all expenditures on the provision
of water supply and sewerage services; and
(e) cause the Corporation to delink from the consolidated property
tax water supply and sewerage taxes and charges, and levy such water supply
and sewerage taxes and charges for the fiscal year 1981/82 and thereafter as
shall be sufficient to meet not less than 84% of the Corporation's actqal
revenue expenditures for water supply and sewerage (including interest and
loan repayments) from actual revenue receipts (excluding temporary deposits).
Section 3.09. West Bengal shall ensure that in respect of revenue
earning schemes commissioned under the Project and transferred to the opera-
tional agencies for operation and maintenance, the said agencies shall assume
debt service obligations related to said schemes from not later than April 1,
1982;
Section 3.10. West Bengal shall cause the Corporation to use its
best endeavors to collect during each fiscal year property tax due for that
fiscal year plus any other property tax due for a period not exceeding five
years and not collected on the first day of such year, on the following
basis:



-23-
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
(i) not less than 70% in fiscal year 1978/79;
(ii) not less than 80% in fiscal year 1979/80; and
(iii) not less than 90% in fiscal year 1980/81 and thereafter.
Section 3.11. (a) West Bengal shall ensure that the Corporation
shall provide satisfactory standards of operation and maintenance for
municipal services, and shall finance not less than the following proportions
of actual revenue expenditures (including interest and loan repaymentc) in
the fiscal years indicated by actual revenue receipts (excluding temporary
deposits) from statutory revenues including octroi allocations, but excluding
grants-in-aid from West Bengal:
1978-79     1976-77 proportion plus  4% thereof
1979-80     1976-77 proportion plus  8% thereof
1980-81     1976-77 proportion plus 12% thereof
1981-82     1976-77 proportion plus 15X thereof
(b) West Bengal shall ensure that the local bodies in the CMD
(outside the Corporation) shall provide satisfactory standards of operation
and maintenance of municipal services, and shall finance not less than the
following proportions of actual revenue expenditures (including interest and
loan repayments) in the fiscal years indicated by actual revenue receipts
(excluding temporary deposits) from statutory revenues and octroi
allocations, but excluding grants-in-aid from West Bengal:
1978-79 1976-77 proportion plus 10% thereof subject to a maximum of 68%
1979-80 1976-77 proportion plus 15% thereof subject to a maximum of 70%
1980-81 19764-77 proportion plus 20% thereof subject to a maximum of 73%
1981-82 1976-77 proportion plus 25% thereof subject to a maximum of 75%
provided that where the 1976-77 proportion of revenues to expenditures
exceeded 65%, the percentages indicated shall be reduced to 4%, 8%, 12% and
152 respectively, and that all authorities by 1981-82 shall achieve not less
than 50X coverage of expenditures fr:om such revenues.



SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KCUAL AM DIP=W ?SICAL LMW f ON
rSOR      S   WV=SUP
I  .nlts oI  .).t1on of               Date of units of oPgint cpl.tton
I  I                         30ui taso ot     plefetion of a,uor              of a pr3em on
I ltvo3ect Cod. *a1 |~   j") fls3o? rI0B obr    fat';ocs  b                       ozr  w antwl              diUbDr.mF I
pro3ect     Ord Nam        c pores                                   _of   dit poans
I           |                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual      Expetd  A 1t"  clEct_
I.TrDON111                    S           as       JUN 084    MmR 082               188.09
Calwtts Tubmwll            2.Pujping satlorn s0                      80
02:s,'139                 I.T1Uwel1                     23           24       JUE '04     MR '2                10.0
Howufl Tu_11mU            goruqiui s- i in              23           24
d2: M/4
Calcatt Distgimatio        1.Ptimary Gcid             46000 a      63000 a    MR 086      MR 082                74.01
2:a/4                     1. 11                          2            2
J*Oeal  fr. Anen           2.atart TOseC                 I            1         R          SEt  P 179          100.9
3.Semmeazy Grid            321?1 a      33823 a
I.Pu g station                2            2
o2Q/v4                    1.Tst1l                        3            8
e3>vatnftiej At.         2.tr Toser                     1           . 4       WIC 084     MR 082               95.E I
3.5c.daqy Grid             60160 a      60996 e
4jpimv Station                6             S
S2:i;W043                 1.uIbosi11                    4            4
TolL)'duuh  1iZA irFd9    2.etec Tower                   1            3       o0   084    SEP 1                 9f.91
ArSz                      i.sems:e:y Grid             37122 a      371W  a
4.puij StWtion                4            4
ULig:                     1.111GWDLl                     6            6
Satuirail fi9wo. Ame      2.40ta Toser                   I            I       DEM 08    .     081               96.
3.Seaedary Grid            35996        15970
4.Vsai4i  station             6            6
C2:.~S/S4S                l.?s6.usell                    7. 
Kmorbats #Sanicip.k       2.Waet. Toser                  4            6       JI96 '84    rm 082               109
scums                     3.Samsery atid             S4178 a        SI    a
4.Pwvl  Station               7            7
v2o-46                    I.tUesll                       9            9
cm,seUiawsir HaVAC41    3.semdary Grid               13838 a       13976 a    NW 083      mR e                 lbg.gs M
Samoa                     3.Js&minj Station              6            5                                                      J
9?:aWO47                  1.wam11.                      2            2                                                       x
CimIuih MacWial Sdhmm     2.ot   70                      1            1   * DC 083        MW   "81             IAS           J
SSource  e                   6cW a      29 )3*  a                                                    c
Source:   CMDA                             4~wivq station                 2            a                                                    ^



SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ACUAL me apw   RfSZCAL CWLMJ0
units of  pl to f0         Doati of Unis of    I              l '"
AU)O? WOmkS or           ampletion of aajol        of    8        I
Ftojoct coue ad im.  _                                .aus nor                           no* or    toi o rl d
ftoj. .Cuowan3abo W                                                                                 of  S0it p_ oIS0
;                      .              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acbl        ActualC    (  dta
e2.W243                   1.TSell -                     2             2
so,wugo_* ~isanzd4e1      2.otr e     r                 1             1      J 83         ua '8. *             s.ub
Same                      3.Se@WnISy Grid            39S91 a      36306 a                                                    -\
4.,wis Station                2
U2:.4~4                   1.Tca11                       2a                 . 
&o     oe muicip"         2.t.c T                       1             1      MI 'a 'W i0o.1.
3.5&newcy Gcid            11791  a      11790 a
4.PuWinu   Station            2            2'
1.' 1. 1ug                    3            3
e.'wasria atunicipsi      2.~euwu~hIy rtid           35261 a      38770 a    DW '33      D '81                  .
scn._                     3.jpminj station               3            3
d4z:S1~51                l3.Ttxa;el1                    3             4
iJ'riC*,D  nic:           2._tter Towar                 3             4      D: '84       uaR '82             96.00
Sa_m                      3.Sewndacy Grid            13421 a      149S0 a
4.Fptmnj Station              3            1
dzxfsows2                 l.Tubswll                     3             3
&AW L'a manicipsl         2.Sedery Grid              22969 a      22W00 a    MAR '83     us  '82              1".86
icna;;                    3.Puwimrp station             3             3
iL2:0,SA3                 1.Tuoewe1l                    4             4
i.o0tt ;-  Due            2.Seam.ary Grid            2530U  o     25300 a    VW '83      MR '82               106.0W
.wrucIai Sca_             3jW6)pinj Station             4             4
;I:wS/0S4                 1.TuXa.mll                    5             5
boutn Dsa DM              2.oter Towe                   I             I      Ar 83         ta A82 2.8
iunic4AI Scna             3.5ewidary Grid            41176 .      41180 0
4.Jpiqg Station               5            S
02dWSfVSS                 LTDwe.11                      3            3
i0manbiove                a.sieciary Grid           76049 o       7656 a    DM '83       MOR 82              10".06
jisas                     3.pmpin Station               3             3
s              ~~~~02stI57
j,011  -tol P1Systm       ldeeveation of existiej systm I unit       I ait im '84        MR '826
'  .   Source:  CMDA                                                                                                                x
'0 
-                                             



SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELO PE  PROJECT
KcAL AtD ExpWrTD PHYSICAL COfMLTCN
S R : Ss*RGE AMI DRMMM C
Units of completion of      Dates of Units of        PeCr'it Crm1otion I
l  major iorks or            cpltion of major           of suapro3ect on
PC03ect Codle Ord Ham       M3:1t Works ot          cFnnswrks ot m   rafts                               ful diamswn          
CAoponents             -------                                               of cr it proceeds
Actual      Expeted       Acl         E .pected
02:sa/oe1    *             l.Box Drain(67'x7:9'x7'6")   989  m        1058 m
URovl of Irdatetlojging    2.3' x 7' dia box Dcain    5960  a         2784 X
Calcutta Suucben Syste    3.W0 tolXBCmOi NP2 Pipe  5650 a             5454
(Pn.l1)                    4.M5 to 390 awdia Sv%P4e   6420  a        8064 a
5.Lawr*me"t L.yian hork       68  chain    99 cnain
b.45V to 1806 adialhP3 Pipe 4417 m        8150 in    .MR '8s    3U4 '81                   77.33
7.Nikeshi                      1.92 km       1.92 km
b.KM box                       9.31 km       0.31 ka
9.Conduits 909,  4 Above       2.64 km       2.64 km
1G.Conauits 7"In v oelow       4.49 ia       4.40 km
I..PumpinhStation(Chinzgihats)  1.90 No.     I tNo.
02:SD/093                  1.6'6"to7'6"dia Btidc Sweat  807.69 m       818.
S.Awring uuuemrd pocxets 2.150: 300m dia Siu Pipe    3670.90 a    2838.90 a MAR '83    JUN '80                    1O.O9
'Calcutta City Systa       3.300: 900 a die toP2 Pipe  2718.00 a    2972..
4.596:760 am di& NP3 Pipe    734.90 a      81. a
92:SL,/97                  1.3*:6in die Brick Sewet      210.00 a      198.00 gm
Removal of waterloggirg    2.360;aa:9QtOa aia NP3 Pipe   614.09 9     628.00   MAR '86       JUN '81               26.37
.caloutta City System      3.390:190 am dia NP2 Pipe   095 a         5588.99
(Pn.11)
02 :5DW/05                 1.open Cnanvl                   1.74 hea      1.74 ?a M
Tolljutve Drairuje         2.Conuuits 900.anm  above       2.49 bn       2.49 Ia MMR '89     MR '79               100.69
3.Conduits 75UL  4 below       1.98 Mm       1.98 ka m
02:SD/V1,                  1.R.C.C. box                    2.583 km      2.70 am
manicktala Drainye         2.R.C.C. pipe conduit           1.027 km      0.750 n MAR '82     MAR '81              190.09
3.0utfall                      1             1
4.Crossover Structute          1             1
92:Su/911                 1.R.C.C. Box                    1.526 ha      1.33 In
Cossipur Coitpuc Drairuge 2.R.C.  Pipe cDuit(9g0&18VV) 1.b80 In    *2.23 hs MAR '85          MR '81                98.56
(Pa.!)                     3.R.C.C. pipe  oruit(3069#90)  1.25 km       1.25 No
4.0utfall                      3.00 nms      3 nDs
92:5D/U12                  I.Open tanrel                   9.38 Am       4.3 ha
To1llyqgdnje [rarange N.L.   2.R.C.C. box                  6.70 ku      0.90 ha M%R '82      MAR'81                97.99
(Ph.!!)                    3.Conduits                    19.15 km       2.15 ha                                                >
02:su/914                  1.Layinj of Seer(129:606m)   914.90 mt   1890.90 a                                                 :
Howva Sewertae             2.Laying of Sewet(53:23ac)   8680.90      11729.6 a MAR '83        MM ''81             100.9       l x
Source:  CMDA                                                                                                                  C
'0



SFCIgR 3 SWRE AM  DRUMNAGE
Units-of aupletion of       v otes o Units of       Percent  letion
a3or works o              e mpletion of mor          o  upo3ect on
Pro Cocle a t_     ffgo ~rks s Or             nents                  mocks or o vent*           full didxucaret
Pro3"    .               Caear   omWore wo    I                                                       of cteit pgooas
|                         .             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actua  Extpected  Actua  Expcte
FrtiSD/OlSt                1.I.R.CC. box Comuit            2.864 km     2.53 km.
Gcra  T uvu   . Drainwge   2.K  Pipe Comuit                5.246 ha     5.48 km DEC '84       MR '83               99.80
{Fn.1)                     3.F= pipe aomuit              a.186         2.91 In
4.<uetall                      8       .    8                                                   -=
b2:SDAI56                  l.Siae       pitchirq(L.B.)   89 di         91 dr
M3)ola Carol 1ToIivT       2.Siae       pacniytiR.B.)   19 ch          69 cfi   DC '94       tWa '81               96.90
3.eed c2ccetin3               93 cn        100 Ch
4Xaoiment tmll                93 co         99 Co
5.Contruction of Inlate        4            14
6.Conitruction of Regulator    2             5
7.cowstction of sa: atige   1                2
B.Co#mtruetion of ivooden Stidge 1           1
0I2:5D/U59                 l.Silt Clearanoe                2.15 Left   43.10 Lcft
Calactta Se,eg Cleansing   2.Pulling Power buket          12.00        17.00
3.Jettian  tLioire            3             4 set
4.Tcactor                      6
S.Tippinr 1Truct               3 rs          3 nos  m    'O5    MfR '82               65.09
b.Trailo,                     12 ;e         12 nos
7.Mnmole Liap                  3 rus
8.Cuttinj P.L.                 1.
92.:SDA*Dll                I.Kt 8rioge                    1             1
TollyWuj e lancrannojrme   2.kaili.y smwge                1             I       SEP *84       MR '81              160.99
92:SD/"6U/A                1.' Road imriJge               2             2
Aidl.Pumphouse at          2.Lacth isckdge                2             4       D*W '84     ISR 'S1                49.99
C     _O~m9a               3.ouundary wall               4W.0s a     3200.90 a
4.0peratorcs %uarter           3 units       2 units
I.Vatth WOCK(tnnml)       1309909 .     136392 .3
ataJola basin Vrairuge     2.ArtO wocktuKeoDeW)        90 a3         722 .3   IA-  '81      SR  81               130.00
3.Wpoic of Gates               9nos          9nos
92:sWD/W/4                 1.RCC majot bridje             1             I
Cnutial basin Dtairue      2.Cart bri6'je                 2             6       DE  '84      mS  '8I               94.80
3.0utfalI Cnonrul            153 a          76 a
4.LinitV of Cannul            76 ,          76 a
02 :S)A60/S
bmaroo  msan btrina9e      1.Puc(a Dtaio               2378 a        2370 a      MR  81 ,        81 MRI10.                  , 
Source:  CODA
'0



SircD CMOfLA tlMAN DWUOA? PMJWI  ( aC              756 J l )
A1nML AKD EXisw 9ffIsiL   mZ1cnim
SICflL:    S3 MD DA1kWE
Units of pltion o        otes of units of        rerWea eletion
0 0  w.zhs or           capletion, of m3or        of S _Poet oan
I tpeft     alid "me       "M309 w         of Ia or 1kor                     rss  or eftomts         full dis      V_t 
Ia"ge                                                       Eotfd _       o czedit PC"""
b2:SDf/W60                2.Lininj alorg tikam          2.5 i         2.5 In
tO.lkaai dusin DrsiBqe.   3.1.ni. Zivuira ebsywul      0.3 In        0.4 k  JW t84       oaG a81             16.0
9s:Saee/                  1.ws .ii.rW13 Ew&8t           8             8
kowah b &iUe lw*rovu't 2.m"ittfy Dcg. Shutrac          16           -16      OE: 84       mmR 081             86.08
3.StxsitninW of amba.'t  L12             152 a
4.Fstad  Cnmal                1.63 in     13.3 ha
82:SRww^                  l.Outfall Sluic               1             1      DEC '84      MR '61                            coJ1
imzvation of gaily alu    2.et'ot btioae                2             2
maada begin Driwge        1.: D3ot bridge               1 ns.         1 no.  Do  04      m     IR  839.1
Source: CmDA
xM
0 



PROJBT COMPWLE    mEPWr
SEOV  CALOJITA URBAN DEVELOPDMT PPDJr (CPDIT 756: ItN)
ACIUAL AND EXPEtED PlYSICAL CXtIPLETION
S&rA S SOLWD WaST NAMMT
Units of campletion of       Dat5a Of units of        Percet aiipletion
.                        major works oZ             canipletion of malot       of subpwroject on
Project Code and tMMn       tajo  wocks             .     rents                 wtks ot    norms           tull disoursenent
CwTponents                     XM                23     _                     of credit proceds
Actual      E xpected     Actual       qpected
l.acd Depots                  1O ap         35
Solia  aste tiar'ase'                                     410 in pwg
(CIVIL)         *          2.Street Vets                  249  sD      240 nos
3.Trailer Sites               Nil            10 nos
4.Garages 4 hocKsnops:
i)Rervv. Dt. I Garage       . 99   ap .V1 IvD
ii)aewv. Dt.I1 Garage          just started   1 no
iiiW) ernv.Dt.111 Garage       95 %ap         1 no.                                      60I
iv)Cons. Dt. IV Garage         95 cawp        1 Iv.  MRA '86       UAR *82               65.00
v) Cor.. Dbapa Garage          50 Itcup       1  .
vi)Cons. CentraliocoksWp       35 tazr.p      I -ro.
5.Pail Depot                    3 Mvs.        4 nos.
6.Tanker Sta'dinjs             Nil            B nDs.
7.Accass Itoads                 3 in.         3 in.
B.lntecral RoDAS                4 in.         4 km.
9.Site Central Office 2 noS     2 ras         2 nos.
Source: CHDA
~0



SisD  CAzmA URWW  DA LvOrI0T PW3r r  CRWIT 7566: Zn
ACItAL, ANo DXI-EC PISICAL aWfZ1'nIO
SOMOR: AREA DLEMUsT( SURD )
Units of aplIetion of      Date of Units of        Perrt cspletion
mbjoc wrck6 or            cmpletion of major.      of subpcojeat on
Pro3ect Code ard tieajor works or                      nert                 works or     rents       full diseCOnt
C  ponents                                                                of credit proemds
I               ~~~~~~. IActual      Expected  Actal      z xpt
0;UWADI1                  1.Lard Aquisition          263.00 HA.   172.00 HA.
New Settluant in          2.Lard Filling             187.00 HA.   123.30 HA.
East Caltutta             3.I1irastcuctare.          263.60 HK.   123.30 HI. MAR  85    MMR '82               42.46
4.1dAstrial & Other Units  30.00 HA.    16.66 HA.
02:W;Dh03                 1.Dounitory Building         .1 "D.        1 no.
Howrah Fisb and           2.Fish Stalls              176 'vs       123 'vs  JWU '84      SEP '81             160.06
Pan market                3.T&,r Blodc                 I no.        I no.
4.Boads oad Garbage Blodcs 77900 sq.ft. 68009 sq.ft.
Source: CMDA
-    X
oq C
0<



P2EI,W CO9WfLOti REPORr
SFLU  CMOITA Um4 D6vEL        T PLWWXr ( C  IDT 756  IN
CUAL MD EPWWrED PIISJAL CGWLEON
units of  pletion of       Dates of Unit of        Pemnt aipletion
ve3or wdcks oc           l ton of &o0              of subpco3ect on
Pro3ect Code *ird aiimos os ^ xponrs or    iprents                                                  full die
Cmv40wnts             Acua                      Acua       Lpc           O   tit pCoods"
a2:aIAaOI1.Sanitacy/amptic latrin   16239 'u                      29066 gas
iGta  lqcwva.t            2.1s50.iia Smer          275673K        21560 K                                   1286.66
3.hmta Point.             10196 Ms.   19320 vs                                      98.As
4.Dtaiave ditcas            135.36 ka., 560 I.  ItR '66        M  '62               23.30
5.ams a Paths            5616S0 Sq.K. S73066 SQ.N                                   98.88
6.Stcmet Livbti.q          8566 ros     )m  gas                                    236.56              r
7.FiLliq amgienic yoids   251 *s         290 me                                     86.SS
ds:llNiWL                lJSAmcipeI O r d
anicipal aid A'chs1         ani@ mdS                  406.79 ha.            tMR '86      MR 82
ielo&ainn
2;:LWMd to 663            1.Co.r2esion of ltriau    24086 nos.   12369 mes  IS  '4       SR '82
Lava ronsotal Nnyi*'     2.Coe. of Publac COmeie*nC    S '"s
i2:SPS/003                l.mw Constmcution            25 me        24 'u6
?:Camy Saool             2.86pait Ord F6mvation        76 nos aDp 420 nmS  JUN e65       HoR   2              85.60
o344 me in pro
Source: CHDA
Io C



piwir cOMPL RO      W
SEC= CAMMA UtMAZ DLVELOPMEIT PRWDJ ({ CIT 76   Is
ACflhL AND EltPWtU  PHYSICAL QWLZO.
SVCO   -,.-%"IC AND T?ASW=XrT1Q
units of caxpletion of      Dates of Units of       Peret arpletion
I                          ajor woks ot             a2pletion of  :0t  .   of swpmoject on
Pco*  Coe aid te             jo  orks o                npoents              wrks ot p ronts           fuI diuorse't
Cow4vnOerits           _w-_                                               of vedit ptoamds
Acbsel     ExpecteXd      Aaeual    ktoc         I
02:T1A31           -      1. taw Parl Stceet          1.5 iha   1.5 Iha      DEZ '84    MR '82                109.61
C&Icuza Traffic           2. CTEP SLr I               5   ,te'  . 5 i'tx 6
g"jI 'rz nj PCo0ect                                  6  Ift     6 lhn        MAR '85.    WR '82                91.00
3.Raamohn Sarani           6.44 lia  6.5 lbn.    MAR '85      MR '82                81.00
(&W. to Mi Id)
4.PAsonmn SaraCn           2.25 Ilm   3.00 lbm.   MR '85       AR '82               89.61
(IC to Vivek ad)
5.AJC mose ad.             7 intc. & 7 intr                                                                 -N
4 l11m.    8 lif.      MAR '85     mmR '82               46.00
6.5arat 8o.e l      Id.    3 intr    3 intc.      MAR '85    MlAR '62                SO.f6
9.111LuI. Ca,m1 Last ad   16 In.    1 hI.        HMR '83      MR '82                169.61
16.CR kd. Lagntirq         4.5 km.   4.5 In.      HAR '83      rAR '82               15.M  _9
*2:Tr/432                 l-lmad Improv.                 4.2 br.      4.2 km DW '82        MAR '79            109.09
forestcce Rad
02:?T/i33                 S.idanir& lsr                  5.90 I=.     S.-0 ka-"  '84       SEP '79            10.W
mkar;U - Road
we:Tr/A3*                 1.1esmire1 Facility
1er .a   _ Facility Ht Iowrah  /Vus /Taxi Staid etc                           MA  '85      WA  '9.9
02:TT/-'                   1.Cons. of id.                17.06 ha.   19.15 hA.MRR .86      JO  '81             89.09
L *ster- MWtropolitan isypass
0;1:T73v                  l.Cois of ad.                 26.90 lkn.    26.00 ha.MKR '85    MAR '82              98.09
warca&ce Kalyani xpess.y
Source:  CiDA
o



-33-
Annex V
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATEMENT OF OUTSTANDING PROJECTS (RS. LAKHS)
Izpenditure Outstaad-
Sub-Project                        estimated     up to        iag    Disposi-
Item     Description             Code No.      Cost      6/30/84-  Balance    tion   1/
1 Water Supp1ly
Howrah 11ubiwells  02VS/039    28.00      14.27      13.73    Non-IDA
Calcutta Distribution
System                     02-WS/04O  1,044.00    491.02      552.98    CUOP III
Kamrhati  o. S. System      02-W$/045      91.00     76.64      14.36    Ilon-IDA
Tallah Palta System         02-WS/056    682.00    67779         4.21    Non-IDA
2   8s1a    & Drainage
Waer Loggingin Calcutta   02-40/001    558.00    493.13         64.8?    Von-IDA
Vater Loging (City System) 020SD/007       78.00     25.82      52.18    CUDP III
Cosaiporo Cbitpur Drainage  02-80/011      89.00     86.69       2.31  - CUD? III
C. Te load Drainage         02-40/0158   1400    135.84          8.16    gon-IDA
Outfall Isprovaet           02-80/060    154.00    1b4.93        9.07    CUD? III
3   Tr2ffl t     Transogrtation
CT!P Schmee                 02-1T/031    188.00    123.78       64.22    Von-IDA
a  9yass                    02-TT/037  1,058.00    594.05      463.95    Von-IDA
S& Ezpresevaw               02-TT/039    942.00    933.53        8.47    Non-IDA
4   Bustee Improvemet           02-311001  2,762.00  2,195.04      566.96    CUD? III
S   Muicipal & Anchl Dev.       02-MD/001 1,016.00    926.94        89.06    CUDP III
6   Primary School Ptogram      02-SP?/003   150.00    126.34       23.66    Ion-IDA
7  Health Program                              30.00     29.44       0.56    Von-IDA
8   laviromntal Bygiene         02-81/001-   457.00    455.4         1.52    CUDP III
003                                   CUDP III
9   Solid Vaste  Nagemnt        02-SWN/001   768.00    35348       414.72    CUDP III
10  lEui;mt
Ica                             -    1,118.00  14115.78        2.22    Ion-IDA
LW                              -       731.00 2/ 691o15      33.8S    Von-IDA
TOTALS                              12,088.00  9,696.94   2,391.06 Of which CUD? It
Rs.1,688.80 No!1
IDA Rs.702.26
I/ It was agreed at appraisal of CUD? III that CUD? II sub-projects that remained to be
completed after the closing date would be financed under CUDP III if (i) there wVa no cos
overrn in the subproject or (i) the investumt wad Of a Wprogram  nature e.g. Sustee
Improvmut Program. Those not qulifying wold be completed on a priority basois from
CNDA's present inveastnt program, but wuld not be eligible for financing by IDA.
2/ Bosludes cost of computer wbich is to be finaced under CUD? III.
Source: CMA and IDA



c3liiit iSA-lu
SIROMI? OF STATUS OF CPlUAC  WI1  CaWENTS
Agreed Actio imat*
Sectio     _      Statue        Oril        AetalMury          Description of Covenant                                  Comme_t
Credit sreenent
3.02      PartIally complied                                morrower to caese selected cQnretat          29? of targeted amunt loaned; 1I9S loans
with                                              banks to make available line. totalling   ade., or 73I of targeted _umberq.
not less than R9.10 mittion for part E    This  represent, average of Ra.2,11  per lo.an
of the project                              against torget average of Re.6.25) per loan
Project treeme_nt
3.02      Patttcia  complied              .CDA to make administrative sad financial  Stiltl under construction.  Under the Third
with                                              arrangements for the effiteiet operation   Calcutta Urban Development Project (CaOP Itt)
and maintenance of area devetopment          CuBA bas establIshed adnimtiqtr*tlve, operation-
scheuse In Port A of the Project             a1 and ftiaocial guidelines flr their  1he1ter
*nd Area Development Programs.
I.ox()   Compiled with              411                     flkdgettlg and Accountln  System of CMn4    introduced 41/1J9
3.90(1)  Compiled Wit5            411179                     bmoagement Informntton System for CIA        Introduced 411179
3.03(118) ComPiIed witb by
revied date            7/illS    4130/19         Project Appraisal System for CXDA             Introduce4 4/1/J9
3.03ltv)  Compiled with by
evised date            4130116   4130/79          Project  ionitoring System for tCM           Introduced 4/1/79
4.02      Copitled with                                     AtI't of accounts sad financalt               Certified financlial st*te~eat% and
statements of COA.  Farnish IDA with         audit report. from IT72/l3 throa,ah
certified copies of financial state-         FRUsPA on file.
ments and audit reports withan the olnp
month of the end of each flocal year
(i.e. by Oecembe 31).
4.03      Compiled oth                                     CMA sbhll consult .1th IDA on any            CODA prepored yearly. a rotting 5-year
major changes propd in its itnest-            Investment Pregram witch is dIsenw  >l            g I
ment program.                                wtth IDA.                                            l X
O N
4n



SUSIAT OF STATUS Or CrAWLIANC  VIT  .OVWWfUS
dcii..e lbios                                                                                                '  b
gbetS.      s tato rStatus    (briool  tissuei_keir    *        .ecriptioo of Comeit                                  c,, ent                         4 -
a-.       Cmpated witb                                    ooa to be representatile of West Urn-
*ga1 for courltat lg LUtemetat It on got
fr. Sect.
2.1       Celitead with                                   Vest goegl to provide f_cd  to  ible                                                               r
GSA coutpete ito te vetment Program.
.D03     Cemtied wItb 11                                  &Wit of Accooite *t _lnauioi State-         Audt reports **A correspo4lo  floea-
csete of Calcutta lbitctpi Corporation    cli4t  tsttement  from FTWlI  thrqw.b 
(GlC). Furetwm. IRA withb ertifted coples  Fl1U/SIlem file. 71/4 acesnts Clsvet
of fleacistl utatemeato me auit replsrt*  ca  amier Aedtt.
vithte ninelseethe of the .in of eabc
.fioccl vear (i.e. y Dbeeer II).
1D       ttCompiled with                                 vest Bengal to provide adequate fuwlog   tfprt Seogat lio hieem ptoewl4ir 444ud   1 ii Ins
for  peration aid  ustetnane of (t)        (ond  to aileIpahitles an eoncwnellv go"
existiung onteipizl servic.es, a   (it) Ii-  ad-hoe basts to wet later allis. leor.me.,ttl
cliitiLea created uner CHDA*. inGeutnret   "sit eapense.  Cemetiig April I. ISA I Us;t
Program                                    IbouS reviwed Ito grout etrtat.r,.  Lea poll.v
Now ID to allocate *pecifir UunoN for tont r
eubventloo to t%p suicipohlttle.  SelI-" of
aIdttlo4al capitat fudo   roattloet ups"
mootelp4titttes mettle  asnoaul t4rgqts for ral-
La own soareo reveowe and laftIn*L resnrrest
espedlttaro.
3.04(-)  ftatteltl  compleie                              Rstabliehmeat of eePebtee besefictory      U  lwheftetattee oo site let. tet.ler 921w fit* .c01
with                                           eeteettoa criteria fto  area developmeot    established 4wldeiineo for e""lta ble bnftctary
sheme In  Part A of the froject.           -electtio. The electlon of alltoteee eapeere4 te
to conece tL late I18S.
Li   Acepi for Vh13VS4.                                                                                                                                0 -
'-a:



____________ Xtt*         0*s1actLiilcrlpTtl  of Co                                      ____   _                   Ca.e                  __
3.04(b)   f,rtoialy complted                                    geent inal shall devetop operatlonl     Projects atill unlear conetructlon mpt "ot y'.t
with                                             potictes and procedures and Install a.-    hale4 ovef. Ilder CMI* 111. * 01   ear illqt,o4
tletactery organizations to adalniqter      Iadelaltrative, opsrattowal and finnaCi1l **stadzitnt
altes -an  nervlceo, rental en  tenaeltaell  for their Shelter A*n  Ar.'4 Oevol'pwnet Prognr*%.
prpertleo uner Pret A of the Protect.
3.04(c)   Nbt yet de                                       Coltectlo of cherge. to teower cost- of  cIN/CHDA are c.Itte4 to, and PxcFpt to ach.lvc,
provtston and operation of certe1l  fNei-   ftit cast recovery on sitca al -wrvirec- ploti.
Ittlee under Part A of the Project.          seceittly updated ftiancial *awl.lq or O nnt Cf.4cett
3.02(a)   Cmpited with          1213116                    Uetobllhieat of Centrat Valuatlon Wiord   R,9tablsewd undlr Vet  "eng1 CAntrol Valention Sntdr.
(CWS).                                       Act. 3916.
3.0%(b)   Compied wtth by       31/31/2      4/3/33        Canptetton of revAluatton ot properties    Aa per the bttal lb.tnlpt n Alendaent) Arct. *41. sell
eVIsed  data.                                   ti Con).                                      Proerties in the 0CA Meuictpaittle  were r"Marll
Ptttially compited                               New wvluation toll fer Catcutta Corpora-   effective 411/61. The for CWIC contigtw to he
wttO                  411/02      411188         tion and other local bodies.                 revalud every five years on A anazl or ward bissls.
Ibis iork to  Gderwa.
3.04(a)   CAplied with          3MI//9                    Reorganization of on (ibpertuet of           am kta< as OW (Pepartovt of t.0cal Cnoveramnt). o
ualcipal Service.)                          0korgmaized mad  gazetted  all/I/iS.
3.06(b)   Compiled tith t2I3/ti              4/1/3l        Trataing Program                             tnottteted for C04, CW:. Ih.loin  project preperitton
by revsedl date                                                                               OMP fit. CANS set op the leatltete of UA'ca1 adilen alt
Urban Studies (ILCUS) to exteon  tralning for all  nti
bodies In the State.  ILtItS b.tgao runlnng traloing
program from 4/3/631.
3.0(c)   Comptlied  ith        4JIJ79      4/I/Ri         I 'rovements to senior  oagement strnec-   Improvecont to nentor nmnagent stretarp ieorparat.-
b  revised date                                  ture accting. stores nd ftnmacial           In CalcUtta NWnicipet Corporation Act IOQI. 4Aerual
11nageoent In dCC                            accoting and financial snaenr-nint lvatrwl Int rnocct-.
6/tI/O; 4tores anegenet on 4111/1.
3.06(d)   Cmplted with          31/33/9      3/31/         Prepirattom of rewled groat structure        Voter CAOP Its. crm han set tup a revi,v.l grant
by revised date                                                                               atractoar.,  chi chse  into oper.oaion on 41/1/R.
413/I)I     411,63         lepieGtintatio  oft eras  system
0'X
VI



SlMAl  OF STAtIS OF CLIANCU WlMTH CIWENUS
QEreed Action DFtee
S_ct_o_          status         Originatl  ActmJlt .kely_         Descrtptlon of Coeant                                     Conent__  __------___
1.06()   CompItled with         12J31?78      ;JI/S3         PreparatIon of ptln for adequate nainto-   All tmproved bootee* were hatned over bp to OW.
by teowted date                                   nance of lustees to 00)                       by l/IJ81.  Retween 211/81 and l1il/il hostees
411,79      4/,83         mlaplementation of plan by 4/1179               were . intatned under a n.enaifemt contrart.
gffecttl 411161 cmC started n4lntiininq the
bestee.
1.07      Pateially comptied   411110         4/1183         Notnation of areas sad tocat bodies f(r   0011W  %wo decided to set up and piy ftr radres
witb by revi*d                                    operation of mumicipal services by statC   consisting of one executive officer, ns enitlneer.
date                                              levet public servtce employees.               one health officer aed on  fina.we officer, to he
placed ti ench momiclpalitv thr.ntghrnst  the t;ttp.
Recroitment and placearnt of exrcutive -%$A tlouince
offteers completed.  health officorr puce)t where
needed.  Placement of englneera prnviast *llftlrsilt.
CM)A wilt therefore depute.womr of its n41rnei..rA
to thte #Muncipalittee.
1.08(a)   Partially complied   3111/79                       Studies on regolation and licenctng of        The Calcutta *nmtctpat Corporation 4rt. 1911
with                                              tubewetla .ao'S grond water supplies.         proViteq for revtltt'in nAil it-"ortiR of tuhPWvelI
For the semnictpatittei  outsi4e *>l Teroie of
Reference have beten prepared aeld hvnt.-.l to
Central aod State Cround Water iio.rds. Awaitinq
respones.  Requires new date for enplet Ion.
1.0%ib)   Compiled witb by    12131118        313J/3        Develop proposals for instItutIom-l           turtint preparation of CU3P llt. C1  ,ntl 1n4
revised date                                       estponsibtlitIes for water and vever-age    reached atreement nn sttc  respono.htlitltea. mf
revenue cottection in CMn.                    theee are belng Implemented wIth effect from
4, 180      411181                                                        4/1113.
4/JI80      4/i/Si         toplement such proposals
3.08(c)    tlae addreased        9JIllS      I0/1/82         Program for metering of water connnetotns  Ouring spprtaIsl of COMP Ill, i nettrint prtgr-m
was Agreed and C0C has commenced m4mpletnteat utn.
4/1/19      10/1,82                                                       Priorities are: first indestrial con rtmer,;
to         to                                                         second coesrtcil, Institutional  ntu hulk
consuers.
3/11162     3/31/866       tUptementat ton of Sam
3.08(d)   Complied with by       4/8178       411/83        tateblishment of separate Water Supply         CaIcutta NnictpOl Corporation Art, 19RI3
revised date                                      and Sewerage Fund                             provides for Water Supply and Sewerage  nail
Drain*te Aceont to the  lunle-p "l Funn.             X :
This account cme  Into operstlon on 41111I.          OQ C
o t-4
I-%



SiNHAUT OP STATUS OP COMPLIANC8 V1TOl COVVJATS
Ante    ctlo  votes
Sectito          Status         Ortiinal  Actual/L.ikery          besctription of Covenant        -  -                      Comuent        -    _
3.08(e)   not ti coapi lance                                 Dellik water supply and serae tLixs             ttle prospect fnr tiqe belng of achletvin
maA charptes frtm consotidated property       c4ewptiance.  The CalcusttA  Ia-ipal Corpot-tetn
taxns                                         Art prowvids for transfer of IX *.f eesmqoEII-l*t.I
property t.Un to hater Sroppiy  o.t sewer,re and
rIlonag. Account of lbntelpuir Fuond.
1.09      to be tevsted          41AWN8       All4ie         Debt service obtlgattons for revente          & coveannt uner CUOP Iti reqatres Cont to trans.for
rifrning *che.e'a to be assumed by oper4t-   all rompletet *sset, to tneat hllI<eopertlnsv
tog agencies                                  agenctes Ito  ccor4ance  ith asnet transfer prore-
iures. teclwuing debt serwvie tobiltaltone, agree4
with IDA.
1.10      Have been revised                                  CC to collect specifted percentages of        Reltsed percentages ha.. bee.-. atre.I tuner CtlOP Ill.
property tameis.                              Clttecttin of current dlenal .ui tot.il collntctionq
in 1982/33 andi 1983/64 exceede-I tirgeta.
3.11(a)   Pstit status prior                                 CC to provtde eatiafectery standard.          Annual targets have been set unler CUFW  Ill
to 1991/62 unclear;                               of operation and uetiteance and to
coplieod with to                                  finance specified proportione of                                                                     *
821/3; sot in comp-                               revenue expenditures by actual revenue
thence tn 63164.                                  cecelpts
3.11(b)   txact *tatus prior to                              Local bodies to provi4e satisfactery          Annual targets have been ot enler CM)P tit
62/63 unclear; per-                               standards of operation and matitenance.
ttally compiled with                             sad to ftnance specified proportions t*f
In 63/64.                                         revnue expendltures by aetual revense
receipt,
xIk



T    L A  B C
Summary Cost Estimates for Components of CUDP-II (756-IN)
MIME               .  ay, 1979. Re-s-lA               i       JLy- il PEl W    n            J3 Re  t
3_r of   MAot In crores   Number of    gMmt in crores lumber Of    tmA t In erc
of Rupees        sub- bot   Iof Rupeewo.. .        Sub-Project. -    o_ e
1. eat.  aq6 ly            19              . 8               19            30.36               19            32.2S
2. Sswere  & D      lrei.  12             21.96              12            20*55               12            21.06
3. 850114 was" 3tlum        1              8.56               1            11.42                1            11.95
4. awixa.natel R1                          4.00               1             400                 1             4.60
5S  Health                  1              0*20               1              0.50               2              0*34
i  1u0stee                  1             21.00               1             32.27               1             34'.36
7. Imadipsi & A Icha Dsv-  1               9.00               1             11.00               1             11.00
.lopmint                                                                                                          1
S. Area v.lopmamt           3             14e60               3             2s.56               2             15.72 a
9. Traffic & TrIOisPortap.   9            20.20               6            32.14                6             30.37
tics
10. shool                    1              2e15               1             2.15                1             1.74
le     SJ10                                 Sehealstanco  5.33  -            3.75                S             3.75
12* COtu_c                   -             21e63               _              _                  _              _
49           145*51                            173.72              45            167.16
4./ de desiga and supervis1on.
/mInclde lphysical and price contcigmnci..
Source: QIDA



60'~~~~~  00)    0 0 1 00k.Se 0f.        0 V   ftoP   0 ftt of      ')   00 )0    0              6
S   N   N   A   N   A.  AD~~~~~~S A.A    .   D ,  4    04     49  P. A,       a 04   0So 
3   .0  *    0    S0 .0       S.   00   S*  S.    S   S.  S-  S.   -    ..   S.  ..  *    *    **e0
*     AS~~~~~a      SiSi *b  0.    U   0)    0  (Ot  to Vf         .10 a         a   to       Si   a a*          a   i
00  006                                                                                     S   0 ~~'   S   0   .  1  -  o10
0e      A0  to00                 00 A   ft  *0              t o   4it 0-   ft   3.              0
c           of       It   8   4.~~~~~~~~~~ f-  0J.20
* 9t 20 t                 .9 1 0 *U S 9 .0 to2ac          0,  P   4   as  a   n   V#  0   0   0            3    -4
0*  o ,                                       $P020'9   10  a0eA         1' .4     2             5       0   10
S .2    *             U j              .0    0             IL-                                      .
S '   .                             a   0                                   0               0
OC              208                        t 2020)                                 t   2      1              1 :: 
1     0 4           0.            0        4  S.        We       In                4     30    0             0     v
to                                           of~~~~~~~~ V5  8-  A4  .4  Ii  to   0     
6'  I.  60  60  so  ~~~~~r  aa 0    3
3p                                                              v~~~~~~~4     3 o    9        9
U   S                                                             9             03.0 6                         2
A  *   *                               0   20  0   ao  g               a   6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fI V0  f
3   03                                                      20 ~~~.   S  I     ,    ,02 0 90  el   2  *.  6  3
2   06   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SS S.                                0             a   6a        0 I
*   00                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0      -LPt    4 a 0      *  
ob0h0l -                           -             4       P    *~       f-       see       a I0  6t
*   00                                     20            0            0   0        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 
* , 5                                                                                                   *               r.
10                                                                   P   6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  P C0,
So  206                                             611               Ss 04   0                                             03
r  S                                                                           03             606.9S0*0                 5 :  Sex
*   26    09  *~~~~A .30.)0 DID  Sas~.              -1O       31    41)Pi           l   4    a.002 we                  '0a
*     6 .           9 3   .    0 2    9'    dh                         0U 2    0* S4                000 NW2                  e
Do   20    .DA    D   4.    4   .   4    .D                      oN 0   '   0   0   "o314                      0
3.0                                                                  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  6.fe     40  
S!                                                                                                aa C 0   4           OCt. 
*   10                                                                a   eec   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 622
0.3  006  ~~~~~~~~~0'  ~~~~  0*)    '1  ~~~~~~~~ .3~~ r  c'  1, t.   c  -3a v                  %t   01  . .   Sb  S 0  S1 a4000  0 0  3.13a
:1  ~~~~    .~o  !Sd  .o  See                                     -Os  a.       be   O        0. S               OPE
40        -3'4                   9730  O's         '4  @1   a       C og.           a      
.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
0 06                                                                    6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCO'0    a
4   006                                                                 3   0~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~042S2001  6 et.
S.                                                                         O$-#~~~~~~~~~~~I C   0 06
.1~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                                         0  1-     3f    -    Tt     v   6  6  200
: 4,0~ ~ 020
03 "'I, ~   ~    33
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SA 0.                                                                                             W0  0  1P26          6
*   00                                                                                 30020033               3003~~~~~~~~k   .   40   4   4 0   4   4  S
*   33    20  t~~~~~  Elto   to  ftEl~~S   20 ft.  1o0   209 10 "I"I"I0    v-            *' a6100          
ot,   o   .   0   .4  S4  S3  S4  S4  20S          0 S       S4 200         0 34  34          Ia601   00S.
to   P    j    040   b'0         60
@6                                                                               0   0      000.       00~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   V   t    v   Dft     1 
9 P    gVvd          9 9                                                                                               6    030               01
IA xouuv*0  6~46                                                                                                                          40
6 46                                                                                   0   200030-



of   6.   of   .4   of                     of   of
tot   VI   4-   Vs   V.                     V.   off
n         x4    0    42   Io   *3   4:9  It   11   V    4.0   M    n    VI   a    I                       n
n         00    #0   -    O-   -    of   of   0.   O-   0.   O.   "    I.    a    0               Is      -0
fo        f*a    a    C)   ej   1.1  al   44   IS   0    41   4 t   a I   0 0   a    a                    fi
.0           a    0    %*   to   .0   -a   .6   .0   .0   Co  t -   I -  C.   a    a              a       so
0    ei    0    to   to   S-  so   .0   Co   do   'd  i's              a    a       a       tf
of                                                                              a    ,
40   Vs   #0          a
p    bp   A                                      of   I"
P,    9   a    6:          tq    P    r-   4   &
v    v       to   04   At   -4   $#   -4   40,   0.   r    64   Iss  III,   a                0
C    C    0                      If   n    id   4           .9
-4   .4   dr                                4 ,   r    ;    S.
-4   -4  so                           Ik4   C         "    r      0             0 0    hp
C    toa    P    bo   A    Of   VI   AO   AO              V    4i,
11 11                    0    to   in    1          461   0
1-      0    40   to          Of         -t   t%         oft         O
04       I   -0   a           go   30   -4   0-0  IL*   4 0   S.   tft   a    a               2 6
4    "    ."         "I   w    O    -0   10   AS   -4   II.  60   a                 of a    to
is  lot4    41P  3m   .11  "I   4#   r              a-         #91  14   .0   a    a                 A.
ig   r    M    $#-  lo                of                                     4
t'   so   4                      AO   a.   . I   "   f.    a    4
to   es   4   4    C    46;   W.   4,t   4t   40   1 1                            0.
60  t-   04    I    .9   -0  'm   to   .2   Vw    .   :    :                 :    41
r    to                    6.              as   P    C,
of    a   $A   VI                      I                    .90  o1,
tv   to   ti
61
64    0
aIt  .4                                                  .4   tl   C.
OA   S.   1.
.4   el   r     a    It
., :I's rS- it
91                                                                           If   C am tv
C
0.                    A    of,                              of
re        u.   a    nn
d
.0            4 -'O .4
a             0
C                  Of of
VIC
a1-0
0,01  41                                                                                49 Ipf o#             if el P6
42                 -    0                0 a .4
. x                     V #%
1.                   .4
Sd              ou         %P
0.0
I.- *
0.0
VW
ve
C.
be
160                                                                                     "'a           11 40 .4
.0
:2                                  0          to               4 16 .11
so IN a
3       00                                                                      0a               0            we 41 .4
0.
C    I                                                                           It           0
A,                                                                                            .  I               #1
on  la,
od
O               .4 04
a               t4   O.          0    st   a                           v.,ba
OP:
10
ow    A
0V
Di     10,
O ci
ohI
0    to
lo   a                so
fo   %A   1*  ob
4                         :b  'a  4  'O  O
fw n  0               -4 ft ft  w                         $2
OfIa
.0 0aof
Jo                                                                                                                                     10
0      13,



V#qJSCT COV&Lit*ok 41V5RT
S!4: CALCt6C'.t'* J2SN O!v!&0"IMT PeciecT (CR!)tt 75e-z")
arTU^tAL t  # 3%   ADAtSAL  3t E   cr cl;T
SfCTO4  6s::  .as'i  h.;!,Ih
ffmu-Z-s.8.a.ug%*.Rgu3u.8u3u.sw3ans=uaussssFwwuSn38 S,,.*,-@wsc"WSUuu@SSUUbUUSUbUUDeSWUUUffSb@03S8800U000933035@UOUUmUBOUO@UPO
4030? .or~s e- :,w_en,nta.                    &:tuwt costs (Uoto J)u'* 9)   :oc.era. l tstagato o.f C*ss14            Actual cost as a orosortien
Local         *.S.S Miltion    Local              U.S.   &latLn         of oporssasl ostlivoe
tLrrefcy      &iul*valnt  2'   CSrroncp           oequavalmnt <2>       e  cost
4;.,rvros           ft)          as.croero            (2)                      (C111(23glJ
C2:Sttl:301lCe5 SOL-D *m;ST  q4.>a;!e.!h?         7. .71                           *t.72             1!.63                       SI.!?
roe   t (1 3t C: ntr;encp &I'A%nCe have b,en otsrtbu*.d overall .roejct tao-sotots for *Dotals.l ,oaionte of CXtst.
S   3   usan; an Oxche;o rote of U.S.$   4 ..tO.50 for actual costs and U.S.$   RAs.?.! *or opersatl qattoote at costs.
Source:  Ct?DA
0l
o ?4



*RCJFC COqPLITIOu ISP^at
S!C01  CCtIuT'a bossm D!rVLOPWENT P*OJIfCT cta!arf 7SA-s
ACTUAL  NOD SP90ESML !TI5AT!S OF COSt
SECTOR  A GE*A 3I&VfLO' .t
,ejor serN  or Cue-snts.                   Actual  cst,  Uete; J,n54)   Aoatoal !otl.at  eof coste(1           .ctual est as a oroper*l.n
Local        U.S.1 "Lllea    Local            U.S.$ WltIon         af evoroasal ostleato
Cwrrencr    osulvaleet 40   Currone          *qutealest  b-       *4f coot
As.Croe*s         (1)          )s.;ros             CZ)                     (1)tZialOh
@@*4""e^X*-anews seasnnauseause, -"e--r odase Sees   ue-Be-*vevts                       eF-@s-e----  eXB-w-**emosesau6s
02:aSt001  .iWg SETTL:w"  I" Z  taST CAL.       1.'J7          *.73           12.19                                     4*.55
02:AO:CO3 v"DURIA FSW &M3 PAN 4*^&!?           3.57            '.40            S.S4            6.44                     )?,6 
noto a 41) a Cotntnaonep *llo.onto hbow  bean oistrbatoe .04tral orojoct co.o.nwnts for *OoreisIt s8toat,e of costs.
: (2) t teing so eachongo rate of U.S.$ * Rs.1O.5e *r actual costs 0ne U.S.6 a 4s*3.  for sporesial estioesu  of costs.
Source: CNDA
fX
C:



S*Ct2'3 C*L6DT?A lt&&*b 91WILOSMAOT Ogej8C? tCIfat1 T545q)
,ctj'g Oa'ee APS&SOS. it9s'3&T11 c C9S?
SICINa I IMS*11                               0 nV!f'IIP@1h'V SC4!QL$`eU%3C:9AL t 41499L 3SwYLc'p~ade
LSCoI 'aS.U.ta      gZ"ill&a* Local           U.S.$Cliton          of acoraolout  iote
C"rso.'cv    osulvsale"t 422) 'taresstv       *ouivaoa.t 42?    O04 coot
@ZsSPSsCCS PX:oatf SC*93L                        .S1.33.28                                      ..                        74
eoa hov  boen dl3tftoEto  *#*porl bro3eet Coaoo.omto for eorolaot eato of coo*t,.
420a (2)es " Cato          arol      t   eUOS.S    ,IAC.5  for outuol costs sad U.s.tS  * me.g.64  om ,erelaol oottaeto of costs,
Source: CMDA
txcal   e.S.o!Ililez    *ct   tl.. Zaliee  *  ase-vel eti*et
gueweKev    e""ial^t s2>  'steerelr  ""iwol-*t <2>  *s touto I*
XFUJ"e e--w9 @--*-- --**- D-a-aeB-a*- -s-sX w"e^w Bu-Bw- uta-w ------ ---a- w"-"" a-Zere Bw-w2 Zw"so B"@9a- vee"" 3Be-I



*D"JCT CO"PLITIel a!9olT
S!CC..  CaL:'JT'A #2lk  *!WeLOPE"WT POOJ(CT (C!2OtT 7So-I)
ttVJ*L A.2 &P%RSIS&L USTZOAT?S OP COST
SSCTOR: Ttbep?C IT%A%59zTAT10
ftjor *or%s or Coaonsonts.                    A:ctul cost,  te1o Jun'04)    aporasal !st&Veto of cot(41)             actual cost so t Dropertion
Lace:,       J.&.$  1J11@in o     aceil          U.S.1 "411teO          eo eeOra&5l est3ato,
Curv,ncv     *,utivlnt <2>   'wf-r.ncpy         osuwalent <2>         of eeat
49.ttt*   (ll      q*sttes              ~~(2)                     M1)(2X1;T
02:TT:01 C.'.!.P.                                 1.s'           1.'t              7,*             * 7.29                      1*.27
CZ:TT:C32 87ESPMAR  '                             e.3 4.19                           , 0041          0.47                      5^.-o
CZ%TT:O3S 'PACA24I  sCAD                           T.t!                             0 .35  6          0.74                      I7.,
2:TT:036 *24N1UL FPACL?Tt *1T          .A         3.2*           9.34              0.21              2.33
C*:TTs037 !aSrIau 01fia:POL:Tam ST&-piss    1C.53                10.08             1C.4S             17.18                      1?.'
C2:tt:039 ,a7sCtxpta  (aLvatl  !SVOSSSWAT    e.4.2                1.9?              *.36              1.39                     IV.3X
Note   41:1  S C*0tli;e*n9  a110atnea hOve bon ctatrtqotod oworeil project c.ep.nents tsr awwrols,1 estlete of costs.                         -
:2 <2: UVa an oachen;.6 raote of U.S   a Ro.1G.S! for actooS costs and U.S.$    4 9.2.6 for si:raisel ogsc1ato of costs.
Source:  CMDA
Eli
co :3



? A EL 3   DI
Project Completion Report CUDP 11 (Credit No. 756-IN)
Cash flow statement during CUDP-II implementation period:                (Rpees In Lakhs)
Year      Yer   Ye arYar                           Year    Year        Year       Total
HMO  1978;;7~~~9 199-0               1908182  2Ig@2   lo           1 3984-85 
1977;7ff    7YI            -8      80-8iui                            
(upto 30.6.84)
CA) Fo0e8aa
State Plan    1320.00     1320.00    2214.00   2486*00   2486.00  2486.00  1731*00    200.00    14,243.00
Borroing     O1100.00      1l10oOO     1100.00  1100.00  1100.00  1100.00  1650.00                  8,r250.00
OctlrdL        _             -         100l00    300,00'  300.00   300. 00    a         650.00     1,650.00
MlP   0...      167*00      170.00      170M00    360.00   360,00    360.00  404.00         -       1,991.00
Others        1329.00      1123.00      799e00    212.00    212.00    212.00  2498.00               6,i785.00
T o t a 1 a   3916,00      3713,t00    438!3.O0  4458000  4458.00  4458.00 6683.00   850.00    32,919.00
$B)AUtwal Receive
Op.n. paqfah    327,10      843.56    1052087    651.26    659.05   549,96 1412.17  2251.85
balance
State Plan     2370.00     2367.00    2214*00  2425.00   2543.00  2237.00 158l.00   200.00
Market b*rro-
wing           1100,00     1100.00     1140.50  .1261.0    1402.00  1430.00  1654,29
Octrol         830.00       933.00    1203.00  1349.07  2025,00  225O.O0  2343.00   400.00
me    ,....    167600       170.00      170.00   400.00    385.00   400*00  404e00         -
Others         3415a4       357.28      325U95   239.51    584,76   407.04   693.42        4.77
Total  e-e    5135.64      5770.84    6106.32   6325.84  1598.81  7274.00 8087.88  2856.62
C)ct.xpendi-   4292.   0      4r12f2    54.S1o.i   MAgL. 29124LiL  M.1il3 9836.03   1539.82
ture
(D)ClosIng        843.56      1052.97      651.26    659.05    549,96   1412.17. 2251.85   1316.80
Balance
Source: CMDA



-47-
Annex X
SECOND CLCT  11M DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Actual        Appraiosl   Actual Disbursement
Fiscal Yr.             Total            stimete        as ? of
fi _bArtitt           K (912 uAMD2.  Ufl292.  Arail  s  timate
Lil
Mareb 31/78             0               -
June 30/78            4,600           8,000             58
LRL
Sept. 30/78           7,500          13,000             58
Dec. 31/78            8,600          16,000             54
March 31/79          14,000          20,000             70
June 30/79           18,700          25,000             75
Sept. 30/79          19,100         29,000             66
IDe. 31/79           20,300         33,000              62
March 31/O          33,200          39,000             85
June 30180           43,300         45,000             96
Sept. 30/80         45,400          49,000             93
Dec. 31/00          49,700           53,000            94
March 31/81          61,300         60,000            102
Jun.e 30/81          67,900         65,000            104
Sept. 30/81         67,900          68,000            100
Dec. 31/81          68,200          72,000             95
March 31/82         70,400          78,000             90
June 30/82          74,000          83,000             89
LII
Sept. 30/82         76,900          $7,000             88
Dec. 31/82          77,100                             89
Hore  31/83        78,700                             90
Juoa  30/83          79,300                            91
L2E
Sept. 30/83         60,500                             93
Dec. 31/83           81,600                            94
March 31/84         85,100                             98
June 30/84           86,400                            99
Aag-c 8, 1984        87,000                           t00
Closlng bte        Jsm 30/84
Source: IDA



-48-
ANNEX XI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
2ND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 756-IN
CHAPTER I - INTRODUCTION
1.1     The Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CHA) with a 1981 census population
of 10 million, covers an area of 1,414 sq. km. It is the economic capital of
the Eastern Region of India with a hinterland that includes states adjacent
to West Bengal. Responsibility for metropolitan development rests with the
State Government's Metropolitan Development Department and Local Government
and Urban Development Department (LGUDD). Both departments are headed by the
same Minister. LGUDD administers to the neede of Local Government
state-wide, with day-to-day administration carried out through a Directorate
of Locah Bodies, and for non-CMA areas, a Directorate of Municipal Engineer-
ing. The Metropolitan Development Department overviews expenditure on
development infrastructure investments in the CMA and the performance of all
Urban Development Authorities in the State. Local Government in the CNA
includes 2 Municipal Corporations (Calcutta and Howrah), 37 municipalities,
and 165 panchayAts (non-municipal urban areas). About one-third of the CMA
population live in the Calcutta Corporation Area.
1.2     At the time of Independence and partition (1947), there was a massive
inflow of refugees from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) mainly into the CKA.
The city, after two earlier decades of neglect, regressed in its ability to
deliver even basic municipal services. A much publicized cholera epidemic in
1958 confirmed its world-wide reputation for having the worst urban condi-
tions of any city of comparable size. The foundation of the Calcutta
Metropolitan Planning Organization in 1960 led to extensive studies and
recommendations embodied in the 'Basic Development Plan' (1966) that were not
implemented at the time owing to lack of funds and the absence of a cohesive
institutional infrastructure.
1.3     During the 1960s, physical, social, and economic conditions continued
to deteriorate. The number of 'bustees' increased, and the existing housing
stock deteriorated due to the massive overcrowding and inadequate services.
Only about 100 million gallons per day (mgd) of treated water was available
to a small section of the population in the metrocore, on an intermittent
basis. All sanitation, tqith the exception of a sewered area covering
Calcutta City, was in the form of service privies. This was dependent upon,
at best, an irregular collection for disposal. Solid waste management was
very inadequate. During the monsoon, extensive areas of low-lying land that
had by now become unplanned high density settlements, were continuously



-49-                       ANNEX XI
waterlogged due to an inadequate drainage system. Pavement dwellers and
solid waste heaps forced pedestrians on to the streets further aggravating
already difficult traffic conditions, resulting initially from insufficient
road space. During this period, a major economic recession led to GOI's
active assistance and to moves by the State Government to institute changes.
1.4     Since the early 1910s the major instrument of change has been the
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), created by the Government
of West Aengal (GOWB) in 1970 and, subsequently, financially supported in
part by the International Development Association (IDA). The first IDA
credit to assist Calcutta was made in 1973. The Government of India (GOI)
sought IDA assistance for the 2nd Urban Development Project in Calcutta to
assist the Government of West Bengal to improve institutions responsible for
delivering, maintaining and operating urban services and systems, to improve
fiscal policy and management and to institute an effective system for
monitoring urban investments in Calcutta Metropolitan Area. The 2nd project
was prepared by the CMDA assisted by State and Local Government agencies.
The 2nd project aimed at continuation of the work started under CUDP-I and
expansion of the CMDA's program into certain new directions such as employ-
ment generation, health services and primary school construction.
CHAPTER II - THE PROJECT
2.1     Background.  The first Calcutta Urban Development Program of CMDA
consisted of a number of schemes picked up from tha recommendations of the
Basic Development Plan, Master Plan for Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
and comprehensive Traffic and Transportation Plan which were published in
1966. The CMDA mobilized a total resource of about Rs 160 crores for its
first program which started to redress the serious deficiencies and to arrest
further deterioration in all urban services. The first IDA credit (427-IN)
amounting to $35 million was designed to support the CMDA program and
provided finance for 40 schemes in six sectors out of 130 schemes implemented
by CMDA.
2.2     Identification and Preparation.  During negotiations of CUDP-I it was
apparent that further support from the World Bank in the form of a second
credit would be necessary to continue the work started under the first credit
in providing major urban services and to expand the CMDA program to employ-
ment creation, health services and primary school construction. CMDA started
the preparation of projects for CUDP-II from the end of 1973. A list of
candidate projects, prepared by the Task Group Heads (the then Sectoral
Directors) and endorsed by the Chairman, CMDA, formed the basis of prelimi-
nary discussions with the World Bank Mission at the end of 1974. Based on
the discussions with this Mission and on a detailed note indicating some
guidelines furnished by the World Bank Mission of April/ May 1975, the Task
Group Heads started preparation of project reports and projects justification
notes. In the meantime, the need for a 4-year work plan and a development
perspective for CMDA program was felt necessary. A report entitled "Develop-
ment Perspective and Investment Plan" was prepared by the Directorate of
Planning in June, 1976. This report addressed the question of urban expan-
sion, economic activity and employment infrastructure and recommended a
polycentric strategy for metropolitan growth in replacement of the bi-polar
metropolitan structure suggested in the Basic Development Plan. The report
also proposed a planned distribution of population and employment and greater



ANNEX XI
-50-
diversity in employment opportunities to support and stimulate the economy of
the region. The Investment Plan of this report suggested multi-sectoral
development activities in different fields. It indicated an outlay of Rs 70
crores over the 4-year pericd from 1976/77 to 1979/80. It also indicated
broad sectoral allocations and annual phasing of expenditures, based on
figures furnished by Task Group Heads.
2.3     Selection and Appraisal.  The different issues were discussed with
the World Bank Mission of July-September, 1976 and the project reports were
furnished to the Appraisal Mission in December, 1976. Another follow-up
Mission in February/March 1976 completed the appraisal and finalized the
IDA-II package of Rs 155 crores. The CUDP-II project package formed a part
of CMDA's 5-year investment program from 1977/78 to 1981/82 with a total
outlay of Rs 248.35 crores. The IDA credit for the CUDP-II amounted to $87
million.
2.4     Project Components.  The CUDP-II project package of Rs 155 crores
included the following components:
(a) residential, industrial and commercial sites and services development
involving a low-cost integrated approach to providing accommodation,
community facilities and employment opportunities. Residential
accommodation will be provided for about 45,400 people, 70Z of whom
belong to families earning less than the average family income in the
CMD;
(b) redevelopment of the Howrah fish and pan (betel leaf) market;
(c) participation in an ongoing bustee improvement program which provides
basic infrastructure services in approximately 420 slums covering
1,400 ha. and serving over 1,104,000 people, at a cost of US$40.6 per
capita.l/
(d) construction of 40 new primary schools and the remodeling and exten-
sion of 400 existing schools;
(e) training, equipment and buildings for a pilot health program serving
175,000 low-income people;
(f) US$3.5 million equivalent of institutional credit 1/ and studies to
assist approximately 4,800 very small-scale businessmen in bustees
and area development components of the project, i.e., an average loan
of US$725;
(g) improved fringe area and municipal water supplies to provide 90 lcd
to over 900,000 people, irprovement of tubewell supplies in the
central area and additional renovation works for the Palta- Tallah
water system to supply 730 mld to Calcutta Corporation;
1/ Including contingencies and design costs.
1/ To be provided by selected commercial banks.



ANNEX XI
-51-
(h) provision of sewers, including house connections to some areas of
Calcutta Corporation and Howrah presently served by bucket latrines,
cleaning of 650 km of partially blocked sewers in Calcutta Corpora-
tion area, improvement of storm water drains, installation of over
12,000 prefabricated sanitary latrines to bucket latrines;
(i) rehabilitation of the system of refuse collection, street cleaning
and nightsoil collection in Calcutta Corporation area with a popula-
tion of 3.15 million people, pilot projects to develop long-term
solutions to solid wastes management;
(j) provision of water supply, drainage and sanitation and road works
in the fringe (anchal) areas of the CMD;
(k) traffic engineering with emphasis on pedestrians and slow-moving
vehicles, new roads and road improvements to facilitate economic
development; and
(1) technical assistance to State Government agencies, Calcutta
Corporation and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority.
2.5     Summary cost estimates for the different project components for both
the 5-year investment period and its IDA-II package are shown in Table B [of
the main report].
CHAPTER III - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1     Implementation Period.  The project was scheduled to be implemented
over the 5-year period 1977/78-1981/82. The target date of physical
completion was March 1982, the credit closing date, nine months later.
However, the rate of progress of implementation started gradually falling
behind the target schedule and a mid-term review necessitated the reschedul-
ing of the implementation progran. The physical completion date was extended
up to December, 1983 and credit closing date to September, 1984. The physi-
cal completion date had to be extendtd further to June, 1984.
3.2     Reasons for Delay.  The reasons for delay specific to individua'.
project components have been indicated below along with the discussions on
assessment of these components. Some common but major constraints were:
Land Acquisition: Some projects, particularly those of Traffic &
transportation and Area Development components, suffered mainly due to
problems related with land acquisition. It is on record that it has taken a
total period of about ten years to process the land acquisition and
rehabilitation of the affected people for B.K. Expressway. The existing L.A.
Acts do not provide for any rehabilitation, but in view of the prevailing
socio-economic conditions of the people affected by land acquisition, CMDA
considered it essential to provide alternative land or accommodation,
especially to the economically weaker section. As there are no fixed norms
for such rehabilitation, the process takes a long time.



ANNEX XI
-52-
Staff Problem: Construction crew, both technical and non-technical,
of CNDA is composed of directly recruited staff and staff on deputation from
different Covernment Departments. A dispute regarding their service and
promotion, etc., was pending with the court of law. As a result, many of the
key posts remained unmanned over almost the whole implementation period of
CUDP-II. This unexpected turn of events caused a severe set-back to the
implementation schedule.
Scarce Construction Materials: Non-availability of construction
materials, particularly cement, steel and bitumen, at certain times forced
CMDA to rephase the work program which in its turn caused the inevitable
extension of the construction period.
3.3     Physical Targets and Achievements:  Annex I (of the main report]
lists the physical progress attained by June 1984 of the different
sub-projects of CUDP-II and the expected completion dates of those
aub-projects which were still under implementation on that date. An assess-
ment of individual project components is given below:
3.3.1   Water Supply:  The Water Supply component of CUDP-II consisted of 19
sub-projects as follows:
(i) For Calcutta        : 3 sub-projects (Tallah-Palta System, Calcutta
Distribution System and Interim Ground
Water Supply);
(ii) For Municipalities :  12 sub-projects (7 municipal augmentation
schemes, 4 secondary grid systems and interim
ground water supply); and
(iii) For Fringe Areas   : 4 sub-projects (Rajerhat, Sankril, Tollygunj
& Jagatdal).
On project completion date of June, 1984, thirteen(13) out of
nineteen(19) sub-projects were completed; two more were commissioned through
direct pumping pending completion of construction works in progress for water
towers; three others had been commissioned partially. Expected completion
dates for these five sub-projects have been indicated in Table 1 of Annex 1
(of the main report].
One sub-project for Calcutta Distribution System was notionally
identified during CUD?-II project package definition. Preparation of a
detailed report for this sub-project had to be delayed because of
non-availability of the study report from the consultants. Even with the
resulting delayed starting of the project, a physical progress of 722 could
be achieved. The balance work of this sub-project forms a part of Water
Supply component of CUDP-III package and is scheduled for completion by March
1986.
3.3.2   Sewerage & Drainage.  Twelve(12) sub-projects were included in the
sewerage and drainage component of CUDP-11 package to:
(a) continue the improvement works initiated under the First Calcutta
Project;



ANNEX XI
-53-
(b) reduce waterlogging of selected areas during the monsoon;
(c) improve drainage arrangements and outfalls; and
(d) clean silted sewers and improve carrying capacities of the sewers.
On full disbursement, 4 out of the 12 sub-projects had been completed
and 6 sub-projects of the remaining 8 sub-projects had been substantially
completed (77% and above). Expected completion dates for these sub-projects
are shown in Table 2 of Annex 1 [of the main report].
Quite a number of sub-components of the projects could not be taken
up for execution in time for various difficulties. Balance works of these
projects have been included in CUDP-III package.
3.3.3   Solid Waste Management.  The SWM component of CUDP-II package had two
objectives:
(a) it aimed at consolidation and optimization of the existing system
for CMC in all aspects of three phases of (i) primary collection;
(ii) transportation; and (iii) disposal of garbage; and
(b) it also undertook two different pilot studies aimed at developing
a more efficient system of Solid Waste Management of CMC and the
municipalities and urban areas under CMDA.
The different sub-components of the project as envisaged at the time
of finalization of CUDP-II had to be modified without any change in the
objectives and there was considerable delay in project start-up.
Physical progress status of different sub-components is shown in
Table 3 of Annex 1 (of the main report].
Balance work of this component has been included in CUDP-III package.
One of the pilot studies has been successfully completed, the other
one for CMC was abandoned. The recommendation of the completed pilot study
formed the basis of formulation of CUDP-III SWM Projects outside CMC.
3.3.4   Area Development:  The Area Development Component consisted of three
sub-projects two for sites and services and one for redevelopment of Howrah
Fish & Pan Market. One of the sites and services projects, viz. West
Howrah, was taken out of CUDP-II package due to abnormal delay in land
acquisition. Details of physical progress of the other two projects, namely
East Calcutta and Howrah Fish & Pan Market, are givez' in Table 4 of Annex 1
[of the main report].
Though delayed due to court cases, rehabilitation of traders etc.,
the works of Howrah Fish & Pan Market had been completed. However, the
stalls could not be handed over to the traders due to imposition of Civil
Rules by the Hon'ble High Court.



ANNEX XI
-54-
The progress of works of East Calcutta site was hampered on various
occasions due to:
(i) a delay of about one year to get the full possession of
land.
(ii) prolonged opposition to land filling work by local people.
(iii) extended monsoon and/or flooding; and
(iv) total stoppage of work for about 2 years in connection with an
enquiry regarding increased volume of earth-work and cost
escalation.
The expected completion date of the project is June, 1986.
3.3.5   Health:  The health component included a pilot program to provide
comprehenslve health care including nutrition and family planning services.
Construction and operation of 2 primary health centers (PHC) and 10
sub-health ce-nters (SHC) were envisaged along with a project Headquarters.
The total capital cost for the health component was Rs 30 lakhs.
The pilot program was subsequently modified to the operation of 3
zonal Urban Health Centers (ZUHC) and 11 Urban Community Health Centers
(UCHC) at a total cost of Rs 50 lakhs. On completion of disbursement 3
ZUHC's and 6 UCHC's had been functioning at an incurred expenditure of Rs
29.65 lakhs.
The Attachment gives a detailed project completion report for this
component along with performance evaluation.
3.3.6   Bustee Improvement, Municipal & Anchal Development, Latrines and
Schools: The physical progress for the above components is shown in Table 5
of Annex 1 (of the Main Report]. It will be seen that the latrine component
had almost been completed by the time of full disbursement and the other
three components had been substantially completed. Scattered location of the
works and construction site conditions stood in the way of faster rate of
progress of these works. The expected completion date for these three com-
ponents is March 1986. Balance works of Bustee Improvement and Municipal and
Anchal Development component are now included in CUDP-III package.
3.3.7   Traffic & Transportation:  The Traffic and Transportation component
of IDA-IY package laid emphasis on four me.jor issues:  (i) Traffic Engineer-
ing & Management; (ii) Road Improvement; (iii) New Road Facilities; and (iv)
Terminal facilities.



ANNEX XI
-55-
It consisted of nine (9) sub-projects as follows:
Traffic Engineering & Management          s   One cluster project
Road Improvement                          s    Four sub-projects (Foreshore
Makardah, Manicktala and
Sealdah)
New Road Facilities                       :    Three sub-projects (E.M. By-
pass, Kona & B.Ke Expressway)
Terminal Facilities                       s   One sub-project
Subsequently, this project component was revised by taking out three
sub-projects - Menicktala, Sealdah and Kona for reasons noted bettows
(a) the Kona Express-way which is a major link with the Second Hooghly
River Bridge was deferred because of delay in completion of the
Bridge;
(b) Manicktala Road extension was proposed to provide a better connection
to Salt Lake township. It was felt that with other important links
already established this project would not be so necessary at this
stage; and
(c) Sealdah Fly-over scheme was taken out of the CUDP-II package as
agreed with the World Bank, but implementation of the scheme was
continued with non-IDA funds.
The construction of BOK. Expressway was completed in all respects by
June 1984, the extended completion date of CUDP-II. The two road improvement
projects in Howrah were also completed. The construction of the main align-
ment of E.M. By-Pass was also completed, but due to land acquisition problem
a small amount of work is yet to be done on Park Circus Connector and major
works on Rash Behari Connector still remain to be done. In construction
terms, however, both of these were dealt with efficiency which was evident
from the fact that the major part of the construction work could be completed
by July, 1982.
Initially there was a long gestation period for traffic engineering
schemes to mature. The delay was due to several factors like failure on the
part of consultants engaged for preparation of CTEP Schemes, specialized
training of personnel involved, procurement of signal equipment, etc. The
scope of this cluster project had to be reduced because of the late start.
However, the CTEP Schemes gradually gained momentum and most of the schemes
were implemented successfully.
Table 6 of Annex 1 (of the main report] furnishes the details of
physical progress for this component.
3.4     Project Costs
3.4.1   Cost Redefinition and Revised Investment Plans:  The first cost
redefinition exercise was carried out in July 1979 when the 5-year Investment



ANNEX XI
-56-
Plan was recast from the period 1977/78-1981/82 to the period
1978/79-1982/83. The total outlay was increased from Rs 248.35 crores to
Rs 217.74 crores. The size of CUDP-II Package was kept unaltered though
three sub-projects of Traffic & Transportation component were taken out of
the IDA-II Package. This was discussed earlier in the report in Section
3.3.7.
The next cost redefinition exercise was done in September 1980 for
CUDP-II project only. F.om then onwards, project costs were monitored
regularly and costs redefined at regular intervals. The last redefinition
was done in July 1983. The Table-C [of the main report] gives the summary
costs of the different components of CUDP-II for July, 1979, July, 1981 and
July, 1983 redefinition.
3.4.2   Reasons for Cost Escalation.  During initial years of implementation
project cost escalated in leaps and bounds resulting in the whole of contin-
gency provision of Rs 33.39 crores of appraisal estimates of cost being used
up by July 1981. Escalation of cost was due mainly to:
(a) original estimates for some sub-projects were not based on detailed
engineering;
(b) enlarged scope of work; and
Cc) delay in project completion and consequent additional burden of price
contingencies for later years.
Regular cost redefinition from September, 1981 onwards helped in eliminating
avoidable additional costs and also in pruning down scope of works wherever
possible without adversely affecting the desired flow of benefits.
3.4.3   Actual Costs vs. Appraisal Estimates of Cost.  Tables 1-6 of Annex 2
(of the main reportJ show the actual project cost as of June, 1984 and
appraisal costs estimates. It will be seen that 11 sub-projects were com-
pleted within appraisal estimates and 10 sub-pro3ects were completed at an
average cost overrun of about 28%. Though the cost overrun for incomplete
projects varies between 1% to 77%, leaving aside the sub-project 02-WS/040
having a notional sum in appraisal estimates, the real cost overrun in terms
of likely completion cost will vary between (+) 0.13% and (-) 30.40%.
CHAPTER IV - FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
4.1     Financial Performance.  In the sphere of Financial Management CMDA
stepped into a new era with the introduction of accrual system of commercial
accounting as against cash system, during the Project period. Experience
over the years had shown that in the development organizations cash basis of
accounts did not reflect a true and fair view of the activities of the
organization and that a gap between the physical and financial achievements
used to pose a problem. On the suggestion of the Bank and as designed by a
consultancy firm, M/S Price Waterhouse & Co., a new system was brought into
operation on and from the financial year 1978/79. The significant changes
under the new system were introduction of monthly cash control accounts,
quarterly income and expenditure accounts, yearly income and expenditure
accounts and balance sheets for the Sectors and Headquarters, as well as a



ANNEX XI
-57-
consolidated one for CMA as a whole.  The data produced by such new systems
enabled the management to watch over the physical progress of work and thus
lielped in plugging the possible loopholes causing execution slippages. The
gap between the physical and financial targets also narrowed down substan-
tially.
The cash flow statement during the implementation period of CUDP-II
from 1977/78 to June 30, 1984 is shown in Table-D (of the main report].
4.2     Disbursements.  There did not occur any major disruption in the flow
of disbursements by the Bank except in a few minor cases where the Bank
carried out retrenchments from the claims submitted. The percentage of
reimbursements on certain categories of claims also underwent substantial
reduction to ensure IDA's continued participation to the completion of the
project. On a review however, it may be said that the Project did not suffer
due to delay in disbursements.
The disbursement position of IDA-II credit is shown in Annex X.
CHAPTER V - INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
5.1     Introduction of Commercial System of Accounting on Accrual Basis in
CMDA. Since inception, CMDA's Headquarters, Sectors and Divisions used to
maintain accounts on cash basis and the principal accounting record in this
regard was Cash Book. Under this system, the books of accounts maintained at
the Headquarters and the sectors used to record income actually realized and
expenditure of both revenue and capital type actually incurred and this
formed the basis for compilation of Receipt and Payment A/cs at the Head-
quarters and Sectors as well, to show periodical closing Cash and Bank
balances. Only at the close of a financial year, various adjustment entries
for accrued liabilities, depreciation chargeable, debit bills raised by
Material Sector against the consuming sectors and other Implementing Agencies
etc. used to be passed through journals and these transactions were recorded
in an Adjusted Ceneral Ledger maintained at the Headquarters which again
formed the basis for compilation of Annual Income and Expenditure A/c and the
Balance Sheet for CMA as a whole.
Since cash basis of accounts did not reflect a true and fair view of
the development activities of the organization, M/s Price Waterhouse and Co.
was appointed as consultants for designing a Commercial System of accounting
on accrual basis in the year 1978. The accrual system of accounting was
first brought in to operation in the year 1979/80 on the basis of recommenda-
tions made by the consultants. Under this system both income and expenditure
are recorded on accrual basis. On their recommendations, monthly cash con-
trol A/c, Quarterly Income and Expenditure A/c and yearly Income and Expendi-
ture A/c and Balance Sheets for all the Sectors and Headquarters besides one
consolidated Income and Expenditure A/c and Balance Sheet for CMDA as a
whole, have been introduced. The compilation of Quarterly Income and Expen-
diture A/cs by the Headquarters and sectors on accrual basis, enables the
management to compare at reasonably frequent intervals, the actual perfor-
mance in terms of expenditure incurred with the previously established
budgetted figures and adopt remedial measures wherever necessary in case any
deficiency is noticed.



ANNEX XI
-58-
The System also depicts a true and fair view of the financial results
and state of affairs of CMDA at any period of time. In the consolidated
annual accounts as also in the sectoral accouutts, previous year's figures are
also shown against each broad and subheads for comparison purpose and a fund
flow statement is attached to the annual accounts indicating inflow and
outflow of funds during each financial year for the information of manage-
ment. Since both receipt and expenditure have been classified under suitable
nomenclatures with a code number allotted to each, it is possible to ascer-
tain the correct position of receipt and expenditure under any head of A/c on
any particular date. Under this system, it is also possible to keep proper
watch over the physical progress of the projects under execution. Since
progressive expenditure incurred towards execution of any project on any
particular date can be had readily from the Works Register, suitable remedial
measures can also be taken in case progress appears to be tardy.
Like any other new system, some teething trouble had to be
encountered while switching over from cash basis system of accounting to the
new commercial system of accounting on accrual basis. But this has never
proved to be insurmountable. The system as recommended by the consultants,
is flexible enough to cope with any new development. In fact, some of the
operationaL steps recommended when found not workable or contradictory have
been amended to suit the need of the day.
5.2     Financial Discipline.  During the CUDP-II period, steps were taken to
streamline the existing procedure with a view to introducing stricter finan-
cial discipline and ensuring better accountability for expenditure incurred
at different stages. The control measures adopted envisaged more careful
accounting of the expenditure incurred stressing the need for keeping the
project expenditure within the amount indicated in the Administrative
Approval as well as the budget provision. The discipline introduced also
provided for a system of check, right from the stage of project preparation
through final incorporation of the expenditure in the project Account. This
also aimed at better appraisal of the proposals at the appropriate stages and
monitoring and evaluation of the performances from time to time.
Each Sector had a Project Planning Working Group with a repre-
sentative from the Finance, besides other technical officers. The function-
ing of the Planning Group included, inter alia, checking of the project
estimates with a view to eliminating any provision which might eventually
turn out to be infructuous. Experience had shown that through the working of
the Planning Group7 it had been possible to control, even at the initial
stage, the possibiliLy of avoidable expenditure. After clearance of the
Projects by the Project Plan  ng Working Group, the project reports in
question were subjected to detailed examination by the Works Committee
constituted with the Director General of Operations, Director General of
Planning & Development, Director of Finance (later designated as Director
General of Finance), non-official Members, Sector Directors and such other
officials whose presence was considered necessary. Before the Projects were
discussed in the meeting of the Works Committee, the estimates in question
were subjected to detailed scrutiny by Headquarter Finance and the discus-
sions in the Works Committee mainly centered round the observations made by
Finance Wing. The meaningful scrutiny by the Finance Wing and the detailed
deliberation in the Works Committee brought to light the weaknesses, if any,
in the Project estimates and these deficiencies/defects were sought to be



ANNEX XI
-59-
removed/rectified before the estimates finally came up for consideration for
issue of Administrative Approval by the competent Authority.
In early 1980, Sectoral Working Groups were constituted each having
a representative of the Finance, besides technical officers, for the purpose
of evaluation and processing of tender biddings. Besides the sectoral work-
ing groups for tenders there was a Central Tender Committee (of which,
amongst others, the Director General of Finance was a member) for exercising
central control and examining tender proposals with money value exceeding
Rs 10.00 lakhs or other cases here there had been deviation from the stipu-
lated norms.
With a view to ensuring better financial discipline, steps were also
taken to coordinate the functioning of the Headquarter Finance and the
Finance and Accounts Wing in each Sector Guidelines and instructions, were
also issued, where necessary, from the Headquarter Finance to the Finance and
Accounts Wing at different Sectors for ensuring economy and regularity in
expenditure.
The various steps taken as indicated above helped in introducing a
better f.nancial discipline and accountability in the organization.
5.3     Consultants' Services.  In the CUDP-II project period a large number
of consultants were engaged for a variety of services. These related to the
following:
(a) Organization, Management and Finance:  The important consultancies
under this head were in respect of:
i) design and installation of project monitoring and control system
and associated management information system in CMDA;
(ii) training program for CMDA employees and identification of train-
ing needs for the Calcutta Corporation;
(iii) accounting and finance studies for CMDA; and
(iv) accounting and financial control systems for the Calcutta
Corporation and store organization and management including
purchasing and accounting for the Calcutta Corporation.
(b) Studies, Project Preparation and Designs and Surveys etc., for
Different Executing Sectors/Agencies: In the Water Supply, Sewerage
& Drainage and Solid Waste Management Sectors the important consult-
ancies included:
(i) Calcutta Water Supply Distribution Network Study;
(ii) Air and Water pollution survey;
(iii) preparation of drainage basin maps and concept level plan for
sewerage and drainage planning in CMDA;



ANNEX XI
-60-
(iv) photo-type work-cum-study for sewer cleansing and renovation
project (first and second phase appraisal study report);
(v) physical and grid level survey of the Calcutta Corporation land
at Dhapa and Bantala complexes;
(vi) redevelopment and execution of garages and workshop facilities
for the Calcutta Corporation; and
(vii) pilot study on SWM Program of CMDA and studies for the same
program for the municipal areas outside Calcutta and Howrah.
(c) In the Traffic & Transportation and Area Development Sectors the
major consultancies were:
(i) Traffic Engineering Study and Design in Calcutta Metropolitan
Core area;
(ii) Traffic operation and management scheme in A.J.C. Bose Rd.;
(iii) detailed planning, design, estimation and preparation of tender
documents for the intersection as well as corridor of A.P.C. Roy
Road;
(iv) tender documents for traffic engineering schemes (traffic opera-
tion and management project);
(v) preparation of project report for planning and design study for
comprehensive street-lighting program in the metro core of CMDA;
(vi) preparation of tender documents for r.C.B. for E.M. Bypass with
Park Circus and R.B. connections and for B.K. Expressway;
(vii) preparation of structural design of RCC Bridge on E.M. Bypass;
(viii) detailed lay-out plans for area development program at West
Howrah and East Calcutta;
(ix) site lay-out work in East Calcutta Area Development Project;
(x) overhead reservoir and ancillary structure in East Calcutta Area
Development Project;
(xi) redevelopment of Howrah Fish and Pan Market; and
(xii) redevelopment of Sealdah Court-cum-Commercial Complex.
Consultants were also engaged for construction/renovation of primary
schools, socio-economic studies in respect of integrated bustee development
program and studies for development of small scale industries in slum areas
of Calcutta and Howrah.
Though the services offered by the consultants were useful in a
number of cases e.g., in introducing the project monitoring and management



ANNEX XI
-61-
information system, the new commbrcial accounting system on accrual basis and
in devising training programs for CMDA's employees and some other engineering
consultancies, the experience of CMDA with the consultants engaged by it has
been far from happy. This has, perhaps, been mainly due to both the manage-
ment deficiencies in CMDA and the poor performance on the part of the
consultants. It was all too often experienced that the consultants could not
complete the work assigned to them in time and the standard of services
offered was poor with the result that the implementation of certain projects
was delayed/hampered. The glaring examples are in respect of traffic
engineering schemes, sewer cleansing studies, consultancy relating to Howrah
Fish and Pan Market and redevelopment of Sealdah Court-cum-Commercial
Complex. The monitoring of the consultants' work by CMDA and evolving a
payment structure for consultancy in keeping with the progress of work were
also not satisfactory. As a result CMDA has been involved in a number of
litigation/disputes with is consultants involving payment of fees.
Learning from the lessons of CUDP-II the procedure for engagement of
consultants by CMDA has been streamlined with a view to eliminating consult-
ancies which are not strictly necessary for immediate purposes of project
preparation or implementation or which can be accomplished with inhouse
resources. In consultancies for CUDP-III an emphasis has been placed on
monitoring the performance of the consultants as well as on executing
suitable agreements with the consultants, before the award of consultancy,
incorporating the time frame of the assignment, the mode of payment of fees
and such other details.
5.4     Transfer of Assets Created by CMDA and their Operation and Main-
tenance. From 1970 to March 1982, CMDA created assets worth more than Rs 300
crores in various sectors like Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage, Traffic &
Transportation, Bustee Improvement, Area Development, Primary Education and
Parks & Playgrounds. These assets were so long maintained by CMDA out of the
capital budget and thereafter with funds made available to CMDA by MD Depart-
ment for O&M purposes. The level of maintenance was unsatisfactory for want
of adequate funds. It became increasingly clear that CMDA could not operate
and maintain the assets created and that a firm and appropriate policy
regarding the transfer of the assets to appropriate agencies and their opera-
tion and maintenance by such agencies should be adopted. CMDA therefore,
made a list of assets to be transferred as well as the agencies to which they
should be transferred for operation and maintenance. In 1'ater Supply and
Sewerage and Drainage Sectors the criteria for identifying the agencies were
that:                       I
(a) assets created within Calcutta Corporation area would be maintained
by the Calcutta Corporation;
(b) those within municipal limits would be maintained by the respective
municipalities;
(c) those in fringe areas would be opera.ed and maintained by CMW&SA;
(d) transmunicipal schemes and schemes requiring skilled operation as
well as substantial funds would be taken over by CMW&SA. These would
include Water Tr'5atment Plants and Sewerage Treatment Plants;



ANNEX XI
-62-
(e) the treatment Plants and orimary distribution system related to the
plant as also within the plant boundary would be maintained by CMW&SA
whereas the secondary network outside the boundary would be main-
tained by the respective local bodies; and
(f) outfall channels owned and maintained by the Irrigation and Waterways
Directorate but renovated by CMDA would continue to be operated and
maintained by the DTE.
For all other schemes like bustees, highways, street lights, primary schools
etc. the respective Government Departments and the local bodies would main-
tain them. The assets owned by CMDA and not falling within a State Govern-
ment Department or a local body would be maintained by CMDAe These would
include experimental housing at Ultadanga, Chetla Slum modernization and area
development schemes.
CMDA identified the following agencies for operation and maintenance
of assets:
1. Calcutta Corporation
2. CMDA
3. CMW&SA
4. Howrah Corporation
5. Other Municipalities within CMD
6. Public Works Department
7.  Education Department
8. Irrigation & Waterways Department
$. Forest Department
10. Refugee Relief & Rehabilitation Department
11. Health Department
12. Calcutta Improvement Trust
13. Zilla Parishads
The total annual cost of operation and maintenance of the assets
created up to March 1982 was assessed to be Rs 31.25 crores. The agency-wise
distribution of the cost would be as follows:
Table



ANNEX XI
-63-
1.  Calcutta Corporation                 Rs   908.05 lakhs
2.  CMW&SA                               Rs 1,395.84 lakhs
3.  CMDA                                 Rs    40.48 lakhs
4.  Howrah Corporation                   Rs   149.31 lakhs
5.  Other CMD Municipalities             Rs   187.33 lakhs
6.  Zilla Parishads                      Rs    67.92 lakhs
7.  Public Works Department              Rs   16546 lakhs
8.  Education Department                 Rs    95.57 lakhs
9.  Health Department                    Rs    93.83 lakhs
10.  RRR Department                       Rs    22.03 lakhs
TOTAL    Rs 3,125.82 lakhs
CMDA's proposal for transfer of assets to the identified agencies
has been under consideration of the West Bengal Covernment for quite some
time. It has not yet been possible to transfer the assets primarily on
account of the fact that the agencies find themselves unable to mobilize
resources necessary for the operation and maintenance of the assets. The
urgent task is therefore to make adequate budget provisions for the concerned
Covernment Departments and to explore the possibilities of raising additional
resources by other agencies, particularly by the local bodies. The Municipal
Finance Commission in its report of March 1982 recommended that the assets
that are clearly identifiable within a municipal area should be transferred
to the concerned municipal bodies and the subsequent obligation for operation
and maintenance of these assets should devolve on them. The MFC's recommen-
dation for writing off of outstanding loans up to March 31, 1981 received by
the municipal bodies and the sharing of octroi have been accepted by the
Government. Other measures for mobilization of resources are required to be
taken on the lines of the recommendations of the MFC.  The formulation of a
Revised Grant Structure by the Government is a step in the right direction.
5.5     Revised Grant Structure (PAM).  The  .iernment of West Bengal in the
LG&UD Department adopted a revised grant structure with effect from April 1,
1983 with a view to ensuring:
(a) a better financial discipline within the municipal bodies;
(b) a better resource base to operate and maintain the assets created
for various development programs; and
(c) timely repayment of loans advanced to the municipal bodies from time
to time.
The Government fixed minimum performance targets for each CMA
municipality in respect of the minimum collection of consolidated rate during
1983/84, minimum collection of revenue from other internal sources and maxi-
mum commitments during the year. If a municipal body fails to achieve this
minimum performance target its actual revenue gap will exceed the projected
revenue gap, while it will be less than the projected revenue gap if the
municipal body betters the minimum performance target. The projected revenue
gap will be filled up by the State Government by releasing grants fron the



ANNEX XI
-64-
minor head of account 'Fund Assigned to Municipalities (revenue expendi-
ture)'. If a particular municipal body fails to achieve the minimum perfor-
mance target and the actual revenue gap exceeds the projected revenue gap,
the entitlement of that municipal body to assistance for capital outlays (to
be received from CMDA for development work) from the minor head 'Fund
Assigned to Municipalites (capital expenditure)', will be reviewed and
reduced by the State Government as may be deemed appropriate. If the actual
revenue gap is less than the projected revenue gap the municipality will be
allowed to retain the difference and utilize it for development purposes in
addition to the capital grant received from CMDA. The performance of each
CMA municipality will be reviewed after the close-up of its financial year
and fresh targets for the next year would be fixed. The minimum performance
targets for 1984/85 have also been fixed by the Government.
5.6     Area Development Projects.  The main thrust of the first Calcutta
Urban Development Program (CUDP-I) of the CMDA was on development of
infrastructure to wipe out the large deficit of civic facilities in the
metropolis. The program included only one Area Development Project at
Baishnabghata-Patuli (BP). This site was selected and notified for acquisi-
tion by the Housing Department of the State Government in the early sixties
for residential settlement. The program of work of this project during
CUDP-I was very poor - even the project plans were not prepared to sufficient
level of details. While preparing Development Perspective and Investment
Plan for the CUDP-I1 In 1976. The CMDA emphasized that the infrastructure
development program should be duly latched by the program for providing basic
settlement facility including employment, infrastructure and community
facilities to already deprived citizens of this metropolis and for is future
growth. In the Development Perspective (Report No. 28) CMDA identified a
number of new areas which had potential for development. The development
approach was given a new orientation to provide settlement facilities for all
income groups of people with emphasis on Economically Weaker Section (EWS)
and Low Income Group (LIG) of people within their affordable financial means.
This called for replanning of BP Project also. Along with the BP Project,
two other area development projects could be included in the CUDP-II program.
These are Area Development Projects at East Calcutta and West Howrah. During
the project formulation state (1976-78) it was hoped that during CUDP-II
period (1978-83) PP and East Calcutta projects would be completed and the
land for West Howrah would be ready after acquisition and reclamation. There
has been delay, in implementation in case of the BP and East Calcutta but the
projects have now reached advanced stage. But work for West Howrah is yet to
be started. This has now been included in the CUDP-III. The experience
gathered during this period (1976-84) has resulted in modification of
strategy for development of West Howrah and other Area Development projects
during the CUDP-III period. The following points are relevant in this con-
nection:
(a) in BP project the residential facility consisted of sites and serv-
ices for all income groups a-nd also core housing scheme for the EWS
and LIG. The facility of core housing scheme consisted of a small
serviced plot along with a small multi-purpose room, some cooking
space together with a sanitary latrine. There is provision for
adding other rooms in future. This core housing scheme component was
prepared as a HUDCO scheme and financial assistance from HUDCO was
received. This was considered to be a very desirable model and was



ANNEX XI
-65-
also cleared very smoothly by the HUDCO. During the construction
however, it was found that the cost went up and this led to revision
of prices. But the prices could not be raised much because it would
then cross affordabilit, limit. It is now being felt that it would
be better not to implement a core housing scheme but offer only plots
so that the construction may be arranged by the individuals to make
it less costly. In the East Calcutta project the CMDA therefore,
decided not to have any core housing scheme at all. Instead, it was
proposed to have a serviced plot and a plinth for a room plus
sanitary core - a sanitary latrine alongwith a water tap. The
implementation of East Calcutta project has been delayed. This has
raised an apprchension whether the plinth and sanitary core con-
structed by the CMDA as a part of the project would be in good shape
when ultimately the plot would be allotted to beneficiary and he
would start his house. In view of this it has been proposed in the
area development work of the CUDP-III that plinth and sanitary core
should not be provided. The serviced plot only should be delivered
to the beneficiary;
(b) the main reason for delay in project implementation is the delay in
land acquisition. Besides, project involved large volume of earth
movement for reclamation of the land. This has also created con-
struction and other associated problems and the project implementa-
tion schedule suffered a setback. This should be particularly kept
in view while taking up other similar projects;
(c) due to delay in project implementation cost of construction has
increased significantly over the estimate due to escalation of
prices. There was lack of adequate attention to marketing in initial
period for which off-loading could not be arranged in the inter-
mediate stage. This resulted in investment of large amount of capi-
tal for the construction without any recovery during the period. In
view of this CMDA has now decided to plan work in such a manner that
part of the land might be delivered with corresponding recovery of
the fund to be invested in the construction. This would enable a
relatively smaller amount of fvnds to be used in form of seed capital
for implementation of the project with progressive recovery. This
has been adopted as a financial policy for all the area development
projects under CUDP-III.
(d) Time and cost for implementation of the BP and East Calcutta projects
had to be extended. This has led to upward revision of the pricing
structure. The prices of MIG plots in BP and East Calcutta have been
more than those at Salt Lake. Salt Lake provides very liberal stand-
ard for infrastructure with underground drainage and sewerage and
very wide roads and large open spaces. This has raised doubts about
the wisdom of taking up projects like by BP and East Calcutta under
CMDA Program. This however, should be looked in right perspective
and the situation should be analyzed in its true context. BP and
East Calcutta Projects of CMDA program are the first example of large
area development by the public agency where there is a very large
provision for EWS and LIG. These are also the first example where
pricing structure had been worked out without any external subsidy to
the project. The facilities of EWS and LIG had been subsidized by



ANNEX XI
-66-
relatively higher prices of MIG and HIG facilities. BP and East
Calcutta again are the fist example where large infra-structural
facilities for the area development have been fully charged to the
project. In the earlier efforts of land development including one a.
Salt Lake plots have been offered with necessary subsidy, even though
no provision for EWS and LIC was there. In terms of delay in
implementation the performance of BP and East Calcutta during CUDP-II
is much better than that of earlier development projects. It is
interesting to point out that BP taken up in 1970 did not make any
progress till 1978. But it has been brought almost to completion
stage during 1978-84, a period of six years, despite the problems
created on account of land acquisition. In this connection it is
important also to point out that even with escalation of cost the
price to be charged to East Calcutta plots will be much lower than
the market price of similar plots. It is futile to compare pricing
structure of BP or East Calcutta with that of Salt Lake because
financial viability and cost recovery had never been the concern for
the Salt Lake project as this has been heavily subsidized by the
Government, and this subsidy has not benefitted the EWS and LIG;
(e) in view of the discussion of the above paragraph it should be clear
that area development activity should be continued and in fact be
intensified in the CMDA program in future. Land in this metropolis
is a scarce and costly resource. Its use and pricing cannot be left
entirely to the private developers. Without public intervention land
price in metropolis would rise till further and the majority of our
people belonging to EWS and LIG would be priced out of this
metropolis. On the other hand if similar programs with such
modification as should be required from the experiences of these
projects, are taken up under CMDA program, buildable land with basic
services and facilities can be offered to the majority of our people
within their affordable limit without requiring massive dose of
subsidy. It is true that in the initial stage relatively large seed
capital would be required for the purpose but gradually, the seed
capital can be revolved to generate funds to continue the development
operation with progressive recovery. One should learn the lessons
from BP and East Calcutta but the message is clearly not to abandon
such projects but to implement more of them in a somewhat different
manner.
5.7     Urban Renewal Project.  There was not provision for any urban renewal
scheme in CUDP-I. In fact in Calcutta there had been no effort on the part
of public organizations to initiate the urban renewal process though the need
for it was felt for a long time. While preparing the Development Perspective
in 1976 the CMDA felt the need for taking action to generate urban renewal
actions in certain prime locations in the city. The first choice was for the
two principal railway terminals, Howrah and Sealdah. The CMDA had been
instrumental in some major investments at these two locations for improving
the traffic circulation. In Howrah Station area, for instance, the CMDA
program consisted of implementation of a network of pedestrian under-passes,
new terminals, traffic engineering measures involving segregation of fast and
slow traffic, separate bus lanes at the terminal approach, etc. On the other
end of the bridge the Brabourne Road Fly over provided grade-separation
between the conflicting traffic streams and towards the Howrah side the new



ANNEX XI
-67-
Buckland Bridge replaced the old one and provided a dominant entrance to the
city of Howrah. Due to all these improvement measures traffic circulation in
the entire area improved to a significant extent. Similarly, in the Sealdah
Station area the CMDA planned the fly-over for improvir.g the chronic traffic
bottleneck in the locality. The CMDA felt that the first action to initiate
urban renewal process should be taken at these two prime locations. The
proposal was taken up for the redevelopment of Fish and Pan Market at Howrah
and a Court-cum-Commercial Complex including a small bus terminal at Sealdah.
The Howrah Fish and Pan Market was included in the CMDA program as an IDA
assisted proje.ct, while the Sealdah project was a non-IDA project.
The development plan for Howrah Fish and Pan Market envisaged
redevelopment in three phases providing new Fish and Pan Market hawkers'
stalls, hops, hotels, residential and office spaces, truck and car parking,
etc. IDA-participation was limited to partial development of the Phase I to
provide the basic infrastructure and redevelopment of the Fish and Pan Market
and certain ancillary trades. It was agreed that IDA's participation would
be restricted to these works and the balance of the funds would be obtained
from commercial banks. The strategy was revised subsequently. It was
decided that instead of constructing the upper stories with funds from the
commercial banks, the development right for such construction should be sold
on auction. Auction bids were invited on two occasions without any
worthwhile response. This has raised questions about the marketing strategy
adopted in this case and also about the wisdom of taking up such programs in
future. The following points are relevant in this connection:
(a) land acquisition in built-up areas of Calcutta and llowrah has always
been a very complex, difficult and time consuming activity. This
project however, has demonstrated that given the will and determina-
tion it is possible to overcome such difficulties in a relatively
short time.
(b) the project has demonstrated speedy impLementation work at Least in
the initial stage.
(c) the project demonstrated the process of providing temporary ard
permanent rehabilitation for all traders affected by the work. All
the traders had been provided with temporary relocation facilities in
a manner that did not affect their business. The plans provide to
accommodate all of them with permanent rehabilitation also.
(d) the lack of response to auction bids for sale of development rights
may suggest that there is no demand for built up space in this
locality. A little probe into the fact of growth of multi- storied
buildings in the area around the project site would prove that this
is not true. There has been tremendous growth of high rise buildings
by the private sector on adjoining sites and they have been occupied
almost instantaneously after their construction. There must, there-
fore, be some other reasons. The initial strategy was to complete
the structure with funds from commercial banks and then sell the
built-up space to the actual users. The strategy adopted sub-
sequently was to offer the development right to prospective
developers. This did not work. It appears that the developers are
willing to invest on real estate in private capacity but are shy to



ANNEX XI
-6 0-
enter in large transactions with public agencies. This has led CMDA
to revise the strategy for future urban renewal schemes. It is now
proposed that instead of building the foundation and part of the
structure and then inviting developers to buy the development right,
effort will be made to generate surplus land out of the projects and
auction the land with development briefs so that developers may be
attracted to buy the land investing much less fund than would have
been needed if the development right of the upper floors were sold.
(e) Recently, however, the Indian Post & Telegraph Department approached
HIT/CMDA expressing interest to purchase the entire property which
they would use for their own purpose. This indicates that there is
a substantial amount of demand particularly in the corporate sector
for commercial space which does not get intercepted through a normal
auction bid notice. It might be useful to adopt a marketing strategy
that would ensure direct participation of the corporate sector in
creating organized commercial space in a planned manner. In future
urban renewal projects CMDA should endeavour to adopt such a
strategy.
(f) In Calcutta & Howrah, plots in prime locations are mostly fragmented.
These are also covered with old structure with tenants. It .s very
difficult for the private developers to assemble the land to a size
viable for urban renewal. Besides, the tenants should be
rehabilitated. The Howrah Fish & Pan Market project demonstrated
that public sector may undertake this land assembly and rehabilita-
tion work effectively. If the cost of structures could be kept low
by limiting it only to the rehabilitation requirements and surplus
land could be generated and sold for development by private sector,
urban renewal projects might be successfully undertaken in future.
In CUDP-III CMDA would adopt this strategy.
CHAPTER VI   EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
6.1 Background
The second urban development project (credit 756-IN) was started in
the fiscal year 1977/78 with a target date of completion in March 1982. In
the absence of a reliable baseline condition prior to this starting of
CUDP-Ir an exact evaluation of the CUDP-II investment is automatically ruled
out. CMDA during the initial years of CUDP-II was still in the process of
consolidation and its efforts in this direction helped CMDA to emerge as a
viable and visible institution poised for undertaking massive development
programs with sufficient degree of confidence. The most serious concern for
CMDA at that period was to develop a matching capacity for undertaking large
scale engineering projects, to render sufficient guidance and support, both
technical and managerial, to its implementing agencies and to' demonstrate its
capacity as bulwark against the on-rush of deteriorating civic services. As
CMDA's attention was mostly concentrated on the hardware side of the develop-
ment, the software side viz. the monitoring and evaluation functions, were
relegated to the back seat. It was in 1981 i.e., towards the closing stages
of CUDP-II some serious efforts were made to prepare evaluative studies or



ANNEX XI
-69-
rather impact studies on sectoral programs of water supply, sewerage and
drainage, bustee improvement, traffic and transportation. But during this
period CMDA was instrumental in promoting a large number of institutional and
legislative changes which were aimed to bring forth far reaching consequences
in terms of better financial management practices, emphasizing the importance
of cost recovery and operation and maintenance in the delivery of urban
services.  The enactment of the CMC Act, the HMC Act, setting up of the
Central Evaluation Board (CVB) generating motivation in CMC and CMW&SA to
handle tariffs and charges for provision of water, sewerage and drainage,
etc., are worth mentioning.
Be that as it may it will be seen from sector specific evaluative
studies that CMDA had been largely successful in fulfilling the mandate given
to it in improving urban deficiencies throughout CMA. There is, however, no
denying the fact that investments were heavily weighted in favor of high
density areas of metro-core and could not achieve to overcome the geographic
disparity in service levels obtaining in different parts of CMA. Many of
these relative deficiencies are sought to be set right through CUDP-III.
Therefore, an evaluation would necessarily include impacts of CUDP-I invest-
ment at least in parts. It has to be remembered also that all the CUDP-II
schemes have not been finished and have been considered as spill over schemes
in CUDP-III.
6.2     Water Supply Program Evaluation
6.2.1. The Water Supply program of the multidemensional program of CMDA
played a key role in terms of increased social benefits in CMA's milieu.
This program made significant impact on the total water supply situation in
CMA in terms of increased production of water and distributing the same. It
was estimated at the time of preparation of the evaluation report in 1981
that there would be an increase in per capita per day availability of water
from 22.3 gallons in 1976 to 23.5 gallons in 1982 - increase of 5.4Z for
1976-1982 period over the whole of CMA. However, it is to be pointed out
here that the two giant water works, viz. the Garden Reach Water Works and
Howrah Water Works, though physically complete, have not been put into full
operation due to constraints and delays in extending primary grids. There-
fore, as of today and considering the wastage and leakage, the supply of
water per capita per day will not be more than 20 gallons. Besides the
increase in total water production and supply, it has been observed that a
larger area in terms of more municipal and nonmunicipal urban areas has been
covered and thereby bringing a larger population within the purview of piped
water supply. As a case in point it may be mentioned that between 1966 and
1982 the population of the municipalities in CMA increased from 2.42 million
to 4.16 million and the corresponding water supply increased from 29.2 mgd to
48.93 mgd.
6.2.2   In the city of Calcutta the water supply position also improved since
1966 till the end of CUDP-II. This was achieved not only by sinking a large
number of deep tubewells but also by augmenting the capacity of the Palta
Water Works and Tallah Pumping Station. The total supply of water in 1966,
1977 and 1982 were 104 mgd, 156 mgd and 170 mgd respectively. The population
of the city proper during the years were 3.04 million, 3.27 million and 3.37
million and per capita supplies were 24,40, and 48.50 respectively. There is
no denying the fact that the distribution was not spatially uniform either



ANNEX XI
-70-
over the city or among the municipalities though it has to be admitted that
potable water supply in CMA has increased undoubtedly - a fact which has been
demonstrated by considerable reduction of occurances of epidemic and endemic
diseases.
6.3     Sewerage & Drainage Program Evaluation.
6.3.1   The problem of drainage and sanitation which was all pervasive in CMA
could only be addressed in a meaningful way after the creation of CMDA.
Prior to the creation of CMDA ad hoc schemes used to be implemented by public
Health Engineering Department and the erstwhile CMPO, A large program of
urban development should encompass fields of water supply, sewerage and
drainage, traffic and transportation, etc. This was pursued with vigorous
efforts with the advent of CMDA and support from the International Develop-
ment Association. In CUDP-I some schemes, especially the drainage outfall
schemes, were implemented by the I&W Directorate, Government of West Bengal,
not necessarily based on sound urban development considerations. The whole
program of CMA was reviewed by the Directorate of Planning and Development,
CMDA in 1976 i.e., immediately before CUDP-II, taking into consideration the
then socio-economic situation and a revised perspective development plan was
developed.
6.3.2   The sewerage and drainage sector p? gram assumed an important place
in CUDP-II in terms of magnitude of investment where 17% of the investment
was made third-largest amongst all the sectors. The schemes relating to this
sector were categorized into five broad groups:
(a) sewerage schemes;
(b) drainage schemes;
gc) improvement of drainage channels and outfalls;
(d) sewage treatment plants; and
(e) installation and augmentation of drainage pumps.
6.3.3   A total number of 12 projects were included in this package.  Some of
these projects, viz. the Removal of Waterlogging in Calcutta. Sewering of
Unsewered Pockets in Calcutta contained a large number of sub-schemes. In
this sector too it was found that the investment pattern was heavily weighted
in favor of Calcutta Corporation area. The Howrah-Bally municipal area,
municipalities on both banks and the non-municipal urban areas followed in
that order. The pattern of investment was identical to the previous program,
viz CUDP-I and a predominance of providing costly underground systems was
noticeable. Although large sums had been expended in this sector a commen-
surate benefit was not discernable because of the inherent difficulties with
the system in the nature of integration of various stages like trunk mains,
branches and laterals and household connections in the case of sewerage
schemes and connection with outfall channels in the case of drainage schemes.
As cases in point, mention may be made of the Howrah Sewage Treatment Plant
which is still languishing for want of house connections though some lengths
of the trunk sewerage had been laid. On the drainage front schemes executed
failed to mitigate the waterlogging problems fully because of inadequacies of



ANNEX XI
-71-
the outfalls. In the city of Calcutta some anti-waterlogging schemes were
executed whose benefits were short lived because of low attention given to
rehabilitation of the drainage pumping stations. However, it is not to be
forgotten that many of the schemes are incomplete in their physical forms and
continuing attention has been given in CUDP-III. A big lesson 1earned from
the sewerage and drainage scheMes was that CMA with its narrow road spaces is
perhaps not the right place where underground conduits are to be laid indis-
criminately. The operation and maintenance of the drainage channel by the
Irrigation & Waterways Department remains a sore point. The same holds true
for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. It has been estimated that the
Calcutta Municipal Corporation will have to allocate a sum of Rs 3-4 crores
annually for the assets which had already been created in the Sewerage and
Drainage Sectors. For the execution of theldrainage works no difficulties
were experienced in matters of land acquisition because the drainage channels
are already on the I&" Department land.
6.3.4   An important finding of the evaluative study is that without adequate
operation and maintenance funds earmarked on a regular basis for the assets
created. it would be impossible to sustain a program of this nature. While
formulating CUDP-III this aspect assumed an overriding importance and all the
agencies like I&W and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have been asked to
provide adequate sums for O&M. In the case of local bodies the allocation of
O&M fund is being taken care of through the Revised Grant Structure
mechanism.
6.4     Traffic & Transportation Program Evaluation
6.4.1   An organized process of solving the traffic and transportation
proolems of CMA received momentum with the'creation of CMDA in 1970. CMDA
had then embarked upon a Rs 150 crores accelerated development program encom-
passing the field of traffic and transportation also. The schemes initially
selected by CMDA for implementation were taken from the recommendation of the
TT plan of the erstwhile CMPO. A few of the schemes were in the process of
implementation by the agencies like CIT, HIT. PWD etc.
6.4.2   The Directorate of Planning & Development of CMDA while undertaking
the task of reviewing the Basic Development Plan (BDP) and the Master Plans
in the light of the then existing socio-economic scenario propounded a
poly-centric strategy in place of the bi-polar strategy of the BDP. The
Directorate of Planning & Development, CMDA came up with a document named
Development Perspective and Investment Plan (DPP) in 1976. The investment
plan on traffic and transportation under CUDP-II was based on the strategies
evolved in the DPP in 1976. The DPP suggested phasing out of the new high-
way projec-s and emphasized upon improvement of major arterial roads within
metro-core and improved circulation of traffic.
6.4.3   The investment under CUDP-II in the Traffic and Transportation Sector
is the highest i.e., 23% of the total investment. The schemes included can
be categorized under the following broad heads.
(a) Category - I   : New road facilities
(b) Category - II  :  Improvement of major arterial roads



ANNEX XI
-72-
(c) Category - III : Traffic operation and management improvement
(d) Category - IV  : Terminals
6.4.4. Although the major emphasis of DPP was on Category-II, investment
wise Category-I was heavily weighted. The relative weightages in terms of
investment were 65, 102 and 232 for Categories-I, II & III respectively.
There was only a very marginal investment for Category-IV. The heavy
weightage in favor of Category-I can be explained as of necessity to sustain
high capital intensive projects. The new road facilities under category-I
included the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass, Kona Express Way, Barrack-
pore-Kalyani Express Way. These are spatially distributed. For the rest of
the scheme under the remaining three categories greater concentration was in
the metro-core where traffic congestion and the disbenefits from it are
evidently greatest qualitatively. The impacts of CMDA's program on Traffic
and Transportation in the metro-core can be measured in terms of (a) change
in the value of time costs; (b) change in the vehicle operating costs; and
(c) change in number of accidents. The reliable data on these aspects can be
established by continuous survey. However, data on traffic volume in PCU
(passenger car units) and journey speed at 27 screen points for the years
1965 and 1978 indicate a decline in journey speed in 1973 over 1965. This
perhaps can be attributed to increase in volume of traffic in 1978 over 1965.
Between 1978 and 1983 data have yet to be established so as to study the
impact of the CUDP-II program. But it ha!s to be remembered that extraneous
factors like garbage dumping, hawking, unauthorized occupation of road for
various trading activities contribute substantially to traffic congestion and
decline in journey speed. Other factors like dumping of construction
materials, indifferent traffic management also negate the benefits, In
regard to the traffic engineering schemes it has been observed that some
improvements have been found in the BBD Bag area where a traffic engineering
scheme has been installed in full.
6.3.5   But in the absence of a proper and continuous traffic management it
is not possible to quantify the benefits with reasonable degree of accuracy.
The construction of metro railway which is still going on is another impedi-
ment to smooth flow of traffic within the city. Therefore, an evaluative
study on the impacts of the traffic and transportation schemes is fraught
with dangers of misleading conclusion if sufficient reliable data are not
available.
6.5     Bustee Improvement Program Evaluation
6.5.1   If success of any program is Juidged by social appeal, then BI Program
(BIP) of CMDA will undoubtedly rank first. There are bustees all over CMA,
the concentration being heaviest in the twin city of Calcutta and Howrah, and
are focii for septic diseases which used to threaten posh areas also from
health hazards. CMDA's intervention in BIP envisioned to presume and develop
bustees as Socia-economic entities while improving their environmental condi-
tion by way of providing potable water, surface drainage facilities, convert-
ing service latrines, paving roads and providing security street-lighting,
constructing garbage vats, etc. The CUDP-II program was fully dedicated to
this strategy after learning pitiable lessons from CUDP-I program where
relocation and redevelopment of bustees were attempted and met with disas-
terous results. CMDA learnt that if it had to carry the hoi-polloi with it



ANNEX XI
-74-
(a) to overcome the shortcomings of the conservancy services by increas-
ing the number of equipments;
(b) to improve the facilities for maintenance of vehicles plant and
equipment;
(c) to construct a network of depots through city for future control of
services;
(d) to introduce better systems through development of indigenous tech-
nology; and
(e) to improve the structure, management quality and training facilities.
6.6.3   The provision under SWM in physical terms was for construction of 80
ward depots, one central workshop at Chingrihata, 240 vats, repairing of
garage, a number of equipment and to organize additional land fill sites.
The original project cost estimated at Rs 11.95 crores - an increase of 25%.
It has also been seen that 63% of the cost was for civil works, 31% for
procurement of equipment and 6% to pilot study. At the end of the CUDP-II
period about 50% of the total expenditure remained unspent.
6.6.4   Like other evaluations, the evaluation for solid waste management
program also suffered from base line data.  The CUDP-II project was formu-
lated largely on the recommendation of NEERI. The progress of the civil
construction of the SWM component is lacking particularly in respect of ward
depots. The construction program for the ward depot had to be pruned to only
28 in place of 80 but even those 28 are not complete. The main hindrance to
the implementation has been difficulties in locating and acquiring land for
the ward depots in each ward. Procurement of equipment envisaged under CUDP
program is practically complete. Unfortunately the equipment purchased under
CUDP-I investment program are practically out of commission.  One importan.
benefit of the program has been seen in terms of repair of vehicles. The
improvement in the vehicles fleet has helped CMC to do away with lorries from
the contractors. The sore point which still remains is the operation and
maintenance of assets for which Calcutta Municipal Corporation has the full
responsibility. The operation and maintenance cost is steadily rising. In
1977/78 it was Rs 7 crores while in 1982/83 the amount shot up to Rs 9.50
crores (excluding bustees). The Calcutta Municipal Corporation had been
changing the methodology of solid waste management more frequently than their
staff can really absorbed the changes. It is, therefore, imperative that the
training facilities have to be geared up further to keep the spaces of neces-
sary skill formation within CMC. In regard to the procurement of equipments
orders had been placed with firms outside the state. The necessity for
procuring the most appropriate equipment cannot be debated but the considera-
tion of after sale service should not be forgotten. It was also found that
the solid waste management program is lacking a long-term perspective.
6.7     Area Development Evaluation Study
6.7.1   The evaluCLt.on of area development proiects viz. the Baisnabghata
Patuli (BP) and East Calcutta Area Development (ECAD) projects demonstrated a
discouraging picture. The objectives of the project were: (i) to open up
new areas to absorb future growth by creating integrated township with



ANNEX XI
-76-
(a) consolidate fragmented land parcels for public sector usep thereby
improving land management policy;
(b) link the new subway at Howrah Station and the Tram and Bus Terminals
to the pede3trian deck of the new development;
(c) eliminate the extremely unsanitary conditions; and
(d) create direct and indirect employment opportunities in a prime
location.
6.8.2   The concept of seed money was first introduced in this particular
project by IDA by providing fund for the Phase-I development. It was thought
that the subsequent development would be done by attracting capital from
private developers and banks and selling and renting the generated space on
the developed sites. The project coAld not take off before 1978 but it ran
into rough weather from the very initial stages. The Howrah Improvement
Trust was the implementing agency for this project on behalf of CMDA. HIT
had other obligation to fulfill viz. the construction of Second Hooghly
Bridge and its appurtenance on the Howrah site. HIT's institutional
mechanism was also not very strong and experienced to tackle this type of
complex project. There were land acquisition difficulties, court litigation
and area relocation problems which frustrated the attempt to work smoothly.
The delays spelt danger for the project inasmuch-as the cost of construction
shot up and consequently the ways and means problem cropped up. A part of
the project viz. Dormitory Building and the Fish & Pan Market proper have
been done but till this date could not be put to use because of Civil Rules
and lack of enthusiasm from the Fish & Pan traders. The modest estimate
shows that there is a revenue loss of about Rs 4,000/day because of idle
investment.
6.8.3   The bleak picture painted should not lead to the conclusion that such
type of projects are not beneficial to the city. Around the Howrah Fish &
Pan Market complex, bazaar private development has been going on and part of
such development can be attributed to the environmental improvement which the
Fish & Pan Market is ultimately to deliver. Looking into all aspects it
appears that a different type of institutional orientation would be needed to
pursue such projects by public agencies. Paradoxically it would be unwise to
leave urban renewal to private developers only because they would be too
happy to compromise with environmental situation with the ultimate objective
of maximizing profit. A public agency should look into the need of dispersal
system, health and hygiene requirement all of which would be disdainfully
neglected by private developers. Therefore, the best strategy should be for
the public agency to dedicate itself to land assembly and allow private
developers to develop within the controls suggested by the public agency.
Urban Renewal Programs are essentially commercial programs and consequently
call for commercial attitude which need net necessarily overlook the environ-
mental aspects.
CHAPTER VII - CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS
7.1     When the CUDP-I was started in the early '70s there was a lack of
planning and implementing capacity in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area. A few



-rv    { 4-                                       ANNEX XI
iij4' t    l-77-
years were devoted to consolidation of CMDA's authority, the development of
its capacity for execution of large-scale engineering projects and the
strengthening of its planning and management capacity. When the CUDP-II was
started CMDA had become a -'iable institution which could plan and implement
a broad-based development program. Though the projects included in CUD?-II
were based on the recommendations of the Basic Development Plan and Master
Plans for water supply, sewerage and drainage and for traffic and transporta-
tion, CMDA gave an indication of its planning capability by peparing the
Development Perppective and Investment Plan in 1976. In selecting the
CUDP-I1 projects a polycentric development strategy was adopted instead of
the bipolar strategy.
7.2     Favorable Features of CUDP-II:  There were certain favorable features
of CUDP-II which need mention, as these have been further extended in prepar-
ing the CUDP-III projects. Besides physical investments for improving
delivery of urban services, CUDP-II included a health program to remedy
deficiencies in provision of health facilities, a small-scale enterprise
program to support the economic activities of the slum population by creating
self-employment opportunities for them and a primary school construction
program. These non-engineering programs of the CUDP-II had the object of
providing socio-economic benefits to the economically weaker sections of the
people. Secondly, the local bodies in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area were
involved for the first time in the development activities, though in a
limited way, as they were associated with the bustee improvement program
which had again the specific purpose of improving the living conditions of
the poorest people in the bustees. Thirdly, the CUDP-II placed an emphasis
on operation and maintenance of all completed works and transfer of assets
created to different agencies including the local bodies. This matter has
unfortunately not been satisfactorily resolved as yet.
7.3     The fourth important feature of the CUDP-II was the continuous
monitoring of the projects during implementation. This monitoring of
physical and financial performance of the sectors and agencies by the
Programming and Monitoring Unit helped in ensuring project discipline. This
again necessitated the cost redefinitions which were undertaken more than
once during the CUDP-II period.
7.4     Besides, during the CUDP-II period certain institutional, legislative
and fiscal strategies were adopted to strengthen CMDA and other implementing
agencies to enable them to implement the CUDP-II projects more vigorously and
also to get them geared to the task of implementing the more ambitious
CUDP-III program. The institutional actions related to redefining the
responsibilities of CMDA, the municipalities and other implementing agencies,
are strengthening the internal organization set-up t CMDA and some of these
agencies. CMDA's administrative structure was st A thened and in some cases
the internal procedures were streamlined e.g. by reorganizing the Works
Committee, the Central Tender Committee and amending the procedure for
engagement of consultants. A Physical Planning Unit for planning comprehen-
sive land use and preparing development plans was set up and a new sector
namely SURAD was created for ensuring speedy implementation of shelter, urban
renewal and area development projects which suffered set-backs in the CUDP-I1
period.



ANNEX XI
-78-
7.5     With a view to increasing the resource base of municipalities and
agencies and improving planning and development control functions of CMDA
certain legislations were enacted. The West Bengal Central Valuation Board
Act, 1978 providing for a Central Valuation Board, the Town and Country
Planning Act giving authority to plan and control land use, the Bengal
Municipal (Amendment) Act, 1980, the Calcutta and Howrah Municipal Corpora-
tion Acts are examples of such legislation. The West Bengal Municipal
Finance Commission established by the Government of West Bengal reviewed the
major aspects of munlicipal administration in the state and in its report
submitted in March '82 made recommendations for improvement of internal
revenue generation of the local bodies and implementation of an incentive
oriented system of devolution of grants and shared taxes. To regulate assis-
tance to the local bodies in the CMA the Government established a "Fund
Assigned to Municipalities" (FAM) and also introduced a Revised Grant
Structure (RGS) in which annual performance targets were fixed for the local
bodies. The indtitutional and legislative measures were designed to
strengthen the planning and program management capacity of CMDA, to improve
the financial resources of the municipalities, to introduce better financial
and accounting practices and to meet costs of operations and maintenance of
the created assets.
7.6     Some Deficiencies and Constraints:  CMDA, however, had suffered from
some defects in planning the CUDP-II and faced some difficulties during
implementation. There were sectoral and spatial investment imbalances
between the metro core of Calcutta and Howrah and the rest of the
metropolitan area. Most of the investments were concentrated in the Calcutta
and Howrah region and investment in other municipalities, except to a certain
extent, in respect of the BI   h AD Program and the school program was negli-
gible. Learning from the lessons of CUDP-II CMDA has attempted to rectify
tbese investment imbalances in the CUDP-III by allacating larger investible
funds to the local bodies and giving them responsibilities to identify and
implement projects in their respective areas. Further, larger funds have
been allocated to the health and small scale employment sectors which are
primarily designed to ameliorate the conditions of the poorest people.
7.7     In the first two programs more weightage was given to the development
of the primary infrastructure system, but there were in certain cases no
supportive projects to ensure that the benefits might be fully derived by the
people. For example, the iowrah Sewage Treatment Plant had been planned and
executed before developing the secondary and tertiary grid and providing for
house connections. Again, both Auckland Square and Subodh Mullick Square
Pumping Stations had been planned and executed before the 60" main from
Shyambazar to Auckland and other mains which could withstand the pressure
created were strengthened. The constraint of funds perhaps led to this
adoption of priority for investment in primary system. These difficulties
have been sought to be removed in the CUDP-III by placing greater emphasis on
projects meant to make the benefits of earlier capital investments flow to
the people.
7.8     Though the P&M Unit monitored the physical and financial performance
under CUDP-II and submitted reports to IDA and the Goveinment, CMDA could not
evolve an internal mechanism for appraisal and evaluation of projects. To
remove this deficiency an Appraisal, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was set



ANNEX XI
-79-
up towards the close of the CUDP-II period and it has been entrusted with the
appraisal of CUDP-III projects.
1.9     The implementation of CUDP-II was hampered by some difficulties as
indicated elsewhere in the report. First, there was the land acquisition
problem. There was unusual delay in getting land for some projects because
of the land acquisition procedure, litigation and rehabilitation problems of
the affected persons. There was also the scarcity of materials such as
cement, steel and bitumen. There were also staff problems. For various
reason including a court case involving the staff on deputation from Govern-
ment Departments and CMDA's directly recruited staff, key personnel could not
be posted in time to some implementing sectors. The delay in implementing
certain projects led to escalation of costs which had however other reasons
such as the increase in scope of work (for example, in East Calcutta Area
Development Projects) and imperfect project preparation and estimation of
costs at the initial stages. There was also the failure to get consultancy
support in time which delayed the execution of some projects.



-80-                      ANNEX XII
"COMMENTS FROM BORROWER't
I
FROM SHRI P. V. BHIDE DIRECTOR ECOFAIRS NEW DELHI TO SHRI CM VASUDEV ADVISER
TO ED (BANK) INDIA, WORLD BANK, WASHINGTON.
KINDLY PASS ON THE FOLLOWING MESSAGE IN RELATION TO THE DRAFT PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT IN RESPECT OF SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT NO. 756-IN) TO MR. ALEXANDER NOWICKI CHIEF POLICY BASED LENDING
INDUSTRIES PUBLIC UTILITIES AND URBAN SECTOR DIVISION OED AND MR. RITCHIE
CHIEF COUNTRY OPERATIONS WORLD BANK. QUOTE PLEASE REFER TO MR. RENE A RIBI
ACTING CHIEF IN OED OF WORLD BANK'S LETTER OF APRIL 15, 1987, REQUESTING FOR
COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT PCR ON SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDA
CREDIT NO 756-IN).
(AAA) REFERENCE PARAS 3.07, 7.02 (B) AND ITEM (IV) OF THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THE
PCR RELATING TO POLITICAL SUPPORT AND BANK'S OBSERVATION REFERRING TO 'NEW
IMPETUS AND DIRECTION GIVEN TO THE PROJECT BY A CHANGE IN GOVT IN 1977' WITH
EMPHASIS OF ECONOMICALLY WEAKER SECTIONS ETC. PARA 3.07 OF THE PCR CONCLUDES
THAT INCREASE IN 7UNDS ALLOCATED FOR BUSTI IMPROVEMENT AND INCLUSION OF
ANCHAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME ARE THE RESULT OF POLITICAL CHANGE AND DIRECTION
GIVEN BY THE NEWLY ELECTED GOVERNMENT. AS YOU ARE AWARE THE DESCRIPTION OF
THESE TWO COMPONENTS AND THE NEED FOR CIRCUMSTANCES LEADING TO REVISION AND
INCLUSION OF THESE TWO COMPONENTS ARE AMPLY BROUGHT OUT IN THE DETAILED NOTE
AT ANNEXURE 2 AND ANNEXURE 6 OF THE STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT. THESE TWO
ANNEXURES D0 NOT CONCLUDE THAT THESE COMPONENTS WERE INCLUDED OR MODIFIED AS
A RESULT OF POLITICAL CHANGE. YOU WILL APPRECIATE THAT THE REVISION IN



ANNEX XII
-81-
PROJECT SCOPE ETC.. ARE THE RESULTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS AS ASSESSED BY ALL
CONCERNED AND IT WOULD NOT BE APPROPRIATE FOR THE WORLD BANK TO MAKE
SUBJECTIVE JUDGEMENTS ON POLITICAL MATTERS.
THESE COMMENTS ARE ALSO APPLICABLE TO PARA 7.02(B) OF BANK'S PCR.
PARA 2.02 OF BANK'S PCR REFERS TO PRESIDENT'S RULE AND POLITICAL CRISIS IN
THE STATE. WE FEEL THAT IT IS NOT APPROPRIATE IN THE CONTEXT OF AN
EVALUATION OF A SPECIFIC PROJECT.
(CCC) PARA 3.06 AND PARA 6.03 AND ITEM (IV) OF THE HIGHLIGHTS OF BANK'S PCR
RELATING TO POLICY REFORMS. WE REFER IN PARTICULAR TO THE OBSERVATION
RELATING TO INTRODUCTION OF MAYOR IN COUNCIL SYSTEM IN CMC AND HMC UNDER THE
ACT OF 1980 AND PCR'S OBSERVATION THAT THESE ACTIONS REPRESENT THE FIRST
REFORM IN THE SYSTEM OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT SINCE INDEPENDENCE IN PARA 6.03 AND
REPORTED CHANGES IN THE EXISTING LAWS GOVERNING LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEALING WITH
THE STRUCTURE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAXING POWERS AND THE
RELATION BETWEEN STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS IN PARA 3.06. THE SERIES OF
ACTIONS THAT WERE TO BE PURSUED DURING THE PROJECT IN THE FORM OF COVENANTS
ARE BROUGHT OUT IN ANNEXURE 111 OF THE PCR. ALSO ANNEXURE 9 OF THE SAR
CONTAINS THE DETAILS OF ACTION/COVENANTS TO BE PURSUED BY VARIOUS AUTHORITIES
DURING THE COURSE OF PROJECT.
WHILE THE COVENANTS BROADLY COVERED MEASURES LIKE REORGANIZATION OF DMS
SETTING UP OF CENTRAL VALUATION BOARD FOR REVALUATION OF PROPERTIES
PREPARATION OF REVISED GRANT STRUCTURE DELINKING THE WATER SUPPLY AND



ANNEX XIT
-82-
SEWERAGE CHARGES FROM THE CONSOLIDATED PROPERTX TAX ETC. AND INCIDENTAL
LEGISLATIVE ETC. MEASURES THE PROJECT CANNOT REPEAT CANNOT BE PRESUMED TO
HAVE COVERED AREAS LIKE STRUCTURE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
TAXING POWERS OR THE RELATION BETWEEN STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS OR FOR THAT
MATTER INTRODUCTION OF NEW SYSTEM OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. THESE AREAS DO NOT
FORM PART OF THE ACTION/COVENANT TO BE COMPLIED WITH UNDER THE PRbJECT.
CHANGES IF ANY HAD BEEN BROUGHT ABOUT BY THE GOVT. OF WEST BENGAL WITH
REFERENCE TO OVERALL NEED FOR CHANGES IN THE SYSTEM AND SHOULD NOT BE
ASCRIBED TO REQUIREMENTS OF THE PROJECT OR TO CONDITIONS IMPOSED BY WORLD
BANK.
SIMILARLY PARA 8.03 OF PCR REFERS TO BANK'S SUPPORT FOR CHANGES IN STRUCTURE
OF LOCAL GOVT. AND ITS FOLLOW-UP. HERE AGAIN CHANGES IF ANY WERE BROUGHT
ABOUT BY GOWB WITH REFERENCE TO OVERALL REQUIREMENTS OF THE STATE AND NOT
WITH REFERENCE TO THE SPECIFIC PROJECT.
(DDD) REFERENCE TO POLITICAL INSTABILITY IN PARA 1.3 AND TO PUBLIC AND
POLITICAL PRESSURES FOR ENHANCED SCOPE OF WORK IN PARA 3.4.2 OF CMDA'S PCR TO
BE OMITTED. PARAGRAPHS REFERRED TO UNDER ITEMS (AAA) (BBB) (CCC) AND (DDD)
MAY KINDLY BE DELETED OR APPROPRIATELY MODIFIED IN THE LIGHT OF THE ABOVE.
PARA: OUR SPECIFIC COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT PCR ARE AS FOLLOWS:
(EEE) PARAS 7.02 TO 7.04 AND 8.03 CONTAINING OBSERVATIONS ON IMPACT OF THE
PROJECT AND EXISTING AND FUTURE ROLE OF THE CMDA. THESE PARAS CONTAIN AN
ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPACT/RESULTS OF THE PROJECT INVESTMENTS AND HAVE OBSERVED
THAT THE NONE TOO SATISFACTORY IMPACT HAS BEEN DUE TO THE LIMITATIONS OF THE



ANNEX XII
-83-
CENTRALISED 'COMMAND AND CONTROL' APPROACH OF CMDA RESULTING IN LACK OF
CORRELATION BETWEEN MAJOR PROGRAMMES WITH SUBPROGRAMMES. THE PCR HAD
CONCLUDED THAT SHIFT TO MORE DIVERSE AND LESS CENTRALISED STRUCTURE FOR
PROGRAMME IMPLEMENTATION AS A REMEDY TO THE SITUATION. HOWEVER MISMATCH OF
MAJOR AND ANCILLARY PROGRAMME COULD NOT POSSIBLY BE DUE TO CENTRALISED
APPROACH BUT IS A POINTER TO LACK OF PLANNING (AS HAS ALSO BEEN ASSESSED BY
CMDA IN PARA 7.6 OF ANNEXURE XI OF PCR). SIMILARLY PARA 10.06 OF THE PCR
CONCLUDES THAT CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENT IN THE CALCUTTA HOWRAH AREA BY
IMPLICATION IS THE RESULT OF LIMITATIONS OF CMDA'S CENTRALISED APPROACH.
CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENT IS THE RESULT OF INADEQUACY OF PLANNING AND
CANNOT BE ATTRIBUTED TO CENTRALISED APPROACH.
(FFF) FURTHER THE CONCLUSIONS AT PARA 10.02 WHICH REFERS TO ENHANCED ROLE FOR
CMDA FOR MEDIUM AND LONG TERM STRATEGIC PLANNING OF CALCUTTA'S DEVELOPMENT
AND THE CONCLUSION AT PARA 10.06 ON THE NEED FOR DECENTRALISATION OF PLANNING
FUNCTION IN VIEW OF CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENT IN CALCUTTA HOWRAH AREA DUE
TO CMDA'S ENTRUSTED WITH ENHANCED PLANNING FOR CALCUTTA'S DEVELOPMENT THE
INDIVIDUAL LOCAL BODIES ETC. WILL HAVE TO FOLLOW THE PROGRAMME DEVELOPED BY
CMDA WHICH IN ANY CASE OVERSEES THE DEVELOPMENT OF ENTIRE CMA AND THERE WILL
BE LITTLE SCOPE FOR DIFFUSING OF PLANNING FUNCTIONS. PRIOR TO CUDP-I, CMDA
WAS A FINANCING ORGANIZATION (REFER PARA 2.03 OF BANK'S PCR). CUDP-II AND
CUDPIII, INITIATED A SHIFT IN RESPONSIBILITIES FOR IMPLEMENTATION FROM CMDA
TO THE LOCAL AGENCIES. AT THE COMPLETION OF CUDP-II THE SUGGESTION IS TO
DIFFUSE PLANNING FUNCTION AMONG LOCAL BODIES. IF THE ULTIMATE OBJECTIVE IS
TO DECENTRALISE ALL FUNCTIONS THEN THE NEED FOR CMDA AND ULTIMATE ROLE OF



ANNEX XII
-84-
CMDA IS NOT CLEAR. IF ALL FUNCTIONS WERE DECENTRALISED CMDA WILL ULTIMATELY
BE REDUCED TO SERVE AS A CONDUIT FOR FUND FLOW FROM GOWB TO LOCAL AGENCIES
WHICH WAS THE POSITION PRIOR TO INITIATION OF CUDP-I. THE FUNCTIONS OF
COORDINATION AND FUND FLOW COULD AS WELL BE MANAGED BY THE CONCERNED
DEPARTMENT OF GOWB AND THERE WILL BE NO NECESSITY FOR A SEPARATE ORGANIZATION
LIKE CMDA WHICH HAS BEEN SET UP AND ORGANIZED BY GOWB WITH SPECIFIC
OBJECTIVES.
(CGG) IN PARA 4.2 CMDA HAVE INDICATED THAT THE REDUCTION IN PERCENTAGE OF
REIMBURSEMENT BY IDA HAS ALSO BEEN ONE OF THE FACTORS FOR SEEKING EXTENSION.
REVISION IN PERCENTAGE OF IDA FINANCING IS RESORTED TO FOR ENSURING IDA'S
CONTINUED PARTICIPATION TILL THE COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT. ACCORDINGLY THE
ABOVE PARA MAY BE SUITABLY MODIFIED. (PARA THE MODIFICATIONS PROPOSED AND
COMMENTS OFFERED MAY KINDLY BE TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION BEFORE FINALISING THE
PCR. REGARDS. UNQUOTE REGARDS. MESSAGE NO 4110 REPEATED ON 3.8.1987 PL ACK
AND PASS ON IMMEDIATELY AS IT IS TO BE DISCUSSED TODAY THANKS KEWQL.



