Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2141-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 30, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 14, 1977)
Rs 1.00                Paise 100
US$1.00          =     Rs 8.51
Rs 1.00          =     US$0.1175
Rs 1 million     =     US$117,500
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.6.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms Used in this Report
GOI      -   Government of India
GOWB     -   Government of West Bengal
CMD      -   Calcutta Metropolitan District
CMDA     -   Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
CC       -   Calcutta Corporation
CIT      -   Calcutta Improvement Trust
HIT      -   Howrah Improvement Trust
CM4SA    -   Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority
WBHB     -   West Bengal Housing Board
WBSIC    -   West Bengal Small Industries Corporation
CSSI     -   Government of West Bengal - Directorate of Cottage and
Small-Scale Industries
IWD      -   Government of West Bengal - Irrigation and Waterways
Department
SSE      -   Small-scale enterprises
DMS      -   Department of Municipal Services



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:     The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA).
Amount:            US$87 million.
Terms:             Standard.
On-lending Terms:  (a)  India to GOWB:   Standard terms and conditions.
(b) GOWB to CMDA: Grants and loans repayable over 20
years at the standard on-lending rate with grace
periods of approximately 3 years timed to coincide
with construction periods.
(c) CMDA to operating agencies: (i) Non-revenue-
producing assets will be financed by GOWB grants
and turned over to operating agencies on that
basis; (ii) revenue-producing assets will be
financed by GOWB loans and turned over on com-
pletion to operating agencies with the obligation
to commence servicing the debt to GOWB directly.
Project
Description:     The purpose of the project is to expand and upgrade the
capabilities of the administrative authorities in the
Calcutta Metropolitan District (CMD), to strengthen the
CMD's fiscal base, and to extend and rehabilitate the
city's urban service systems, particularly those of
critical importance to the urban poor. To accomplish
this, the project includes a program of organizational,
managerial, and fiscal reform for the CMD's administra-
tive agencies as well as a technical assistance and
service program including area development and slum
improvement schemes serving about 900,000 of the city's
poor; extensive improvements to the CMD's water supply,
sewerage and sanitation facilities; and a pilot health
program serving about 175,000 low-income people. The
project also includes measures to rehabilitate the system
of solid waste management in the CMD, the provision of
credit and expanded extension services to about 4,800
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
very small enterprises, traffic and transportation
improvements, and construction or remodelling of 440
primary schools, mostly in slum areas. The chief con-
cerns or risks in the project relate to the ability
of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority to
manage the project effectively and to acquire promptly
the remaining land needed for implementation of the
project.
Estimated                                                  (US$ million)
Project Cost: 1/                                     Local  Foreign   Total
Area Development                      15.83    1.72    17.55
Bustee Improvement                    22.64    3.49    26.13
Primary School Construction            2.36    0.30    2.66
Health Centers                         0.22    0.01     0.23
Small-Scale Enterprise Support         3.49      -     3.49
Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage   34.81    3.22    38.03
Solid Waste Management                 9.12    2.03   11.15
Sanitary Latrines                      2.29    0.16    2.45
Municipal and Anchal Development       6.48    0.99     7.47
Traffic and Transportation            27.98    4.55   32.53
Technical Assistance and Training      2.43    0.77     3.20
Physical Contingencies                    9.56    1.81    11.37
Price Contingencies                      22.66    4.79    27.45
Total Project Cost            159.87   23.84  183.71
Financing                                                   (US$ million)
Plan:                                                Local  Foreign   Total
IDA                                      63.16   23.84   87.00
GOI & GOWB Grants and Loans 2/           72.27     -      72.27
Open Market Borrowings 2/                19.15     -      19.15
Netherlands Government                    1.80     -       1.80
Subtotal-CMDA program         156.38   23.84  180.22 1/
Commercial Banks                          3.49     -      3.49
Total                         159.87   23.84  183.87
1/   Inclusive of US$5.08 million in taxes and duties.
2/   The budgeting of GOI and GOWB grants and loans and open market borrowings
is done on the basis of the entire CMDA program, not just the proposed
project. The split between state and federal grants and loans and open
market borrowings for this project, therefore, is a notional one derived
from the proportions of the entire program these funds are to support.



Estimated
Disbursements:                                         (US$ millions)
FY78   FY79    FY80   FY81   FY82  FY83
Annual:         8.0   17.0   20.0   20.0    18.0   4.0
Cummulative:    8.0   25.0   45.0   65.0    83.0  87.0
Rate of Return:          Weighted average rate of return is 20% on 60% of the
total project costs, for which benefits are quantifi-
able.
Appraisal Report:        No. 1662a-IN, dated November 23, 1977.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed dev-
elopment credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$87 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a US$180 million project designed to expand and
upgrade the capabilities of administrative agencies in metropolitan Calcutta
and to improve urban services in the metropolitan area. The proceeds of the
credit would be channelled to the Government of West Bengal in accordance
with the Government of India's standard terms and arrangements for the finan-
cing of state development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 620 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is in part the result of the
low availability of investable resources: while India's domestic savings
effort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
the rate has very rarely exceeded 17% of GNP; similarly, the net transfer of
resources from abroad has never been above 3% of GNP, and fell to as little as
0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74. The investment rate puts India in the lower
third of all developing countries. More significant perhaps is the fact that
in spite of a marked rise in the investment rate from about 10% in the early
1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen years, the trend in GNP growth has
remained about the same. This indicates a marked decline in the efficiency of
1/   Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Report
No. P-2135-IN, dated November 3, 1977).



-2 -
capital use, as a result of increasing capacity underutilization, long project
gestation, and increased emphasis on relatively capital intensive projects and
sectors.
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in some,
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban poor,
conservatively estimated at 295 million people with per capita incomes of US$70
per annum.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.   Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. The state of the economy was not a promi-
nent election issue; in fact the economy was generally stronger than at any
time in the last six years. Although the growth of GDP in 1976/77 is not
expected to have exceeded 2%, this was on top of the very good growth of 8.8%
in 1975/76. Agricultural production is expected to have fallen by about 3%,
but only because of the return to a more normal harvest of 110-114 million
tons of foodgrains after the record 121 million tons of the previous year.
Industrial growth was around 10% in 1976/77, which is significantly above the
rates achieved in the late 1960's and early 1970's. Exports continued their
bright performance, rising by 25% in nominal terms. The overall resource
position, with record foreign exchange and foodgrain reserves, is exception-
ally strong, and gives the Government considerable room for maneuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to
remarkably good weather conditions; the good crop in 1976/77 - a foodgrain
harvest in the region of 110 million tons would be the second largest on
record - was produced under generally normal weather. A conspicuous change
was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by more than 20% over 1975/76,



-3-
following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial production bene-
fited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of installed capacity
in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import policy, relatively
good power availability, and increased demand because of higher consumer
incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures. However, whole-
sale prices which had fallen 14% from September 1974 through March 1976,
rose 11% from the end of March to December 1976. This upsurge may be a new
inflationary trend or merely a correction of the previous sharp decline in the
relative prices of a range of agricultural commodities.
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was US$1,530 million,
which was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in
net purchases of currency from the LMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign
exchange reserves, to a level of almost US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the
balance of payments continued to improve, with exports provisionally esti-
mated to have increased by US$1,135 million against an imports increase of
only US$15 million, so that the trade balance deficit is now estimated at a
mere US$380 million. The sharply decreased trade deficit, along with a
further increase in the net inflow of miscellaneous capital and invisibles
from abroad of US$470 million, more than offset the fall of US$350 million
in net aid and the US$365 million repurchases of currency from the IMF, and
allowed a US$1.5 billion addition to reserves, which reached a level of
US$3.7 billion at the end of March 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the Government the opportun-
ity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task is to
raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%. In the
long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But it
will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptably low, at about 2.5% per
annum over the last seventeen years, and only 2% in the last ten. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to
cater to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has
been necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up
growth both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity
of existing capacity.   Three promising developments in regard to the first
are the sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the Fifth Plan Period along
with a renewed determination to complete projects expeditiously; the indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slow-
down in the early 1970's; and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. With



regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is increased aware-
ness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects can be much
increased not only through command area development but also through more
efficient design and operation of major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Also, hopes have been generated for increasing productivity on both irrigated
and rainfed farms through a reorganized and improved extension and research
system, which has been recently introduced in several States in northern and
eastern India.
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for growth, as serious constraints
on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation, particularly
with respect to coal and imported raw materials and components; the power
supply situation is once more somewhat worrisome (paragraph 13 below).
There has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77
Central Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In
many cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected
in their markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the
medium term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine indus-
trial growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong
pull on production; this is true, for example, for iron and steel, certain
chemicals, some electrical equipment, processed agricultural products, and
vehicles. But the impact of increased exports on overall industrial demand
will grow only slowly given the current low share of exports in sales. If
the higher growth and productivity in agriculture discussed earlier were to
materialize, it would provide a significant stimulus to industry. It is
difficult to specify the linkages explicitly; but because of the large share
that agriculture holds in GNP, the coefficients do not have to be large for
agricultural growth and the concomitant growth in demand for industrially
produced inputs and mass consumption goods to boost overall industrial demand
significantly. A higher public deficit and increased public investments are
the instruments most directly under Government control, and also those that
can increase demand for industrial products most immediately. The interim
budget of the new Government moves strongly in this direction with a 240%
increase in the planned budget deficit over 1976/77.
13.       The general improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for
India's ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organ-
izational and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been
overcome, production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable,
and the industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export
demand. However, the supply of electricity continues to be a concern, since
the power situation is not uniformly good. Power shortages affect a number



of the more industrialized states, particularly Maharashtra in the west and
Tamil Nadu in the south, and as a result, there is a continued constraint on
the expansion of industry. This is despite a number of favorable factors:
greatly improved capacity utilization in thermal power stations; more effi-
cient exchange of power between states; accelerated implementation of power
projects; and somewhat improved availability of finance for power investment.
The underlying reason for the weak power supply position is that capacity
shortages continue despite the improved investment program. In the short-term,
the situation may improve somewhat if, as is hoped, reservoir replenishment is
better than average during the last stages of the monsoon. The prospects for
the oil and gas sector have been further improved by major new finds of oil
and gas near the large offshore Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High
was brought to shore for the first time in May 1976; production reached an
annual rate of 2 million tons by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13
million tons by 1984/85. Although India will continue to import crude at or
somewhat above the current level, much of the foreign exchange burden of
rapidly rising imports will be avoided by the development of these resources.
Prospects are also bright for further discoveries offshore, given the current
high level of exploration activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.    Al-
though India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in com-
parison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. With a sustained family plan-
ning effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate to 1.1%
per annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of India's
population by 2000 is 880 million. Many of the benefits of family planning
policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the decline in
fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure of the popu-
lation. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all after 1981
thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary education system.
The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate until the end
of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports has reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should continue to grow by 7% to 10% annually in the near
future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium term. Imports,



- 6 -
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
bright export prospects, and continuation of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long term growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 51 loans and 90 development
credits to India totalling US$1,912 million and US$4,591 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$820 million has been
repaid, and US$1,552 million was still undisbursed as of June 30, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of June 30,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$13.0 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$30.9 million, US$24.4 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of June 30, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.



- 7 -
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy )as been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and acceler-
ate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, .,s appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agriculture,
education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make an
appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it is
important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
June 30, 1977, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,119 million, of which
US$483 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding
of US$636 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - THE CALCUTTA METROPOLITAN DISTRICT
Physical Characteristics
23.       The Calcutta Metropolitan District (CMD) is the most populous urban
agglomeration in all of India and the dominant urban center of eastern India,



-8-
a nine-state region with a population of approximately 150 million, nearly
one-quarter of the population of India itself. The estimated 9.7 million
residents of the CMD comprise 46% of the urban population of eastern India
and 70% of the urban population of West Bengal, the state in which Calcutta
is situated.
24.       The CMD stretches north and south for nearly 70 km along both
sides of West Bengal's Hooghly River. For most of this distance it forms a
narrow corridor along the limited area of elevated land close to the river.
Competition for the high land on the banks of the river is keen, as much of
the remaining land in the Hooghly's basin is low-lying, waterlogged, and
unsuitable for settlement. The central core of the metropolitan area is on
the east bank of the river in the city of Calcutta, or Calcutta Corporation,
which has a population in excess of three million. Howrah, Calcutta's twin
city, lies on the west bank of the river, opposite the Calcutta Corporation.
Both the Calcutta Corporation and Howrah are encircled by numerous munici-
palities, small towns, and semi-urban areas which extend north and south
along the river and combine with the Calcutta Corporation and Howrah to
make up the Calcutta Metropolitan District.
25.       Within the CMD, three bridges link the east and west banks of the
Hooghly River. Only two of these bridges serve motorized vehicles, trams,
and pedestrians; the third is a rail bridge. Crossing facilities for
pedestrian traffic, the dominant mode of travel, are particularly poor. As
a result, travel between the east and west banks of the river is severely
constrained.
26.       Although it is the traditional and unrivaled urban center of eastern
India and the most populous metropolitan area in the entire country, the CMD
is by far the most slowly growing large metropolis in India, and one of the
most slowly growing of the great cities of the developing world. Neverthe-
less, in absolute terms its annual growth is impressive. With its rate
of population increase of 2.1%, the CMD adds 200,000 persons to its pop-
ulation annually. The annual growth combines with the limited availability
of elevated land to produce extremely high population density in the CMD.
Population density in the Calcutta Co5poration averages 33,000 persons per
km , peaking to 44,000 persons per km in the central core of the city.
These figures are significanily higher than densit! statistics for cities
such as Manhattan (26,000/km ), Bangkok (21,000/km ), and Tokyo (15,320/km ),
whose infrastructure and facilities greatly exceed Calcutta's and whose
high-rise pattern of development acts to ease crowding, in contrast with
Calcutta's low-rise design. The implication of Calcutta's density profile,
then, is serious overcrowding. This, compounded by inadequate past invest-
ment, has led to excessive demand on existing urban infrastructure.
The Urban Economy
27.       At the time of Independence in 1947, Calcutta was the largest city
and principal industrial center in India and the major entrepot of the entire
subcontinent. Since 1947, however, Calcutta's economic situation has changed
substantially. With the partition of India and Pakistan, Calcutta lost a



- 9 -
major part of the hinterland that had supplied it with food and raw materials
and had provided markets for its goods, and simultaneously began to receive
an influx of refugees from East Bengal, whose presence strained public service
systems and increased unemployment. In addition, Calcutta has, since Inde-
pendence, seen a substantial decline in world demand for jute, one of the major
outputs of its manufacturing sector. Moreover, the progressive silting of the
Hooghly River has undermined the capacity of Calcutta's port and contributed
to its decline relative to other Indian ports. At the same time, Central
Government policies relative to steel and coal pricing have neutralized many
of the locational advantages enjoyed by Calcutta's industries. And finally,
deteriorating public services in Calcutta have combined with political in-
stability, civil unrest and labor disruptions to discourage private investment
in the CMD.
28.       The result of these developments is that, while the CMD is still a
very important element in the Indian economy, its per capita income is much
lower than that of its industrial rival, Bombay; its value added per indus-
trial worker is considerably lower than the all-India average; and the average
annual rate of growth in employment between 1961 and 1971 was a modest 0.8%.
Structural adjustments in the economy of the CMD are underway. GOWB, which
considers the rapid economic development of Calcutta's rural hinterland a
prerequisite for economic growth in the CMD, is implementing a variety of
programs to bring modern agricultural technology to West Bengal and improve
agricultural marketing and storage. If these programs succeed, the revived
rural areas should become important markets for Calcutta's manufactured con-
sumer goods. Substantial investment has also been made in the coal and iron
deposits of Calcutta's hinterland, which provide raw materials for Calcutta's
basic metals, metal products and machinery industries. The manufacturing
sector of the CMD, which provides 38% of the area's employment, has undergone
a major shift from dominance by the declining jute industry to dominance by
the engineering industry, and a new port is being constructed at Haldia, 45
miles downstream from Calcutta city. In addition, the Government of India has
instituted a program specifically aimed at removing some of the administrative
and legal bottlenecks which discourage private investment in West Bengal, and
has implemented incentive and assistance programs to promote growth in the
private sector.
29.       The success of the efforts at spurring the economy of the CMD, how-
ever, depends not only on the wisdom of the individual investment decisions
made, but also on the ability of local authorities to build and sustain a
physical environment in which individual and industrial efficiency are pos-
sible. With this in mind, the Government of West Bengal has planned a sub-
stantial program for the rehabilitation and expansion of urban infrastructure
in the CMD. It is the government's intention that these infrastructure in-
vestments combine with the development efforts described above to halt the
economic decline of the Calcutta metropolitan area.
Municipal Administration
30.       The CMD has been delineated as a unified planning region by the
Government of West Bengal. It is not, however, a single administrative unit.



- 10 -
Local administration in the CMD is the responsibility of four district admin-
istrations, 35 municipal authorities, 61 non-municipal areas and 500 semi-
rural units. Only the state and national governments and their agencies
have jurisdiction over the entire area.
31.       In effect, the Government of India (GOI) and the Government of
West Bengal (GOWB) exert a dominating influence on municipal administration
in the CMD. GOI sponsors industrial development and has responsibility for
the national highways, the railway system, airports and seaports. GOWB agen-
cies execute projects within the CMD in the areas of education, public health,
road construction and maintenance, housing, small-scale industry promotion,
power, and public transport. Deficiencies in the organization and management
of the local authorities reduce their ability to handle their own development
problems. Moreover, as self-generated revenues are inadequate to their needs,
most of the local bodies in the CMD rely heavily on financial support from
GOWB. Borrowings and grants from GOWB are tightly regulated. To qualify for
financial assistance, development projects must be sanctioned by GOI and GOWB
and must be integrated into GOWB's overall development plan. Thus, as a re-
sult of the weaknesses in the local authorities and the existing administra-
tive structure in the CMD, little development work is undertaken by local
bodies on their own initiative. The activities of local authorities are
largely confined to the provision of primary education and preventive health
services, limited commercial activities (e.g., market administration), and
the operation and maintenance of infrastructure put in place by state and
national authorities. Even in this last function, local bodies are given
financial and technical assistance by GOWB.
32.       In 1970, GOWB established the Calcutta Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA) and gave it overall responsibility for the planning, design,
and construction of public works in the CMD. CMDA was created at a time of
virtual crisis, when public service delivery in Calcutta had all but broken
down. Between 1970 and 1973, annual public urban investment in the CMD was
increased from approximately Rs 30 million to Rs 400 million, largely through
badly needed infrastructure investments. However, weaknesses in CMDA's project
planning, management information, budgeting, and accounting systems led to a
decline in investment (both absolute and relative to forecast investment tar-
gets) after fiscal year 1972/73. Output (i.e., commissioned works and works-
in-progress) fell behind original targets and a considerable number of planned
schemes either remained incomplete or were completed without the accompanying
support systems required to make them fully operational or cost-effective.
GOI, GOWB and IDA have jointly identified the management deficiencies that
have undermined CMDA's performance in recent years. A broad program of finan-
cial and administrative reform designed to rehabilitate CMDA's planning and
plan implementation capabilities is currently underway.
33.       Despite the efforts of CMDA, provision of all municipal services in
the CMD is seriously deficient. Sixty percent of the district's population, or
5.5 million people, live in conditions characterized by a lack of sewerage and
drainage facilities and inadequate water supply and garbage collection. Of
these, some 3.3 million live in temporary or make-shift structures in refugee



colonies or bustee areas. 1/ Existing health programs in the CMD are frag-
mented, with only weak links between preventive and curative services. Pri-
mary school facilities are equally inadequate, and reach only 66% of eligible
children in the district as a whole, less than 60% in the bustee areas. Con-
certed effort to develop the capacities of state and local authorities to
expand primary and secondary service systems is needed.
Bank Group Involvement in the CMD
34.       In 1973, the International Development Association extended a US$35
million credit to India (Cr. 427-IN) to assist in the development of the CMD.
This credit supported 34% of CMDA's budget from 1973 through 1976. It funded,
for the most part, primary infrastructure; all but 8.3% of the project's
estimated expenditures were allocated to schemes for water supply, sewerage
and drainage, solid waste management, and road construction and improvement.
Progress under this first credit has been slow, disbursements having fallen
considerably behind the forecast schedule. 2/ IDA, in consultation with GOI,
redefined the project in 1976, and it is now expected that the revised project
will be subtantially completed by March 1979. The delays in the project have
been largely due to cumbersome budgetary procedures, land acquisition problems,
and management deficiencies, and have generated considerable concern on the
part of GOI, GOWB and IDA. After extended discussions with IDA, GOWB has
agreed on a set of administrative and fiscal reforms designed to prevent
recurrence of the problems experienced under the first IDA credit to Calcutta.
These reforms are currently being implemented by CMDA and other local autho-
rities (see para 38).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was appraised by missions which visited India
in December 1976 and in February/March 1977. A report entitled "Appraisal
of the Second Calcutta Urban Development Project" (No. 1662a-IN, dated
November 30, 1977) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in October 1977. The Government of India
was represented by Messrs. Vineet Nayyar (Director, Department of Economic
Affairs) and K. Biswas (Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Works and Housing);
the Government of West Bengal by Mr. T. C. Dutt (Secretary, GOWB); and the
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority by Messrs. S. B. Ray (Chief
Executive Officer, CMDA) and S. K. Roy (Director of Planning, CMDA).
1/   "Bustee areas" are areas of land occupied by compact groups of small,
single-storey structures of temporary construction. Residents generally
rent accommodation in these structures from a resident owner or "thika
tenant."   The thika tenant in turn rents the land on which the struc-
tures sit from a non-resident landowner.
2/   As of September 20, 1977, US$22.2 million of the US$35 million credit
had been disbursed.



- 12 -
Project Description
36.       Objectives.  The objectives of IDA involvement in the proposed
project are:
(a) to expand and upgrade the capabilities of the institutions
responsible for delivering urban services and maintaining
and operating urban infrastructure in the CMD;
(b) to improve the fiscal base in the CMD; and
(c) to effect the desired institutional and fiscal changes in
the context of a program which is simultaneously responsive
to Calcutta's pressing need for improved urban services.
37.       The project pursues these objectives in three ways.   First, it is
structured around a series of organizational, administrative, and fiscal re-
forms. The program of reform is already underway and would continue throughout
the course of the project. Second, the project provides consulting services,
technical assistance and staff training to the Calcutta Corporation, CMDA,
and several state government agencies. These services are designed to direct
and facilitate institutional and fiscal reform and to help rationalize over-
all and sectoral planning and plan implementation in Calcutta. Third, the
project addresses Calcutta's critical need for expanded services and employ-
ment. It seeks to organize the efforts at institutional development, rational
planning, efficient service delivery, and improved fiscal performance around
the ever-pressing task facing local authorities, that is, ministering to the
critical needs of their constituents. The sections which follow describe
each element of the project in detail.
38.       Institutional Development.   Over the course of the project, Calcutta
governing authorities will implement a series of organizational, administra-
tive, and fiscal reforms. Among the reforms already implemented or planned
are the following:
(a) GOWB has appointed a new top management team for CMDA,
including a Chief Executive Officer and Directors of
Finance, Administration, Operations, and Planning.
Moreover, CMDA has been reorganized according to a plan
established in consultation with GOI. New units have
been created to design and implement the specialized
development schemes to be undertaken in the proposed
project.
(b) GOWB will reorganize its Department of Municipal Services
(DMS) by March 31, 1979 (Section 3.06(a), West Bengal
Agreement).
(c) GOWB will implement an experimental program through which
selected local authorities in the CMD will be provided
with State-level public service employees to assist them
in the operation of municipal services (Section 3.07,
West Bengal Agreement).



- 13 -
(d) GOWB has agreed to implement by April 1, 1979 improvements to
the senior management structure of the Calcutta Corporation
(CC) as well as to CC's accounting, stores, and financial
management systems (Section 3.06(c), West Bengal Agreement).
(e) GOWB has agreed to establish by December 31, 1978, a new
Central Valuation Board to reform the existing system for
assessment and levy of property taxes in the CMD.    Consul-
tants will be hired to assist in the revaluation of lands
and buildings in the CMD, which is scheduled to be completed
by March 31, 1982 (Section 3.05, West Bengal Agreement).
Moreover, GOWB has established, in consultation with IDA,
revenue collection targets for the CC and required revenue/
expenditure ratios for the CC and other municipal bodies in
the CMD, in order to garner additional funds for operation
and maintenance of urban services and to ensure that an
increasing proportion of local expenditures will be covered
by local revenues (Sections 3.10 and 3.11, West Bengal
Agreement).
(f) GOWB will prepare and implement, by April 1, 1980, a revised
system for awarding grants from GOWB to local authorities
in the CMD (Section 3.06(d), West Bengal Agreement).
(g) GOWB will cause the Calcutta Corporation to separate water
supply and sewerage taxes and charges from its consolidated
property tax by April 1, 1981, and to levy earmarked water
supply and sewerage taxes and charges adequate to meet at
least 84% of the CC's expenditures for those services for
fiscal year 1981/82 and thereafter. In the period between
April 1, 1978 and April 1, 1981, the CC will keep a separate
water supply and sewerage account and will transfer to it
from general revenues funds adequate to meet all of the CC's
expenditures for water supply and sewerage (including debt
service on loans to meet capital costs), thus ensuring that
all of these expenditures are met from local revenues during
this period. GOWB will also commission studies to advise on
the regulation of tubewells and groundwater supplies in the
CMD; draw up, by September 1, 1978, a program for metering
water connections in the CMD; and develop and implement, by
April 1, 1980, new institutional arrangements for water and
sewerage revenue collection in the CMD (Section 3.08, West
Bengal Agreement).
(h)  CMDA has employed consultants to design and install new
accounting and management information systems. The new
systems will be operational by April 1, 1979 (Section 3.03,
Project Agreement).



- 14 -
(i) CMDA has agreed to introduce a modern project appraisal
system by July 1, 1978, and is developing a project
monitoring and evaluation system to be fully operational
by April 30, 1978 (Section 3.03, Project Agreement).
39.       Technical Assistance and Training.   Both the efforts at institu-
tional change to be undertaken during the course of the proposed project (see
para 38) and the planned expansion of Calcutta's urban service systems (see
para 40) will require external assistance. Technical assistance, training
programs, and the services of local and foreign consultants will be required
to increase local authorities' planning and operational capabilities. Thus,
the proposed project includes a technical assistance component which will
inter alia: (a) provide assistance to GOWB, CMDA and CC in their fiscal and
administrative reforms; (b) provide initial training and other assistance to
these bodies in managing the service components of the proposed project; (c)
support studies of CMD's current and future requirements in the areas of
public transport, solid waste management, and traffic management; (d) fund air
and water pollution and groundwater supply studies; and (e) support a rigorous
evaluation of alternative long-term development plans for the CMD. This
component of the project carries an estimated cost of US$3.2 million. 1/
40.       Urban Service Delivery.   The goal of institutional development in
the CMD is to improve the local authorities' capacity to respond to the needs
of the city's inhabitants. To be effective, institutional reform must be
woven into the fabric of the city's operational program and must be related
to the service responsibilities of local administrators. The focus of the
proposed project, then, is a broad service delivery program which incorpo-
rates and, in effect, renders operational the on-going management and fiscal
reforms. This service program is aimed particularly at Calcutta's urban poor.
Its components and their cost are summarized below. 2/
(a)  Sites and Services.   (US$16.2 million).  Approximately 302 ha
of land at two sites would be acquired and filled. Development
of one of the sites (East Calcutta) would be undertaken during
the project and would include the following: preparation of
approximately 8,200 residential plots serviced with access roads,
drainage, and individual water and sewer connections; construc-
tion of approximately 5,840 core housing units provided with
toilet, plinth wall and service connections; construction of 684
dormitory rental units with shared sanitary facilities for the
lowest income groups; preparation and servicing of sites for 483
rental units for middle and higher income groups (the structures
for which would be financed by private capital); preparation and
servicing of 10 ha of land for industrial use and 3 ha of land
1/   Exclusive of price contingencies.
2/   In each case, component cost figures exclude physical and price
contingencies.



- 15 -
for commercial use, provision of 50 industrial sheds; and
construction, on 16 ha of land, of tanks, drying areas,
and cattle compounds sufficient to serve the needs of
1,700 washermen and 500 milkmen. Community facilities
(schools, health centers, markets, and police, fire, and
postal services) would also be provided at East Calcutta
site, as well as housing loans for the self-help completion
of core houses. Seventy-nine percent of all residential
lots and units would serve households earning less than
US$66 per month; rental units would be within the financial
capability of those falling as low as the 10th percentile
in family income. In addition, it is expected that bed
spaces will become available in these units for subrental
to households below the tenth income percentile.
(b)  Redevelopment of the Howrah Fish and Pan Market (US$1.35 million).
Redevelopment of 2.32 acres of prime location land used primarily
for fish and pan (betel leaf) marketing and related activities
(e.g., ice and fish packing). This area is currently ineffi-
ciently utilized and extremely congested and presents a serious
environmental hazard. The proposed project would improve land
management and sanitation in the market complex, and thereby
provide direct and indirect employment opportunities and im-
proved accommodation to the 3,500 low income residents of the
area, in addition to benefitting non-resident small businessmen
and hawkers. Later phases of the broader redevelopment effort
would be financed largely by commercial banks.
(c)  Bustee Improvement (US$26.13 million).   Participation in an
on-going program designed to serve 1,200,000 people in over
420 bustees, occupying 1,400 ha of land. The program provides
water, improved roads, sanitary latrines, lighting, and drainage
ditches to upgrade living conditions in these crowded, largely
unserviced urban settlements.
(d)  Primary School Construction (US$2.66 million).   Construction of
40 new primary schools and remodelling and extension of 400
existing schools. The objective is to help raise primary school
coverage in the CMD, which is low (66%) relative to coverage in
West Bengal as a whole (80%) and relative to GOI's national
target for primary school coverage (88%).
(e)  Health Centers (US$0.23 million).   Construction of two primary
health centers and 10 subsidiary health centers to serve a target
population of 175,000. The centers would be placed in areas
where no health centers exist currently and would offer a new
approach to health care delivery which combines periodic health
examinations; referral services to specialized clinics and
nutrition centers; community outreach services; family planning,
maternal and child health care; and immunization against small-
pox, diptheria, tetanus, whooping cough, typhoid, and polio.



- 16 -
(f) Small-Scale Enterprises 1/ (US$3.49 million). Provision of
US$3.5 million in credit and expanded extension services
to approximately 4,800 very small enterprises. Small
enterprises in ten selected bustees and in the industrial
estate established under the sites and services component
of the project would be eligible for credit. In addition,
small enterprises not in these locations but engaged in
any of five selected industrial subsectors -- leather
tanning, clay modelling, tailoring and garment making,
plywood fabrication, or light engineering -- would be
eligible. An extension service to apprise low income
entrepreneurs of credit opportunities and provide them
with technical assistance would be established. Studies
of the small-scale enterprise (SSE) potential in Calcutta
would be undertaken in order to facilitate preparation of
a second phase SSE project.
(g) Water Supply, Sewerage, and Drainage (US$38.03 million).
Provision of water (90 liters/capita/day) to over 900,000
people in the CMD. The Palta-Tallah water system in the
Calcutta Corporation (CC) would be renovated; additional tube-
wells sunk in the CC; sewers extended and pumping and treatment
facilities installed in several currently unserviced areas in
Howrah and the CC; surface and storm water drainage subprojects
undertaken in several locations to relieve severe flooding; and
650 km of blocked sewers cleaned in the CC.
(h) Solid Waste Management 2/ (US$11.15 million). Rehabilitation
of the existing system of solid waste management through the
construction of 80 ward depots, 400 masonry vats and 10 trailer
sites for solid waste collection; the purchase of 8,000 hand-
carts, 81 tipping trucks, 12 tractors, and 25 trailers for
nightsoil and solid waste collection; the purchase of cesspool
emptiers and bulldozers; the improvement of existing vehicle
maintenance facilities; the renovation of existing nightsoil
disposal areas; and the construction of access roads to intro-
duce sanitary landfill methods. In addition, this component
would support training, studies, and pilot projects to test
alternative methods of storage, collection, and disposal of
solid wastes.
1/   "Small-scale enterprises," for the purposes of this project, are
small industries and businesses which are engaged in manufacturing,
commerce or service provision and which employ total capital valued
at less than Rs 100,000 (approximately US$11,600 equivalent).
2/   The collection and disposal of nightsoil and domestic and trade wastes.



- 17 -
(i) Sanitary Latrines (US$2.45 million). Installation of
12,300 flush toilets at the request of property owners
(and on partial payment by property owners) in areas which
currently lack such facilities.
(j) Municipal and Anchal 1/ Development (US$7.47 million).
Provision of low-cost water supply, drainage, sanitation
facilities, and roads in the rural fringe areas of the CMD.
(k) Traffic and Transportation (US$32.54 million). Rationalization
of travel patterns, improvements in circulation in the urban
core, improvements in road and footway maintenance in the CC,
and opening up of new areas for development. This component
would include improvements in traffic operation on over 140 km
of roads and footways, purchase of equipment for traffic
engineering and control and road and footpath maintenance;
support of ongoing street lighting improvements; widening and
improvement of about 10 km of existing highway; construction
of a flyover to segregate 750,000 pedestrian commuters from
other traffic; and construction of approximately 51 km of new
road, one section of which will provide an important roadway
link to a badly needed river crossing now under construction.
Project Implementation
41.       The Government of West Bengal has designated CMDA as the agency
responsible for coordinating the implementation of the project (Section 2.09,
West Bengal Agreement). The project would be implemented over five years
(1977/78 - 1981/82) and, together with the remainder of the First Calcutta
Urban Development Project, would represent over 77% of CMDA's identified pro-
gram for that period. The agencies responsible for the execution and main-
tenance of individual project components are listed in Table 1 on the follow-
ing page. GOWB, CMDA and IDA have agreed on CMDA's five-year investment
program for 1977-82. This program will not be changed in any major way with-
out prior consultation with IDA (Section 4.03, Project Agreement) . GOWB has
accepted the responsibility of ensuring that CMDA has sufficient funds to
carry out the agreed program (Section 2.10, West Bengal Agreement) and that
other implementing agencies have sufficient funds to maintain existing
municipal services as well as service systems established under the proposed
project (Section 3.03, West Bengal Agreement).
42.       The administrative and fiscal reforms currently underway or planned
in the governing agencies of the CMD (see para 38), supplemented by the pro-
posed technical assistance and training program (see para 39), should ensure
1/   There are 154 "anchals" -- semi-rural non-municipal administrative
units -- in the CMD. Each anchal includes roughly 10-15 villages.



- 18 -
Table 1
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Executing and Operating Agencies
Agency Responsible                  Agency Responsible
Project Component                           for Execution                      for Maintenance
Sites and Services
Physical Works               Calcutta Metropolitan Development       CMDA/Municipalities
Authority (CMDA)
Community Development        CMDA                                    Government of West
Bengal (GOWB) agencies
Self-help Construction      West Bengal Housing Board (WBHB)         WBHB
Loans
Industrial Estates          West Bengal Small Industries             WBSIC
Corporation (WBSIC)
Fish and Pan Market               CMDA                                    CMDA
(Redevelopment)
Bustee Improvement                CMDA                                    Calcutta Corporation
(CC) /Municipalities
Primary School Construction       CMDA                                    Education Department,
GOWB
Health Centers                    CMDA                                    Health Department, GOWB
Small-Scale Enterprise            Department of Cottage and Small-        CSSI/Nominated Commercial
Scale Industries (SCCI)/Nominated       Commercial Banks
Commercial Banks
Water Supply, Sewerage &
Drainage
Water Supply                 CMDA/CC                                 CMDA/CC/Calcutta Munici-
pal Water and Sanitation
Authority (CMWSA)
Sewerage and Drainage        CMDA/CMWSA/CC/Howrah Improvement        CMWSA/CC/HIT/IWD
Trust (HIT)/Irrigation and Water-
ways Department (IWD)
Solid Waste Management            CMDA                                    CC
Sanitary Latrines                 CMDA                                    CC/Municipalities
Traffic and Transportation
Traffic Operations           CMDA/Police/Calcutta Improvement       CC/Police
Trust (CIT)
Roads & Terminals            CMDA/HIT                                Public Works Department
(PWD), GOWB/CC/HIT
Technical Assistance and          CC/CMDA/Department of Municipal
Training                          Services (DMS), GOI



- 19 -
that CMDA and other implementing agencies have the capacity to carry out the
tasks assigned them under the project. Where inter-agency cooperation is
required, GOWB will establish inter-agency working groups. The Management
Information and Monitoring Unit of CMDA would have overall responsibility for
monitoring the project, in association with each of the implementing agencies.
Performance indicators for each component are currently being developed, as
is a system of project implementation reporting.
43.       The credit element of the small-scale enterprise component would
be handled by four nationalized commercial banks, the United Commercial Bank,
the State Bank of India, the Allahabad Bank, and the United Bank of India.
Funds equivalent to US$3.5 million, the estimated credit demand by the target
group, would be lent by these banks to eligible enterprises. These banks have
interest in and experience with lending to small enterprises and have staff
units adequate to handle the credit component, which is small relative to
their overall operations. Moreover, a coordination and monitoring committee
chaired by CMDA has been created to ensure close cooperation among all insti-
tutions involved in the execution of the small-scale enterprise component.
Project Costs and Financing
44.       The total project cost is estimated at US$183.71 million, of which
US$23.85 million, roughly 13% of the total, represents foreign exchange costs.
This estimate includes physical contingencies of 15% for area development
(i.e., Sites and Services, Fish and Pan Market Redevelopment) and bustee
improvement and 10% for other components. Price contingencies, also included
in the total cost figure, are estimated at 6% to 7.5% per year for equipment
and 8% for civil works.
45.       The proposed IDA credit of US$87 million would finance 50% of proj-
ect costs net of taxes and duties, of the cost of the cattle compounds in
East Calcutta, 1/ and of the loans for small-scale entrepreneurs which are
to be provided by commercial banks. The balance of the funds for the project
would come from GOI and GOWB grants, GOWB loans, market borrowings, commercial
banks and bilateral assistance from the Government of the Netherlands. No
disbursements would be made against land acquisition costs although they have
been included in calculating the total project cost. GOI would make the
proceeds of the credit available to GOWB on the standard terms and conditions
for development projects. GOWB, in turn, would channel the proceeds of the
credit to CMDA.
46.       CMDA is responsible for the financing of all works included in the
project, even where executed by other agencies. The proceeds of the credit
would be channelled to CMDA from GOWB as grants and loans. Project funds would
be transferred to CMDA in the form of grants for all non-revenue-producing
schemes. Assets commissioned under these schemes would then be transferred
1/   These compounds are being funded with US$1.8 million in bilateral
assistance from the Netherlands Government.



- 20 -
to operating agencies debt-free. The transfer of funds to CMDA would be in
the form of loans (from GOWB) for revenue-producing components of the project
only (e.g., area development and water supply). These loans to CMDA would be
made at GOWB's standard on-lending rate (currently 6%) and would carry grace
periods of approximately three years, timed to coincide with construction
periods. On completion, the revenue-producing assets financed by GOWB loans
would be transferred by CMDA to operating agencies, which would commence
servicing the debt to GOWB directly.
47.       Retroactive financing of up to US$5 million is proposed for various
project-related expenditures incurred on or after April 1, 1977. This pro-
posed retroactive financing would allow uninterrupted progress on the on-going
programs the project supports, would encourage letting of further contracts
for these schemes in accordance with IDA's procurement procedures, and would
facilitate expeditious implementation of new schemes supported by the proposed
project.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       Contracts for equipment with an estimated value of US$13 million
(net of contingencies and taxes) would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. A margin of preference
of 15% or the current import duty, whichever is lower, will be granted to
local manufacturers in evaluating bids for these contracts. Contracts for
equipment with an estimated value of US$8.5 million would be awarded on the
basis of local (all-India) competitive bidding. These contracts would involve
either small items unlikely to draw bids from foreign suppliers (e.g., hand-
carts for refuse collection, bicycles) or equipment unsuitable for inter-
national bidding because of high transport costs and/or high risk of damage
in transit (e.g., precast concrete latrines, concrete and stoneware pipes).
49.       The total value of civil works under the project is estimated at
US$85.5 million, excluding contingencies, the cost of land, and in many cases
the cost of heavy equipment issued to contractors by CMDA. Few portions
of the civil works program are likely to be attractive or suitable for
foreign contractors. Implementation of road construction, sewerage, and
drainage subprojects in traffic-congested areas must be carefully balanced
over time and location to conform to the work schedule of local municipal
service agencies. Such subprojects require execution by local departmental
crews or closely supervised labor contractors. Therefore, it has been agreed
that while contracts for two large road projects (i.e. the Barrackpore-Kalyani
Expressway and the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass, total cost US$7.5 million)
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB),
the remainder of the civil works subprojects will be awarded on the basis of
local (all-India) competitive bidding or executed by force account. A margin
of preference of 7.5% will be granted to local contractors on subprojects
submitted to ICB. CMDA will "slice and package" civil works contracts into
bid packages of not less than US$1.1 million equivalent wherever feasible and
will refrain from employing force account labor for civil works subproject
components whose cost exceeds US$200,000 equivalent without obtaining prior
agreement from IDA. These arrangements are satisfactory to IDA.



- 21 -
50.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against the
following expenditures:
(a) 100% of the foreign cost of imported equipment procured
through international competitive bidding;
(b) 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment procured through international competitive
bidding;
(c) 75% of the local cost of locally manufactured equipment
otherwise procured;
(d) 75% of expenditures for civil works awarded through
international competitive bidding;
(e) 70% of expenditures for civil works otherwise awarded;
(f) 50% of disbursements on housing loans to eligible households;
and
(g) 100% of expenditures on technical assistance and training.
Cost Recovery
51.       The principal revenue-producing components of the proposed proj-
ect -- that is, the area development, water supply, and small scale enter-
prise schemes -- have been designed with considerable attention to building
in mechanisms for cost recovery. In addition, the program of fiscal reform to
which local governing authorities have committed themselves involves amending
existing municipal service charges and property taxes and improving revenue
collection performance in order to increase overall cost recovery for currently
provided as well as planned services, and thereby move local authorities in
the direction of financial self-sufficiency. Individual cost recovery efforts
are outlined below.
52.       Cost Recovery in Area Development.   Since finance has been one of
the critical constraints in the expansion of housing and related urban
services, one of the prime objectives of the sites and services components
is to demonstrate the possibility of.providing urban services to low income
groups without government subsidy. The West Bengal Housing Board (WBHB),
which will participate in the operation of East Calcutta once it is developed,
will recover the costs of on-site infrastructure and core houses on residential
and washermen's plots by selling 99-year leases for the serviced residential
and commercial plots and core houses, by charging a monthly rent of approxi-
mately Rs 20 in dormitory rental units, and by requiring a monthly payment of
approximately Rs 10 from washermen in return for facilities provided. The
West Bengal Small Industries Corporation (WBSIC) will recover the costs of
on-site infrastructure for industrial lots through the sale of leases for
industrial sites and rental charges for space in industrial sheds. The GOWB
Animal and Husbandry Directorate will recover the cost of on-site develop-
ment in the cattle compounds and milk processing facilities through direct



- 22 -
charges for space in the cattle sheds (approximately Rs 20 per month per head
of cattle housed) and for milk processing (approximately Rs .15 per liter of
milk processed). 1/ Downpayments for the purchase of serviced site leases
will range from 5% to 20%; mortgages for residential lots and accompany-
ing building loans will be payable over 20 years at approximately 8.5% per
annum, while mortgages for commercial and industrial lots will be payable over
10 to 15 years of an annual interest rate of approximately 11.5%. By charging
differential rates which take into account lot size and locational advantages
in allocating the costs of plot development, the sites and services schemes
effect internal cross-subsidies between low income groups and higher income
and industrial purchasers, thereby achieving full cost recovery while keeping
monthly expenses at an affordable level for all beneficiaries, including those
in the lowest income groups.
53.       Cost recovery in the Howrah Fish and Pan Market will be achieved by
renting or leasing all shops, stalls, kiosks, offices, dormitories, and park-
ing areas constructed. Rents will range from about Rs 130 per square meter
per year for small shops to about Rs 540 per square meter per year for offices.
Rents in the dormitories will be approximately Rs 0.5 per bed/day. Rent
reviews will be required every three years and rents will be set at a level
which ensures recovery of the full costs of property maintenance, administra-
tion, and debt service.
54.       Cost Recovery in the Small Scale Enterprise Component.    Under this
component four commercial banks would lend US$3.5 million to small entre-
preneurs at an interest rate not less than 10% and not more than 12% for a
maximum term of 10 years. Most lending would likely be in the form of short-
term lines of credit which do not carry fixed repayment schedules. While
there is a high risk of default in these loans, the commercial banks are be-
coming experienced in evaluating and financing small enterprises and maintain
an interest rate spread adequate to cover the risk as well as the administra-
tive expenses.
55.       Cost Recovery in the Water Supply and Sewerage Program.   Over the
course of the proposed project, the Calcutta Corporation will implement an
expanded system for metering water connections, will de-link water supply and
sewerage taxes and charges from the consolidated property tax, and with effect
from fiscal year 1981/82, will levy taxes and charges for water supply and
sewerage services adequate to cover at least 84% of the cost of providing
them (Section 3.08, West Bengal Agreement). This represents a considerable
improvement over the current situation, in which property tax revenues notion-
ally earmarked for water supply and sewerage cover only about 30% of the
service cost. In the meanwhile (i.e., from April 1, 1978 - March 31, 1981),
the Corporation will cover its annual expenditures on water supply and sewer-
age from its general revenues.
1/   In all cases, off-site infrastructure will be financed from property
taxes and GOWB subventions, as is customary with all public and private
housing schemes in the CMD.



- 23 -
56.       Cost Recovery in the Sanitary Latrine Program.    The 12,300 sanitary
latrines to be installed during the proposed project will be put in place at
the request of a property owner following payment of Rs 450, one quarter of
the installed cost, by the property owner. The remainder of the cost will
be met by GOWB, in accordance with established policy. Experience has
indicated that the incentive of a government contribution to the cost of
the latrines of roughly this magnitude is necessary to elicit interest in
and private funds for the installation of these badly needed facilities.
57.       Cost Recovery in the Bustee Improvement Program.    Difficulty in
tracing hut owners ("thika tenants") and occupants of bustees makes effective
direct cost recovery for improvements to the bustees very difficult. Thus
the proposed bustee program will be financed by GOWB grants. However, any
bustee which is improved will be revalued for property tax purposes. The
proposed improvements to the bustees are expected to effect a 40% increase
in bustee property value, which will be reflected in higher tax assessments
to landowners in bustee areas.
58.       Increased Cost Recovery via Fiscal Reform.    GOWB views the fiscal
problems of Calcutta as pressing, and has implemented or proposed several
reforms in urban service rates, tax schedules, and tax collection in an
effort to improve cost recovery in urban service systems in the CMD. In
addition to the fiscal measures relating to water supply and sewerage des-
cribed in para 55, several of the agreed reforms discussed in para 38 are
in fact changes in fiscal policy that are aimed specifically at increasing
the financial self-sufficiency of local authorities by increasing their
capacity to recover the costs of service provision through taxation. More
specifically, the revaluation of lands and buildings in the CMD, imposition
of revenue collection targets for the CC, and establishment of required
revenue/expenditure ratios for local authorities in the CMD are designed
to increase the tax yield of the local authorities in order that local
revenues might more fully cover the costs of service provision. These and
other measures will have the result of ensuring that by fiscal year 1981/82
the CC will finance not less than 84% of its expenditures from local revenues
and other authorities will finance not less than 50% of their expenditures.
In order to assist local authorities in meeting the new requirements, GOWB,
in consultation with IDA, will advise them on methods of improving revenue
collection. In order to safeguard the CMD's urban service program, GOWB will
ensure that in any event adequate funds will be available to local bodies for
the operation and maintenance of new and existing assets.
Benefits and Risks
59.       Among the key benefits of the proposed project are the following:
(a) Fiscal and institutional reforms implemented during the
course of the project will establish a financial basis
for sustaining an expanded program of public investment
and develop the organizational capabilities necessary
to plan and execute such an investment program.



- 24 -
(b) The program of urban services supported by the project
embodies and renders operational the on-going institutional
reforms, rehabilitates existing urban service delivery sys-
tems, and enhances the value of prior investments in primary
infrastructure, particularly those financed by the first IDA
credit, by establishing secondary systems to bring the
benefits of those investments directly to the target pop-
ulation, particularly the urban poor. The project further
complements the First Calcutta Urban Development Project by
emphasizing the development of operation and maintenance
procedures to safeguard the infrastructure financed under
the earlier credit and to ensure full and efficient use of
that infrastructure.
(c) The project would support low-cost service designs which
would be replicable in future development efforts. Per
capita costs in the service program are very low, as
demonstrated by the following examples: 1/ sites and
services infrastructure on- and off-site US$125; bustee
improvement, US$41; health services, US$1.50.
(d) The project would develop new residential, commercial
and industrial areas in the CMD and open up additional
areas for future development by extending basic trans-
port and service linkages. This would be of considerable
importance to local authorities' efforts to accommodate
growth in the CMD, which adds 200,000 people to its pop-
ulation each year.
(e) The sites and services component of the project introduces
an integrated low-cost approach to providing accommodation,
community facilities, and employment opportunities. It is
particularly sensitive to the housing needs and preferences
of low-income groups. Approximately 45,400 people will be
accommodated by this portion of the project, 70% of whom
belong to families which earn less than the average family
monthly income in Calcutta and 35% of whom fall in the
bottom 40% in terms of family income. Approximately 3,800
people will be housed in dormitory rental units where monthly
rents fall within the financial capabilities of those as low
as the tenth percentile on the income curve. In addition,
subrental of bed spaces within these units is expected to
accommodate households even below the tenth percentile in
income. In the case of all residential lots and units,
GOWB has agreed to establish equitable beneficiary selec-
tion criteria (Section 3.04(a), West Bengal Agreement)
in order to ensure that low income groups benefit to the
maximum extent possible.
Per capita costs detailed here include design costs and physical
contingencies.



- 25 -
(f) The bustee improvement component combines physical infra-
structure improvements with social and economic support
programs to benefit directly 880,000 bustee dwellers.
Basic services will be provided to all unserviced bustees
in the Calcutta Corporation and Howrah and more than 80%
of the unserviced bustees in other parts of the CMD. The
component will also generate employment for 4,000 laborers,
most of whom will be recruited from the bustee areas.
(g) The primary school component will allow an increase in
enrollment of about 60,000 in primary schools, largely
in slum areas. The accompanying health component will
provide comprehensive health care to a target population
of 175,000 people, again predominantly bustee dwellers.
(h) The small-scale enterprise support program will provide
credit and technical assistance to approximately 4,800
small entrepreneurs, and is expected to result in the
creation of an estimated 8,500 jobs in the small-scale
sector at a capital cost of about US$425 per 15-year job.
(i) Finally, construction of the civil works included in the
project would generate employment for approximately 40,000
persons for a period of four years.
60.       The estimated weighted average of the economic rates of return for
the components of the project with quantifiable benefits (which account for
60% of the total project cost) is 20%. Rates of return for individual com-
ponents whose economic benefits are measurable are: sites and services --
18%; fish and pan market development -- 17%; bustee improvement -- 16%; solid
waste management -- 27%; traffic and transportation -- rates of return for
various subprojects range from 12% to 22%.
61.       An integrated urban development project in a city as economically
troubled as Calcutta inevitably involves substantial risk. The success of
this project is dependent on a number of factors which are not fully predict-
able. In a general sense, Calcutta's ability to meet the needs of its inha-
bitants ultimately rests on the acceleration and success of on-going efforts
to spur the economy of the CMD (see para 28). These programs, in turn, will
require the strong and sustained support of both GOI and GOWB, and our eco-
nomic work program includes a special study of Calcutta's economic decline
to see what national or state-level policies offer the best change of reviving
the city's economy. Success also depends on the effective and early imple-
mentation of planned fiscal reforms. IDA and GOWB have agreed on the nature
and timing of the necessary reforms; delays in implementing them would
adversely effect the long-run financial position of local governing bodies.
Adequate funds for the execution of the proposed project and the operation
and maintenance of the facilities it funds, however, have been guaranteed by
GOWB (see para 41). From a more restricted viewpoint, the financial success
and replicability of the revenue-generating components of the project itself
will require careful observance of the cost recovery measures described above
(paras 51-58). IDA, GOI, and GOWB have reached understandings on the on-



- 26 -
lending terms for small-scale enterprise loans and on the procedures for
establishing downpayments, mortgage charges, and rents in the area development
schemes. Adherence to agreed rate structures will be essential to achievement
of the project's cost recovery goals.
62.       In addition to the question of the CMD's economic and fiscal base,
there is some concern over the management capability of CMDA. Progress under
the first IDA Credit to Calcutta was slowed by deficiencies in program manage-
ment and coordination. In order to overcome these problems, CMDA has under-
gone a major reorganization at the top management level, has set up individual
units to handle various components of the project currently proposed, and has
agreed to install new management information, budgeting, and accounting sys-
tems (Section 3.03, Project Agreement). Annual accounts of CMDA would be
audited and the auditor's report submitted to IDA each year during the project.
Moreover, CMDA's Information and Monitoring Unit is preparing performance mea-
sures in order to closely monitor physical and financial progress under the
proposed project. Nevertheless, it should be recognized that certain compo-
nents of the proposed project (e.g., area development) assign new responsibil-
ities to CMDA. Careful planning and sustained support at the federal and
state levels and close supervision by IDA will be important to ensure effi-
cient program management.
63.       Finally, recurrence of the land acquisition problems which ham-
pered progress under the first IDA Credit to Calcutta could cause delays in
the execution of several components of the second project. Concerted efforts
have been made to guard against delays in land acquisition. Over 50% of the
land required for the project has already been acquired and the remainder has
been notified in accordance with existing land acquisition acts. GOWB has
prepared a land acquisition program in consultation with IDA and has stipulated
that no work would begin on a given subproject without a realistic plan for
acquiring all of the land needed for that subproject. More specifically,
GOWB has confirmed that all land required for health centers included in the
project and 50% of the land required for ward depots and schools will be
acquired by March 31, 1979, and that the remainder of the land required for
ward depots and schools will be acquired by March 31, 1980. A considerable
amount of the land needed in bustee areas will be freed by an already on-going
buffalo relocation scheme. Nevertheless, continued conscientious and timely
attention to the task of land acquisition, particularly for the area develop-
ment program, will be essential if the prescribed project implementation
schedule is to be observed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft West Bengal Agreement between the Association and the State
of West Bengal, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and CMDA,
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of
the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving the
proposed development credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 27 -
65.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 30, 1977






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
INDIA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                       Page 1 of 4
LAND AREA (THOU KM2-
____  ______ __                                 INDIA                              REFERENCE CDUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     3280.5                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.   1780.7                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          INDONESIA     PHILIPPINES    BOAZ IL_
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     60.0*    100.0*    150.0/a*           130.0*     230.0*      550.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR   MILLION)        434.9      547.6     620.4/a            117.6       3B.9        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                     133.0     167.0     189.0/a              62.0      123.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      252.0     308.0     348.c7T             414.0      375.0        49.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)        43.2      41.0       37.0               45.9       44.2        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         23.9       19.0      17.0               20.6       13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      139.0/a       ..     130.0                 ..       80.0       110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      41.7      47.2       49.5                 ..       55.6         9.;
GROSS REPRODUCTIOIN RATE             3.2        2.9       2.8                3.2        3.3         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2.0        2.3       2.2                2.0        3.0         2.9
URBAN                                2.5/b      3.2       3.1                3.7 /a     4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULATION T% OF TOTAL)          17.9      19.8      20.6               17.5 /b    27.8        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      41.0       41.6      40.1 /b            44.0       45.6       42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                      59.9      55.3       56.7 76           53.5        51.6       55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                    3.1        3.1       3.2 75             2.5        2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.8 a       .aB      0 8                0.9        0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1/C      1.1/a     1.2 jc              .         1.5         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)        71.0    14565.0   37658.0              259.3      354.0       250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ..      18.7                 *-        2.0         1.8
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)      175000.0  218000.0   248000.0 /a              ..    12400.0    29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        71.0       69.0      68.0                 *        SS.o /a     40.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           1.0/d      .-       1.7                 ..        7.6         7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD 8i-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           26.7       25.0/b      ..                 ..         ..        35.0 /a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           51.7       53.17T      ..                 ..         ..        62.07W
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            4.1       4.77W       ..                 ..         ..        3.0 71
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           13.6       i3.175      ..                 ..         ..        1.o 75a
DISTRIBUTION OF LANo OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..        .-        ..                 ..         *         45.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST '    OWNERS          ..        ..        ..                 ..          .5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            5840.0/e f4890.0     4220.0            26370.0         .       1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       5310 . O7g220. O/c 36SO.0/d             7630.0/C         .     3220.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL sED         2590.07f 161O. 0         .              1640.O--    ss0.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        95.0       92.0      89.0/e             91.0       93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             55.0       53.0      52.0 75            43.0       45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0       16.0        ..               14.0       22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4           44.0         ..        ..                 ..         6.6
EDUCATlON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      38.0       65.0      79.0/b             6B.0       13.0        87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     9.0         ..      28.0 7             12.0 -     49.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0       12.0      11.0               12.0       10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     8.0        6-0/d      *-               29.0        6.0/b      17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)               24.0       33.0u     36.D/b.f           59.0          ..       64.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               2.6         .-       2.6 8*                        2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS 'WIT'OUT
PIPED WATER (%x                       *-         *-        *-                 *-       76.0        73.0/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..        ..         ..                 ..       23.0        48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTR:CITY (%)                     ..        ..        ..                 ..        7.0         8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          5.0      21.0      24.0              114.0        45.0       60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           0.7       1.0       1.0                2.0        6.0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           46.0     114.0     143.0               20.0      235.0       491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.2       0.3       0.3                0.3         2.0        2.7
__                                          --- - _    - ---- -----------------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of S
NOTE S
UnSleen otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year boc.a.. 1959 -ed 1961, Frr 1970 betwee 1968 -nd 1970, nod for Most Secan.t fE.inete ber.e.n
1973 and 1975.
G NP par vapita data are ba...d en the World Rook Atlas m-ethodnlogv       (1974-76 honlt)
an Brail has been-1 o   leed as an objective country b.esaso     of Eta sloe ond compar-ble proble-t of regional lneqvally.
tNDI;            1960     Ia  1951-61 average       /b   1951-60,     Ic  Ratio of population order 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and noer,
Id  Regiatered applicants for work,        /a  1962,     If  Regfntered, net all practicIng iv the co..etry,        /g   Including
nidw-or lb 1959, Ii 1960-62.
1979     Ia  Satin of popolattoe ceder 15 and h5 anod ovr so labor force age 15 and -oo,             lb  1967-68,     Ic   lnclodlog oidotoen;
/d 1967.
M0ST SECENT EST1I4ATS I 1976, lb 1971, Ic catty of population coder 15 nod 65 aned over so labor force age ES and over,
Id  Tnclodleg miduiv-;        In  1969-71 ovrerge;      /f  Poptlatior  10 yeore aed ever.
INDOhfESIA       1970     /n  1961-71,      lb  1971,     /c  Includinog midwi-e..
PSiILIPPINES      1970    I   A., percencage of e.ploymnor,       /b  Not locladlrag private, --urooal arhoola.
SRAZIL            1970    /a  -iovr-caly active Population;          /b  Soapitol parrono1,       It   Imnide only
Ril, Nom-ber N, 1977
DEPflNITIONI OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou kn2l                                                                      Populatien par e-rainA par-n - POpolatien dtIIded by etabor of practicing
Total -Tocal surface ramer enpriaieg land nonea and inland    etera,male end f-1ai                           graduate  eaa     "trained' or  certIfied" e.ans, an d
vanei.   MoNat recen.t eatleate of agricultural area neead ntnporerlly en porn-             e-ailay personnel wish training or cprtnn
neotly fee trope   peasorr-, arket & kitehan gardena or to lie fallow.                  Populanioen par hoanital bed - Populatien divided by somber of boapital bade
avIlable in public end private general and apvialisad heosical and
GNP oar narita (11055 - CNP per capisa neti-teata at c urresi  arkec pri-ee,                 rahabilitarlen centern, neoledna nuraing homess and netablialmente for
calculated by an-   ceono-raon embeud an Wonrld gosh Atlce (1975-75 basie);               enatedial and preventive care.
1960, 1970 and 1975 dora.                                                               Parv n.ice supply of noeIa1        f r     rclm ete  C-Cepeted from, energy
equselet o  sa  fod spplIan eve-Sebla Iscotyprcaiaprdy
fPunl:tlon end vital ateniatin'                                                             ava'ilalble.taufpp'lite.fcnpriae doment   production, leypnria' lensi tops.tde, and
tonaio  (mid-year mIllion)    An of Joly firer:   if not avilable, average               changes in snook; ant aePpline encluda anleenl feed, needs, quantitias need
nof two end-year aatlnsnten, 1960. 1970 end 1975 dese.                                     in fend prcenning end Imaea in distribution; reetiremete were antitnetd
by FA0 based on physiological weeda for      - nom elativity end health cenald-
Poea todemic -   a   aor     ns  - Mid-y-ar population per square kilometer            sting noviretmi1 tomperature, body weighte, age eand ... dietribtsioma of
flgicaraIo      stelae.                                                                 populanion, and allowing 10% for weetn at hnunhod lava
ioeaio  eety -eo  sqouare kou of norim, land - Cauputad ae aboe far                Per.. cain aeoyo      etein fares oar day) - Protein content of par capita
egrlnlner"      ladd  ly:e                                                                      npply of fend par day; sne suppiy of food in defIned en above, require-
onte for all coentrina esaeblinhed by USDA Economlo Re...oreb leoicee
Vital satistiaic                                                                             provide far a niaimom all1wanc   nf 60 greus of total protein pn day, end
Crude birth rate nor thounand.avre- Annual live btrth. per thousandof                        20 grome of anImal and pulse protein, of which 10 gre    shaould hanImal
aid-year population; tao-v7er _rit"'ntic oveaneg    eding i1960 and 1979,                  pro tein;teh.e  a tandarda are lowr than thone of 75 ares of tameS prosaic
end five-yea   avrg     nding in 1975 for meet recen enatite                               and 23 arena of anImal prostaln aa aneocg     for the weld, proposed by PAO
crude deat rte per thea-nd. -vrege - Annua deaths per thousand of mid-year                   in the Third World Food Survy.
ypopulation ; cn-year nrithnntic   --nrgna ending in 1960 end 1970 end fiv-              Peueie rti           srly fr-r animal and pulan - Protein eupply of food
yravrage ending in 1975 for neat resen.t nati-eta.                                    derIve   fromtani   aennd police lin gres par day.
Ifnt nortality rate f/shoeS    Anneal death.ouf inants ender one year of age             Death rate f/than) eons 1-b - Anneal deanths per thoceand ins age group 1-4
perthousan    lio  bl rth,                                                                 yearnt,O t  hildren in thin age group, nuggesned or an indicator of
Lieaenat   at birt  rea   A-Avrage nobasr of yeeca of life reslaning astentiln
birth, eaaly fiv-yea      averge    ending in 1960, 179 anod 1975 for develop-
Ing coetinE ducation
irn .epoution rate-Avoeraga otaber of live daughtere a      -ea  will bear           Adjuatd enrollment ratio - prinary school - toroliment of eli agr- as per-
in her nora    r-preductive per iod if ab  aparian-e   preent nge-.epeific                 neteg   of peimry cr6oo1-age population, includes children egnd h-li yearn
fartilicy ratee, usually five-ye ar abrguedngi           N0     97   n   95ht djoated for different Isngthn of primar,y ed-ratien; for countriea with
for deveoping nounrine                                                                     unvre      ducation, entnilent may anteed 100% alone aes pupl,n are below
Paroatim anet rae (l -total - Compod annua       growth rates of mid-year             or abava the offiIa     chol age.
popultion for 1950-60,i 1960-r70 san  1970-75.                                         Adloented,enrollent ratIo- -     uacndery echool - Competed as above, secrendary
population aromth rn    X-osan -Ceptned like gr-eth rate of total                            edunanon rquirae    at le ant fnur yru    fapproved primary imettuctian;
populatIon; different definitioes of urban aranmy effect ataparability of                  provide- general.enc..tin     c I teacherfr trining inatrnti`-a fo,r popiln
dateamn     cutries.                                                                       of 12 to 17 years of age; norrrespomdente coursen -r gene.rally nocd.de
lorbes popola.tin (7. af totals -Rtio of urbans toIttal pnpulatlen     different           Yearn of ashneimm  provided (firertend second levelsa - Total yearn of
delinities of urhac areas mayaffec t e      .arnbity of data among cauntriea.             schooling; at necondary level vcatrenal inetrue lien may be partially or
completely aecloded.
one cr-ctar (percent) -,ChIldre      (f-lb rare.), working-age (15.46 yearn),              Von-nienalerlmet(1o         ecne         - OV-iioo-l Ilointiten-    int1ode
udm ed (65 yearn and. oer) an pervoscogse of sid-y-ar popolati.o.                     technical, Industria   orohrpemn           hIch operate independently or as
Ann dpedendoov ratio -SaIn     f pepe    tLe un cder 1) and 65 end owr to thee-              deporueste of orcondary inetirtjotna.
of agee 11 chr-ogh 64                                                                    Adult literary rate it) - Literate adulta (able ta read and write) as per-
Eco2omis deraederra tie - genie of population under 15 end 65 end ove          to            sensage of totel aduli population aged 11 ynare and over.
the labor ferns in age group of 15-64 yenta.
Penilo     l.  inase _o-ansrtee rsnat   .he)-onliv             smbrf ace psorn               . iomg
of bIrch-cotrol devices ender eon pise    of ntoa      aiypann          rgo              P     :Peronret oom (urban) - Average euher of persons per rousn in encupied
sinc  i..eptie                                                                              enntloma     . d iniinais urban arena; deellinga ealude mon-permanet
moltly Plann ing - usea 1% of married woe)-Percentagne of maried wome           of           structuree end oneneupied perts.
chilId-bearing ear (15-44 yenta) rho ear birth-eontr-l devitee ta all Married            Occupied danlln       wthout' needwae    %   - Occupied conventional dwellings
woenI  ame age group.                                                                   inubannd rural arean without       elo.ds or -utaide piped ester facilinien
as prcensage of all occupied dweilinga.
menLWynest                                                                                 Ascea to elcrciy(.ofaldaCil                    -Ceentnio...I dwellinga with
Total labor force fthousand) - SE.nomirally action perne, ineluding armed                    electriciry in ltivig quarters an percen.t of total dwel lIege in urban and
farces and asempoynd.but enniading hene     loe, studernt, etc. ; defiliena-               rura  areas.
Isoroacotrn       ore not comparable                                                 NRa:l dwell1ings     . o nt.d to electricity i   C)-Coputed -e above far rural
Labor forte in arcino1tore         AgS oricol1turol labor fort  (it farming, forencry.       dwling     oly.
bunting and fishing) as p.eretage af total labor farce.
UneaPloped CT of labor force)    U- N pleyad are usalnly defined as persons rho            Connunnion
are able and willing to take    jab, out of a job en a gives day, renamd oat             Radie raeeire(     ttheon       - All nypee of receiv-rn far radio broadcasts
ef  jo, ad nebig wr      a     pnfe      ilospro         a   nedn       n             to gene.ral Public per thousand of populetfon, -eldna unlirenned receivers
wek,ma  nc  e  oparbebtenaetisdet                  ifrn     deietiens                in counnreinaend in years when registration of radio acet wee to effect;
of aemployad end anerce of data, e.g., amploymeet office a,tatiatia, ample                 data for retes.t yearn may non be romparable alone east countries aboliahed
evy,comp.leary unepleynet insurance.                                                  1ic....in&.
Peasenner care (ner then rop) -,Paaaonger earn compri- motor oars seating
tecei dlatribution-NPreentage of private inres (both in ...ah and kind)                      Ieetha    night parses; encludn         1 ...u...a hea-e   end military
reevdby richesr 5%, rinheet 20%, pooreet 20%, and pennert 40% of kone-                     rhiolee,
bolds.                                                                                   fletrin,ity (kwh/vt pet cap) - Annual conooptiom    of induatrial, rsril
pbli nnd private elecrricity in kSllwntt bourn Per capita, gene.rally
Dietrlbunien of lend ns,srahip     Percentagea of lend mind by wsalthieat 1%                 bas.d.en_production dare, witboon a11wane fer losee in grid. bat allo--
end penmant 10% of lend oweeiag for impert                                                                  aed neporta of electrAi.ty
Nemeprint (k/rntse)-PrcPita annua               nesomaptie     in kilograns
Health and Notritien                                                                         entimated from domnain prodactnion Plus net toporta of nawprit
Poelpat,ion ne  ph1yalc n- Population divided by .-es.e of pr-cieing
phnaequalified from a      tedIal srhool at uosive-ety level



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONCUEIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1975   USS 150
/                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~A1BUL RATE OF CR091E (9. constant Prices) @
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76
US$ Bln.        *                                      1960/61-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices            82.8        100.0                                          5.8                 3.7                2.6
Gross Domestio Investment       46.7         20.1
Gross National Saving           16.0         19.3
Current Account Balance         -0.7         -0.8
Resource Gap                    -1.5         -1.8
OUTPUT, LIBOR FORCE AND PRODUCTMTY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor Force                   Per Worker
_ _                        Nil. ~~~~~~~~~~=               %  fNaiAa verg
WUS Bln.             *                 Mwil.-   S6n A18
Agriculture                     24.5             46.6               130.0    72.1            188            64
Industry                        11.8             22.3                20.2    11.2            582           199
Services                        16.3              110.2                      16.7            S42 186
Total/average                   52.6            100.0                180.4  100.0            292           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                      Central Government
(R. ~-Blr       =    =     iof GDP                    (ReBl)                   of GDP
17 6 1975776  1973/74-197576            19757          1975/76   1973/74-1975/76
Current Receipts                 153.34         18.5          16.7                      79.11          11.0         9.8
Current Expenditures             118.77         16.S                                    70.05           9.7         8.8
Current Surplus/Deficit           14.57          2.0          1.4                        9.06           1.3          1.0
Capital Expenditures !/           54.27          7.5          6.2                       40-75           5.6          4.6
External Aasistance (net)         13.89          1.9           1.3                      13.89           1.9          1.5
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                1965/66    p_12       1972/73t  1973a/74   1974/75    1975/76     September 1975   Sept, ber 1976
B illion Re outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                     61.4      122.4      142.2     169.1      187.2      213.6          199.0            238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector              40.8       69.0      82.5       92.9      102.6      108.5          112.8            112.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             28.1       64.4       76.o      90.1      109.5      134.2          106.0             143.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                     January 1976      January 1977
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         24.0       26.4       27.9      27.1       26.2       27.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                       131.6      188.4      207.1     254.2      313.0      302.8          290.0            320.5
Annual peroentage changes ins
Wholesale Price Index                      7-7        4.0        9.9      22.7       23.1                                       10.5
Bank Crdit to Public Sector               12.9       21.3       19.6      12.6       10.4        5.7                             4 7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             12.8       13.6       18.0      18.5       21.5       22.5                            24.6
_a  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversione to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
Q/ Quick Estimates.
S/ Couputed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, inoluding one observtion before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
l Transfers between Center and Sta+es have been netted out.
/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
Al Net bank credit to Government Sector.
/ Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



ECONCMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                                     aNe 4
BALANCE OF PAY11ITS                197'/74       1974/75      i9i5L76      1976/77 h/            1RLBEDI     WORTS (iVlaR 1973/74-1971/762)
Exports of Goods                     3,259        4,174        4,555        5,400               Sugar                       342          9
Imports of Good,                   -3,971       -5,794        -6,085       -5,850               Jute Manufactures           317          8
Trade Balanoe                      - 732         -1,620       -1,530          -450              Tea                         249          6
NFS (net)  j/                        n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        n.e.                 Cotton Textiles            413         10
Iron Ore                    206          5
Resourca Gav                         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.                Engineering Goods           391         10
Oths                      2.071         52
Interest Payments (net)            -  233        - 260         - 250        - 280               Total                     3,989        100
Other Faetor Payments (net) /         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
Not Transferr h/                     n.a.         n.a.          n.e.        n.a.
Balano. on Current Acoounts          n.a.         n.a.          n.a.        n.a.                EX5NAL 1EBT. MARCH 31. 1976
AUS Billion
Offcial Aid
Disbursements                   1,249         1,766        2,326       2,050                Bepayable in foreign currency          12.3
Amortization                    - 459        - 519         - 516       - 560                Repayable through xport of goode        0.7
Transactions with IMF                  75           515          205       - 365                Total Outstanding and Disbursed         13.0
All Other Items                        205           80          559       1,100
1EB  SBRVICE RATIO FOP. 1976/77        15.5  percent 3
In&cease in Reserves (-)             -105            38        - 794      -1,495
Grosa Reserves (end year)            1,416        1,378        2,172       3,667                 IBRD/I4 LEMG. December 31, 1976        (USS ln2.)
Net Reserves (end year)             1,341           783        1,332       3,202
IBRD       IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Outstanding and Disbursed            452.7     3208.4
Imports                               720         1,451        1,417       1,625                Undisbureod                          510.3     1140.5
of wbicht Petroleum                719         1,451        1,417       1,625                Outstanding inoluding
Exports                                20            26           41         U.a IL.Undisbursed                                      963.0     4348.9
of whioh. Petroleum                  16           17           22         n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE J/
Prior to mid-Leoembter 1971   U: 1.00       =  R- 7.5                                            After end June 1972    t   Floating Rate
R. 1.00  = US$0.133333                                        Spot Rate March 31, 1976
Mid-Deoember 1971 to           I  US$1.00   = R- 7.27927                                                    approx. US$1.00 * Rs.   8.80475
end June 1972                   Rs 1.00   = USSO.137376                                                   approx. Rs .OO = USS    0.113575
V Estimated.
i/ Included with 'All other Items'.
k Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
2/ Including garments.
jj Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transactions) as a peroentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1977)
Loan or                                                                                                  US$ Million- l
Credit No.            Year      Borrower                      Purpose                                 (Net of Cancellation)
BANK       IDA      Undisbursed
39 Loans/                                                                                     1,091.5
47 Credits fully disbursed                                                                                2,527.4
614-IN                1969       India         Tarai Seeds                                       13,0        --           3.6
250-IN                1971       India         Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit                     --          35.0        1.3
264-IN                1971       India         Cochin II Fertilizer                               --20.0                  0.3
267-IN                1971       India         Wheat Storage                                      --5.0                   3.5
294-IN                1972       India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                         --14.0                 10.1
312-IN                19 72      India         Population                                         --21.2                  7. 6
342-IN                1972       India         Education                                          --12.0                 10.1
356-IN                19 72      India         IDBI                                                -2 5 .0               11.7
377-IN                19 73      India         Power Transmission III                             --85.0                 15.5
378-IN                1973       India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                        --           8.0        7.0
902-IN                19 73      ICICI         Industry DFC X                                    70.0          --         8.9
390-IN                19 73      India         Bombay Water Supply                                --         55.0        33.1
392-IN                19 73      India         Utter Pradesh Agricultural Credit                  --38.0                  6.1
403-IN                19 73      India         Telecosmmunications V                              --80.0                  7.1
427-IN                1973       India         Calcutta Urban Development                         --35.0                 12.6
440-IN                1973       India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                          --32.0                 16.9
456-IN                19 74      India         HP Apple Processing & Marketing                    --13.0                  9 .9
481-IN                1974       India         Trombay IV                                         --         50.0        16.2
1011-IN                19 74      India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                           52.0          --        37 .9
482-IN                19 74      India         Karnataka Dairy                                    --          30.0       29.5
502-IN                1974       India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                                --83.0                 55.2
520-IN                1974       India         Sindri Fertilizer                                  --91.0                 28,0
521-IN                1974       India         Rajasthan Dairy                                     -2 7. 7               27.1
522-IN                1974       India         Madhya Pradesh Dairy                               --16.4                 15.6
526-IN                1975       India         Drought Prone Areas                                --         35.0        26.1
1079-IN                1975       India         IFFCO Fertilizer                                 109.0          --        8 3. 7
1097-IN                19 75      India         Industry DFC XI                                  100.0          --        46.3
532-IN                1975       India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                        --         45.0        2 7.0
541-IN                1975       India         West Bengal Agricultural Development               --34 .0                28.0
562-IN                1975       India         Chainbal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                      -          24.0        20.0
572-IN                1975       India         Rural Electrification                               -5 7 .0               5 2.4
582-IN                1975       India         Railways XIII                                      --        110.0        30.5
585-IN                1975       India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                         --40.0                 39.3
598-IN                1975       India         Fertilizer Industry                                --        105.0       95.6
604-IN                1975       India         Power Transmission IV                              --        150.0      150.0
609-IN                19 75      India         Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                       --4.0                   3. 9
610-IN                1976       India         Integrated Cotton Development                      --18.0                 18.0
616-IN                1976       India         Industrial Imports XI                              --        200.0         5.0
1251-IN(TW)            1976       India         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                        145.0          --      145.0
1260-IN                19 76      India         1DBI II                                           40.0         --         38.6
1273-IN                1976       India         National Seed                                     25.0         --        25.0
1313-IN                1976       India          Telecormmunications VI                           80.0         --        46.5
1335-IN                1976       India         Bombay Urban Transport                            25.0          -        2 3. 9
680-IN                1977      -India         Kerala Agricultural Development                    --         30.0       30.0
682-IN                1977       India         Orissa Agricultural Development                    --20.0                20.0
685-IN                1977       India         Singrauli Thermal Power                            --        150.0      150.0
687-IN                1977       India         Madras Urban Development                           --24.0                 24.0
695-IN                1977 .     India         Gujarat Fisheries                                  --4.0                  4.0
1394-IN(TW)            1977       India         Gujarat Fisheries                                 14.0         --         14.0
690-IN                1977       India         West Bengal Agricultural Development               --         12.0        12.0
712-IN                1977       India         Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development            --10.0                10.0
715-IN                1977       India         Second ARDC Credit                                 --        200.0      200.0
720-IN                1977       India         Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                          --23.0                23.0
728-IN                1977       India         Assam Agricultural Development                     --8.0                  8.0
*1473-IN                19 77      India         Bombay High Offshore Development                 150.0         --       150.0
* 736-IN                1977       India         Maharashtra Irrigation                             --          70.0       70.0
* 737-IN                19 77      India          Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                  --13.0                13.0
* 740-IN                1977       India          Orissa Irrigation                                 --         58.0        58.0
*1475-IN                1977       ICICI          Industry DEC XII                                 80.0          --        80.0
Total                                                                   1,992.2     4,991.0
of which has been repaid                                               818.B        30.8
Total now outstanding                                                   1,173.4     4,960.2
Amount Sold                                      111.5
of which has been repaid                     111.5                   ___        ____
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                          1,173.4     4,960.2
Total undisbursed                                                         473.5     1,301.3
*Not yet effective.
1/    Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                             Amount (US$ million)
Year         Company                             Loan     Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5       -        1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9       -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4       -        1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2       -        0.2
19>3-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.7      0.3       1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8      0.4       1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8      1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0      0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.0      0.1       1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6      2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1      3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                         6.6       -        6.6
TOTAL                           49.6      8.8      58.4
Less:  Sold                             6.0      1.6        7.6
Repaid                          13.2       -       13.2
Cancelled                        6.2      0.7       6.9
Now Held                        24.2      6.5      30.7
Undisbursed                      5.6       -        5.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,775
million as of September 30, 1977, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Prolect; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit-and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80 million loan of June 23, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium and large scale
industries, which are often employing high technology and are export oriented.
Loans 1097-IN and 902-IN are fully committed and disbursements have reached
51% and 87% of total loan amounts respectively as of September 30, 1977, which
is slightly ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date:  September 12, 1969; Closing Date:   Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
All the above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credits 540 and 715 are a continuation nationwide of the previous program of
agricultural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart
from initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due
to the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
This project is jointly financed with the Kingdom of Sweden. Total
project costs are about US$15 million, of which IDA, Sweden and GOI are each
contributing US$5 million. The project originally consisted of construction
of ten 10,000 ton capacity bag storage warehouses and ten 20,000 ton capacity
bulk storage silos, consulting and engineering services, training and an all-
India grain storage study. Implementation got off to a very slow start due



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13
to problems in selecting and hiring engineering consultants and in acquiring
suitable sites for construction of silos. Delays also resulted from the
original bidding procedures, which required bulking of silos before bidding,
which proved to be impractical and had to be changed. These delays were
further compounded by substantial cost escalation which resulted in a re-
appraisal of the project in early 1975. The number of silos was reduced
from 10 to 5 to keep costs in line with appraisal estimates. The Closing
Date of the project was extended by three years, to September 30, 1978.
Progress of the project is now satisfactory. The warehouse storage compo-
nent has been fully disbursed and silo construction is proceeding well.
The all-India grain storage study has been satisfactorily completed, and
has provided much of the information on grain production and storage and
distribution requirements upon which the proposed second foodgrain storage
project is based. Disbursements of the first project are expected to be com-
pleted by the revised Closing Date of September 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found substantial improve-
ment in project implementation and apple grower response has been encouraging.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Prolect; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22. 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1977, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Proiect; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
For Power Transmission III all equipment has been ordered;
for Power Transmission IV, bids for all equipment have been invited and
most orders have been placed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date:  April 28, 1975; Closing Date:   March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about four months because of longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment. Under the Sindri project plant con-
struction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule except
for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt 6f some materials.
Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978. The anti-
cipated cost to complete the project is presently running within budget. The
IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock
from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts.
The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as feedstock.
Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being ordered,
and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase
the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The project has
encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the
Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not
materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments.
The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes
training of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and
evaluation of the project's economic impact. As of June 30, 1977, develop-
ment plans had been completed for 48 of the 50 project markets. The remain-
ing 2 are pending land acquisitions. Appraisals and loan sanctions had been



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13
completed for 13 and was in progress for 18 markets. Farmers and traders
served by the 8 market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing
activities and improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka
project is improving. As of June 30, 1977, appraisals for 36 of the 39 proj-
ect market yard plans had been completed by participating banks and 25 of
these 36 approved by ARDC. Construction is in progress at 33 markets. In an
attempt to accelerate project progress, more liberal lending terms have been
provided to APMCs and Market Intermediaries (MIs) for construction of shop-
cum-godowns. The project is expected to be completed by the closing date
(December 1979) and to achieve its major objectives of making farm produce
marketing more efficient and improving farmers' terms of trade.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit w.
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976: Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 10% of the loan amount
had been authorized by mid-May 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:   March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded.  This has considerably sped up disbursements which had been slow.
Financial performance of the project entity during 1976/77 was satisfactory,
and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure continuing financial
viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a half of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30. 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. Technical ser-
vices investments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock
imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have
been formed and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing
of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant-designs are
ready, and procurement is making adequate progress. Karnataka's decision to
procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier in the
Karnataka project.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:   September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Proiect: US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of April 1977, orders
had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and tenders
had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production in steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year to
September 30, 1978 in order to complete implementation of the project.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. The contract for the feasibility
study has been awarded.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project finances equipment and civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and increased cotton produc-
tion in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton
ginneries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Project management and coordination were established
and the cotton production program has been pursued energetically. Implementa-
tion of the research and industrial components has started.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The National Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds pro-
duction as planned, having handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC).
Detailed production programs, by variety and responsible institution, have
been prepared for breeder, foundation and certified generations. GOI and
State Governments have made equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financ-
ing of major project activity. Orders will shortly be placed for processing
machinery to provide bridging capacity pending the construction of new pro-
cessing plants. Tender documents for the first purchases of farm machinery
have been finalized.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Ln. No. 1335    Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Contracts for a first tranche of 325 single and 175 double deck
bus chassis have been awarded, and bidding for the balance of bus chassis is
in progress. Contracts for 275 single and 175 double deck bus bodies have
also been awarded. As for civil works, contracts have been awarded for 6
of 19 bus facilities, and for 11 of about traffic engineering schemes. The
Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority, has employed
consultants to assist it in organization, administrative and financial man-
agement systems, and accounting. The beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay
Municipal Corporation, and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Under-
taking, are in the process of employing consultancy assistance in traffic
engineering, and operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:   June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685     Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1473    Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980



ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
1 year
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CIDA)
assisted by state and local government agencies.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project
July 1976/August 1976
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
December 1976; February 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
October 21, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
March 31, 1978
Section II    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III   Special Conditions
(a) Consultation with IDA over any major changes to the
agreed 1977-82 investment program (para 41).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) Assurance by GOWB that adequate funds will be made
available to CMDA to enable it to carry out the agreed
five-year investment program for 1977-82 (para 41).
(c) Assurance by GOWB that local bodies will be provided with
sufficient funds to operate and maintain existing munici-
pal services and facilities and services transferred to
them under the project (para 58).
(d) Establishment of inter-agency working groups where
necessary (para 42).
(e)  Establishment of equitable beneficiary selection criteria
for area development schemes (para 60).
(f) Establishment of the Central Valuation Board by April 1,
1978 and revaluation of lands and buildings in the CMD
by April 1, 1982 (para 38).
(g) Reorganization of the Department of Municipal Services
(DMS) by March 31, 1979 (para 38).
(h) Review of the management structure of the CC and imple-
mentation of appropriate reforms by April 1, 1979 (para 38).
(i) Preparation of a revised grant structure for local bodies
in the CMD and implementation of the new grant system by
April 1, 1980 (para 38).
(j) Creation of a new administrative unit in the CMD by April 1,
1979 (para 38).
(k) Establishment by the CC of a separate account for water and
sewerage expenditures; diversion of funds to this account
from the CC's general revenues as required to cover water
and sewerage expenditures during the period April 1, 1978
through March 31, 1981 (para 38).
(1) Separation of water and sewerage charges and taxes from
the consolidated property tax in the CC by April 1, 1981;
imposition of ear-marked water and sewerage taxes and
charges sufficient to meet 84% of the CC's water and sewer-
age expenditures in fiscal year 1981/82 and thereafter (para
38).
(m)  Preparation by December 31, 1978 of a plan for institutional
responsibility for collection of water and sewerage revenues
(para 38).



ANNEX III
Page 3
(n) Preparation of a program for metering water connections
from April 1, 1979 through March 31, 1982 (para 38).
(o) Assumption by operating agencies of debt-service obli-
gations for revenue-earning components of the project
not later than April 1, 1982 (para 46).
(p) Imposition of specified property tax revenue collection
targets for CC and required revenue/expenditure ratios
for CC and other local bodies (para 38).
(q) Installation by CMDA of a revised project budgeting and
accounting system by April 1, 1979; a management infor-
mation system by April 1, 1979; a project monitoring
system by April 30, 1978; and a project appraisal system
by July 31, 1978 (para 38).
(r) Timely acquisition of land required for the project
(para 63).



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
r;STRI-7 `  ATHII'd   TT A L IE r '.;.niirr  icr   -.  - ,N
.5-ilh*fINADIA
-    -il-1 - ,j                                    ( 
.,                               bo .R T t 'L-lt 0 
.--1 ,;-.1-%                                  A''t        ''1   -
_____  ;,;-  r. .-t..- e ' 1le  
      -.;1.,,1,:, 's.1.5- ;. 1' .' 1 .:ri _s  I_
-  -  -s tr:-..5.A1 ... fl;-..  (         ~| * -  '  - i  -
-~~~       I-
;_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -tXr 
_ __,__!__._-I-                            t  PARG N PARGAArJS
I N  I A  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JI'- 
.,1t  001 A4
T        r /~~~- - .~          S              .t  S  I,
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- i      - 
S           ' G A N A--Q                      I
I2 PARGSANA/S ^I . 
PAKISTRUTAAN\\1 
,/e N 7  CALCUTTA ,l,/                               , 
:3 i        engr                                    Oo  
INDIA     .? ttI/ NgUR                                 5. G
Boy..P...........,,, ,,,.({vR ,,, 



