Report No. 1662a-IN
India
Appraisal of the Second Calcutta r LL
Urban Development Project
November 23, 1977
Urban Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Except where otherwise indicated, all
figures are quoted in Indian Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00           = Rs 8.6
Rs 1.00       5   = US$0.12
Rs 1 lakh (10    = US$11,630
Rs 1 crore (10 ) = US$1.16 million
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter              = 0.39 inches (in)
1 meter (m)       2       = 39.37 inches (in) or 3.28 ft
1 square meter (  )       = 10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m )        = 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2  = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) = 0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)            = 2.47 acres (ac) or 10,00 square
meters
1 liter (1)               = 1.057 quarts liquid or
0.26 US gallon (gal) or
0.908 quart dry (qt)
1 liter per capita
per day (lcd)           = 0.26 US gallons per capita per day
1 cubic metSr per
second (m /sec)         = 86.4 million liters per day or 22
million US gallons per day
I million liters per
day (mld)               = 0.01 cubic meters per second
I million liters per
hour (ml/hr)            = 0.24 cubic meters per second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVNIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI       Government of India
GOWB      Government of West Bengal
CMDA      Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
CC        Calcutta Corporation
CIT       Calcutta Improvement Trust
HIT       Howrah Improvement Trust
CWMSA     Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority
WBHB      West Bengal Housing Board
WIBSIC    West Bengal Small Industries Corporation
CSSI      Government of West Bengal - Directorate of Cottage and Small-Scale
Industries
I and W   Government of West Bengal - Irrigation and Waterways Directorate
SSE       Small-scale enterprises
DMS       Department of Municipal Services
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
./ 



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............. .. ..............   i-vi
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................           1
II.   BACKGROUND  ...........................................          I
A.   Urban Development in West Bengal ........1........ 
B.   Calcutta Metropolitan District .................     .     2
III.   THE PROJECT ..........................................           4
A.   Main Features ...................................          5
B.   Capacity to Implement the Second
Project; Risks and Uncertainties ....        ..........  8
C.   Detailed Description ............................          9
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, EXECUTION AND FINANCING ...         ............    19
A.   Cost Estimates ............... ..       .................    19
B.   Execution ................... ....................    20
C.   Financing ................... ....................    22
D.   Cost Recovery and Service Pricing ..         .............    24
E.   Procurement and Disbursement ..          ..................    27
F.   Supervision ..................       ...................    29
V.   ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT & FINANCES OF CMDA,
CALCUTTA CORPORATION AND LOCAL BODIES ..         ..............   29
A.   Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority   .....    29
B.   Municipal Administration and Finance in
the CMD ...................      ....................    34
VI.   JUSTIFICATION ........................................          40
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......        ................................    45
This report is based on the findings of Messrs. D.B. Cook (Chief of Mission),
Ms. C. Gochenour, J. Pettigrew, S. Whitehead and K. Willen assisted by
K. Huddart, F. Flintoff and B. Menezes (consultants) who visited India to
commence the appraisal of this project in December 1976. A follow-up mis-
sion in February/March 1977 consisting of D.B. Cook, M. Mould, L. Casazza,
W. Schaefer, F. Kahnert, K. Willen, W. Bertelsmeier, assisted by F. Flintoff,
B. Menezes, K. Huddart and H. Lubell (consultants) completed the appraisal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES                          TITLE                               Page No.
1.  Area Development ........................ 0                   48
2.  Bustee Improvement ..... ........................  .           78
3.  Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage ..o..o   .................   86
4.  Solid Wastes Management and Sanitary Latrines ... o .........   97
5.  Primary School Construction, Health and Small-Scale
Enterprise Components .................................  107
6.  Municipal and Anchal Development ..... ................ ......  133
7.  Traffic and Transportation ..............   o    .................  137
8.  Consulting Services, Technical Assistance and Training ....   152
9.  Municipal Administration and Finances in the CMD ..........   156
10.  Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority .............. .  166
11.  Disbursement Schedule, Project Implementation Schedule,
and Key Administrative, Financial, Legislative and
Technical Assistance Actions ...........................  175
12.  Detailed Cost Estimates, Five-Year Investment Program,
Equipment to be Financed and Executing Agencies ... ......   182
CHARTS
17580    CMDA - Proposed Organizational Structure        ....  186
PHOTOGRAPHS
1.  Existing Conditions for Washerman, East Calcutta ............   187
2.  Street Flooding in Low-Lying CMD Area  ........ ...................  188
3.  Loading Solid Wastes from an Overflowing Street Dump .... o......  189
4.  Typical Bustee Conditions ..................... . .............   189
5.  Congestion in the Howrah Fish Market ............... ............  190
SKETCHES
17572    Economically Weaker Sections I & II - Rental Housing ......   191
17573    Economically Weaker Section III - Ownership Housing  .o ...   192
17574    Economically Weaker Section IV - Ownership Housing ... o....  193
17575    Lower Income Group - Ownership Housing ........... o........  194
17576    Isometric of Cluster of Core Houses of Types EWS III,
EWS IV and LIG   ..195
17577-8  Howrah Fish and Pan Market Development (2) ................  196/197
MAPS
12873    State Districts within Calcutta Metropolitan District
12874    Transportation and Traffic Improvement Schemes
12875    Typical Bustee Improvement Plan
12876    Primary School Coverage in Calcutta Corporation Area
12877    Institutional Health Services in Calcutta Corporation Area
12878    CMDA Water Supply Service Districts and Major Facilities
12879    CMD Drainage Basins and Sewerage Zones
13016    East Calcutta Area Development
13017    Typical Four Hectare Residential Cluster



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of India (GOI) has sought IDA assistance for a
second urban development project in Calcutta to assist the Government of
West Bengal (GOWB) to improve institutions responsible for delivering,
maintaining and operating urban services and systems, to improve fiscal
policy and management, and to institute an effective system for monitoring
urban investments in the Calcutta Metropolitan District (CMD). Through the
project, existing municipal services would be rehabilitated by management and
system reforms; prior investments would be better utilized by the construction
of secondary and tertiary systems to improve access to urban services, in-
cluding housing; and employment opportunities would be created for small-scale
enterprises. The project would be instrumental in identifying affordable
project designs for developing new areas in accordance with the governzent s
policy of spacial decentralization and in mobilizing private capital.
ii.       Nearly 10 million people now inhabit Calcutta, a 70 km long metro-
polis. It is the pre-eminent city of eastern India, capital of West Bengal
and a metropolis to the 150 million who live and work in the nine states that
comprise the least urbanized of India's major regions. From Orissa to the
south in a great arc through Tripura to the east, one-quarter of India's
total population lives in a largely rural landscape. Of the 21 million of
them who live in urban areas, 46% live in the CM[, the remainder in the small
cities and towns that dot the 640,000 square kilometers of the region.
Approximately 5.5 million people living in the CMD reside in slums and the
whole area is characterized by deficient urban services. Only two river
bridges serve motorized vehicles, trams and pedestrians and the economic
development of the CMD is thereby severely constrained. Facilities for
pedestrians, the dominant travel mode, are very poor.
iii.      The population growth rate in Calcutta is quite moderate compared
with other cities in developing countries. Nevertheless, the provision of
urban services has not kept pace with demand, particularly for low-income
groups. The existing housing programs of GOWB are small and serve mainly
middle-income groups. The role of the informal business sector, which pro-
bably accounts for over 50% of employment in the ClMD, is not well understood.
Current health programs remain fragmented, uncoordinated and are not linked to
the curative facilities. There are serious deficiencies in the provision of
primary school facilities and only 66% of eligible children are currently
enrolled.
iv.       The proposed credit would be the second to assist in Calcutta's
development. The $35 million credit under the first Calcutta project (427-IN)
of 1973 responded to the need to rapidly increase and coordinate urban invest-
ments in the CMD in order to start to address the serious deficiencies in all
urban services. It supported about 40 out of 130 schemes being implemented
by Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (C14DA) and represented 34% of
CMDA's budget for the period 1973-76.



- ii -
The proposed second project differs from the first in many ways. It is large
and, together with the remaining portion of the first credit, represents over
77% of CMDA's identified program for 1977/78-1981/82.  About 55% of expendi-
tures made during the period 1973-1976 were allocated to utility infrastruc-
ture; this reduces to about 33% under the proposed second project. The
changes allow a larger proportion to be spent on low income area development
schemes, bustee improvement, primary school and health facilities, small-scale
enterprise programs, traffic engineering and on solid wastes management, all
of which will facilitate project benefits reaching the urban poor. The pro-
posed second project places a much greater emphasis on operations and main-
tenance and it aims to considerably improve maintenance of water supply
facilities, sewers and drains, roads and footways and solid wastes management,
particularly in the Calcutta Corporation (CC) area.
v.         The project would provide:
(a) residential, industrial and commercial sites and
services development involving a low-cost integrated
approach to providing accommodation, community facili-
ties and employment opportunities. Residential accom-
modation will be provided for about 45,400 people,
70% of whom belong to families earning less than the
average family income;
(b)  redevelopment of the howrah fish and pan (betel leaf)
market;
(c) participation in an ongoing bustee improvement program
which provides basic infrastructure services in approx-
imately 420 slums covering 1,400 ha and serving about
1,104,000 people, at a cost of US$40.6 per capita;
(d) construction of 40 new primary schools and the
remodelling and extension of 400 existing schools;
(e) training, equipment and buildings for a pilot health
program serving 175,000 people;
(f) US$3.5 million equivalent of institutional credit 1/
and studies to assist approximately 4,800 very small-
scale businessmen, i.e. an average loan of US$725;
(g) fringe area and municipal water supplies to provide
90 lcd to about 900,000 persons; improvement to tubewell
supplies in the central area; and renovation of the Palta-
Tallah water system to supply 730 Mld to Calcutta Corpora-
tion;
1/   To be provided by selected commercial banks.



- iii -
(h)  provision of sewers, including house connections,
to some areas of Calcutta Corporation and Howrah
presently served by bucket latrines; cleaning of
650 km of partially blocked sewers in Calcutta Cor-
poration area; improvement of storm water drains; and
installation of over 12,000 prefabricated sanitary
latrines to replace bucket latrines;
(i)  rehabilitation of the system of refuse collection,
street cleaning and nightsoil collection in Calcutta
Corporation area, population 3.15 million people; and
pilot projects to develop long-term solutions to
solid wastes management;
(j)  provision of water supply, drainage and sanitation
and road works in the rural fringe (anchal) areas
of the CMD;
(k)  traffic engineering with emphasis on pedestrians
and slow-moving vehicles, new roads and road improve-
ments to facilitate economic development;
(1)  technical assistance to State Government agencies,
Calcutta Corporation and the Calcutta Metropolitan
Development Authority.
Related key management and financial reforms in both CMDA and municipal
government are summarized in paras vi - x.
vi.       Progress under the first credit has been slow, primarily due to
deficiencies in project budgeting, sanctioning and monitoring, civil engineer-
ing tendering procedures, delays in land acquisition and inadequate management
information. The first project was redefined in 1976 and is now expected
to be about 90% completed in 1979 instead of 1976 as envisaged at the time
of original appraisal. CMDA, however, has been operating for only six years
in an urban environment that was completely run-down and a political environ-
ment that has forced the Authority to stretch its program until it became too
thin. The problem is essentially one of program management, and throughout
1976 GOWB and IDA have had a continuing dialogue concerning this problem.
GOWB has introduced senior management changes and a Chief Executive and
a top management team consisting of Directors of Planning, Operations, Finance
and Administration have been appointed. In addition, GOWB has permitted CMDA
to develop a five year (1977-82) investment program and is encouraging the
development by CMDA of modern project appraisal, monitoring, long-term budget-
ing and budget control techniques.
vii.      The municipal corporations and municipalities (local authorities)
in CMD are responsible for development, operation and maintenance of most
urban infrastructure services. Their organization, management and finances
are in serious disorder. Property tax, their principal fiscal base, has



- iv -
been eroded by adverse legislation, litigation and inefficiency, so that many
authorities have no adequate means of supporting their services. The first
project included steps to initiate municipal reform, and the proposed second
project includes further measures which are urgently needed to upgrade
the technical and financial capability of municipal bodies to operate and
maintain services and facilities, particularly those created under the CMDA
program.  In Calcutta Corporation, the  departments responsible for solid
wastes management and road maintenance will be strengthened; a water and
sewerage fund will be established; water and sewerage charges will be delinked
from the consolidated property tax system and the operation and maintenance of
these services put on a rational footing; and studies will be commenced to
improve the management and financial systems and stores handling and control
procedures.
viii.     The State Government has decided to take over responsibility for
property assessment. A Central Valuation Board will be established for the
whole state, and will commence by evaluating properties in the CMD.  The
first revaluation should be completed by March 31, 1982 and financial benefits
should be available in 1982/83. In the meantime, the GOWB will require local
authorities to annually increase the proportion of local government expendi-
tures financed from local revenues. The State Government will subvent any
financial shortfall necessary to achieve a minimum satisfactory level of
operation and maintenance of municipal services.
ix.       The above measures will improve the performance of CMDA in planning,
programming and delivering urban services and start a process of improvement
in municipal administration and finance which will gradually improve urban
management throughout metropolitan Calcutta. Recent changes and proposed
actions by GOWB should enable CC to finance over 80% of local expenditures
from local self-generated revenues by 1981/82, and at the same time, all other
local authorities should be financing at least 50% by 1981/82.
x.        The extent of technical assistance and advisory services to be
provided to CMDA, CC and the GOWB is considerable. The services to be pro-
vided include:
(a) assistance to the West Bengal Department of Municipal
Services (DMS) for local government training and develop-
ment of a central valuation system;
(b) assistance to CC in management and financial systems and
the collection and disposal of solid wastes; and
(c) assistance to CMDA in management, planning and pro-
gramming of capital projects; a ground water survey
and study and assistance in the design of area develop-
ment, roads, sewerage and traffic engineering schemes
undertaken by CMDA.



- v -
xi.       Project costs total about US$184 million, including contingencies.
Land acquisition costs amount to approximately US$11.7 million 1/ and foreign
exchange costs are estimated at about US$24 million or 13% of project costs.
Cost estimates are based mostly on final engineering designs and on recent
bids for similar works and equipment.
xii.      The project will be executed by GOWB agencies (mainly CMDA), nomi-
nated commercial banks, Calcutta Corporation and other municipal agencies.
Where inter-agency cooperation is required, e.g., in area development and
small-scale enterprise support programs, the GOWB will establish inter-agency
working groups. CMDA will be responsible for coordination and monitoring of
project components.
xiii.     The proposed IDA credit of US$87 million would finance 50% of total
project cost, excluding    taxes and duties (US$5.1 million) and the cattle
compounds at East Calcutta 2/. The proceeds of the credit would be made to
the Government of India which would pass the US$87 million on to GOWB on its
standard terms and conditions. In addition, GOI will ensure that selected
commercial banks will make US$3.5 million equivalent available as loans to
small-scale entrepreneurs.
xiv.      Contracts for equipment estimated at about US$13 million equivalent,
net of taxes, will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. A 15% margin of preference
or customs duty, whichever is lower, would be granted to local manufacturers
when evaluating bids. Contracts for equipment that is unsuitable for inter-
national competitive bidding, estimated at about US$8.5 million equivalent net
of taxes, will be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts for civil
works amount to an estimated US$85.5 million equivalent. ICB will be sought
for individual civil works contracts estimated to cost US$3 million equivalent
or more and totalling about US$7.5 million equivalent. A 7-1/2% margin
of preference would be granted to local contractors when comparing bids.
Other contracts for civil works, with an estimated total value of about US$78
million equivalent will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
advertised on an all-India basis and in accordance with procedures acceptable
to IDA, or undertaken by force account. These works tend to be small and
scattered and would not be of interest to international contractors. Suit-
able civil works will be "sliced and packaged" into contract packages of
not less than US$1.1 million equivalent; works estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent may be carried out by force account.
xv.       Retroactive financing not exceeding US$5 million is recommended for
(i) expenditures incurred from April 1, 1977, for detailed design work in area
development (US$0.50 million) and solid wastes management (US$0.35 million),
design and ongoing works for roads and traffic engineering (US$0.90 million),
ongoing works in bustees (US$1.20 million) and in water supply (US$0.60 million);
1/   Net of contingencies.
2/   Being financed by the Netherlands Government.



and (ii) expenditures incurred from October 1, 1977, for ongoing works in
municipal and anchal development (US$0.25 million), the sanitary latrine
component (US$0.10 million), sewerage and drainage (US$0.75 million), and
technical assistance (US$0.35 million). These activities are necessary to
ensure program continuity and to secure expeditious project implementation.
xvi.      The project would alleviate urban poverty by reducing costs and
improving access to basic services. The small-scale enterprise support
component will create about 8,500 jobs with a 15 year minimum life at a
cost, including extension services and other costs, of approximately US$425
per job. Investments in civil works will employ approximately 40,000 persons
at a capital cost of US$1,125 per job.
xvii.     The economic rate of return is estimated at 20% on the average
for those components of the project for which benefits could be quantified.
For the remaining components, the project ensures that the investments pro-
posed are the least cost. Both the first project and the proposed second
project form part of ongoing programs and it is not easy for them to be seen
as discrete projects which can be justified in isolation. Certain investments
based on studies undertaken in the 1960's are already committed or partially
completed and it is necessary to finish them. As far as can be ascertained,
however, the composition and size of individual components are as near an
optimal mix as is possible, taking into account the previous planning effort,
Calcutta's needs, Government and Bank Group objectives, institutional capa-
bilities and financial constraints.
xviii.    The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$87 million
equivalent.



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has sought IDA assistance for a
second urban development project in Calcutta to assist the Government of
West Bengal (GOWB) to improve institutions responsible for delivering,
maintaining and operating urban services and systems, to improve fiscal
policy and management, and to institute an effective system for monitoring
urban investments in the Calcutta Metropolitan District (CMD). Through the
project, existing municipal services would be rehabilitated by management and
system reforms; prior investments would be better utilized by the construction
of secondary and tertiary systems to improve access to urban services, in-
cluding housing; and employment opportunities would be created for small-scale
enterprises. The project would be instrumental in identifying affordable
project designs for developing new areas in accordance with the government s
policy of spacial decentralization and in mobilizing private capital. This
would be the third IDA Credit for urban development in India and the second
credit for assistance to Calcutta. The first credit to assist Calcutta was
made in 1973 and the other credit, to help finance urban development in
Madras, was approved in March 1977. A Bank loan was made in 1976 to the
Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority to improve bus transport
and metropolitan planning in Greater Bombay.
1.02      The proposed project was first suggested in 1975 by the GOI and GOWB
and was prepared by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA)
assisted by state and local government agencies. It continues the work
already started under the first credit and expands the CMDA program into
employment creation, health services and primary school construction.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of Messrs. D.B. Cook (Chief
of Mission), Ms. C. Gochenour, J. Pettigrew, S. Whitehead and K. Willen
assisted by F. Flintoff, K. Huddart and B. Menezes (consultants) who visited
India to commence the appraisal of this project in December 1976. A follow-up
mission in February/March 1977 consisting of D.B. Cook, M. Mould, L. Casazza,
W. Schaefer, F. Kahnert, K. Willen, W. Bertelsmeir assisted by F. Flintoff,
K. Huddart, H. Lubell and B. Menezes (consultants) completed the appraisal.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Urban Development in India and West Bengal
2.01      India's present urban population of 130 million, about 21% of
the total population of 625 million, is expected to approach 300 million by



-2-
the year 2000, representing annual rates of increase of 3R-3.5%. Some 4.3
million persons are now added to the urban population annually. Compared with
an urban population growth rate of 5.5% for the world as a whole, the present
Indian growth rate of 3.3% is low. However, the growth is impressive in
absolute terms. Much of the growth is taking place in the 133 medium-sized
cities with populations of 100,000 or more, which grew at an average rate of
6.6% annually between 1961-71 and which account for 52% of all urban popula-
tion. If present trends continue, there would be 43 Indian cities with
populations of more than one million by the year 2000. The nine largest
cities with populations of more than one million are growing at an average
rate of 3.3%.
2.02      A national policy to deal with rapid urban growth and to explicitly
incorporate urban development into a broader economic development framework
is still at an early stage of discussion and is largely based on physical
concepts. Prime responsibility for urban development rests at the state level
and many states, including West Bengal, are making serious efforts to develop
strategies for the sector. However, local government institutions and plan-
ning mechanisms are generally weak. Inadequate resource mobilization at the
local government level has resulted in serious deficiencies in the provision
and maintenance of urban service facilities.
2.03      West Bengal, with a population of 44.3 million in 1971, is the
second most densely populated state in India after Kerala. In 1976 its
population approximated to 49 million with about 13 million (or 27%) living in
urban areas. Calcutta, the capital of West Bengal, is the largest city in
India and the population living in the CMD in 1977 is approaching 10 million
or over 70% of West Bengal's urban population.
B. Calcutta Metropolitan District
Perspective
2.04      The CMD, stretching north and south for almost 70 km along both
sides of the Hooghly River, is not a single administrative unit, but it has
been delineated as a planning region through executive action by GOWB. It
remains the dominant urban center in eastern India, which comprises nine
states with a population of about 150 million. The estimated 9.7 million
people living in the CMD represent 46% of the total urban population of the
region; the remainder live in the small cities and towns that dot the 640,000
square kilometers of the region. The CMD is the slowest growing metropolis
in India, yet it continues to add about 200,000 persons annually to its
population in spite of continuing serious deficiences in environment, infra-
structure, public services and employment. Most of the CMD population is
concentrated east of the Hooghly River with over 3 million people living
within the Calcutta Corporation (CC) administrative area. The west bank
population is about 2.3 million concentrated mainly in the Howrah and Bally
municipalities opposite CC. Population gross density in the CC area aver-
ages about 330 persons per ha (reaching densities of 3,000 persons/ha in
parts), compared with 150-180 in municipalities close to CC and 20-25 in
smaller towns and rural areas on the fringe of the CMD.



-3-
2.05      Manufacturing and service activities predominate in the CMD.  In
the manufacturing sector, a major shift has taken place over recent decades,
from dominance by the jute industry to dominance by the engineering industry.
Service activities proliferate throughout the area, particularly in transport,
storage and communications. In the CMD as a whole, employment in 1971 was
about 2.6 million, a modest increase over the 1961 figure of 2.4 million,
with about 1.4 million in services, 1 million in manufacturing and 0.2 mil-
lion in agriculture and mining. At present, the estimated labor force parti-
cipation rate in the CMD is about 33%, and the unemployment rate 10%, result-
ing in about 320,000 unemployed persons, disregarding an unknown number of
marginal and part-time employees.
2.06      A significant part of the CMD's population are migrants mainly from
eastern India and refugees from the former East Pakistan. The majority of
the migrants are young men seeking employment. Refugees, who have become
permanent residents and comprise middle class families with much higher
education and literacy levels than other migrants, seek clerical, managerial
and professional employment. The influx of migrants has abated in recent
years, and the present increase is estimated at 0.6% per annum. This increase
is more or less balanced by outward migration from the CMD.
The Bustee (Slum) Problem
2.07      Approximately 5.5 million people or 57% of the CMD population
presently live in unserviced conditions. In Howrah/Bally, for example, the
entire area of 7,500 ha suffers from a lack of sewerage facilities. The GOWB
through CMDA has commenced two programs to improve the physical conditions of
bustees (Annex 2) and refugee (displaced persons) colonies (para 2.08). Not
all the unserviced areas are officially classified as slums, and hence are not
covered under these programs. About 2.15 million people living in blighted
unserviced areas, outside bustees or displaced persons settlements, who do not
qualify for assistance under the existing programs because their housing
structures are of permanent materials.
2.08      Refugee settlements are scattered throughout the CMD.  The GOI
has undertaken various programs aimed at settling the refugees, but there
still remains an "officially recognized" residual problem. This has recently
been subject to review, and a report prepared in 1976 indicated that at the
end of the fourth 5-year plan (March 1974), only 111 urban and rural colonies
of displaced persons had been improved (by the provision of minimal services)
or developed, out of a total of 1,570 settlements in the state of West Bengal.
The Planning and Programming Effort
2.09      The present effort to rehabilitate and augment basic urban services
in the CND was triggered by a major cholera epidemic in 1958. WHO/UNDP
cooperation produced in 1966 a "Master Plan for Water Supply, Sewerage and
Drainage - Calcutta Metropolitan District, 1966-2001." Concurrently, the
Calcutta Metropolitan Planning Organization, with the support of the Ford



- 4 -
Foundation, produced a series of studies on other urban sectors in the CMD,
including studies of the administration. These studies, including the WHO
Master Plan, were consolidated in 1966 in a "Basic Development Plan for the
Calcutta Metropolitan District 1966-86" (BDP).
2.10      No serious effort to implement the BDP was made until 1971, when
C`DA was established with a Rs 160 crores four-year budget. In the six years
to date, CMDA has endeavored to respond to the needs and challenges of Calcutta
and has constructed an impressive number of schemes. The bulk of the work
done to date, however, has gone into major works and until recently, little
attention has been given to combining secondary and tertiary systems with
primary infrastructure. An attempt has been made to undertake some social
programs using voluntary agencies to complement CMDA's infrastructural acti-
vities, but the social programs have never been properly funded or ade-
quately coordinated and have had little impact.
2.11      The BDP proposed a 'bi-polar' metropolis with modest expansion of
the existing core at Calcutta and Howrah and new investment to the north at
Kalyani and Bansberia where the land is higher, drainage better and where
ample supplies of groundwater are available. Unfortunately, major invest-
ments in a new town at Kalyani have produced underutilized housing and infra-
structure. The first five years of CMDA investments have given this investment
little support.
2.12      CMDA established its own Directorate of Planning and in 1976
published a "Development Perspective and Investment Plan."  This document
addressed the questions of urban expansion, economic activity and employment
infrastructure and, discarding the 'bi-polar' proposal, recommended instead
a poly-centric strategy. It proposed a balanced distribution of population
and employment and greater diversity in employment opportunities to support
recent initiatives to stimulate the economy of this region. The multi-
sectoral approach embodied in the CMDA program is designed to allow the city
to perform its metropolitan and regional level functions and is seen as an
important component of the efforts towards revival of the region as a whole.
Future planning efforts will be in two parts; one will concentrate on the slum
problems and service deficiencies, the other will address the problem posed
by growth. The necessary planning analyses resulting from this work will
also enable other related issues to be quantified and programs for their
alleviation developed, i.e., in the areas of employment, health, education
and shelter.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The objectives of the project are to improve institutions respon-
sible for delivering, maintaining and operating urban services and systems,
to improve fiscal policy and management, and to institute an effective system
for monitoring urban investments in the CMD. Through the project, existing
municipal services would be rehabilitated by management and system reforms;



- 5 -
prior investments would be more efficiently utilized by the construction of
secondary and tertiary systems to improve access to urban services, including
housing; and employment opportunities would be created for small-scale enter-
prises. The project would be instrumental in identifying and implementing
affordable project designs for developing new areas in accordance with the
government's policy of spatial decentralization and in mobilizing private
capital. The project seeks to develop solutions to some of the broader
problems of the urban poor particularly in the sectors of shelter, employ-
ment and basic services and represents a significant next step in the devel-
opment of CMD. Nevertheless, it will not be possible to achieve satisfactory
standards of urban service provision and management during the period of the
proposed project, and the ongoing process of rectifying the infrastructural,
urban management and fiscal deficiencies in CMD will need to continue for
some considerable time.
A. Main Features
3.02      To achieve these objectives, the project comprises in the period
July 1977 to March 1982, the following subcomponents:
(a) Residential, industrial and commercial sites and
services development involving a low-cost integrated
approach to providing accommodation, community
facilities and employment opportunities. Residential
accommodation will be provided for about 45,400 people,
70% of whom belong to families earning less than the
average family income in the CMD;
(b) redevelopment of the Howrah fish and pan (betel leaf)
market;
(c) participation in an ongoing bustee improvement program
which provides basic infrastructure services in approxi-
mately 420 slums covering 1,400 ha and serving over
1,104,000 people, at a cost of US$40.6 per capita; 1/
(d) construction of 40 new primary schools and the remodel-
ling and extension of 400 existing schools;
(e) training, equipment and buildings for a pilot health
program serving 175,000 low-income people;
1/   Including contingencies and design costs.



-6-
(f) US$3.5 million equivalent of institutional credit 1/ and
studies to assist approximately 4,800 very small-
scale businessmen in bustees and area development
components of the project, i.e. an average loan of
US$725;
(g) improved fringe area and municipal water supplies to provide
90 lcd to over 900,000 people, improvement of tubewell
supplies in the central area and additional renovation works
for the Palta-Tallah water system to supply 730 mld to
Calcutta Corporation;
(h) provision of sewers, including house connections to some
areas of Calcutta Corporation and Howrah presently served
by bucket latrines; cleaning of 650 km of partially blocked
sewers in Calcutta Corporation area; improvement of storm
water drains; installation of over 12,000 prefabricated
sanitary latrines to replace bucket latrines;
(i) rehabilitation of the system of refuse collection,
street cleaning and nightsoil collection in Calcutta
Corporation area, population 3.15 million people; pilot
projects to develop long-term solutions to solid wastes
management;
(j) provision of water supply, drainage and sanitation and
road works in the fringe (anchal) areas of the CND;
(k) traffic engineering with emphasis on pedestrians and
slow-moving vehicles, new roads and road improvements
to facilitate economic development; and
(1) technical assistance to State Government agencies,
Calcutta Corporation and the Calcutta Metropolitan
Development Authority.
Relationship and Comparison with the First Calcutta Urban Development Project
3.03      The $35 million credit (427-IN) under the first Calcutta project
responded to the need to rapidly increase and coordinate urban investments in
the CMD in order to start to address the serious deficiencies in all urban
services. It supported about 40 out of the 130 schemes in the CMDA program
which were sanctioned during the period 1969/70-1973/74. Progress under the
first project has been slow, mainly because of inexpeditious procedures for
project sanctioning, budgeting and monitoring, and civil works tendering,
land acquisition problems and deficiencies in program management (paras 5.01 -
5.10). The first project was redefined in 1976 and several schemes have yet
to be completed. The project is now expected to be about 90% completed in
1979 instead of 1976 as envisaged at the time of original appraisal.
I/   To be provided by selected commercial banks.



-7-
3.04      The proposed second project differs from the first project in many
respects. It is large and, together with the first project, represents over
77% of identified works in CMDA's program for 1977/78-1981/82. The remaining
23% consists largely of water supply works, not considered for inclusion
in the proposed project because of an international dispute which existed at
the time of appraisal between India and Bangladesh concerning the Farakka
Barrage; real estate development at Sealdah and Salt Lake, where the develop-
ment can attract funds from commercial banks; and a miscellaneous group
of minor schemes. The percentage mix of works executed in the period 1973-
1976 1/ as compared with the proposed second project is set out below.
CMDA Program    Proposed Second
1973-1976     Calcutta Project
(%)               (%)
Area Development                         7                10
Bustee and Refugee Colony
Improvement                           7                 15
Primary Schools and Health              5                  1
Small Enterprise Support                -                  2
Water Supply                            15                 7
Sewerage and Drainage                   17                14
Solid Wastes Management                  1                 6
Sanitary Latrines 2/                     1                 1
Municipal and Anchal Development         -                 4
Roads                                   23                12
Traffic Engineering                      -                 4
Road Maintenance Equipment               -                 2
Technical Assistance and Training        1                 2
Sub-total                         77                80
Contingencies
Physical                           8                  6
Price                             15                14
Total                          100               100
In the above period, about 55% of expenditures were allocated to schemes for
water supply, sewerage and drainage and roads, and this reduces to about 33%
under the proposed second project. The change accommodates area development
schemes, bustee improvement and municipal and anchal development, school
building, health facilities, small-scale enterprise programs, traffic
engineering and increased spending on solid wastes management and technical
assistance, all of which will facilitate project benefits reaching the urban
poor.  The proposed second project places a much greater emphasis on operation
1/   Originally estimated implementation period for first project.
2/   Villages and rural fringe areas.



- 8 -
and maintenance and system reforms to be implemented during the course of
project implementation and will considerably improve maintenance of water
supply facilities, sewers and drains, roads and footways and solid wastes
management, primarily in the CC area.
3.05      Subprojects have been carefully scrutinized to assess their capacity
to respond to the dominant problems of Calcutta which can be put under two
broad headings -- residual and growth. Residual problems are those associated
with the existing situation i.e. slums, environmental sanitation, unemployment,
health, education and urban management (including operation and maintenance).
Growth problems refer to the issues which arise in absorbing 200,000 persons
per annum.
B. Capacity to Implement the Second Project; Risks and Uncertainties
3.06      Forecast annual project expenditures, at 1977 prices, for the total
CMDA program (IDA I, IDA II and non-IDA projects) during the next five years
are:
1977/78     1978/79      1979/80      1980/81     1981/82
…--------------------------Rs  Crores  -----------------
38          47           50         48            40
This compares with CMDA's program expenditures which in 1971/72 and 1972/73
amounted to over 50 crores at 1977 prices.
3,07      In the period 1973/74-1976/77 the CMDA program was expanded in an
attempt to mobilize widespread public support but as a result of inadequate
planning, programming and monitoring systems, and because of budget con-
straints, the earlier momentum could not be maintained and annual project
expenditures decreased (para 5.01).
3.08      In order to overcome these problems in program management and
coordination, critical management and systems reforms will be instituted
under the proposed second project. CMDA has reorganized its top management
structure; established specialized cells to improve supervision of individual
components in the proposed project; and has agreed to install new management
information, accounting and financial control systems. The Management Infor-
mation and Monitoring Unit in CMDA is preparing performance measures in
order to closely monitor physical and financial performance under the project.
CMDA's annual final accounts will be submitted to independent audit and the
auditor's report would be provided to IDA. In addition, GOI and GOWB has
authorized the introduction of a five-year investment program to ensure
continuity in program financing; improved civil works procurement procedures
will be instituted (para 4.23); and CMDA has agreed to utilize the services of
local consultants as required.



- 9 -
3.09      Nevertheless, almost half the land required for project implementa-
tion (mainly for area development) has not yet been acquired, though most of
this has been notified under the land acquisition acts of 1894 and 1948.
Moreover, certain aspects of the project--especially area development, small-
scale enterprise support, solid wastes management and traffic engineering--are
new to the CMDA program and will require careful planning and supervision and
the amount of technical assistance required will be substantial. However,
GOI, GOWB and CMDA consider the proposed project to be of strategic importance
to the development of CMD, and have demonstrated an earnest concern to improve
performance in program implementation by the expeditious institution of re-
forms in program management outlined above. In view of this, it is felt that
the whole effort will receive sustained political support at both the federal
and state levels.
C. Detailed Description
Area Development
3.10      Sites and Services.  As part of the sites and services component
of the project, one new center will be developed at East Calcutta, and another
site at West Howrah will be acquired and filled to facilitate future develop-
ment. The development of these two areas will commence the process of giving
physical expression to the poly-centric development strategy in the CMD, which
in the long term envisages the development of some 22 'nodal points' on both
sides of the river to relieve congestion in the central core area. West
Howrah is approximately 8 km from the Central Business District (CBD) and
adjacent to an established small-scale industrial community. East Calcutta
is also strategically located about 7 km from the CBD and presents an ex-
cellent opportunity to provide facilities for washermen, cattlemen and 5,000
buffalo. The opportunity will also be taken to explore fish farming on
the lakes formed from excavations needed to provide land fill, and methane
gas will be produced from buffalo wastes (Annex 1).
3.11      About 302 ha of land will be filled, and about 118 ha will be
developed at East Calcutta. The component includes:
(i) residential lots and rental units for a target population
of about 45,400 persons: Preparation of 8,187 residential
plots serviced with access roads, drainage and individual
water and sewer connections. Seven different lot sizes
will be available to correspond to the effective demand
of the target population. Approximately 5,840 core housing
units provided with toilet, plinth wall and service connec-
tions at a unit cost of Rs 2,000 1/ (US$230) will be avail-
able to families with incomes between Rs 150 - Rs 600 per
1/   Excluding supervision costs and contingencies.



- 10 -
month. 684 fully built dormitory units with shared sanitary
facilities for the lowest income groups are proposed together
with serviced sites for 483 rental units 1/; the latter are
to be reserved for a small percentage of the higher income
population who are expected to prefer this type of accommo-
dation.
(ii)  industrial and commercial plots and facilities:  Preparation
and servicing of 10 ha of industrial land and 3 ha of commer-
cial land together with the provision of 50 industrial sheds.
The project will provide 200-400 loans up to Rs 20,000 for
assistance to the small-scale entrepreneurs. Financing for
larger-scale entrepreneurs will be available through normal
commercial channels. About 16 ha of land 2! will also be
made available at East Calcutta for the tanks, drying areas
and cattle compounds required to secure the commercial needs
of 1,700 washermen and 500 milkmen.
(iii)  community facilities:  Construction of 13 double-shift primary
and two secondary schools. Three health centers and a multi-
purpose center, market, police, fire and postal facilities,
together with areas of open space, will be developed.
(iv)  trunk infrastructure:  Water supply will initially be from
on-site tubewells and storage tanks; the distribution networks
will eventually be connected to the trunk distribution system.
At East Calcutta sewage will be pumped to oxidation ponds and
gravitate via lakes formed from borrow-pits to drainage canals.
Surface and storm water drainage will discharge into existing
canals. Additional distribution lines will be provided at East
Calcutta for electric supply.
3.12      Almost the whole range of income groups will be addressed by pro-
viding serviced plots and rental units. The emphasis on strategic develop-
ment of commercial and industrial areas, combined with differential land
pricing within the project on the basis of location and plot size, permits the
EWS I and II 3/ rental units to be rented at Rs 20 per month and the smallest
1/   The structure costs of the middle and higher income rental units are
not included in the project.
2/   In addition to purely residential requirements, and net of
borrow-pits.
3/   EWS I and II are the lowest income groups in the Economically Weaker
Section (EWS) of the population.



- 11 -
lots  (44 m ) with sanitary cores and building loans to be sold at a price of
about Rs 3,150 (US$366) each, with full recovery of allocated costs still
being achieved. Eighty percent of the lots and rental units will be allocated
to the lower income groups (LIG) and below; the remainder are to be provided
to middle and higher income groups thus promoting social interaction and
greater variety.
3.13      It is envisaged that bed spaces will be available for subrental
in the EWS I and II rental units and in this way the project should reach
down to households below the 10th percentile on the income curve. A 99-year
lease will be sold for the serviced lots, and after an initial downpayment
of approximately 5-10%, payments will be spread over a period of 20 years at
an interest rate of 8.5%, which is the existing rate of interest throughout
West Bengal for low-income housing.
3.14      Redevelopment of Howrah Fish and Pan (Betel Leaf) Markets.  This
subcomponent consists of the redevelopment of approximately 2.32 ha of prime
location land transversed by the new Buckland Road Bridge, adjacent to Howrah
Railway Station and the adjoining bus and tram terminals. Fifty percent of all
land uses in the area are fish and pan markets together with related services
such as ice and fish packing. The markets receive fish and pan originating in
Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Orissa and West Bengal, which are hand
carried from Howrah Station. The area houses approximately 3,500 mainly
low-income people, and other land uses include mixed commercial, industrial,
hotels, warehouses, institutional and religious. Approximately one-half of the
land is used for car/truck repair, buffalo compounds, hawkers, garbage disposal,
alleys, roadways and open space. Redevelopment of the market would eliminate
the extremely unsanitary and congested environment which presently results in
a major health hazard not only to the occupants directly but to the city
residents as a whole. Redevelopment will also be instrumental in creating
direct and indirect employment opportunities in this prime location whereas
relocation of the markets would disrupt established trading patterns and
transport linkages and cause extreme economic distress to a poorer section of
society.
3.15      Redevelopment of the whole site is to be carried out in three
phases at a cost of approximately Rs 15 crores. 1/ Phase 1 is estimated
to cost Rs 5.21 crores, but IDA's participation would be restricted to a
partial involvement covering basic infrastructure and the redevelopment
of the fish and pan markets, in a first phase sub-project costing Rs 1.56
crores. This should provide the basis for participation of the commercial
banks in the completion of the scheme.
Bustee Improvement
3.16      The bustee improvement component involves participation in an
ongoing program begun in 1970. Under the first phase of the program which
1/   Includes contingencies.



- 12 -
ended in 1973/74, 1,144,000 persons 1/ were covered. A four--year second-phase
program commenced in 1974/75 and the project proposes to extend this to
1981/82 to serve an additional 1,104,000 persons in over 420 bustees, occupy-
ing 1,400 ha of land. Of this additional bustee population, about 880,000
persons will be directly served under the project.
3.17      The proposed improvements include:
(a) water supply, with one tap or standpipe for each hutment (5-10
huts);
(b) bathing facilities, with one bathing facility per hutment;
(c) new and improved roads with vehicular access no more
than 80 m from each hut; footways and storm drainage;
(d) pre-cast concrete sanitary latrines with septic tanks or sewer
connections on the basis of one latrine to 25 persons;
(e) security lighting; and
(f) filling of unhygienic ponds and rebuilding of garbage vats.
The very large infrastructure investments now being made will require exten-
sive and continuous maintenance. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that GOWB, in consultation with CMDA and appropriate local bodies in
CMB, will (i) prepare or cause to be prepared by December 31, 1978, a de-
tailed plan of operation for bustee maintenance and (ii) implement it or
cause it to be implemented from April 1, 1979 (see Annex 2).
Primary School Construction and Remodelling
3.18      This component is designed to help redress the imbalance which
exists in primary school provision between the State of West Bengal (80%
coverage), the CMD (66% coverage) and bustees (below 60% coverage), as
against the national target of 88% primary school enrollment.
3.19      Under this component approximately 40 new primary schools, average
size 300 pupils, will be built and 400 recognized and/or unrecognized 2/
1/   This figure includes approximately 300,000 persons living in refugee
colonies.
2/   Recognized schools are those funded by GOWB or Calcutta Corporation.
Unrecognized schools are those funded privately or supported by voluntary
agencies. 20 of the new schools will be five-room structures costing
Rs I lakh each and 20 will be ten-room structures costing Rs 2 lakhs
each.



- 13 -
schools will be remodeled and extended (usually by the addition of two or
three classrooms). The low coverage of primary school facilities in the CMD
and Calcutta Corporation is not only a function of limited land, but is also
influenced by child employment. The locations of the new and upgraded schools
still remains to be established; there is ample evidence of deficiencies but
this needs to be correlated with demand and land availability. The criteria
on which the location of schools will be selected have been agreed with CMDA.
Health
3.20      This project subcomponent would provide a project headquarter
unit, located in the Health Directorate, GOWB, two primary health centers
and 10 subsidiary health centers and integrate outreach and ongoing environ-
mental sanitation, nutrition and family planning programs with an im-
proved patient referral system to serve a target population of 175,000.
The following services will be provided:
(a) Periodic Health Examinations: Regular health care
examination, curative and, in more serious cases,
referral services to poly-clinics 1/ and to hospitals;
(b) Outreach Services: Community volunteers (nine per
subsidiary health center) organized by the medical
officer in charge and working through local leaders,
who will post and update family health records by
routine home visits (one every four months);
(c) Family Planning and Maternal and Child Health Services:
IUD insertion, vasectomies, distribution of pills, etc.
Routine antenatal and postnatal care and follow-up
services for mothers and children;
(d) Immunization: The entire target population of 175,000
will be immunized against smallpox, diphtheria, tetanus,
whooping cough, typhoid and polio;
(e) Nutrition: All malnourished cases will be identified and
referred to the nearest feeding centers where nutrition
education will also be available. No food will be
distributed directly through the proposed health
facilities.
3.21      The primary health centers will be buildings of approximately 200 m
floor area costing Rs 3.0 lakhs each, including land and equipment, and
1/   Poly-clinics have been built or planned on the basis of 1:750,000 popula-
tion. They are equipped with laboratories and an x-ray unit. They have
four beds for short-stay patients and are staffed by doctors trained
in various medical subspecialties.



- 14 -
subsidiary health centers will be buildings of approximately 80 m  floor area
costing Rs 1 lakh each, including land and equipment, to be located within
three miles of a primary health center. Each subsidiary health center and
primary health center will be assigned to its nearest poly-clinic and hospital
for referral purposes. Primary health centers and subsidiary health centers
will be sited in areas where none exist at present, but where there are im-
proved water and sanitary facilities and where there is an ongoing nutrition
feeding program.
Small-Scale Enterprises Component
3.22      In 1976, the CMDA decided that its traditional function of provid-
ing physical infrastructure should be complemented by efforts to support the
economic activities of the slum population in order to directly raise their
employment opportunities and incomes. Therefore, CMDA undertook surveys/
studies to prepare a program which would cater to small-scale enterprises
(SSEs). The target group would be limited to the very small entrepreneurs who
do not have adequate access to technical and financial assistance currently
provided by government institutions and commercial banks and who are located
in (i) the surveyed selected ten bustees (i.e. manufacturing units and services
such as shops, restaurants and rickshaw pullers), (ii) the five selected
industrial subsectors (i.e. light engineering, garment workers, small leather
tanners, veneer makers and clay modellers) and (iii) the proposed industrial
estate in East Calcutta. The maximum capital employed per eligible SSE would
be limited to Rs 100,000 (US$11,600), which is less than one-tenth the official
Indian small-scale industry definition, and the maximum loan size to Rs 20,000
(US$2,325). Survey results revealed that the surveyed units fulfill all
criteria for a desirable target group: (i) they belong to the lowest income
groups in Calcutta; the average annual per capita income in the slums was
about Rs 720 (US$84) in 1976; (ii) these units are labor-intensive with
capital employed per worker ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 10,000; (iii) the
operations of these units are profitable (profit on capital employed ranged
from 2% to 15% per month); and (iv) many units cited lack of finance for
working capital as a major constraint in their operations.
3.23      The objectives of the proposed SSE component of Rs 30 million,
which would be largely experimental, are: (i) to provide financial and
technical assistance, now available mainly to the larger units of the small-
scale sector, to the existing smaller units primarily in the informal sector,
particularly through provision of working capital finance; (ii) to identify
new entrepreneurs; and (iii) to gather experience and information through a
monitoring program for a second phase SSE project which, through additional
studies, would concentrate on an enlarged target group and subsector-specific
support programs. The CMDA surveys permitted the formulation of an SSE
project component which is summarized with its institutional framework:



-15 -
Subcomponents                        Responsible Institutions
A.   Loans totalling Rs 30 million,        Four nationalized commercial
mainly for working capital but       banks, i.e. Allahabad Bank, State
also for fixed capital, to           Bank of India, United Commercial
approximately 4,800 borrowers        Bank, and United Bank of India,
(average loan size of Rs 6,250,      would make loans available from
US$725) over a three-year period.   own sources upon directive by GOI.
Commercial banks would make
available these loans from their
own funds and charge 10-12% to
subborrowers.
B.   SSE extension service of 20          Department of Cottage and Small
extension workers costing            Scale Industries (CSSI) in close
about Rs I million over three        cooperation with the social ser-
years 1/.  Such extension            vice organization Kalikata
service, which does not exist        Bustee Pragati Sangstha (KBPS)
in CMD, is essential to serve        which have executed some of the
as a catalyst between the in-        surveys and have the trust of
stitutions catering to the SSE       the slum population.
sector, including commercial
banks, and the slum population
which is often illiterate and
ignorant of these institutions
and their services.
C.   Studies of the SSE potential         CNDA through consultants.
in Calcutta, of specific SSE
subsectors, and survey of SSEs
in all of CMD's slum areas
(costing about Rs 0.6 million)
for preparation of a second
phase SSE project.
D.   Performance monitoring of             CMDA, together with social and
borrowers, commercial banks,         extension workers.
extension service, and coor-
dinating committee.
3.24      A coordinating committee to be chaired by CMDA would assure ade-
quate coordination. This would be a first phase experimental project com-
ponent limited to the already surveyed population. The proposed studies would
mainly prepare a second phase project with a larger geographical coverage and
with industry specific technical support programs.
1/   To be funded by GOWB Department of Cottage and Small-Scale Industries
(CSSI).



- 16 -
Water Supply
3.25      The first project assigned priority in water supply to works in CC
and these projects are generally well advanced. The emphasis under the
proposed second project has been shifted towards improving water supplies
in the fringe areas and in some municipalities where increasing population
densities are overtaking the supply system already in existence.   The
central areas, Calcutta and Howrah, have not been neglected, however, as
part of the project is aimed at renovating the existing intake treatment
plant, pumping and storage arrangements at Palta and Tallah, the system
which provides the Corporation's principal water supply. In addition, provi-
sion is being made for improvement to the central tubewell supplies.
Sewerage and Drainage
3.26      The sewerage and drainage component envisages participation in 12
sub-projects including 8 which continue work started under the first project.
The component includes the following:
(a)  removal of water-logging in the Calcutta City
and suburban systems areas;
(b)  drainage improvements in North and Southeast
Tollygunge, Manicktala, Cossipore and Howrah;
(c)  construction of sewers in parts of Calcutta City
still served by bucket latrines;
(d)  cleaning and renovation of 650 km of existing
sewers in CC.
(e)  construction of branch and lateral sewers and
provision of house connections and primary
treatment and pumping facilities in an area of
Howrah of about 1,240 ha where trunk sewers
were constructed under the first project;
(f)  outfall improvement schemes for bustee and anchal
area drainage; and
(g)  rehabilitation of 9.2 km of the Bagjola Canal to
improve surface water drainage in a 50 square km
area on the eastern river bank.
Solid Wastes Management
3.27      The current population of almost ten million persons produce be-
tween 4,000 and 6,000 metric tons of solid wastes per day, together with a
large quantity of sludge from nightsoil collection, open drains and sewer
cleaning. None of the wastes are disposed of efficiently; the open dumping



- 17 -
grounds pollute the surrounding area and destroy the value of the land they
occupy. Serious health hazards arise from the deficiencies in handling
nightsoil. Except in the case of nightsoil collection, there is no system
for the collection of wastes directly from the source; most wastes are
thrown into the street, picked up, transported to vats by hand cart, loaded
in lorries, and off loaded (mainly by hand) at the tipping sites.
3.28      The current rate of expenditure on solid waste management by CC
is over Rs 6 crores annually, equivalent to almost US$2 per inhabitant per
year. This is adequate to finance a first class service. However, failure
to effectively control the labor force of over 14,500 employees, inadequate
vehicle maintenance, and lack of a vehicle renewal fund, combined with an
unsuitable management structure have resulted in a wasteful and inefficient
system. Expenditures in the remainder of the CMD approach US$0.70 per person
per annum, less than half the sum probably required to provide services of
the necessary standard.
3.29      The solid wastes management subcomponent addresses these issues.
An improved organizational structure has been agreed with CC (see Annex 4,
para 20) and the component is designed to achieve reliable operation of the
existing systems within CC in the short term and to develop a solid wastes
management system with metropolitan area-wide application, through:
(a) construction of 80 ward depots, 400 masonary vats
and 10 trailer sites;
(b) purchase of 8,000 handcarts, 81 tipping trucks,
12 tractors and 25 trailers;
(c) purchase of two cesspool emptiers, 26 tanker lorries, reno-
vation of existing nightsoil disposal areas and construction
of additional discharge points;
(d) improvement of existing vehicle maintenance facilities
including purchase of vehicles and equipment;
(e) construction of access roads and purchase of bulldozers
and other plant to introduce sanitary landfill methods
at the major disposal sites; and
(f) provision of training, studies and pilot projects to
test alternative methods of storage, collection and
disposal of solid wastes.
Sanitary Latrines
3.30      In the period 1971 to March 1977 CMDA replaced approximately 10,000
bucket latrines (outside the bustee areas) with sanitary latrines 1/. The
1/   Flush toilets.



- 18 -
project allows for continuing this program with the provision of a further
12,300 in the period to March 1982. The latrines are constructed in pre-
cast concrete, and where no direct connection to a sewer is possible, they
are built on top of a pre-cast concrete septic tank, which then discharges
to a surface water drain. The latrines are installed at the request of a
property owner and on payment of one-quarter of the installed cost.
The balance is met from GOWB funds.
Municipal and Anchal Development
3.31      The component is designed to improve access to basic services in
the rural fringe areas of the CMD and will, by March 1982, conclude the
first phase of a program of works which started in 1970 and sought to initiate
improvements in all anchals and municipalities in the CMD. The component
would provide low-cost water supply, drainage, sanitation and road works to
be included on the basis of agreed selection criteria (Annex 6).
Traffic and Transportation
3.32      This component is designed to rationalize travel patterns, improve
circulation in the central urban core area, open up areas for early devel-
opment, provide a link to an important bridge currently under construction
and improve road and footway maintenance in CC. The elements included are:
(a) Traffic Operation and Management Improvement and Road Repair:
To facilitate the movement of all modes of traffic in the
central area of CMD and obviate the need for excessive
expenditures on road works, this component provides for:
(i) traffic operation improvements on over 140 km of
roads and footways;
(ii) traffic engineering and control equipment; and
(iii) road and footpath maintenance equipment for CC.
(b)  Road Improvement Projects and Terminal Facilities:
(i)  widening and improvement of about 10.0 km of exist-
ing highway in Howrah Municipality and CC;
(ii) provision of a flyover in Acharya Jagadish Chandra
Bose Road outside Sealdah Station, to segregate
750,000 commuters, who daily cross this busy
road, from through traffic. Pedestrians will cross
at grade and through traffic will pass overhead; and
(iii) rationalization of space for pickup/setdown points
for minibuses, taxis and hackney carriages near Howrah
Station.



- 19 -
(c) Construction of about 51 km of new roads:
- the Eastern Metropolitan (EM) Bypass with two connectors;
- the Kona Expressway; and
- the Barrakpore-Kalyani Expressway
These are important links designed to improve movements
in the CMD as a whole, to open up access to the West Howrah
and East Calcutta area development schemes (para 3.10) and
for connecting up a new river crossing under construction.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.33      Technical assistance is needed to improve (i) management per-
formance in CMDA and CC, (ii) the fiscal base of CMD by assisting the pro-
posed Central Valuation Board (CVB) and the GOWB Department of Municipal
Services (DMS), (iii) traffic engineering techniques; and (iv) solid wastes
collection and disposal methods; and to assist in forward planning and
feasibility studies for future projects. 2,038 man/months of external
asssistance is proposed, made up of 1,965 man/months of local consulting
services and 73 man/months of foreign consulting services costing about
Rs 2 crores (US$2.3 million) (see Annex 8).
3.34      Extensive staff training in the key implementing agencies will
also be required. A sum of Rs 75 lakhs (US$0.87 million) has been included in
the project and these funds will be channelled and administered through CMDA
in order that this authority can monitor and coordinate training activities.
CMDA will prepare the report by September 30, 1978, and assurances were
received that GOWB will commence implementation of training programs by
December 31, 1978.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, EXECUTION AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total project cost is estimated at Rs 158.0 crores 1/ (US$183.71
million) including taxes of Rs 4.38 crores (US$5.08 million), with a
foreign exchange component of Rs 20.51 crores (US$23.84 million) or about
13% of project cost. Land acquisition costs included are about Rs 10.06 2/
1/   Excluding Rs 3 crores (US$3.5 million) for loans to small entrepreneurs,
to be provided by selected commercial banks.
2/   Excluding contingencies.



- 20 -
crores (US$11.7 million). Cost estimates are detailed in Annexes 1-8 for
each component and are summarized in Annex 12 and below. An IDA Credit of
$87 million (Rs 74.82 crores) would finance approximately 50% of project costs
excluding duties and taxes, the cattle compounds in East Calcutta 1/ and loans
for small-scale enterprises to be provided by commercial banks (para 3.23).
Disbursements would not be made against land acquisition costs, though these
costs have been included in the disbursement base.
4.02      Cost estimates are based on:
(a) detailed engineering designs for most of the water
supply, sewerage and drainage and road components;
(b) preliminary engineering designs for the area development,
bustee improvement, solid wastes management, traffic
engineering, health and school construction components;
(c) US$7,000 2/ plus local expenses of Rs 7,000 per man/month
for foreign consultants and Rs 7,000 per man/month for
local consultants.
4.03      All costs are expressed in April 1977 prices.  Physical contin-
gencies of 10% have been included except for area developments and bustee
improvement, where 15% has been used. Price contingencies are estimated, in
accordance with current IDA estimates, at 6% to 7-1/2% per year for equip-
ment and 8% for civil works.
4.04      In order to avoid the delays experienced under the first project
due to land acquisition problems, over 50% of the land needed has already
been acquired and most of the remainder has been notified under the land
acquisition acts of 1894 and 1948. The Khatal 3/ Removal Program currently
being funded with bilateral assistance from the Netherlands Government
(Annex 1, para 56), will considerably assist in releasing land for use as
ward depots, health centers and schools included in the project, particu-
larly in CC. Assurances were given by GOWB that all land required for carry-
ing out the project will be acquired in accordance with a schedule that
has been agreed between GOWB and IDA.
B. Execution
4.05      The project will be executed, and the facilities operated and
maintained by CMDA and other GOWB agencies, nominated commercial banks, CC
1/   Being financed by the Netherlands Government.
2/   Average costs include local taxes on foreign consultants.
3/   Buffalo and milk cattle compounds.



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Cost Estimates
Percent    Percent
PROJECT  COMPONENTS TO                          Rs Crores                    US$ Million               of        Foreign
BE FINANCED THROUGH CMDA _              Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total        Total      Exchange
Area Development & Housing Loans-213.61         1.48   15.09       15.83       1.72   17.55        10           10
Bustee Improvement                  19.47       3.00   22.47       22.64       3.49   26.13        15           13
Schools                              2.03       0.26    2.29        2.36      0.30    2.66          2           11
Health Facilities                    0.19       0.01    0.20       0.22       0.01    0.23          -             4
Water Supply                        10.33       0.98   11.31       12.01       1.14   13.15          7            9
Sewerage & Drainage                 19.61       1.79   21.40      22.80       2.08   24.88         14             8
Solid Wastes Management              7.84       1.75    9.59       9.12       2.03   11.15          6           18
Sanitary Latrines                    1.97       0.14    2.11        2.29      0.16    2.45          1             7    v
Municipal & Anchal Development       5.57       0.85    6.42        6.48       0.99    7.47         4            13
Traffic & Transportation            24.07       3.91   27.98      27.98       4.55   32.53         18           14
Traffic Engineering               4.63       1.58    6.21       5.38       1.84    7.22                      25
Road Maintenance                  1.87       0.57    2.44       2.17       0.66    2.83                      23
Road Schemes                     17.36       1.76   19.12      20.19       2.05   22.24                       9
Terminals                         0.21        -      0.21       0.24        -       0.24
Technical Assistance & Training    2.09         0.66    2.75        2.43      0.77    3.20          2           24
Contingencies - physical             8.22       1.56    9.78        9.56      1.81   11.37          6           16
- price              19.49       4.12   23.61      22.66       4.79   27.45         15           17
Subtotal/3               134.49      20.51  155.00    156.38        23.84  180.22       100            13
PROJECT COMPONENT TO BE FINANCED
THROUGH CONMERCIAL BANKS
Small Entrepreneur Loans             3.00        -       3.00       3.49       -       3.49
TOTAL                    137.49      20.51  158.00    159.87        23.84  183.71
/1  Includes estimated cost for CMDA design and supervision
totalling Rs 6.97 crores, or US$8.1 million equivalent.
/2  Includes housing loans amounting to Rs 1.45 crores.
/3  Includes taxes and duties at US$4.82 million equivalent.



- 22 -
and other municipal agencies. A list of the various executing agencies is
given in Annex 12. All agencies have the necessary capability to carry out
their obligations under the project. Many of the agencies, i.e. Calcutta
Improvement Trust and Howrah Improvement Trust, have performed satisfactorily
under the first project and the opportunity is being taken to include well
established specialist agencies in the second project particularly to provide
housing finance and small-scale enterprise support. Where necessary, tech-
nical assistance is provided under the project to upgrade the technical
capability of executing agencies and ensure effective coordination by CMDA
for program implementation. Where inter-agency cooperation is required e.g.
in area development and small-scale enterprise support programs, GOWB will
establish inter-agency working groups. During negotiations GOWB agreed that
CMDA will be designated as the representative of GOWB to coordinate project
implementation.
4.06      The project will be implemented over the period 1977/78-1981/82.
The closing date for the credit will be March 31, 1983. A project implemen-
tation schedule is given in Annex 11 along with a detailed schedule of key
administrative, financial, legislative and technical assistance actions.
C. Financing
4.07      The proposed IDA credit of US$87 million will finance 50% of
project costs excluding taxes and duties, the cost of cattle compounds in East
Calcutta which are being financed by the Netherlands Government and loans for
small-scale enterprises to be provided by commercial banks (para 3.23).
The proceeds of the credit will be made available to GOI. Disbursements
will be made on the basis of approved expenditures incurred by CMDA and
its executing agencies (see Annex 12). GOI will make the proceeds of the
credit available to GOWB in accordance with the GOI's standard arrange-
ments for developmental assistance to the States of India, and the GOWB
will pass on the proceeds of the credit to CMDA on standard terms and condi-
tions applicable to development projects. CMDA will in turn provide the
development finance for project works undertaken by its executing agencies.
In addition, GOI will cause selected commercial banks to make available loans
totalling not less than Rs 3 crores (US$3.5 million) to provide finance for
small-scale enterprises (para 4.12).
4.08      Retroactive financing not exceeding US$5 million is recommended
for (i) expenditures incurred from April 1, 1977, for detailed design work
in area development (US$0.50 million) and solid wastes management (US$0.35
million), design and ongoing works for roads and traffic engineering (US$0.90
million), ongoing works in bustees (US$1.20 million) and in water supply
(US$0.60 million); and (ii) expenditures incurred from October 1, 1977, for
ongoing works in municipal and anchal development (US$0.25 million), the
sanitary latrine component (US$0.10 million), sewerage and drainage (US$0.75
million), and technical assistance (US$0.35 million). These activities are
necessary to ensure program continuity and to secure expeditious project
implementation.



- 23 -
Financing Plan
4.09      The following table summarizes the detailed CMDA cash flows given
in Annex 10. All project funds will be channeled through CMDA.
April 1977 - March 1982
US$ million
Rs crores    equivalent
Application of Funds
CMDA Program Expenditures /1
First Project - balance of works            36.06         41.93
Proposed Second Project /2                 155.00        180.23
Other Schemes - identified /3               57.29         66.62
- unidentified               22.35         25.99
Capital Expenditures on
Operating Assets                         3.90          4.33
Sub-total                            274.60        319.30
Debt Service
Interest                                   36.57         42.52
Sinking Fund Contributions                  28.07        32.64
Other Expenditures
Working Capital                              2.42          2.82
Increase in Cash Balances                    3.09         3.59
TOTAL                                344.75        400.87
Financed by: /4
Loans - Open Market Borrowings              55.00        63.95
- GOWB /5                            75.96         88.33
Grants - GOI                                52.50        61.05
- GOWB                              78.50         91.28
Octroi Tax Receipts                         48.11        55.94
Sinking Fund Investments                     7.27         8.45
Other Income                                27.41        31.87
TOTAL                                344.75        400.87
/1   Includes CMDA design and supervision costs.
/2   Includes Rs 1.55 crores (US$1.80 million) Netherlands Government aid
for cattle removal schemes (para 4.04).
/3   Includes Rs  5.57 crores (US$6.46 million ) Netherlands Government aid
for cattle removal schemes (para 4.04).
/4   The IDA credit will be passed on through GOI grants and GOWB grants
and loans.
/5   Includes Rs  7.12 crores (US$8.26 million ) Netherlands Government aid
for cattle removal schemes (para 4.04).



- 24 -
4.10      CMDA is responsible for financing all the above works, even where
executed by other agencies, e.g. housing by West Bengal Housing Board (WBHB),
to ensure that the appropriate specifications and standards and effective
performance monitoring are achieved. Schemes not included in the proposed
project but which will be implemented during the period 1977-1982 require
expenditures of Rs 79.64 crores (US$92.6 million). These include identified
schemes amounting to Rs 57.29 crores (US$66.67 million) which can attract
commercial finance (para  3.04) and a notional estimate for expenditures in
FY 1981/82 on schemes not yet identified. CMDA has established a five-year
investment program for the period 1977/78 - 1981/82 (Annex 12) and has agreed
to consult with IDA on any major changes therein.
4.11      GOWB loans are to be made available through CMDA for revenue-
earning projects only, e.g. area development and water supply. Interest at
the standard rate charged by GOWB for such projects is likely to be about 6%
per annum for 20 years 1/ plus a surcharge interest rate of up to 2% to
recover the equivalent charge of interest during construction which will not
be chargeable to CMDA during the period of construction. Grace periods on
repayment of principal, of about three years, will approximate to construction
periods. Revenue-producing assets will be turned over on completion to the
operating agency, which will commence servicing the debt to GOWB directly.
Where CMDA provides the finance only, e.g. WBHB for housing construction, the
executing agency will service the debt to GOWB on expiration of the grace
period. Assurances were obtained that (i) GOWB will provide CMDA with adequate
and timely funds to complete its investment program for fiscal years 1977/78
through 1981/82; and that (ii) GOWB will ensure that operational agencies
assume debt service obligations related to revenue earning schemes com-
missioned under the project by April 1, 1982.
4.12      The selected banks (para 4.07) will be required by GOI to pro-
vide Rs 3 crores (US$3.5 million). Commercial bank finance amounting to a
further Rs 10 crores will also be required to fund loans to entrepreneurs
and construct rental property on sites and services schemes and to complete
the first phase of the Howrah Fish and Pan Market. GOI and GOWB have indi-
cated that the forecast amount of about Rs 13 crores will be available.
D. Cost Recovery and Service Pricing
4.13      CMDA and agencies which operate revenue-producing assets will
levy charges to beneficiaries in the form of mortgage payments, rents
or service charges. During negotiations GOWB agreed that such beneficiary
charges will be designed to achieve full cost recovery in area development
1/   Including a grace period on the repayment of principal.



- 25 -
schemes (paras 4.14-4.17). In order to sustain improved municipal ser-
vices, service and other municipal charges are to be increased over time
as part of the municipal fiscal reforms proposed by GOWB (paras 5.26 -
5.32).
Area Development
4.14       WBHB will sell 99-year leases, or charge rents to recover the
cost of on-site infrastructure, housing cores or housing, and washing
slabs. Loan repayment schedules will be designed to recover the principal
amounts of loans advanced together with interest chargeable, administration
expenses and a reasonable provision for bad and doubtful debts.
Charge
for Unit
or Average
Total Number of         Sale Price/                   Target Income Levels
Size Lots or Rental Units    Lot (Incld.)   Down   Monthly             Percentiles
Type of Lot  Cm2) Lots       Rental Units  Cores & Bldg.)  Payment Payment  Rs/Month  Reached
(Rs)        (Rs)    (Rs)
EWS I & II   32                  684         2,175          -        20   below 150  0 -  20
EWS III      44  1,530                       3,045        160        26   151 - 200  21 -  31
EWS IV       50  2,535                       4,950        255        42   201 - 350  32 -  61
LIG          60  1,776                       8,835        455        75   351 - 600  62 -  82
MIG I       125    741                      18,040 /2  1,915        150   601 -1,000 83 -  93
MIG I (R) /1  82                 274        18,274 /2               225   601 -1,000 83  -  93
MIG II      173    254                      30,400 /2  3,200        250  1,001 -1,500 94 -  97
MIG II (R)/1 115                 115        26,242 /2               350  1,001 -1,500 94  - 97
RIG         243    184                      44,200 /2  4,750        372  over 1,500  over 97
RIG (R)     165                   94        43,038 /2               500  over 1,500  over 97
TOTALS         7,020        1,167
/1 (Rs) refers to rental units.
/2 Structure financed outside CMDA program by WBRB.
4.15       The down payments and monthly payments shown in the above table
are considered to be affordable by the income groups shown. Full-cost
recovery for each site will be achieved by charging differential rates for
lot size and locational advantages. Mortgages, rentals and loans for
building materials will be based on annuity charges over 20 years at not



- 26 -
less than 8.5% interest per annum for residential beneficiaries and 11.5%
for industrial and commercial beneficiaries. Washermen will have to pay
about Rs 10 each per month for provided facilities to recoup the forecast
costs.
4.16      The cost of on-site infrastructure for industrial lots and
the provision of cattle compounds and milk-processing equipment will be
recovered by the West Bengal Small Industries Corporation (WBSIC) and the
GOWB Animal Husbandry Directorate. A charge for milk processing of Rs
0.15 per liter and for cattle sheds of Rs 20 per month per head of cattle
will be necessary. These charges are considered to be sustainable by the
estimated demand for these facilities. Industrial and commercial land
will be sold at average prices of about Rs 90 and Rs 150 per sq m respec-
tively in East Calcutta.  This compares to the average cost of Rs 52 per-
sq m of developed land in these schemes. Preference in allocating residen-
tial, commercial and industrial lots will be given to persons and businesses
displaced by CNDA programs.  Assurances were received on beneficiary
selection criteria for all forms of development in the project including
income levels and repayment capacity.
Howrah Fish and Pan Markets
4.17      CMDA is in the process of acquiring the site and should complete
acquisition by December 31, 1977. First phase construction will be
completed by March 31, 1984 and CMDA will manage the property. The scheme
Is fully self-financing and financial data are set out and reviewed in
Annex 1. The development will consist of shops, kiosks, stall areas,
offices, dormitories and car parking, all of which will b2 leased or
rented at rates initially ranging from about Rs 130 per m per year for
small shops to about Rs 540 per m per year for offices; and Rs 0.5 per
bed/day in the dormitories. Rent reviews and increases will be required
at three yearly intervals. During negotiations GOWB agreed that CMDA will
adopt satisfactory estate management practices and recover the full costs
of property maintenance, debt service and administration of the Fish and
Pan Markets.
Bustee Improvement
4.18      The bustee improvement program in Calcutta has always been
funded by grants initially from GOI up to 1973/74, but lately by GOWB.
Calcutta bustees have proved difficult to administer or service for many
years and were sources of civil unrest, often by reason of their unsani-
tary and decrepit nature. CC and CMDA have had difficulty in tracing
owners and occupiers. Thus, effective and fair cost-recovery for improve-
ments have not been and will not be possible. The proposed program will
therefore be financed by GOWB grants. However, CC has had some success
in recovering property taxes, and any bustee which is improved will be



- 27 -
revalued for property taxation purposes. The proposed improvements are
expected to effect a 40% increase in bustee property values, but as property
values in the bustees are low, increased property tax rd'ceipts will not be
substantial.
Small-Scale Enterprises
4.19      The selected commercial banks (para  3.23) will make loans to small
entrepreneurs at 10-12% for a maximum term of 10 years. Most lending would
be for short periods as working capital with flexible repayment schedules.
A high risk of defaults exists because of the probable large number of small
loans (average estimated at Rs 6,250). However, the commercial banks are
becoming experienced in financing such enterprises. The component is limited
to providing financial and technical assistance in selected areas where
surveys/studies have been undertaken and it is felt that a considerable
demand also exists for this type of financial and technical assistance in
other areas of the CMD.
Operation and Maintenance
4.20      Many of the facilities commissioned under the CMDA program will be
transferred on completion to local authorities and other agencies to operate
and maintain. However, the present financial condition of many municipal
bodies does not allow adequate operation and maintenance of existing municipal
services. Projections have therefore been made (Annex 9, Tables I and 2) for
these municipal bodies, of the expenditure responsibilities, including opera-
tion and maintenance of facilities and services transferred by CMDA, and
their likely fiscal resources in order to determine the extent of any GOWB
financial support required. The fiscal reforms now being implemented or
proposed to date will enable CC to better discharge its responsibilities,
but continued GOWB financial support will be necessary for all municipal
bodies and sufficient funds will be provided to secure adequate operation and
maintenance of facilities provided under the CMDA program (para 5.31).
E. Procurement and Disbursement
4.21      Contracts for about US$13 million equivalent for equipment will
be awarded by CMDA and other executing agencies on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. A 15% margin of pre-
ference or customs duty, whichever is lower, is proposed to be granted to
domestic manufacturers when evaluating bids. Contracts for about US$8.5
million equivalent for equipment would be either of small sizes and unattrac-
tive to foreign suppliers, or unsuitable for international competitive bidding
by reasons of high transportation costs and/or high damage risk, e.g., con-
crete and stoneware pipes. These equipment contracts would be awarded by
CMDA and other executing agencies on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA (See Annex 3,
table 3).



- 28 -
4.22      The total value of civil works under the project is estimated at
about US$85.5 million, net of contingencies, and excluding in many instances
the cost of heavy construction equipment which is issued by CMDA to the con-
tractors. However, the major part of these works, distributed over 11 sec-
tors, is widely dispersed over area and time. Based on a program prepared by
CMDA, it has been estimated that over 1,350 works will require about 1,750
contracts, after suitable grouping. In bustee improvement alone, there will
be about 1,000 contracts in about 420 bustees; in water supply, sewerage and
drainage, and municipal and anchal development, works will be executed in
traffic-congested areas, necessitating splitting of works into small con-
tracts.
4.23      Wherever feasible, however, CMDA will award large civil works con-
tracts. Two road contracts, estimated to cost more than US$3 million each,
which is the lowest value considered to interest foreign contractors, will
be awarded by CMDA on the basis of international competitive bidding. A
7 1/2% margin of preference will be granted to local contractors when com-
paring bids. CMDA and other implementing agencies will award contracts for
other works on the basis of competitive bidding advertised on an all-India
basis in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Suitable civil works
will be "sliced and packaged" into contract packages of not less than US$1.1
million. Works estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent may be
carried out by force account.
4.24      A schedule of disbursements of the IDA credit is given in Annex 11.
Disbursements will be made as follows:
(a) 75% of total expenditures for civil works contracts awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding, and 70%
of expenditures on other civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures of directly imported equipment
or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) of locally manu-
factured equipment procured through ICB and 75% for other
locally procured items;
(c) 50% of expenditures on housing loans to eligible house-
holds; and
(d)  100% of expenditures on consulting services, technical
assistance and training.
Disbursements under (a), (b) and (d) would be fully documented with the
following exceptions:
Payments made under civil works contracts for one or
more progress payments not exceeding Rs. 50,000 and expenditures
for locally procured items of equipment costing Rs. 20,000 or
less would be made against certified statements of expenditure.
Disbursements against (c) would be made against certified
statements of expenditure, the documentation of which would be



- 29 -
retained and available for inspection by IDA during the course
of project review missions. Independent auditors will be employed
to audit all certificates of expenditure incurred in periods not
exceeding six months and GOWB will furnish the audit report to the
Association promptly thereafter.
F. Supervision
4.25      About 350 man/weeks of IDA supervision will be required over the
project implementation period with about 120 man/weeks during the first year.
Key implementation actions on which supervision should focus are listed in
Annex 11.
V. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT & FIN4ANCES OF CMDA, CALCUTTA
CORPORATION AND LOCAL BODIES
A. Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
Background
5.01      CMDA is a GOWB agency charged primarily with planning, design and
construction of public works in CMD. The authority consists of a chairman
(the Chief Minister, GOWB or his nominee), vice-chairman and 6 members,
including three senior state government officials and 3 persons representing
the east and west bank local authorities and CC. Though empowered to
execute directly any of its projects, CMDA initially delegated executory
responsibility to other existing agencies with available staff and facilities.
In this way it was anticipated that CMDA would be capable of supervising
some 150 projects in 11 sectors to be executed by a total of 54 agencies.
This arrangement considerably increased the level of public investment in
the CMD. However, it proved to be unsatisfactory as a means of integrating
a large and diverse development effort, and the initial impetus could not be
maintained.
5.02      CMDA expanded its direct executory responsibility in an attempt to
maintain momentum in CMD improvements but annual investments have fallen.
A substantial staff build-up after 1973/74 coming mainly from executing
agencies in water supply, sewerage and drainage is due to this policy.
The following table illustrates CMDA's performance. In a situation where CMDA
sought public support for an apparently widespread program it was relatively
common for priorities to change, often to the detriment of schemes forming
part of the First Project, which represented only 34% of the CMDA program for
the period 1973-1976. Moreover, the failure of CMDA to complete works led to
GOI and GOWB reducing future annual budgetary allocations.  CNDA found them-
selves by 1975 in a situation with many incomplete schemes, insufficient



- 30 -
capital, and pressures to do more work in all sectors including completing the
First project.
Table of CMDA Investments at 1977 Prices
(Rs crores)
1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77
Forecast CMDA
Program Investments      51.0       55.9       41.1      28.7       34.4      36.6
Actual CMDA Program
Expenditures             42.4       41.9       34.8      26.3       33.0      36.7
Improvements to Program Management
5.03      The nucleus of the professional staff in CMDA are engineers deputed
from GOWB Public Works Department (PWD). CMDA has retained outdated tendering
and contracting procedures particularly for civil works, and persisted in an
annual planning and capital budgeting system without long-term planning and
forecasting. Furthermore, in spite of somewhat improved monitoring procedures
introduced under the first project, coordination between interrelated and
interdependent sector components remained inadequate, particularly where CMDA
delegated executory responsibility.
5.04      GOWB and IDA have had a continuous dialogue for about two years
on CMDA management deficiencies, which appear to be the basic problem. GOWB
has recently introduced major senior management changes. A new senior
management team consisting of a Chief Executive and four Directors of Oper-
ations, Planning, Administration and Finance have been appointed. A Manage-
ment Information and Monitoring Unit will be attached to the Chief Executive.
However, each division (water supply, roads, etc.) in the Operations Direc-
torate will have its own monitoring system linked to the Chief Executive's
unit and to the Finance Director. A Project Appraisal Unit will serve the
management team through the Chief Executive.
5.05      The Operations Directorate has adequate staff to design and super-
vise construction of the basic infrastructure works (roads, drainage, water
supply) but may need to hire short-term consultants to meet peak loads
relating to new types of projects, e.g. traffic engineering. Staff of this
directorate will need substantial training in project monitoring and use of
management information systems, and induction into revised budgeting and
contracting procedures.
5.06      The Planning Director will have two principal fields of activity,
i.e. (i) project planning and design of area development schemes; and (ii)
long-range development and area planning, with development control in CMD,
and preparation of a development plan and feasibility reports (for projects



- 31 -
to be constructed in the period 1981-86) by September 30, 1980. The current
Planning Director is sufficiently experienced and qualified and the Planning
Directorate has been strengthened by the establishment and staffing of spe-
cialist divisions to plan, design, evaluate and implement traffic schemes,
sewerage and drainage, area development, solid wastes management, social
welfare and economic and community development schemes. However, technical
consultant's services may be required, particularly for design of area devel-
opment schemes. Assurances were received at negotiations that CMDA, in con-
sultation with IDA, will hire suitable consultants to (a) assist in the design
of (i) area development; (ii) traffic management; (iii) roads; and (iv) other
schemes as necessary and (b) prepare and provide IDA with a development plan
for the period 1981-86.
5.07      The Administration Directorate will become actively involved in the
proposed management information system (para 5.09) and will need to liaise
closely with the key GOWB departments and agencies involved in project imple-
mentation. A separate legal unit is to be established to expedite contracting
and claims procedures.
5.08      The Director of Finance will carry the rank of Accountant General
and his responsibilities will be considerably widened as a result of the
revised budgeting, accounting and financial management systems. The new
systems will not be fully operational until 1979/80 and consultant assistance
has been engaged to ensure continuity in the quality of accounting and
financial control and to review manpower and training requirements.
5.09      The accounting system to be installed in CMDA should give effective
financial management and control of projects by providing financial informa-
tion to line management on a regular basis and enabling project accounts to
be prepared within an acceptable period. The contract for this work is
being extended to include management information systems. CMDA has, in
addition, engaged a firm of qualified accountants to undertake an annual
independent commercial audit of their financial accounts and the audit for
1975/76 has already been completed.
5.10      Assurances have been obtained that CMDA will install and operate:
(a) by April 1, 1979, a project budgeting and accounting system;
(b) by April 1, 1979, a management information system;
(c) by July 1, 1978, a project appraisal system; and
(d) by April 30, 1978, a project monitoring system.
Assurances have also been obtained that CMDA will appoint an independent
auditor satisfactory to IDA to audit its accounts and financial statements
for each fiscal year commencing 1977/78 and furnish to IDA the audited
statements and auditor's report not later than nine months after the close
of each financial year.



- 32 -
5.11      The CMWSA was instituted in 1966 to plan, design, construct,
operate and maintain water supply and sewerage systems in the CMD.  However,
it was not politically acceptable and did not develop into an effective
agency. In 1975 it was merged into CMDA. CMWSA will become responsible for
a significant proportion of the sector's facilities outside CC. CMWSA is
presently supervising studies which have recently commenced to review
standards of operation and maintenance and the financial arrangements for
this sector and to design a model accounting system. The studies are expected
to be completed around September 1978. GOWB has agreed that the manpower of
the agency should be upgraded and strengthened as a matter of urgency and
assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOWB will develop and implement
by April 1, 1980, proposals for institutional responsibilities for water and
sewerage revenue collection in CMD.
Other Agencies
5.12 (a) The West Bengal Housing Board (WBHB) is experienced in estate
management and will take over the land developed in East Calcutta for
residential and commercial use, sell serviced lots, provide mortgage loans and
construct and manage rental properties. WBHB was established as a state
government agency in 1972 to build and sell houses and provide mortgage
finance. Funding is obtained from GOI through the Housing and Urban De-
velopment Corporation (HUDCO), GOWB and open market borrowings. WBHB has
built and sold over 42,000 1/ houses and flats to date but will need to
develop operational policies and procedures to administer leased and rental
properties proposed under the project, and assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
(b) The West Bengal Small Industries Corporation (WBSIC) was established
in 1961 as a public limited company registered under the Companies Act of
1956. WBSIC is wholly owned by the West Bengal Government with a paid-in
capital of Rs 85 lakhs as of January 1977. WBSIC's objectives are to aid,
assist and promote small-scale industry throughout the State. Since 1973
WBSIC has successfully developed four industrial estates and one commercial
estate. It has a staff of approximately 300, 100 of whom operate in the CMD.
The development of the industrial site at East Calcutta will be handled by
WBSIC which will lease serviced industrial lots, provide mortgage loans and
rent work sheds.
Financing the CMDA Program
5.13      CMDA obtains its financing primarily from GOI and GOWB grants and
loans and from a local octroi tax on goods imported into the CMD (see Annex
10).  The serious decline in program performance through 1975/76 has been
due in part to CMDA's resource position which has remained stagnant since
1973, primarily because of cutbacks in State Plan funds allocated to the
1/   Some of which were built by the Housing and Urban Development Corpora-
tion (HUDCO), a national agency.



- 33 -
CMDA program. CMDA's annual receipts from octroi tax, its only independent
source of finance, are intended to cover full debt service (interest and
sinking fund obligations) on open market borrowings. Furthermore, constituent
bodies do not have the financial resources to satisfactorily operate, maintain
and service loan charges on assets transferred on completion.  Considerable
reform to the mechanisms by which the CMDA program is financed was therefore
considered necessary if program performance is to be improved and completed
facilities brought into service. These improvements are outlined below.
5.14      Open Market Borrowings.  GOI and GOWB have determined that open
market loans contracted from 1975/76 will be 'rolled over' on maturity
and will not therefore require repayment of principal through annual sink-
ing fund contributions. 1/
5.15      GOI and GOWB Loans. All these loans made to CMDA to March 31, 1976
have been converted to grants and thereafter all GOI and GOWB assistance will
be in the form of grants except for revenue-earning schemes (water supply,
area development). Proposed cost recovery systems for area development
schemes (paras 4.13-4.17) will ensure financing of debt service on these
works.  CC, CMWSA or any municipality to which other loan-financed assets are
transferred should be capable of meeting debt-service obligations from 1982/83
(paras 5.11, 5e28 and 5.32). The authorities responsible for operation and
maintenance of assets will take these over on commissioning by CMDA and will
take over and service the debt transferred by CMDA on behalf of GOWB by not
later than April 1, 1982 (para 4.11).
Maintenance of Area Development Schemes
5.16      The area development schemes will ultimately by administered as
Government townships in accordance with the principles set out in the Gov-
ernment Township Act of 1975. Assurances were obtained that CMDA will make
administrative and financial arrangements for operation and maintenance
functions of these schemes until Government townships are established and
become operational.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.17      Monitoring and evaluation of different sectoral programs includ-
ing the small-scale enterprise component will be an important function for
CMDA in revising/updating the development priorities of the CMDA and in
preparing future programs. The Management Information and Monitoring Unit
reporting directly to the Chief Executive of CMDA will have overall respon-
sibility for monitoring the project in association with the Planning Direc-
torate, and each of the cells, units, directorates or agencies implementing
1/   Up to 1974/75 CMDA raised Rs 61.6 crores by issuing 12-year maturity
bonds at 6.5% interest.



- 34 -
the project. A program planner will be appointed for each principal sector
to work closely with the program engineer and will report to the Management
and Information Officer. Specific activities to be undertaken are:
(a)  develop a system of project implementation reporting for
each of the executing agencies (by November 1977);
(b)  prepare quarterly progress reports detailing physical
and financial performance of project elements and
comparing actual performance with established tar-
gets;
(c)  develop performance indicators for each individual
component of the project to assess the impact of the
project (by November 1977); and
(d)  prepare annual project evaluation reports assessing
the success of the project in meeting its objectives
and proposing any changes necessary in the strategy
(by April 1978 and annually thereafter).
B. Municipal Administration and Finance in the CMD
5.18      The CMD is not a single administrative unit but comprises four
district administrations, 35 municipal authorities, 61 non-municipal areas
and 500 semi-rural units. CC and Howrah Municipality are the two largest
authorities, with populations of 3.15 million and 740,000, respectively.
The Calcutta Municipal Act prescribed a tripartite organization for the city
including the Corporation (i.e. the City Council); nine standing committees;
and a Commissioner. The elected councils of the CC and many municipalities
have been superceded and will be reinstated only following popular elections
ordered by GOWB. 1/ Following supercession in 1972, a GOWB appointed adminis-
trator took over the functions of the elected representatives but the powers
and duties of the Chief Executive Officer continue to be exercised by the
Commissioner. Provision of most municipal services in CMD has for some time
been seriously deficient. The financial conditions of CC and constituent
local bodies is such that even the present substandard services can be
sustained only on the basis of considerable GOWB financial assistance.
Grants-in-aid presently finance about 38% of recurrent expenditures in CC
and about 437. for all other local bodies (Annex 9). The IDA I project pointed
to the urgent need for institutional, organizational and fiscal reforms in
these authorities to secure adequate operation and maintenance of urban
services in the CMD.
1/   GOWB anticipates holding elections for Calcutta Corporation in March 1978
and for all other constituent authorities in CMD in November/December
1977.



- 35 -
5.19      Achievement of this project's principal objectives (para 3.01)
will be the second co-ordinated operation between GOI, GOWB and IDA on
institutional, fiscal and administrative reform in the CMD (Annex 9). It will
not be possible to achieve satisfactory long-term standards during this
project period. Emphasis has been placed, therefore, on improving the CMD
taxation base (para 5.27); achieving maximum possible improvements to CC
which is the largest authority (paras 5.28-32, 5.35-37) taking initial steps
to improve other authorities (paras 5.29-34, 5.37); and strengthening the GOWB
Department of Municipal Services (DMS) to enable it to better fulfill its role
of regulating, advising and monitoring performances of local bodies and
planning the next phase of municipal reforms and improvements (para 5.33).
Fiscal Management in CMD
5.20      In India in 1974 adequate municipal services required expenditures
of about Rs 110 per capita 1/. At that time CC was spending about Rs 55 per
capita compared to about Rs 70 in Ahmedabad, Rs 80 in Delhi and Rs 120 in
Bombay. Outside CC per capita municipal expenditures averaged less than Rs 30
throughout the CMD (para 5.22). During the period 1971/72 to 1975/76 the
self-generated revenues of CC increased by about 64%. Recurrent expenditures,
however, increased by about 87% and the annual current account deficit pre-
sently represents about 20% of current revenues 2/ and is financed by GOWB
subventions. Water supply and sewerage services represent about 45% of total
current expenditures, but revenues notionally earmarked for these services
presently finance only about 30% of service costs.
5.21      Property-related taxes are the dominant revenue source for CC
and represent 75% of self-generated revenues, a much higher proportion than
for other major Indian cities. However, a comparison with Bombay shows the
revenues from property taxes in CC to be extremely low, due primarily to
the undervaluation 3/ of the majority of properties (Annex 9). Legislation
allows local bodies discretion in setting tax rates within prescribed maxima
and many local bodies have sought to maintain tax rates much lower than can be
justified on the basis of service costs.
5.22      The fiscal performance of many of the other municipalities in the
CMD has been worse than that of CC, even though in general their expenditure
responsibilities are less. Average per capita expenditures in 1975/76 were Rs
27.7 (US$3.2) varying from Rs 6.8 (US$0.8) to Rs 66.4 (US$7.7) and because of
a more stagnant economy, revenue receipts have been increasing even more
slowly than in CC.
1/   GOI Committee on Budgetary Reforms in the Municipal Administration.
2/   Including octroi receipts but excluding grants.
3/   A comparison with Bombay shows that in 1973/74 rateable value of
property per head in CC was Rs 27 compared to Rs 61 for Bombay.



- 36 -
Fiscal Reform
5.23      Following the establishment of CMDA in 1971, with the implementa-
tion of its large infrastructure development program, fiscal reform in local
bodies in the CMD became urgent. Various local bodies were nominated to be
responsible for operation and maintenance of newly created assets. However,
existing services and facilities were deteriorating for lack of satisfactory
operation and maintenance and without increased financial resources and
improved technical capability these authorities would have been unable to
adequately maintain facilities commissioned under the CMDA program. A con-
dition was therefore attached to the first credit requiring GOWB to formulate
a plan i/ for improving the financial performance of agencies and municipali-
ties in the CMD to better sustain the development program and to mobilize
additional resources for further development. Specifically, the plan was
required to define a system of beneficiary taxes and betterment levies, in-
troduce commercial accounting systems and improve the financial mechanisms
of revenue sharing to improve the financing arrangements and the quality of
financial management of program implementation.
5.24      The plan, prepared by a joint GOI/GOWB Working Party and pro-
vided to IDA in September 1975, proposed major fiscal reforms primarily
to the arrangements for financing water supply and sewerage services and to
the existing system for assessment and levy of property taxes, and recom-
mended the amalgamation of constituent local bodies in the CMD (Annex 9).
However, the Plan was not fully responsive to the initial objectives and
they may not have been achievable in the time allowed. There was no speci-
fied fiscal strategy for urban public investment and servicing in the CMD,
nor any identified specific relationship between resources and needs based
on ascribed functional responsibilities. The sources of funds to achieve
and maintain this relationship were not identified nor the criteria defined
for devolution of funds from higher levels of government. The impact of
the numerous fiscal, administrative and institutional reforms recommended
had not been adequately assessed. Nevertheless, the plan was viewed as a
first step toward developing an effective institutional structure and viable
fiscal systems for the CMD.
5.25      A study undertaken in 1974 to determine the fiscal impact of the
CMDA program on local bodies through 1978/79 has recently been revised and
forecasts prepared to 1980/81 in order to refocus attention on the fiscal
management problems of local bodies in the CMD.
5.26      GOWB has thus far considered the fiscal problems of Calcutta as
the most pressing and improvements instituted since 1975 relate primarily to
the Corporation. However, personnel management reforms which impact on all
local bodies have also been effected. In 1976/77, GOWB enacted laws which are
expected to increase local revenues by about Rs 4.5 crores a year initially
1/   Financial and Institutional Plan to secure improved performance of
municipal and other local government units concerned with the devel-
opment program in Metropolitan Calcutta.



- 37 -
for Calcutta Corporation and about Rs 2 crores for other local bodies (see
Annex 9).
Property Valuation in the CMD
5.27      Assurances were obtained that (i) a GOWB Central Valuation Board
(CVB) will be established by December 31, 1978 to reform the existing system
for assessment and levy of property taxes throughout the CMD, and (ii) a
complete revaluation of properties in CC and other areas in the CMD is to be
completed by March 31, 1982. This project contains provision for up to 175
man/months of consulting services and training to assist GOWB to establish
and operate the CVB.
Water and Sewerage Charges
5.28      The CC municipal fund currently receives all receipts of the Cor-
poration including consolidated rate (property tax); taxes on vehicles,
businesses and professions; octroi allocations from GOWB and subventions
from GOWB. There are no separate service taxes, but limited user charges
are levied, including metered water consumption. To achieve long-term
financial viability of water supply and sewerage services, assurances were
obtained that the CC will (i) establish from April 1, 1978 a separate water
supply and sewerage fund controlled by suitable financial regulations; (ii)
from April 1, 1978 meet all deficits of the fund from revenues of the muni-
cipal fund; and (iii) from April 1, 1981 de-link water supply and sewerage
taxes from the consolidated tax and meet not less than 84% of the expendi-
ture of the fund from such taxes and water supply and sewerage charges for
fiscal year 1981/82 and thereafter.
5.29      On-going studies under the first project, which are due for comple-
tion in late 1978, will define standards and costs of satisfactory water supply
and sewerage service levels and recommend tariffs and appropriate accounting
systems for these services. Arising from these studies will be the need to
review, in particular, the feasibility of recovering sewerage costs through
water charges or sewerage surcharges, firstly to industrial and commercial
premises, and subsequently to domestic properties in CND. There may be
problems associated with new charging systems, given the large number of
local bodies and poor accounting systems, and GOWB will consult with IDA on
the consultants' proposals. In the meantime, GOWB has eliminated "free water"
concessions in existing water charges systems. Private ownership of deep
tubewells is to be discouraged and water metering expanded. To ensure a
planned program and to determine additional revenue proposals from sewerage
surcharges and private wells, assurances were given that GOWB will:
(a) commission studies to be completed by March 31, 1979 to
advise on the regulation and licensing if necessary of tube-
wells and use of groundwater in CMD;



- 38 -
(b) develop proposals for institutional responsibilities for
water and sewerage revenue collection in the CMD by December
31, 1978, and implement such proposals by April 1, 1980;
and
(c) by September 1, 1978 draw up a program of metering of water
connections from April 1, 1979 through March 31, 1982 and implement
such program.
GOWB Supplementary Financial Assistance to Local Authorities
5.30      The present system of "general financial subventions" by GOWB does
not represent a satisfactory basis for augmenting municipal revenues and
GOWB is concerned that financial assistance should be more closely related
to specific services, should be based on a sensitive analysis of local needs
and resources and should be linked to local performance in service provision
and management efficiency. The GOWB proposes to review the present system
of providing financial assistance to local bodies as a means of developing
concepts of economic efficiency in municipal finance. Relationships between
service costs and service charges will be reviewed annually. In this way,
grants will become an important instrument in the fiscal management of the
CMD.
5.31      Assurances have been obtained that GOWB will:
(a) prepare by March 31, 1979, a revised grant structure
for local bodies in the CMD, which would be designed to
promote local efficiency and improved local fiscal
participation;
(b) take all necessary steps to implement the grant system
in (a) by April 1, 1980;
(c) require CC to collect not less than 70% in 1978/79,
80% in 1979/80 and 90% in 1980/81 in respect of: (i)
each year's property tax collection due, plus (ii)
amounts due and not collected on the first day of
each year but excluding receivables due for more than
five years (Annex 9, table 2); and
(d) provide the CC, the CMWSA and other local bodies within
the CMD with sufficient funds to operate and maintain ade-
quately (i) existing municipal services; and (ii)
facilities and services created by CMDA investments and
transferred to the local municipal authorities upon
commissioning.
5.32      However, GOWB does not wish to commit itself to permanently increas-
ing subventions to local bodies in CMD. While willing to provide subsidies



- 39 -
in the short-term to ensure satisfactory operations and maintenance of facil-
ities, and until the full effect of the possible new grant system is intro-
duced (para 5.31), GOWB considers that the local bodies should reverse the
trend of an increasing ratio of expenditure to revenues and begin to improve
their revenue yields from 1978/79. The methods of achieving this trend
reversal will be determined in consultation, between GOWB and the local bodies
concerned. Detailed proposals for improvements for CC and for the muni-
cipalities are set out in Annex 9, paras 13 and 14, and assurances were given
that these proposals will require that: (i) all authorities will achieve
satisfactory standards of operation and maintenance; and (ii) each authority
will achieve not less than annual specified target ratios of expenditure to
income, so that by 1981/82 and thereafter:
(a) Calcutta Corporation will finance not less than
84% of its expenditures from local revenues; and
(b) all other authorities will individually finance not
less than 50% of expenditures, from local revenues.
Institutional and Administrative Reforms
5.33      GOWB is in course of reorganizing DMS to promote effective de-
velopment and organization of local government services in West Bengal, and,
in particular in the CMD. DMS will include directorates to administer planning,
engineering and fiscal operations. The report should be finalized by December
1977 and the necessary reorganization completed by March 1979. Assurances
were given at negotiations that GOWB will complete an appropriate reor-
ganization of DMS by March 31, 1979.
5.34      Reform of the municipalities presents numerous problems.  Local
authorities' staff have no effective cadre system and little opportunity for
advancement either within local government or to the public service at the
state level. The serious lack of financial and technical resources at the
municipal level militates against large-scale institutional mergers. GOWB
therefore proposes, as an experiment, to use state level public service
employees together with municipal employees to operate local services in
an area of four or five adjoining authorities. This would involve higher
quality staff in,the operation of municipal services and at the same time
provide state-level staff with direct exposure to the problems presently
experienced by local bodies in the CMD. Assurances have been received
that GOWB would by April 1, 1978, nominate the areas and local authorities
within CMD which would have the benefit of state level public service employ-
ees in the operation of municipal services; and prepare and implement a
feasibility report on the organization, operation and financing of the
appropriate arrangement by not later than December 31, 1978.



- 40 -
Calcu -a irporai on Management Structure
5.35      GOWB proposes to improve the top management structure of CC.  This
should not be delayed if maximum benefit is to be obtained from the large-
scale CMDA infrastructure investments and the Corporation's proposed invest-
ment in consulting services. Assurances were given at negotiations that GOWB
<ill consider and implement by April 1, 1979, appropriate improvements to the
senior management structure and accounting, stores and financial management of
the Corporation.
Accounts and Audit
5.36      CC will become responsible for operating and maintaining a con-
siderable proportion of the works to be undertaken through the project, par-
ticularly in the roads, bustee improvement, solid wastes management, water
supply, sewerage and drainage sectors. The Corporation's accounting system
is completely inadequate and the accounts have not been closed since 1967/68.
The GOWB and CC have agreed to a consultant study, as part of the second
project, to review existing procedures and design accounting, stores and
financial control systems. Functional accounting is to be introduced for
the purposes of the GOWB annual review of service pricing and taxation pol-
icies in general, and of water and sewer charges in particular. Assurances
were given during negotiations that GOWB and CC will:
(a) appoint management and accounting consultants to
design and install line management, accounting,
stores and financial control systems for CC; and
(b) appoint an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA to
audit CC's accounts and financial statements for each fis-
cal year commencing 1977/78 and furnish to IDA the audited
statements and auditor's report not later than nine months
after the close of each fiscal year.
Training, Municipal Administration and Finance
5.37      Extensive training of staff at all levels and in all sectors of
local bodies in the CMD and in DMS following its reorganization (para 5.33)
will be required during the project period. Funds have been provided in the
project for technical assistance and training (Annex 8). GOWB will engage, or
require the responsible authorities to engage consultants to prepare by
September 30, 1978, five-year training programs for staff of (i) CC, (ii)
the proposed new local government unit in the CMD, (iii) other local bodies in
the CMD and (iv) CMDA. Assurances were received that GOWB will commence
implementation of such training programs by December 31, 1978.
VI. JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project would be the second urban development project for
Calcutta and aims to improve institutions responsible for delivering,



- 41 -
operating and m-'alntaining urban systems and services; to improve fiscal
policy and manacairent; and to institute an effective system for monitoring
urban investmrents in the. CkD. Through the project, existing municipal
services -ouls d be - hab`litated by management and system reforms; prior
investmentt             p ti-mzed by the construction of secondary and ter-
tiary systems _       ova access to urban services, including housing, on
an affordo1-le  si   and employment opportunities would be created for
small-scale enterprises. The project would be instrumental in identifying
affordable project designs for developing new areas in accordance with the
government's policy of spacia. decentralization and in mobilizing private
C5p 4ta .
6302      The a-ea de;velopment component of the project introduces an inte-
-  prviding azncamodation which is sensitive to housing
designs            bv the low-income groups, community facilities and employ-
men.- c.p or:he.i-_-2A  'aa project will generate a wide range of benefits,
includLng betLer  health and an improved environment through investment in
physical i!f-astr-=cnure.  The schemes included in the project are designed
to be selffinancing and incorporate differential prices for different land
uses and plot sizes0 Approximately 45,400 people will be accommodated, about
70% of whom belong to families which earn less thani the average family monthly
income of Rs 400. The target population comprises 80% from economically
weaker sec-ions and low income groups and 20% from middle and higher income
groups. This will encourage balanced community development and, together with
industrial and commercial beneficiaries, will provide cross-subsidies within
the szhemes. The lowest income groups, 10% of the total, are to be provided
with dormitory rental accommodation. In allocating units, preference will be
given to families and small businesses relocated by works in the CMDA program.
Tlhe econormic benefits of area development at East Calcutta are based on the
inputed rental value of- the serviced residential plots and the market value of
the industrial and commercial land provided. On this basis, the economic rate
of return for the housing element alone is estimated at 17% and for the
combined housing and commercial/industrial development also at 18%.
6.03      Area development also includes a component for redevelopment of
tte fish and pan markets at Howrah. This project would help eliminate the
present unsanitary conditions affecting mainly the lower income groups who
depend upon the markets for their livelihood and would help alleviate the
lifficlt- traffic conditions of the area. The project would also create
employment opportunities and help to improve land management policies.
Measurement of the economic benefits of the component is derived from the
possible inc.creases in rental values of the fish, pan and ice packing shops and
actual payments made by the renters of the other shops and offices, as this
wo,Uld ind4fiate the willingness to pay. The rate of return is estimated
to be 17%.
6.04      The bustee improvement component will directly benefit approx-
imately 880,000 1/ bustee dwellers (176,000 families) within the CMD. By
co? -.orms part of an ongoing program which started in 1975 under
whrcki approximately 1,104,000 persons will benefit.



integrating physical infrastructure with programs of social and economic
support, the component represents a considerable improvement in the services
previously provided to the low-income bustee population. This component will
generate employment opportunities for about 4,000 laborers, most of whom will
be recruited from the areas being upgraded. The physical improvements will be
made at a per capita cost of about US$41, At present the program is funded by
GOWB grant, but increased property taxes and water and sewer charges will
begin to finance a part of the cost of these improvements. The economic
benefit of bustee improvement stems from the increase in property values which
result from provision of infrastructure and other services; the economic rate
of return is estimated at 16%.
6.05      The primary school construction component will increase the avail-
ability of primary school facilities, mainly for the slum population. Cur-
rently, less than 60% of eligible children living in bustees attend primary
school, which is far below the city-wide average. Forty new schools will be
constructed and 400 existing schools will be rehabilitated or expanded to
increase enrollment capacity and improve facilities. The project will
provide places for approximately 20,000 students in the new schools and
increase enrollment capacity by about 40,000 in the upgraded schools. It is
expected also that attendance rates in the upgraded schools will increase as
a result of the improvements. The health component aims to remedy the defi-
ciencies in the existing health delivery system in the bustees by providing,
through a pilot program, comprehensive health care including nutrition and
family planning services to a target population of 175,000 predominantly
bustee inhabitants at a per capita cost of about US$1.50. The project will
help to relieve the excessive overloading of hospital outpatient facilities
and improve the utilization of peripheral health facilities. It represents
Calcutta's first attempt to systematize patient referral, introduce commun-
ity-based outreach workers and integrate preventive, promotive and curative
health services at the home level. The benefits of these two programs,
although not quantifiable, will be substantial in improving the health
and nutrition of the beneficiaries, increased productivity of the employed
popUlation and increased responsiveness to education.
6.06      The small-scale enterprise (SSE) rcomponent is designed to provide
loans to approximately 4,800 cottage industry and small business enterpreneurs
in the bustee areas and to assist approximately 300 small-scale entrepreneurs
in the two new areas to be developed. Assistance would be provided to entre-
preneurs for loan management, procurement of machinery, equipment, and raw
materials, production techniques and marketing. The component will be closely
monitored to help reduce the risks associated with new and inexperienced
businesses. The project will bridge the credit gap between the formal and
informal markets, make more efficient use of capital, and improve the effi-
ciency of the lending market through competition with moneylenders. It is
not possible to quantify the economic benefits of the component, but the
project could result in increased incomes and employment of the target group
through reduction of seasonal slacks in the use of their productive assets,
expansion of individual efficient SSEs and establishment of new efficient
SSEs.



- 43 -
6.07      The program of investments in water supply aims to augment the
level of service in municipalities where supplies are below minimum standards
and to provide new water supplies in fringe areas of high population potential
where reticulation systems cannot be economically extended. These new sup-
plies will be drawn from deep tube wells which will be protected and chlor-
inated, thus reducing the risk of contamination and disease. Major rehabil-
itation and expansion of the main water treatment plant will prevent further
deterioration of the per capita quantity of treated supply. Laying of sec-
ondary grid systems will optimize existing investments of trunk infrastruc-
ture in densely populated areas, and the connections will be underground,
thus reducing the risk of damage and pollution. The projects will result
in substantial improvements in the quality and treatment of supplies. The
economic benefits of the project are not quantifiable; an attempt was made
to employ an indirect test of the reasonableness of the investment, and it
was estimated that increases in incomes and productivity of the beneficiaries
due to reduced absenteeism from sickness by only one day would yield a rate
of return of 26%. This saving is not unreasonable and there is reason to
believe that the impact will be greater.
6.08      The sewerage and drainage component proposes to provide sewerage
services in areas still served by septic tanks and bucket latrines and to re-
habilitate existing drainage systems to relieve severe flooding. Improvements
to storm water drainage will affect an area serving about two million people.
Branch and lateral sewers will be connected to existing trunk sewers and allow
house connections, thereby optimizing previous investments. Although the eco-
nomic benefits resulting from these works are not quantifiable, the project
will significantly improve the health of the beneficiaries and have a con-
siderable impact on environmental sanitation. This is especially critical
during the monsoon periods, when the inadequate existing system overflows
causing damage to property and public infrastructure; serious disruption to
traffic, particularly in the central area; and a considerable increase in
the risk of spreading disease.
6.09      The solid wastes management component will generate a wide range of
benefits. As a result of improved supervision of manpower and the provision
of modern collection and transportation equipment, it is expected that the
productivity of the unskilled labor involved in collection will increase
considerably. With more vehicles and improved maintenance, the operational
efficiency of the collection fleet will improve. Immediate attention is to
be given to removing the accumulated street refuse and the present systems
of collection and disposal are to be rehabilitated, providing for a more
efficient service at about the same per capita cost as at present. The
studies and pilot projects will develop an indigenous technology of collec-
tion, transport, and disposal for application throughout the CMD. Further
disposal is to be by sanitary land filling, which will provide new areas in
prime locations for cultivation, industry and recreation. Benefits of the
improved system of collection, transport and disposal are derived from the
savings in operating costs per ton due to the improvements in efficiency
resulting from the project. The rate of return of the component is 27%.
6.10      The sanitary latrine component, 1% of total project cost, provides
for the continuation of an ongoing program which aims to eliminate service



- 44 -
privies in the CMD. 1/ About 12,300 sanitary latrines will be installed at
a cost of US$178 2/ each, 25% of which will be recovered directly from the
beneficiaries. The benefits are unquantifiable, but the compornent will
considerably improve the health, hygiene and environment of the beneficia-
ries and produce savings in the cost of nightsoil collection.
6.11      The roads and traffic improvement subprojects are designed to
aid all modes of transport, but with particular emphasis on pedestrians,
other slow-moving traffic and bus passengers. The present situation is
characterized by unsatisfactory traffic control aggravated by a variety of
heterogeneous modes which compete for available road space and cause heavy
congestion. Project emphasis is given to provision and repair of footpaths.
At present pedestrians spill over onto the roads due to obstructions and
other impediments in the footways and thus slow down the movement of traf-
fic even further. The benefits of the road improvement schemes are derived
from travel time savings and savings in vehicle operating costs resulting
from improved flows of traffic diverted from their present routes. Capacity
is to be increased to accommodate expected traffic growth and development of
surrounding areas. The average economic rate of return for the three projects
in this subcomponent is estimated to be 17% if time savings are valued and 14%
if no value is attached to time savings. The three new highway projects will
form along with existing highways a major ring system of the metropolitan
core, linking into the regional highway network. Benefits of the B.K.
Expressway are derived from savings in vehicle operating costs and time
savings resulting from improved flows of traffic diverted from their present
routes, of traffic on the existing parallel road and local and transriver
generated traffic. Benefits of the E.M. Bypass and the Kona Expressway are
derived from operating cost and travel time savings of the traffic generated
by new areas of development, traffic by-passing existing north-south corri-
dors, and local traffic resulting from new sub-center and industrial develop-
ment along the corridors, These highways will stimulate additional develop-
ment of the surrounding areas and considerably increase the land values along
the routes. These highways represent the least cost solution; their respec-
tive rates of return are 15%, 22% and 13% if time savings are valued and 12%.
20% and 11% if no value is attached to time savings. The Sealdah Hump pro-
posal will alleviate very heavy congestion on the traffic corridor adjacent to
Sealdah Station, one of the two most important railway terminals of the CMD.
Separation of motorized from slow-moving and pedestrian traffic will improve
pedestrian access to the station, speed up traffic flows and result in fewer
accidents.
6.12      The estimated weighted average economic rate of return for those
components of the total project for which benefits have been quantified, and
which account for about 60% of the total project cost, is estimated to be
about 20%.
1/   Excluding latrines provided for under Bustee Improvement Program.
2/   Excluding supervision costs.



- 45 -
6.13      The project would alleviate urban poverty by reducing costs and
improving access to basic services. Project components relating to bustee
improvement, school construction, health and nutrition are focused on the
economically weaker sections and lower income groups and form part of conti-
nuing programs sponsored by GOWB. Proposed investments in area development,
water supply, sewerage and drainage, solid wastes management and traffic
engineering incorporate design standards which are affordable to the target
group and are self-financing or require financial subventions at a level
acceptable to GOWB. On this basis these facilities can be extended, where
necessary, in order to service additional population growth in the target
group.
6.14      On the production side, the small-scale enterprises support compo-
nent will create about 8,500 jobs with a 15-year minimum life, which together
with extension services and other costs amounts to approximately US$425
per job. Investments in civil works will employ approximately 40,000 per-
sons. The construction equipment and other incremental capital necessary
to support this labor force is US$9.0 million, or US$1,125 of capital per
job.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, understandings were reached on a consolidated
land acquisition and project implementation schedule, a five-year investment
program for CMDA, and a policy framework for loans to small-scale entrepre-
neurs. In addition, agreements were reached on the following points:
(a)  With GOI:
(i) making the proceeds of the credit available to GOWB
in accordance with GOI's standard arrangements for
development assistance to the States of India, for
making these funds available to CMDA (para 4.07);
and
(ii) causing selected commercial banks to make not less
than Rs 30 million available for loans to small-scale
entrepreneurs under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA (para 4.07).
(b) With GOWB:
(i) preparation and implementation of a detailed plan of
operation for bustee maintenance (para 3.17);



- 46 -
(ii)  implementation of staff training programs for GOWB,
CMDA, CC, local bodies in the CMD and the CMWSA
(paras 3.34 and 5.37);
(iii)  acquisition of land required for the project (para
4.04);
(iv)  designation of CMDA as its representative to coordi-
nate project implementation (para 4.05);
(v)  providing CMDA with adequate and timely funds for com-
pletion of CMDA's investment program 1977/78 - 1981/82
(para 4.11);
(vi)  debt-servicing obligations related to revenue earning
schemes commissioned under the project (para 4.11);
(vii)  causing CMDA and WBHB to determine and achieve full
cost recovery in area development schemes under the
project (para 4.13);
(viii) establishment of equitable beneficiary selection cri-
teria for area development schemes under the project
(para 4.16);
(ix)  development and installation of appropriate operational
policies and procedures, and satisfactory organizations,
to administer area development schemes under the project
(paras 4.17 and 5.12);
(x) establishment of a Central Valuation Board and revalua-
tion of properties in the CMD (para 5.27);
(xi)  causing the CC to (i) establish and operate a separate
water supply and sewerage fund, (ii) delink water supply
and sewerage taxes from the consolidated tax, and (iii)
levy water supply and sewerage taxes sufficient to meet
at least 84% of the CC's actual revenue expenditures
(para 5.28);
(xii)  requirement that the CC achieve established minimum revenue
targets (para 5.28);
(xiii) commissioning of studies to advise on the regulation and
licensing, if necessary, of tubewells and groundwater
supplies in the CMD (para 5.29);
(xiv)  development and implementation of proposals concerning
institutional responsibilities for water and sewerage
revenue collection in the CMD (para 5.29);



- 47 -
(xvi)  preparation and establishment of a revised grant structure
for local bodies in the CMD (para 5.31);
(xvii) providing the CC, the CMWSA and other local bodies in the
CMD with sufficient funds to operate and maintain ade-
quately (i) existing municipal services, and (ii) facili-
ties and services created by CMDA investments and trans-
ferred to local municipal bodies on commissioning (para
5.31);
(xviii) causing the CC and other local bodies in the CMD to (i)
provide satisfactory standards of operation and mainte-
nance of municipal services, and (ii) achieve annual
specified revenue/expenditure ratios by 1981/82 and
thereafter (para 5.31);
(xix)  reorganization of DMS (para 5.33);
(xx) nomination of the areas and local authorities in the CND
that would be subject to provision of services of State-
level employees, and preparation and implementation of
a feasibility report on the organization, operation and
financing of appropriate arrangements (para 5.34);
(xxi)  review and implementation of appropriate improvements of
the CC's management structure and accounting, stores and
financial management (para 5.35);
(xxii) appointment of suitable consultants for provision of
accounting, stores and financial management systems
for the CC (para 5.36); and
(xxiii) audit of the CC (para 5.36).
(c)  With CMDA:
(i) consultation with IDA on the five-year investment pro-
gram (para 4.10);
(ii) employment of consultants (para 5.06);
(iii)  installation and operation of budgeting, accounting and
management information systems, project appraisal,
and monitoring systems (para 5.10);
(iv) audit of CMDA (para 5.10); and
(v) operation and maintenance of area development schemes
(para 5.16).
7.02      With the above agreements, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$87 million to the Government of India.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Development
Part One: Sites and Services Component
A. Design Population
'.        In India, households are normally classified into four income
groups: economically weaker sector (EWS); low-income group (LIG); middle-
income group (MIG); and higher-income group (HIG).  In Calcutta the EWS
represents approximately 61% of the population. In order to establish
significant design standards, a subdivision of this and the MIG categories
has been chosen, as indicated in the following table, along with income
ranges and percentiles on the income distribution curve:
Income/Rs month                 Percentile
EWS I & II              less than 150                   less than 20
EWS III                 151  -    200                   20   -    31
EWS IV                  201  -    350                   32   -    61
LIG                     351  -    600                    62   -    82
MIG I                   601  -  1,000                    83   -    93
MIG II                1,001  -  1,500                    94   -    97
HIG                     above   1,500                   above  97
Almost the whole range will be addressed by the sites and services component,
except those groups at the extreme ends of the income curve.
2.        It has been possible to provide affordable housing for the econo-
mically weake5 sections in the form of dormitory accommodation and small lots
(down to 44 m ) by differentially loading part of the servicing costs on to
industrial, commercial, and middle and higher income residential lots (paras
50 and 53). Eighty percent of the residential lots and rental units will be
allocated to LIG and EWS groups including 7% to families with average monthly
incomes below Rs 150.
J.        It is anticipated that many of the EWS beneficiaries of the sites
and services component will be drawn from the bustees or slums, where they
presently live for lack of any affordable alternative. Preference will also
be given to those households affected or displaced by other components of
CMDA's projects. 1/
1/   Displacement will be kept to a minimum, but certain infrastructure
projects, particularly road widening schemes, will affect households and
business interests. To the extent possible affected persons will be
provided with alternative accommodation near their present place of
living or business, but where this is not possible, affected persons will
be given priority in the sites and services schemes.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
B. Site Selection
4.        The Basic Development Plan (BDP), published in 1966 by the Calcutta
Metropolitan Planning Organization, recommended a bi-nodal development
strategy for the CMD with a new center at Kalyani. The Planning Directorate
in CMDA has reviewed the spatial strategy outlined in the BDP and concluded,
some ten years later, than a polycentric policy could be more suitable to
Calcutta's long-term needs and, in addition to Kalyani, has recommended that
about 20 new centers be developed. The GOWB has accepted CMDA's position
and is actively developing a government office complex at Salt Lake, one of
the chosen growth centers. As part of the sites and services component of the
project one new center will be developed at East Calcutta and another site at
West Howrah will be acquired and filled to facilitate future development; both
sites are on an east-west axis of the Central Business District (CBD).
5.        The East Calcutta project area is located approximately 7 km south-
east of the CBD. Construction of the Eastern Metropolitan (EM) Bypass together
with two connections with the CBD, to be constructed under the proposed
project, will provide excellent transport linkages for this land, strategically
located close to the Calcutta City center. The site for the first phase is
estimated to accommodate approximately 45,400 people. The total planning area
of just over 3,300 ha is also served by five railway stations on the South
Suburban line. The first phase of this development lies astride the proposed
extensions of the East/West Rashbehari Avenue Connector and the intersection
with EM Bypass 1/ (see map IBRD 13016).
6.        The West Howrah site is located about 8 km from the CBD and lies
between National Highway No. 6 and the existing built-up area of Howrah. 2/
The site will eventually be connected to the CBD by the Kona Expressway and
the Howrah/Amta Road (Makardah Road), both of which will be constructed under
the IDA II project (see Annex 7). The West Howrah site has locational advan-
tages as a regional service center and will ultimately incorporate 40.5 ha of
land for a wholesale center and trucking terminal.
7.        The project proposals for East Calcutta and West Howrah are first
phase projects within much larger planning areas as summarized below. In
addition to residential development, East Calcutta will also contain land for
industrial and commercial uses.
1/   The EM Bypass and the extension of the Rashbehari Avenue are included
in the traffic and transportation component, Annex 7.
2/   Howrah is the twin city to Calcutta, located on the west bank of the
Hooghly River.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Total Project      Phase I Area /1        Phase I
Area (ha)            (ha)           Design Population
East Calcutta
west of EM Bypass                               127.5                  36,700
3,300
east of EM Bypass                                45.3                   8,700
West Howrah                    840              239.0                    -
TOTAL                4,140              411.8                   45,400
/1   Includes working village for washermen, accommodation and facilities for
5,000 cattle and borrow-pit areas.
8.        Both East Calcutta and West Howrah have escaped serious encroachment
by legal or illegal settlement because of their low-lying nature and current
use as paddy fields (rice growing). The ground level at both sites will,
however, have to be built up above the flood level; approximately 1 meter of
fill will be required.
9.        A major innovation of both schemes is the planned acquisition of
adjacent land to serve as "borrow-pits", which are ultimately to be integrated
as a recreational and commercial resource. The excavation and filling will be
carried out by labor-intensive methods and the pits have been designed to
produce a number of interconnected water bodies which can be utilized for fish
farming and recreational uses. Because of this, conventional public open
space standards have been reduced. In East Calcutta parts of the borrow-pit
area will also serve as a waste treatment ponding system as well as a source
of soft water for the washermen.
10.       The internal network of streets and pedestrian circulation has been
connected with adjacent existing residential settlements and transportation
routes. Pedestrian routes link up residential areas to existing and proposed
focal points, i.e. bus stops, major transport arterials, employment areas and
railway stations. It is envisaged that retail functions will be concentrated
along these routes. Residential lots have been distributed on the site in a
way to give higher vehicular accessibility to the larger lots, which will bear
a greater part of the total infrastructure cost, thus permitting cross-subsidy
to take place (see para 53).
11.       The land use distribution for Phase I at East Calcutta and West
Howrah are summarized below:



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Filled or           Borrow-Pit         Total
Developed
Area                    Ha_
East Calcutta
west of EM Bypass               87.50               40.00 /1          127.50
east of Em Bypass               35.80 /2             9.50              45.30
West Howrah                    184.40 /3            54.60             239.00
307.70              104.10             411.80
/1   The borrow-pits will be combined to yield 49.5 ha; they will be
used in part as stabilization ponds and to provide water for
washermen.
/2   Includes washermen/milkmen villages and cattle areas.
/3   Excludes wholesale market and truck terminals.
12.        East Calcutta is an area characterized by its residential demand,
and the existing built-up area consists of intensive industrial uses in
pockets of extreme congestion. The opportunity is being taken in Phase I to
resettle 1,700 washermen who are currently operating nearby under difficult
physical conditions. In addition, this site is one of the five locations
designated for buffalo resettlement under the Khatal Removal Program (para 56)
and will accommodate 5,000 buffalo. The land use distribution for the first
phase development at East Calcutta divided between developments on the east
and west sides of the EM Bypass is summarized in the following table:
A.  harketable Land to Which Costs Are Allocated
East Calcutta
West of EM      east of EM
Total
LAND USE           Area (ha)  2    Area (ha) Z   Area (ha)  2
Residential          49.00  56.0     6.50  18.2   55.50  45.0
Industrial           10.00  11.4                  10.00   8.1
Commercial           3.00   3.4                    3.00   2.4
Institutional        4.00   4.6      0.50  1.4    4.50   3.7
Washermen                            3.50  9.8    3.50   2.8
Milkmen                              18.00  50.3   18.00  14.6
Sub-total       66.00  75.4    28.50  79.7   94.50  76.6
D.  Non-Marketable Land To Which Costs Are Allocated
East Calcutta
West of EM      east of EM
Total
LAND USE           Area (ha)  Z    Area (ha) 2   Area (ha)  2
Main roads & terminals    4.50   5.2  1.30  3.5    5.80   4.7
Other roads & footpaths  15.50  17.7  3.00  8.4   18.50  15.0
Open space /1 & small
water bodies        1.50   1.7      3.00  8.4    4.50   3.7
Sub-total         21.50  24.6     7.30  20.3   28.80  23.4
TOTAL            87.50  100.6    35.80 100.0  123.30  100.0
/1  Borrow-pit area adjacent to the site will be converted to open space/fish
farming, etc., amounting to 49.50 ha.



- 52 -
ANNEX I
D. Plot Size and Development
13.         The following seven categories of accommodation provided at East
Calcutta will offer a range of options for the various income groups:
Optionsl    EWS     Plot           No. of
Target     Popu-   Size   No. of   Completed             X of Total On-Lot
Group      lation   (nM)   Lotr    Rental Units  Total    Units   Development
EWS 1 & 11  3,795    32     -         684        684 J1    8.9   Dormitory
Rental Units
EWS III    8,485    44    1,530        -        1,530      19.9   Sanitary core,
plinth and
building ma-
terials loan
EWS IV    14,055    50   2,535         -        2,535      32.9   Sanitary core,
plinth and
building
materials loan
LIG        9,850    60    1,776        -        1,776      23.0   Sanitary core,
plinth and
building ma-
terials loan
MIG I      5,630    125     741      (274) /2   1,015       9.6   None
MIG II     2,045    173     254      (115)        369       3.3   None
BIG        1,540   243      184       (94)       278        2.4   None
45,400          7,020      684       8,187      100.0
(483)
Ll  This total includes the milkmen and washermen villages (east of the EM
Bypass).
IS  Sitea will be provided for higher income group rental units (shown in
parentheses) under the project, but the structure will not be provided.
The West Bengal Housing Board (WBHB) will construct the units and obtain
fisamce from local commercial sources.
Approximately 14% of all accommodation will be available for rental. For the
four EWS categories, three different types of accommodation or lot size are
proposed, the design solution being dicated by the ability of the various
income groups to pay 15-20% of monthly incomes towards their accommodation.
14.         Types EWS I and II.   Single-room units  of the dormitory type will be
provided at a monthly rent of Rs 20 to accommodate families who are below the
20th percentile on the income distribution curve; the land per unit would be
about 32 m2.    Three toilets and three shower units will be provided for every
ten units; cooking facilities will be available adjacent to each room. In
certain instances it is envisaged that the renting of bed space will take
place,  enabling individuals  to share  the costs.
15.         Type EWS II&.   This group is to be provided with a serviced lot
of approximately 44 m , a sanitary core (containing a water closet and bathing
facility), foundations and plinth walling around the perimeter of the plot.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
In addition the purchaser would be eligible for a housing loan of Rs 2,000 1/
to enable a single-room shelter to be erected.  This unit is expected to
attract households that can afford an estimated average expenditure of Rs
25-30 per month on the plot and superstructure. The total monthly repayments
will be Rs 26.
16.       Type EWS IV.  A serviced lot of 50 m  will be provided together with
a sanitary core and perimeter plinth wall. In addition, the purchaser would
be eligible for a housing loan of Rs 2,400 1/ to enable a basic shelter to be
erected. The unit would attract households earning between Rs 201 and Rs 350
per month. The total monthly payment will be Rs 42.
17.       Type LIG.  A serviced lot of 60 m  will be provided together with a
sanitary core and perimeter plinth wall. In addition, the purchaser would be
eligible for a housing loan of Rs 3,000 1/ to enable a two-room house to be
built. The unit would attract households earning between Rs 351 and Rs 600
per month. The total monthly payment will be Rs 75.
18.       The construction of the perimeter plinth wall for the EWS III, EWS IV
and LIG will facilitate site identification and reduce party wall conflicts
during the self-help construction stage. Technical assistance and funds
for the purchase of basic building materials will be available to allottees.
All lot options allow for the incremental extension and improvement of the
dwellings.
19.       Types MIsG I/MIG II/HIG.  Approximately 20% of the total number of
lots has been allocated to the middle and higher income groups. The lots are
full serviced and will be sold at competitive but profitable prices 5anging
from Rs 70 per sq m to about Rs 87 per sq m.  The lot sizes of 125 m , 173 m
and 243 m enable a wide interpretation of individual house designs to be
possible, and their distribution has been planned to allow the maximum flexi-
bility in order to respond to market pressures, e.g. the construction of
walk-up "group-ownership" flats. About 30% of the MIG and HIG plots have been
allocated for the construction of rental units.
E. Core and Rental Housing Details
20.       Core.  A sanitary core consisting of a water closet (w.c.) and
wash facility will be built at the rear of the lot. The wash facility will
have a tap and a built-in water storage vat. It will be constructed in brick
1/   At 1977 prices.



54 -
ANNEX 1
with a concrete floor and corrugated asbestos sheet roof. The estimated cost
of the core and plinth wall is Rs 2,417 1/, including sewerage and plumbing
connections.
21.       Self-Help Construction.  A large amount of self-help construction
is expected to take place on EWS III, EWS IV and LIG lots. Initially the
allottee will probably build a temporary structure and follow this with a
permanent building. The temporary structure will be built by self-help
methods; construction of the brick walls, roof, plumbing and other work is
likely to be executed by self-help with the assistance of professional masons
and other technical personnel. Loans for the purchase of building materials
will be available to plot holders from WBHB at 8.5% interest per annum for 20
years. The various stages of construction are shown in the sketches at the
rear of this report.
22.       Rental Housing.  For the EWS I and EWS II families, rental housing
in the form of dormitory accommodation will be const5ucted by the WBMB. Each
dormitory consists of 10 rooms of approximately 12 m each with an adjacent
cooking room/veranda. All rooms are grouped around an internal hard-paved
court, in which are located the w.c.'s and wash facility units. The building
will be constructed in brick with tile roofs on bamboo framing. Floors will
be finished in concrete or clay tiles laid on a compacted earth base.
23.       Rental housing for the MIG I, MIG II and HIG groups will be financed
outside CMDA's program, and will probably consist of four-story walk-up flats
in reinforced concrete framed construction or load-bearing brick construc-
tion. CMDA's role will be limited to handing over fully-servied sites to the
WBHB, which will build the units 2/ or in certain cases auction the sites to
private developers, cooperatives or other agencies for development.
F. Infrastructure
Water Supply
24.       Design criteria adopted for the project include an initial per
capita supply of 75 lcd, an industrial demand of 20,000 liters/ha/day, a
cattle demand of 150 liters/head/day, peak flow factor of 1.85, residual
pressure of 9 m, and an overhead tank with a capacity of 30% of the average
daily flow with low water level set at 12 meters above ground level. All
materials will conform to the Indian Standards Specifications. Pipes of
sizes 150 mm in diameter and below will be manufactured from cast iron.
1/   Including physical and price contingencies.
2/   With funds available from local commercial sources.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
25.       In the early years at East Calcutta groundwater will be utilized,
but the source will be transferred to the Corporation's system as soon as
filitered water is available in sufficient quantities and at adequate pressure.
This quantity of water will also serve the 5,000 cattle to be resettled.
26.       The 1,700 washermen present a special problem during Phase I.
The groundwater in East Calcutta is hard, and it is not practical to use
this water for washing clothes. Water for clothes washing will be supplied
from a pond formed from borrow-pits. The size will be designed to deliver
1,000 liters per day per washerman, i.e. a daily supply of 1.7 Mld. A 6 ha
pond 3 m deep is proposed with controlled connections to the remainder of the
ponding system.
27.       The water requirements for fire fighting will be met from hydrants
sited at locations agreed with the West Benegal Fire Services Authority.
The hydrants will be placed at intervals of 120-150 m and be supplied by pipes
with a minimum diameter of 100 mm.
Sewerage
28.       Separate sewerage systems will be provided under the project for raw
sewage and surface water drainage, and 80% of water supply will enter the raw
sewerage system. Other design criteria adopted include a 26,000 liters/ha/day
infiltration allowance, 2.75 peak flow factor, and minimum velocity at peak
discharge of 0.6m/second. Salt glazed earthenware pipes will be used for sizes
450 mm diameter and below and concrete pipes will be used for sizes over 450 mm.
29.       In East Calcutta the sewage will be pumped to a treatment plant
comprised of a series of stabilization ponds. It is proposed that part of the
effluent from the stabilization ponds will be connected to the first stage of
an aquaculture system (fish farming) utilizing the land-fill borrow-pits.
Expert advice on the design and stocking of fish ponds from borrow-pits is
being sought through the Department of Fisheries and Agriculture.
Surface Water Drainage
30.       Run-off requirements have been calculated using rainfall intensities
based on a two-month storm, 70% impervious factor and a time of entry of five
minutes; open drains of trapezoidal cross-section will be utilized. Generally,
surface water drains will be constructed with sand/cement rendered brick sides
on a concrete invert. It is possible to discharge surface water into drainage
canals at many points on the site; pumping will not be necessary.
Solid Wastes
31.       Approximately 20,000-25,000 kg of solid wastes will be generated on
the site per day. Containerized storage will be sought from the outset. Two
7-ton tipping trucks will be supplied for transporting wastes, including
street sweepings. Solid wastes will be transported to the Dhapa/Bantala
disposal areas.



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Cattle Wastes
32.       It is intended that cattle manure (about 4,500 m  net volume) from
the cattle sheds at East Calcutta will be disposed via anaerobic digestion
,ding to the generation of biogas.  A feasibility study, aimed at integrating
the possible on-site (pumping and heating) and off-site (domestic cooking)
application of the generated biogas will be initiated by CMDA. The study will
also focus on the social and economic (marketability of biogas and the digested
manure) aspects of the biodigestion schemes. The dilution water requirements
for the feed slurry to the biogas plants will be met from the effluent discharge
<.om the treatment ponding system.
Integrated Scheme
33.       An innovative approach representing a cost-effective solution for
the entire waste disposal problem has been proposed for the East Calcutta area.
This involves an 'integrated scheme' that combines the previously mentioned
elements of waste water disposal, reuse of the treated effluent (aquaculture
and other uses) and bioenergy recovery from the cattle waste digestors.
Roads and Footways
34.       Spine roads will have a right-of-way of 26 m with a 7 m wide carriage-
way and two footways provided in the first stage. Access roads will have a
right-of-way of 7 m with a 2.5 m wide brick paved road and minor roads will
have a right-of-way of 9 m with a 2.5 m wide carriageway. Industrial roads
will have a right-of-way of 18 m and consist of a 13 m wide carriageway with
two 2.5 m wide footways.
35.       The carriageways of the spine, minor and industrial roads will
consist of a sub-base of ashes, on which will be laid a base course of broken
bricks with bitumen macadam surfacing. The thickness and number of layers
will depend on forecast traffic weight and volume. Brick-paved access roads
and footpaths will consist of brick on edge paving laid on a compacted clinker
sub-base. The specification of materials and workmanship will conform to those
of the Indian Roads Congress and the Indians Standards Institute.
Street Lighting
The spine road will be illuminated to conform with standards of
the Indian Standards Institute. The size and spacing of other lights on the
remni&nder of the streets and footways will be determined by CMDA on the basis
of security requirements.
Power
37.       High-tension mains pass throught the site.  It will, however, be
necessary to make provision for extending the distribution, since an ulti-
mate load of of 4.0 MW is expected at East Calcutta. This will require the



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
installation of a high-voltage sub-station, overhead and underground high-
tension mains, several distribution sub-stations and medium and low-voltage
mains. The above system will adhere to design specifications of the Indian
Standards Institute. The Calcutta Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) will
be responsible for the power supply to the project area. All power supply
equipment will be installed by CESC, but the project authority will have to
bear a part of the total cost as service connection charges. Assurances
have been received that an adequate supply of electricity will be provided in
a timely fashion and in advance of requirements.
Costs of Off-Site Infrastructure
38.       The cost of the trunk road needed to open up the area is included in
the traffic and transportation component. Water supply headworks, sewerage
outfalls and treatment plants, electrical transformers and power grid will be
charged to the concerned agencies and recovered through connection charges,
user charges and taxes.
G. Community Facilities
39.       The following design standards have been adopted:
Schools:
(a) one primary school of five classrooms accommodating
400 pupils (double shift) for a population of 3,500
persons;
(b) one secondary school of 10 classrooms, two laboratories,
three administrative rooms, and play area/sports facility,
serving a population of 20,000 persons;
Health Centers:
One health center comprising waiting areas, dispensary, four-
bed male and four-bed female wards, three-bed special ward,
and offices for doctor/mid-wife per 15,000 population.
In addition to the schools and health centers, one of each of the following
will be provided: market, community hall, police station and administration
building.
H. Beneficiary Selection Criteria
40.       All applicants and/or cooperatives will be screened and selected by
CMDA acting in association with WBHB. To be eligible for sites and services



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
lots and rental units, an applicant or members of a cooperative (a) must be
at least 18 years of age; (b) have a regular source of income and the monthly
household income should, for each lot type, be in the range of income indi-
cated below; and (c) not be the owner of any other house or house site in the
metropolitan area. A house or house site owned by any other household member
would be considered as owned by the applicant.
41.       In the event that potential beneficiaries capable of meeting appro-
priate criteria for any available benefits exceed the available supply, selec-
tion of such beneficiaries will be made by a random number selection process
using identity numbers ascribed to the beneficiaries at the time of applica-
tion. Priority, however, will be given to applicants belonging to scheduled
castes and scheduled tribes and to applicants who may be displaced as a re-
sult of the execution of the Second Calcutta Urban Development Project.
Information concerning the availability of lots and rentals units will be
disseminated by CMDA through the mass media and other appropriate means.
42.       The ranges of household income required to qualify for the different
size lots will be as follows:
% range of number of
Income            Approximate       serviced lots to be
Rs per month      lot size (m )    provided
EWS    I and II    under   150             32                 5   -   7
III         151  -  200             44               14   -  20
IV          201  -  350             50               30   -  35
LIG                 351  -  600             60               20   -  25
MIG    I            601  -  1,000          125               10   -  15
II        1,001  -  1,500          173                3   -   5
HIG               1,501  -  and above    253                  3   -   5
I. Implementation
43.       Wherever possible CMDA, while acting as the main developer, will
utilize other agencies provided they have the experience to take on the alloca-
ted tasks. This is particularly relevant with respect to estate management, an
area where CMDA is inexperienced. While CMDA envisages managing some of the
compact urban renewal schemes like Sealdah and Howrah Fish and Pan Market
redevelopments, it does not propose to move into housing or industrial estate
management, particularly since there exist viable institutions already active
in this field, e.g. WBHB and WBSIC.
44.       East Calcutta will be developed by CMDA, which will buy the land and
supervise the construction of the earthworks, infrastructure, cores, plinth



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
walls and community facilities. CMDA will then transfer serviced land and the
associated debt for the residential, commercial and washing areas to the WBHB
which will construct, rent and manage most of the rental units 1/, sell the
serviced lots and process and manage the mortgage loans.
45.       The industrial site will be handled through WBSIC.  CMDA will
service the land and then transfer it and its associated debt to WBSIC. IDA
will participate through nominated banks in small-scale enterprise loans to
the EWS 2/, but the bulk of the commercial and industrial loans will be pro-
vided by the banking sector (see Annex 5, Part 3). CMDA will also construct
about 50 industrial sheds on an agency basis for WBSIC who will manage the
site and service the debt. The sheds will be rented to entrepreneurs, many
of whom will provide materials and services to the low-income families for
completion of their structures.
46.       The cattle compounds, milk processing facilities and biogas plants
will be developed by CMDA and transferred to the Animal and Husbandry Direc-
torate, GOWB, for operation and maintenance. The funds for this subproject
component will be available under the Netherlands Government bilateral
assistance program (para 56).
47.       Design Implementation for CMDA.  In addition to its recently
enlarged Planning Directorate, CMDA will also utilize the services of local
consulting firms to assist in the design and preparation of contract documents
for sites and services schemes. The Planning Directorate now has sufficient
staff capable of dealing with the conceptual, policy and program aspects and
to brief and supervise consultants, but they are not able to deal with de-
tailed design. CMDA will therefore concentrate on what it can do or readily
expand to do, i.e. supervise construction. To this end, it has recently
established a new Area Development Cell which will coordinate the letting and
supervision of building and civil engineering contracts. The establishment
of this new cell is for 170 engineers, technicians and supporting staff. In
March 1977 less than 10% of the slots were filled, but the job specifications
are such that there will be no difficulty in recruiting the remainder of the
staff when they are required. The extent of consultant assistance will be a
function of the volume of work undertaken. It is estimated that approximately
600 man/months of local consulting services will be required for the design of
these two schemes: 200 in 1977/78 and 400 in 1978/79.
1/   Some of the rental sites may be sold to cooperatives and/or private
developers if the demand arises.
2/   Rs 30 lakhs has been included in the SSE component.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
J. Cost Estimates and Land Pricing
48.       The total cost of the component is Rs 13.93 crores net of contingen-
cies as summarized in Table I and detailed in Tables 2 and 3. All costs for
land acquisition, earthworks and on-site infrastructure would be charged to
site development, as indicated in the following table:
Washermen's        Milkmen's
East Calcutta         Work Area           Work Area
--Rs Crores ---------------
Land filling                        1.20                 0.04               0.20
On-site infrastructure              1.02                 0.02               0.17
8% design and supervision           0.18                 0.01               0.03
15X physical contingency            0.33                 0.01               0.05
Land acquisition                    1.04                 0.03               0.17
Total chargeable cost          3.77                0.11                0.62
Marketable land (m )         730,000              35,000             180,000
Development cost (RsIm )           51.64                31.43              34.44
49.       The difference in development costs among the areas are due to
physical on-site conditions; the actual sale price, however, will vary with
the type of lot and its location within the site. Part of the surplus realized,
particularly from the sale of good commercial and industrial land selling at
between Rs 90-150 per sq m, will be utilized to reduce the price of the EWS
lots and provide a subsidy to the rental dormitory housing for the EWS I and
EWS II. Average sales prices by type of lot and land use and total values are
shown in Table 4, and the land development cost per hectare, per lot and per
capita for the west side of East Calcutta is as follows:



- 61 -
ANNEX I
Cost / Ap-        Cost per       Average Cost        Cost:
portioned to      Residential         per             per
Residential           ha /2      Structure/Lot      Capita
Use
(Rs lakhs)     Rs'000  US$'000   Rs       US$    Rs      US$
Land                               70          108.5      12.6  1,052    122    191       22
Filling                           100          155.0      18.0  1,503    175    272       32
Sub-total (a)                170          263.5     30.6  2,555    297    463        54
Surface water drainage             12           18.6       2.2    180      21     33       4
Water supply                       15           23.3       2.7    225      26      41      5
Sewerage                           24           37.2       4.3    361      42      65      8
Roads & footways                   21           32.6       3.8    316      37      57      7
Electricity & street lighting    12             18.6       2.2    180      21      33      4
Landscaping                         3            4.7       0.5      45      5       8      1
Sub-total (b)                 87          135.0     15.7  1,307    152    137        29
TOTAL (a) & (b)              257          398.5     46.3  3,862    449    700        83
Off-site infrastructure           134          207.8      24.2  2,014    234    365       42
GRAND TOTAL                  391          606.3     70.5  5,876    683  1,065    125
/1   Includes physical contingencies and design costs.
/2   Includes road and footways.
K. Financial Analysis
50.       One of the prime objectives of the East Calcutta project has been
to demonstrate the feasibility of providing urban services to low-income
groups without government subsidies. This was sought through a variety of
techniques, the most important of which was to design into the project sources
of revenue that could be used to reduce charges to the low-income families
who would settle there and thus make it affordable by them. Project charges
to low-income beneficiaries, therefore, have been offset by the amount of
revenue anticipated from the sale and lease of middle and higher income resi-
dential, commercial and industrial land developed in the project area. In
addition, project design was based on the use of self-help construction,
high densities and small lot sizes.



62 -
ANNEX 1
Cost Recovery and Charging of Benefits
51.       The pricing of 99-year leases and of rents for each site at East
Calcutta shall be based on the prlnciple of recovery of all costs incurred,
including:
(a) land acquisition;
(b) site preparation;
(c)  construction of residential lots, sanitary cores, walls,
dormitory units and other accommodation and domestic
facilities;
(d) construction of industrial sheds, markets and vending loca-
tions, washing slabs and cattle sheds with allied structures;
(e) constructon of on-site infrastructure including water supply,
sewerage, drainage, roads and electricity services;
(f) any other works or services determined by the Authority or
WBHB in agreement with the Association as recoverable from
beneficiaries;
(g) planning, design and construction supervision of the above;
(h) interest during construction;
(i) operation and maintenance to the extent not recovered through
taxes or other user charges levied by responsible authorities;
and
(j) management and administration costs including adequate provi-
sion for bad debts.
52.       Each beneficiary shall make a downpayment for the housing leasehold
units before occupation of not less than 5% of the total cost for EWS III, IV
and LIG units and not less than 10% for all other housing units. Other
facilities will require a downpayment before occupation of not less than 15%.
Industrial and commercial plots will be leased at prices in the range of not
less than Rs 90 through Rs 150 per square meter in East Calcutta. Milkmen
shall pay charges sufficient to meet all costs of relocation estimated at
Rs 0.15 per liter for milk processing and Rs 20 per month per head of cattle.
53.       In practice, full cost recovery, when applied to large urban de-
velopment, requires interpretation. It must be limited by established tradi-
tions in financing certain "off-site" and other public services such as major
roads and schools, which are not usually paid for directly through housing
charges. The guideline adopted for this component was that those costs nor-
mally borne by private developers in a private housing scheme would be



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
passed on to beneficiaries. Other expenses that normally would be incurred
by government agencies in support of private housing schemes will be borne by
these agencies when supporting sites and services projects. The following
table indicates the allocated cost of each type of residential unit with on-
lot development at East Calcutta:
Material    Cross      Total
Developed           loan or      Transfer  Charge  Monthly        Income
Lot Type        land costs  Core   structure   per lot   per lot payment          Groups
--------------------------- Rs ---------------------------- Rs per mcnth
EWS I/II(R) /1   1,664                5,200      -4,689    2,175      20        under  150
EWS III           2,288     2,417    2,000       -3,555    3,150      26           151-200
EWS IV            2,600     2,417    2,400       -2,302    5,115      42           201-350
LIG               3,120     2,417    3,000       +  583    9,120      75           351-600
MIG I             6,500                          +2,660    9,160      70 /2      601-1,000
MIG I(R)          4,264                          +1,746    6,010    225 /3       601-1,000
MIG II            8,996                          +5,019   14,015    107 /2   1,001-1,500
MIG II(R)         5,980                          +3,336    9,316    350 /3   1,001-1,500
HIG              12-,636                         +9,861   22,497    165 /2  1,501 and above
HIG(R)            8,580                          +6,695   15,275    500 /3  1,501 and above
/1   Refers to rental unit.
/2   Serviced lots only at mortgage terms of 8 1/2% for 20 years.
/3   Rents include management and maintenance fees.
Cross Transfers
54.       Revenues resulting from the sale of higher income residential
lots and rental units, and industrial and commercial lots will be an important
source of additional funds for differentially loading project costs and thus
benefiting lower income groups. It is estimated that a sum of Rs 1.55 crores
will be available for cross-transfer. This will defray part of the cost of
providing serviced land to the lower income groups.
Financial Implications for GOWB Agencies and Commercial Banks
55.       The estimated debt CMDA will pass to WBHB (including house materials
loans), WBSIC and the Animal and Husbandry Directorate is as follows, (all
figures include contingencies): (i) WBHB, Rs 7.01 crores; (ii) WBSIC, Rs
1.10 crores; and Animal and Husbandry Directorate, Rs 1.55 crores. The commer-
cial banks will participate in building, equipment and working capital loans
to the commercial and small-scale enterprises and in providing house mortgages
and construction finance for rental units, for middle and higher income
groups. The estimated extent of the commercial banks' partipation depends on
demand and individual requirements; it cannot be accurately determined, but is
is expected to be about Rs 6 crores.



- 64 -
AN N EX I
FinazcLal Assiscance for the Khatal 7/ Removal Pgram
E -       a nXcsG:'vlands Gcvcca Zrrat i s  uurrentlv f 1nancing  .oc e   oceRtion
of 20,000 buffalo 2/, currently living in a large number of scattered com-
pounds, and resettling them in five concentratpd locat'ions wnere -eterinary
: -ices 9milk processing and marketlng facilit _s -will be avalLable,  East
Calcutta has been chosen as a site for resettling 5,000 bufralo.
L.  Implemanting Agencies
West Bengal Housing Board (WINE)
57.       WBHB was set un        72 as an agency Qf the state government.  It
has four members appointed Fy -QT1B, and its headquarters are in Calcutta.
WBHB designs, builds and sells houses on a cash or hire purchase basis and
currently employs a housing commissioner supported by approximately 170 pro-
fessional and 110 subordinate staff. The technical staff are headed by a
Director of Engineering and a Chief Architect. and other staLf cadres are
headed by the Secretary9 Fir.an4al Advisor and Sales Manager.
58.       The availability of funds has determined the rate of growth of WBHB.
Funds have so far been forthcomlng from the GO! through the Housing and Urban
Development Corporation (HUDCO), GOWB and market borrowings, though the latter
are liaited and amounted to only Rs 25 lakhs in 1976/77.  HUDCO loans are made
on a scneme-by-scheme basis; HUDCO provides 67% of construction cost at
interest rates varying between 5.5% and 11.5%. The lower interest is charged
?n EWS housing and the higher interest on HIG housing.  GOWB financing has
.een restricted to seed capital of Rs 1.40 crores made during the period
1972-74 consisting of Rs 50 lakhs in real estate and Rs 90 1akhs in cash.
Under existing procedures, WBHB requires 40% as downpayment and the remaining
60% over a fixed term (usually 20 years) at varying interest rates depending
on the financial terms available to WBHB. Each individual housing scheme is
expected to be financially viable with the sale prlce designed to cover all
development and supervision costs, administration ana rinance charges.
59.       Up to the present WBHB has only been involved in sales and not
rental and management. Since this project component encompasses both sales
rentals, WBHB will gear itself to cope witth increased responsibiiities.
g negotiations GOWB agreed to establish separate sites and senrices and
ren 1 wings in WBHB by March 31, 1979.
1/   Buffalo compound.
2/   There are 60,000 head of buffalo in the CMD.  10,000 have been resettled
already at Harrigata, but the program has stopped for lack of funds.



- 65 -
ANNEX 1
The West Bengal Small Industries Corporation Ltd. (WBSIC)
60.       WBSIC was established in 1961 as a Public Limited Company registered
under the Companies Act of 1956. WBSIC is wholly owned by GOWB with a paid-
in capital of Rs 85 lakhs as of January 1977. WBSIC has its headquarters in
Calcutta and several regional offices in West Bengal. About one-third of the
total staff of about 300 are located in the CMD. WBSIC's objectives are to aid,
assist and promote the small-scale industry in the State through a variety of
functions including provision of (mainly scarce) raw materials; hire purchase
of machinery; setting up of industrial/commercial estates; and assistance to
women entrepreneurs. In addition, WBSIC has been entrusted to administer sev-
eral schemes on behalf of the Directorate of Cottage and Small-Scale Industries
(CSSI) including: consultancy service to small-scale industry; margin money
(seed capital) schemes; and composite nursery scheme for development of seri-
culture.
61.       WBSIC has also been successful in setting up industrial/commercial
estates, a responsibility which GOWB entrusted to WBSIC in 1973. Since that
time, WBSIC completed construction of four industrial estates and one commer-
cial estate providing accommodation for 453 units including 310 for small
businessmen at a total cost of about Rs 5.05 crores of which commercial banks
financed Rs 1.01 crores. Presently three more industrial estates are under
construction and others are planned. WBSIC is a reasonably well-run profit-
able corporation, which has experience in constructing and administering
industrial estates for small-scale industry and small business in West Bengal.
It is qualified to sell/lease industrial plots of the proposed East Calcutta
industrial estate.
M. Economic Evaluation
62.       The sites and services component is expected to have a substantial
influence on GOWB's approach to urban shelter and infrastructure for lower
income groups. It would demonstrate the feasibility of undertaking self-help
housing affordable to the low-income population, and would thereby help to
shift the attention of the authorities responsible for housing from their pre-
sent emphasis on middle and upper income housing towards the needs of the EWS.
63.       The measurement of economic benefit is based upon the estimate of
inputed rental value for the dwellings to be constructed. A comparison with
rental values elsewhere in the metropolitan area with similar service condi-
tions as the site in the project was conducted by Architects Collaborated
(consultants to CMDA). Based on this analysis 2nd discus2ions with residents,
it was estimated that in East Calcutta for 44 m and 50 m lots, both with
one room and cooking area constructed by self-help labor, the facilities would
rent monthly at Rs 150 and Rs 200, respectively.  For the multi-family           2
dormitory rental units, the monthly rent would be Rs 100 per unit. The 60 m
serviced lot would rent monthly for Rs 225 per unit for two rooms constructed



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
by self-help labor. For the larger lots, the actual payments made by the pur-
chasers of the lots are assumed to represent the benefits derived as these pay-
ments would indicate the willingness to pay.
64.        For lots designated for industrial and coiF ercial uses, benefits
have been computed at an average market value per m of Rs 90 and Rs 150 at
East Calcutta respectively.
65.        Costs considered on the economic analysis include costs of site pre-
paration, core construction, on-site infrastructure, an allocated share of
off-site infrastructure, rental structures, materials for self-help housing
construction, an imputed value of self-help labor, project administration,
physical contingencies and interest during construction. Land was priced
at the market value prior to development, which was considered to reflect
opportunity cost. On this basis the internal economic rate of return on the
sites and services component as a whole is estimated at 18%. The rate of
return for the housing component alone (excluding all other marketable land
and the associated development costs) is estimated at 17%. A decrease in the
occupancy of rental units by 20% would give a rate of return of 14% and an
increase in project costs by 20% would also give an acceptable rate of return
of 14%.
Table 1
Summary Cost Estimate
(Rs crores)
West   East   Washing  Cattle
Howrah  Calcutta  Slabs  Compounds  Totals
Land acquisition       1.77    1.04    0.03    0.17    3.01
Land filling           2.23    1.20    0.04    0.20    3.67
Infrastructure
On-site                      1.02    0.02    0.36    1.40
Off-site                     1.50    0.01            1.51
Residential
On-plot dev. cores           1.17    0.10            1.27
Loans                        1.45                    1.45
Comunity facilities            0.77                    0.77
Rental structures
EWS I and II                 0.30                    0.30
Industrial and other units     0.13                    0.13
Sub-total           4.00    8.58    0.20    0.73    13.51
Design and supervision,/l   0.05    0.32    0.01    0.04  0.42
Sub-total           4.05     8.90    0.21    0.77    13.93
Physical contingency   0.33    0.91    0.03    0.06    1.33
Price contingency      0.44    2.03    0.05    0.12    2.64
GRAND TOTAL         4.82    11.84    0.29    0.95    17.90
Additional funds amounting to Rs 5.81 crores will also be required from
commercial banks to develop the MIG, HIG homes and rental units (Rs 1.66 crores),
commercial structures (Rs 1.00 crores) and loans to small-scale industries
(Rs 3.15 crores).
/1 Includes consultant's services. Supervision will be undertaken by CNDfA.



ANNEX 1
-67 -                         Table 2
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Development
Sites and Services Component
Detailed Estimate of Cost - Area Development
East Calcutta (west of EM Bypass)
Rs crores
A.  Land acquisition                                   0.95
Sub-total A                        0.95
B.  Land filling                                       1.09
Sub-total B                        1.09
C. On-site infrastructure:
1.  roads                                          0.23
2.  drainage                                       0.13
3.  street lighting                                0.13
4.  water supply                                   0.16
5.  sewerage                                       0.26
6.  landscaping                                    0.03
Sub-total C                        0.94
D. On-plot development:
1. sanitary core, plinth
+ connection (5,841
@ Rs 2,000)                                    0.92
Sub-total D                        0.92
E. Off-site infrastructure:
1.  water supply                                   0.24
2.  sewerage                                       0.50
3.  electricity                                    0.60
4.  drainage                                       0.11
Sub-total E                        1.45
F. Community facilities:
1. primary schools (13
new @ Rs 68,000)                               0.08
2. high schools (2 new
+ improvements)                                0.16
3.  health centers (3)                             0.15
4.  police station (1)                             0.04
5.  fire station (1)                               0.02
6. post office/admin.
building                                       0.13
7.  market                                         0.08
8.  community center                               0.10
Sub-total F                        0.76
G. Rental dormitories for
EWS I and II (350 units)                           0.15
Sub-total G                        0.15
H. Industrial units (50
@ Rs 25,000)                                       0.13
Sub-total H                        0.13
TOTAL A - H-/-                     6.39
I.  House material loans                                              1.20
TOTAL A - I                        7.59
/1  Excludes the following which have been included in the
project summary costs:
design and supervision
physical contingencies
price contingencies



ANNEX 1
Table 3
- 68 -
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Development
Sites and Services Component
Detailed Estimate of Cost - Area Development
East Calcutta (east of EM Bypass)
(Rs crores)
Washermen    Milkmen Area &
Residential   Work Area    Cattle Sheds        Total
Land acquisition                0.09 /1       0.03 /2         0.17           0.29
Land filling                    0.11          0.04            0.20           0.35
Infrastructure - on site       0.08          0.02 /3         0.17 /4        0.27
- off site      0.05         0.01                           0.06
On-plot development             0.25 /5      0.10 /6                        0.35
Community facilities            0.01 /7                                     0.01
Rental dormitory accommoda-
tion for EWS I & II
(334 units)             0.15           _             _               0.15
Sub-total             0.74          0.20            0.54           1.48
House material loans            0.25                                         0.25
TOTAL /8             0.99          0.20            0.54           1.73
/1   Includes sewage treatment ponds.
/2   Includes drying area.
/3   Includes special water supply, pumping, etc.
/4   Includes estimated cost of extensive drainage to cattle sheds.
/5   Sanitary core, plinth and connections.
/6   Wash slabs and equipment.
/7   Multi-purpose center comprising school/clinic/community center.
/8   Excludes the following which have been included under project summary
costs:
(i) design and supervision
(ii) physical contingencies
(iii) price contingencies



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Development
Sites and Services Component
FINANCED BY                     FINANCED THROUGH
Developed   San. Core Loan/                   Amount       No. of Total Surplus/               Other                     Commercial      GOWB
Land Cost  & Plinth   Structure  Total Cost  Chargeable   Units   (Deficit)          CMDA    Agencies  WBHB   WBSIC        Banks    Departments
EAST CALCUTTA
EWS I & II                              1,664                 5,200      6,864         2 175         684    (0.33)           0.14              0.14
EWS III                                 2,288       2,417      2,000     6,705         3,150       1,530     (0.55)          0.48              0.48
EWS IV                                  2,600       2,417     2,400      7,417          5,115      2,535     (0.58)          1.30              1.30
LIG                                     3,120       2,417     3,000      8,537          9,120      1,776     0.11            1.62              1.62
MIG I - ownership                       6,500                            6,500          9,160        741     0.20            0.68     0.74l    0.68               0.74
- rental                         4,264                            4,264          6,010        274      0.04           0.16     0.36 /3  0.52
MIG II - ownership                      8,996                            8,996         14,015        254     0.13            0.36     0.46 /2  0.36               0.46
- rental                        5,980                            5,980          9,316        115      0.04           0.11      0.21 /3  0.32
HIG - ownership                        12,636                           12,636         22,497        184     0.18            0.41     0.46 /2  0.41               0.46
- rental                            8,580                           8,580          15,275        94      0.06            0.14     0.28 /3  0.42
Industrial land                         0.52 crores                     0.52 crores    0.95 crores           0.43            0.95     3.15             0.95       3.15 /4
- rental units                                           30,250 /5 30,250         30,250          50       -             0.15                      0.15
Commercial land                         0.16 crores                      0.16 crores    0.52 crores           0.36           0.52     1.00     0.52               1.00
Institutional facilities                0.23 crores         0.94 crores 1.17 crores    1.17 crores              -            1.17                                              1.17
MILKMEN AND WASHERMEN VILLAGES
Washermen work areas                    0.11 crores /6       0.13 crores 0.24 crores    0.24 crores   -         -            0.24              0.24
Milkmen work areas                      0.62 crores /7       1.02 crores 1.64 crores    1.55 crores   -      (0.09)          1.55     6.66                                      1.55
9.98     6.66     7.01    1.10       5.81         2.72
/1  Developed land cost - Rs 52 per m2.
/2 Represents an estimate of total housing loans to finance MIG and HIG structures. In practice, amounts are expected to be less.
/3 Represents estimated cost of rental structures.
/4 Small-scale business and industry loans including EWS.
/5  Land cost of rental units included in industrial land.       2
/6  Developed land cost_of washermen's work area - Ra 31.43 per2m
/7  Developed land cost of milkmen's work area - Rs 34.44 per m
PlZ



- 70 -
ANNEX 1
Part 2
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Development
Part Two: Redevelopment of Howrah
Fish and Pan Market
66.       This subproject involves the redevelopment of an existing site in
a prime location adjacent to Howrah Railway Station.
N. Location and Site Conditions
67.       The redevelopment area totals 4.12 ha 1/ and is situated astride the
existing Buckland Bridge Approach Road. The east side fronts on the Howrah
bus and tram terminals; the west side is the Harimoshon Bose Road. Howrah
Station is to the south.
68.       Because of its strategic location (fish arriving from Bihar, Uttar
Pradesh, Madras, Orissa and West Bengal, transported by the existing railway
system), this area became predominately a retailing outlet for fish and re-
lated services such as ice-packing stalls, fish packing, etc. For similar
reasons it also became the location of a very intensive pan leaf market.
The fish and pan trade together constitute 50% of all businesses carried
out in the area. Other land uses include residential, mixed commercial,
industrial, hotels, warehouses, institutional and religious. The fish and
pan leaves are hand carried from Howrah Station, and the locational advan-
tages of the site preempt the possibility of relocation which would cause
economic distress to many people, particularly the urban poor.
69.       The land is, however, underutilized, with an existing built-up
plot-ratio of 0.94; only 15% of all structures are classified as being in
good condition, and these cover less than 50% of the total built-up area.
Approximately 3,500 persons live on the site, the majority of whom are in
the EWS and LIG income groups and are directly dependent on the fish/pan
markets for their income. In addition, 1,200 hawkers daily ply their trade
within the precincts of the markets.
70.       The public transport terminals generate a lot of traffic, and pedes-
trians, hawkers, head-load bearers, hand carts, trucks, buses, rickshaws,
bicycles and private vehicles compete for limited road space. Unsanitary
conditions exist with open surface water drains, receiving in some cases
1/   Of which 2.32 ha will redeveloped in phase 1.



- 71 -
ANNEX 1
Part 2
untreated effluent. There are also a number of bucket latrines, which com-
bine with cow dung deposits, a leaking water supply system and poor garbage
collection to produce a very unsatisfactory environment. With over 500,000
pedestrian movements through Howrah Station each day, the area poses a health
hazard not only to the immediate occupants but to the city at large.
0. Objectives of Redevelopment
71.        Selective urban redevelopment provides opportunities to:
(a) consolidate fragmented land parcels for public sector use,
thereby improving land management policies;
(b) link the new subway at Howrah Station and the tram and bus
terminals to the pedestrian deck of the new development;
(c) eliminate the extreme unsanitary conditions; and
(d) create direct and indirect employment opportunities in a
prime location.
P. Phase I of the Project
72.        The development plan for the area envisages redevelopment in
three phases and provides for new fish and pan markets, hawker stalls, shops,
hotels, residential and office space, truck and car parking at a total cost
of Rs 15 crores.  The Iotal built-up area at the end of Phase III is pro-
jected to be 109,618 m , but IDA's participation would be restricted to a
partial development in Phase I amounting to the provision of basic infra-
structure and the redevelopment of the fish and pi n markets and certain
ancillary trades. A total floor area of 38,965 m will be provided under
Phase I made up as follows:
Phas5 I
Use                                     m
1.   Fish market                                 4,357
2.   Pan market                                  1,730
3.   Ice packing                                   716
4.   Shops                                         737
5.   Deck level shopping                         2,116
6.   Open deck plaza                             2,065
7.   Truck/car parking                             740
8.   Basement                                    2,810
9.   Offices                                    22,162
10.   Low-income dormitory                        1,532
TOTAL           38,965 m



- 72 -
ANNEX 1
Part 2
Q. Infrastructure
73.       The project will be constructed in a reinforced concrete frame with
brick infilling and other finishes as appropriate. The passages between the
-ish market stalls will be covered and consist of an opaque barrel vault roof
structure. The construction will need careful staging if ongoing operations
are not to be disrupted. Judicious use will be made of existing pockets of
open space to provide temporary relocation sites.
Water Supply and Fire Fighting
74.       One underground tank and two overground storage tanks have been
provided for water supply and fire-fighting purposes, with an adequate number
of post hydrants.
Storm Water Drainage
75.       The surface water drains will continue to discharge into an existing
underground drain and ultimately into the Hooghly River.
Sewerage
76.       New septic tanks with 48 hours retention capacity are to be cons-
tructed in each phase; as an interim provision, the effluent will be subse-
quently discharged into the Hooghly River. In due course, sewers will be
provided in the area, the septic tanks discontinued and filled in.
Electric Power
77.       Existing supply is available at 6 KV/3 Phase/50 cycles from the
Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation, Ltd. (CESC). A substation, including
a transformer, will be built in the new complex.
S. Cost Estimates
78.       The cost estimates are based on sketch drawings and preliminary
-ngi> eering done by local consultants for CMDA.  The estimated base cost for
Phase I excluding design, supervision and contingencies is Rs 2.92 crores.
1DA's participation will be restricted to the portion of the work necessary
to resettle the low-income traders and hawkers and this amounts to Rs 1.09
crores; the balance of funds will be forthcoming from commercial banks.



- 73 -
ANNEX 1
Part 2
79.             The costs and source of funds break down as follows:
Source of Funds
Description                             Commercial   IDA Credit   Total
Banks       Component
------Rs Crores----------
1.   Fish market, ice packing shops, internal                         0.25      0.25
plumbing, sanitation and electrical costs
2.   Dormitory acconmodations for EWS, plumbing,                      0.08      0.08
sanitation and electrical costs
3.   Lower part of two towers, pan market, base-
ment, shops, car/truck parking, deck level
shops, plumbing, sanitation, and electrical
costs                                                           0.54      0.54
4.   Upper part of tower, offices, elevators,
fire-fighting, sanitation, plumbing and
electrical costs                                   1.73                    1.73
5.   Land acquisition, on-site development,
substation equipment, area lighting,
part cost of external civil works and
infrastructure                                    0.10                    0.10
6.   Civil works and infrastructure                                   0.22      0.22
Sub-total   1.83           1.09      2.92
Design fee /                                       0.14          0.07      0.21
Contingencies: Physical                            0.29          0.15      0.44
Price                             0.66          0.25      0.91
Interest during construction                       0.67          0.00      0.67
GRAND TOTAL       3.59          1.56      5.15
/1   Includes consultant's design fees.
S. Implementation
80.             Land acquisition is proceeding and CMDA expect to own all the land
required for Phase I (2.32 ha) by September 1977. The design of the project
and preparation of contract documents will be carried out by consultants
working under the joint supervision of the Planning Directorate and Area
Development Cell of CMDA. Supervision of construction will be done by CMDA
assisted as necessary by consultants.
T. Post Construction Management
81.             CMDA will set up an Estate Management Department to take over the
operation and management of the project. 1/ The Estate Management Department
will be responsible for:
1/   The Estate Management Department will not be required to be established
until 1980 when the fish market is expected to be completed.



-74 -
ANNEX 1
Part 2
(a)  Administration               -   general administration, security,
establishment and legal matters;
(b)  Accounting functions         -   budgeting, accounts control, fi-
nancial planning, revenue collec-
tion for rents, utilities, taxes,
etc.;
(c)  Engineering maintenance    -   utilities, garbage disposal,
cleaning of premises and
environs, maintenance of all
technical and service areas.
U.  Financial Analysis
82.       The total cost of Phase I amounts to Rs 5.21 crores.  The following
rental structure is proposed:
2            Rate! per annum pe5
Items                           Area in m              Rs/m         Rs/(ft )
Fish shop                          2,973                322.92         (30)
Pan shop                           1,486                322.92         (30)
Ice packing shops                    604                322.92         (30)
Deck level shops                   1,208                376.74         (35)
Miscellaneous shops                  557                129.17         (12)
Office                            15,858                538.20         (50)
Dormitory                            612 beds             0.50/bed/day
Car parking                          100 nos.             2.00/car/day
Kiosks                                93                 64.58          (6)
Total 22,779
These rents are in line with similar structures in comparable locations in
Calcutta and will result in an adequate demand for the facilities proposed.
83.       The project is viable with financing at 12% interest repayable
over 20 years with the above areas and rental structure, and rent increases
of 20% every five years (see Table 5, Statement of Sources and Application
of Funds, and Table 6, Income Statements 1980/81-1987/88). Commercial bank
finance accounting to Rs 4 crores will be available from 1981 through 1984
to complete the two tower blocks.



- 75 -
ANNEX 1
Part 2
V. Economic Justification
84.       Redevelopment of the pan and fish markets at Howrah will have a
substantial impact on eliminating the extreme unsanitary conditions which
largely affect the EWS and lower income groups, who form the majority of the
families that live and depend on the trading activities of the markets for
their livelihood. In addition, the present difficult traffic conditions
caused by all modes crowding in the existing narrow roads that are poorly
illuminated and badly maintained will be alleviated by pedestrian decks,
which will link all activity areas, leaving the ground level free for traffic
movement. The project will be instrumental in creating direct and indirect
employment opportunities in this prime location, and the consolidation of
fragmented land parcels for public sector use will improve land management
policies.
85.       Measurement of the economic benefits of redevelopment of the fish
and pan markets is derived from the possible increases in rental values of
the fish, pan and ice packing shops and actual payments made by renters of
the other shops and offices, as this would indicate the willingness to pay.
Rental values were determined by examining the existing rental structure
of shops, stalls, offices and housing in comparaPle locations with similar
services.  Annual rents were Sound to be Rs 6/ft  for kiosks, Rs 12/ft  for 2
miscellaneous shops, Rs 30/ft fo5 fish, pan and ice packing shops, Rs 35/ft
for deck level shops and Rs 50/ft for office space. In addition, a 20%
increase in the amount of office space is being considered for inclusion
under the project. Costs considered in the analysis include all costs of
construction, infrastructure, temporary sheds, physical contingencies, design
and supervision charges. Under these assumptions the following rates of
return were determined:
Rate of Return
Case 1:  Base Assumptions                                 17
(a) 20% increase in construction
costs; and                                14
(b)  20% decrease in demand                     13
Case 2:  20% Increase in Office Space                    21
(a) 20% increase in construction
costs; and                                18
(b)  20% decrease in demand                     17.5



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMDA - Howrah Fish and Pan Market Project - Phase I
Statement of Sources and Application of Funds (Phase I) 1977/78 through 1987/88
(Rs lakhs)
1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  i981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88
SOURCES
Surplus/(Deficit) on operation                                      1.67    7.34       3.68     23.51      45.35    72.11    72.91   72.39
Add depreciation                                                  3.53    5.12       9.99     13.89      15.73    15.73    15.73   15.73
TOTAL CASH GENERATION                                         5.20   12.46    13.67       37.40      61.08    87.84    88.64   88.12
Loans Received
GOWB (IDA)                            1.00    53.00   57.00    45.00                                                                                         a
Commercial Banks                                                         163.24   131.90      64.18
Interest on Temporary Deposits          _                        (0.40)  (1.02)   (1.23)    (0.87)    (0.59)   (0.37)    1.07    2.75
TOTAL SOURCES                     1.00    53.00   57.00    49.80  174.68   144.314   100.71          60.49    87.47    8g71   90.87
APPLICATIONS
Project Expenditures
IDA II Project - Capital Outlays    1.00    53.00   57.00    45-00
Non-IDA - Capital Outlays                                                154.00   107.00       31.00
Interest/Construction                                                      9.24    24.90       33.18
Sub-total Project Expenditures  1.00    53.00   57.00    45.00  163.24   131.90           64.18
Increase in Receivables                                           1.73    3.12       0.12       2.48      4.46      4.44    (5.24)   0.07
Debt ServIce
Interest                                                         10.26    9.92       9.55       9.16      51.86    50.53    49.07   47.45
Principal Repaid                                                   5.26    5.6o      5.97       6.36     14.13    15.46    16.92   18.54
Sub-total Debt Service                                       15.52   15.52    15.52        15.52     65.99         9     65.99   65.99
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 1.00    53.00   57.00    62.25  181.88   147.54         82.18      70.45    70.43    61.75   66.o6
Surplus/(deficit) for year
Surplus/(deficit) at beginning of year                               (12.45)  (7.20)   (3.20)    18.53                 1702
Surplus/deficit  atendfyear  12456 (227853   (2.85    28.76    248
Surplus/(deficit) at end of year                                                              (12.5)(2.52835    .             2.76         31.'72 



INDIA
SECOND CAIC UWA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMDA - Howrah Fish and Pan Market Project - Phase I
Income Statement 1980/81 through 1987/88
(Rs Lakhs)
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88
Revenues
RentsZ/ - Fish Shops            4.80       9.60      9.60       9.60      9.60      10.56      11.52     11.52
Pan Shops              -        2.40       4.80      4.80       h.80       4.80      5.28       5.76
Ice Packing Shops    0.98       1.95       1.95      1.95       1.95       2.15      2.34       2.34
General ShopsZ2        -        1.32       2.64      3.96       5027       5.27      5.53       5.79
DormitoriesZL          -        0.90       0.90      0.90       0.90       0.90      1.08       1.08
Offices/                                            28.45      56,90      85.35     85.35      85.35
Total Revenues        5.78     16.17      19.89     49.66      79.42    109.03    111.10    111.84
Expenditures
Maintenance A                    -         2.14      4.28       8.48     12.71      13.73      14.82      16.01
Bad Debts Provi ion             0.29       0.76      o.95       2.44       3.93      5.41       5.50       5.54
AdministrationE                 0.29       0.81      0.99       1.34       1.70      2.05       2.14       2.17
Depreciation 7                  3.53       5.12      9.99      13.89     15.73      15.73      15.73      15.73
Total Expenditures   4.11       8.83      16.21     26.15      34.07      36.92     38.19      39.45
Surplus (Deficit) on
Operation of Units              1.67       7.34      3.68      23.51      45.35     72.11      72.91      72.39
1  Rent reviews assumed everv 5 vears with not less than 20% increase.
Shops letting and offices letting to be completed by 1984/85 and 1985/76, respectively,
with 25% of each let in prior years.
P 600 beds at 50 paise/night for 300 nights/year, increased to 60 paise from 1986/87.
Maintenance - 1% for first year following handover of completed units,                                     ] I >
2% thereafter increased by 8% per annum for cost escalation.
/5  5% of revenues, excluding dormitories.                                                                    X IC
76  5% of revenues, excluding offices plus 1% of offices.
7   3% straight line method.



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bustee Improvement
Background
1.        It is estimated that in 1976 about 3.0 million people I/ lived in
bustee areas 2/ within the CMD. These areas suffer from severe inadequacies:
lack of sewerage and potable water supply, irregular manual collection and
disposal of human wastes and garbage, dark lanes, and extremely poor drain-
age. Many are located in low lying areas with the result that, during the
monsoons, they become flooded and the open drains and ponds become polluted
by floating waste materials. The bustees also suffer from the presence of
many unlicensed khatals 3/; this problem is particularly acute in Howrah.
In addition to their environmental problems, the bustees are particularly
deficient in health and educational facilities, and recreation facilities
are practically non-existent.
2.        Bustees are located throughout the metropolitan area except for a
few wards in Calcutta city center. In CC, there are over 3,200 bustees, of
which only 900 are in the sewered part of the central city. They cover 1,700
acres of land and have a population exceeding 1.25 million. In the Howrah/
Bally areas, bustees cover an area of over 550 acres of land and all are
totally unsewered. The distribution of the bustee and refugee population
within the CMD is as follows:
Population in millions
1)   Calcutta City                                  1.25
2)   Howrah/Bally area                              0.40
3)   East Bank (outside Calcutta City)              0.60
4)   West Bank (outside Howrah/Bally
municipalities)                    0.25
5)   Refugee Colonies                               0.50
3.00
1/   Including about 500,000 people in refugee colonies.
2/   A bustee is a cluster of slum structures.
3/   Buffalo compound.



- 79 -
ANNEX 2
3.        In older and mostly sewered parts of CC, bustees tend to be more
compact and smaller in size with densities approaching 2,000 persons/ha. In
the outer areas, which are mostly unsewered, the bustees sprawl over larger
areas dotted with ponds, and densities tend to be lower (approximately 500
persons/ha). On the average, bustee density is approximately 1,000 persons/ha.
Typically, the bustees are characterized by their three-tiered system of land
ownership, hut ownership and tenancy. The landlord owns only the land, while
the structures (hutments) are owned by a middleman known as a "thika tenant".
He is responsible for renting each dwelling unit, or hut, to its occupants.
Part of the rent he collects is paid to the landlord. Many thika tenants
live in the bustees and are protected under the law against eviction without
compensation by the landlords. Because of low rents, neither the landlord
nor the thika tenant has an incentive for carrying out improvements. The
occupant of the hut, not being its owner, has little incentive to undertake
even minimum improvements.
4.        CMDA's Bustee Improvement Program (BIP) seeks to preserve and de-
velop bustees as socio-economic entities while improving their environmental
conditions. It is recognized that bustees serve many important functions in
the urban setting of Calcutta, including:
(a) providing housing at rents that can be afforded by families
with varying incomes and compositions;
(b) offering mobility to the bustee dweller; because of their
scattered locations, bustees offer the opportunity to search
for employment within a wide area and to find accommodation in
close proximity to jobs;
(c) housing a large number of family or cottage industrial estab-
lishments which provide income and training to a large number
of bustee dwellers; and
(d) providing shelter or bed space to the very poor.
Bustee dwellers show a great interest in schemes which seek to improve physi-
cal conditions while preserving the units. They are apathetic towards rehous-
ing programs which would cause them to pay much higher rents.
5.        Since the program began in 1970, 277 schemes have been completed;
these schemes involved the installation of approximately 30,000 sanitary
latrines to replace bucket latrines; the sinking of 200 tubewells and the
laying of 400,000 m of water mains, 225 2000 meters of sewers and 400,000 m
of drains. In addition, over 665,000 m of roads have been paved and 4,350
street lights and 10,000 water points provided.
Selection of Bustees for Improvement
6.        The bustees selected for improvement are part of an ongoing pro-
gram which began in 1970 to upgrade the physical amenities of all slum areas.
Under the first phase of the program, which ended in March 1974, improvements



- 80 -
ANNEX 2
were made to areas housing 1,144,000 persons 1/ at a cost amounting to
Rs 13.50 crores or Rs 118 per capita. Paradoxically, despite the physical
difficulties in implementation, it has proved cheaper on a per capita basis,
to upgrade the dense central bustees than those which are less dense. This
has resulted in a steady increase in costs since the commencement of the
program, because the dense bustees were upgraded first. Costs have risen
not only because of inflation but also because of the sparser densities (in
bustees which are 6 or 7 km from the Central Business District). When the
second phase of CMDA's program began in 1974/75, it was designed to serve
644,000 people, at a cost of Rs 179 per capita, and be sustained at a spend-
ing level of Rs 2.9 crores per annum for approximately four years. Costs,
however, have continued to rise, 2/ and it is estimated that about 224,000
people had been served under the second phase by March 31, 1977, at about
Rs 200 per capita.
7.        A decision in August 1977 by GOWB to add a third phase to the pro-
gram to serve an additional 460,000 people will complete the improvements
necessary to all bustees in Calcutta City and Howrah, and about 80% of all
other bustees in the CMD by March 31, 1982, At that time, a total of about
2,250,000 people will have been served, including about 500,000 people in
refugee colonies. The extended program will enable the long neglected areas
of Tangra and Topsia to be covered by the program. This is an area to the
east of the south suburban railway line where most of the informal leather
tanners live. The upgrading will provide the opportunity for the tanners
to improve the level of their own activities, since the drainage in this
area is particularly unsatisfactory, resulting in infiltration and flooding
of their tanning vats. The removal of water logging will complement the
upgrading in this area by providing trunk facilities, including the necessary
pumping stations. Similarly, investments in water supply and drainage to
directly support the BIP are included elsewhere under the project.
Proposed Component
8.        The proposed bustee improvement component under the project, dur-
ing the period 1977/78 - 1981/82, will serve about 420,000 people under the
second phase, and about 460,000 people under the third phase, totalling
about 880,000 people. The proposed annual spending level is about Rs 6.15
crores 3/ (Rs 30.75 crores over five years), and the average estimated cost
is about Rs 350 3/ (US$40.6) per capita.
1/   This figure includes approximately 300,000 persons living in refugee
colonies. These are not classified as bustee dwellers and do not have
a three-tiered system of land ownership.
2/   During the period 1974-77, costs averaged Rs 174 per capita and by
April 1977 costs were approximately Rs 250 per capita.
3/   Including contingencies and cost of CMDA design and supervision.



- 81 -
ANNEX 2
9.        By completion of the second and third phase programs in 1981/82,
approximately 1,100,000 persons occupying 1,400 ha of land in 420 bustees
will have been served, at an average estimated cost of Rs 320 (US$37.3) per
capita.
Proposed Improvements
10.       Physical improvements for the bustee program would consist of:
(a) provision of community water points and bathing facilities;
(b) improvements to sewer and storm drainage systems;
(c) conversion of service privies into sanitary latrines (flush
toilets), discharging to surface water drains via septic
tanks;
(d) paving of roads, streets and pathways;
(e) installation of security lighting of roads and pathways;
and
(f) provision of miscellaneous facilities, such as dust bins,
garbage vats, etc.
A typical improvement scheme is illustrated in Map IBRD 12875.
Service Levels
11.       The following service levels have been adopted:
(a) one precast concrete sanitary latrine per 25 persons;
(b) one bathing facility per hutment 1/ up to 100 persons;
(c) one water supply tap point per hutment or per 100 persons
to provide potable water supply at 90 liters per capita
per day;
(d) vehicular access to within 80 m of each hut;
(e) brick paved pedestrian access to each hut; and
(f) security lighting on access lanes and roads.
Cost Estimates
12.       Cost estimates are based on preliminary designs for a range of
typical bustees and on actual construction experience. Costs per capita are
expected to average about Rs 350, 2/ though the range of costs may vary
between Rs 300 and Rs 400 per capita depending on the density of the bustees.
The detailed designs are still evolving, but based on preliminary engineering
designs and past experience it is expected that the following work will have
been completed under the project by March 31, 1982:
1/   A hutment is a collection of huts usually comprising between 5-10 huts.
2/   Including contingencies, and cost of CMDA design and supervision.



- 82 -
ANNEX 2
Rate   Total Cost   Cost per 1/
Quantity  Unit      (Rs)   (Rs lakhs)   Capita (Rs)
(a)  provision of sanitary
latrines and septic
tanks, together with
connections to surface
water drains                 29,000    no.    1,600        464.0        52.7
(b)  provision of 150 mm                  linear
diameter sewers and
sewer connections            21,500  meters       95        20.4         2.3
(c)  water points, includ-
ing slabs for bathing,
mains, connections and
tubewells (where nec-
essary)                      10,320    no.    5,665        584.6        66.4
(d)  drainage ditches                580    km    60,750        352.4        40.0
(e)  roads and paths             573,000    m2         34       194.8        22.1
(f)  street lighting               3,600    no.    1,350         48.6         5.5
(g)  filling of unhygienic
ponds                           290    no.   36,100        104.7        11.9
(h)  miscellaneous                         item                 330.5        37.6
TOTAL                              2,100.0       238.5
design and supervision                                     147.0        16.7
physical contingencies                                     315.0        35.8
price contingencies                                        514.0        58.4
GRAND TOTAL                                        3,076.0        349.4
1/   The actual number directly served under this component is assumed to be
880,000; CMDA has started work in every bustee included in their fourth
year program. The Rs 4.5 crores spent up to April 1, 1977 has theoreti-
cally served about 224,000 giving a total of about 1,104,000 by the end
of the second and third phase program.



- 83 -
ANNEX 2
Cost Recovery
13.       The BIP has previously been financed by grant funds from the GOI
and GOWB, and no attempt has been made to achieve direct cost recovery. This
is because the ownership pattern is fragmented, and the lease and sub-lease
arrangements are difficult to trace and present many legal difficulties. In
view of this history, no attempt will be made to directly recover costs under
the project.
14.       However, GOWB has recently cancelled the property tax rebate which
previously applied to bustees. In addition, improved bustees are to be re-
valued for property tax purposes and, as a result of these reforms, addi-
tional property tax revenues are expected to be generated from the bustees.
While these improvements will be insufficient to recover all costs, it is
as much as can be achieved at the present time. However, the establish-
ment of the Central Valuation Board (see Annex 9) will bring about by 1982
a more realistic and uniform assessment of property values throughout the
CMD. Water and sewer charges are to be delinked from the consolidated prop-
erty tax in CC. The yield from these and other fiscal reforms cannot be
accurately identified for bustee areas, because the final methods and stan-
dards of revaluation have yet to be determined.
Project Execution
15.       The bustee improvement component will be implemented by the Bustee
Improvement Directorate of CMDA. It was established in 1970 to undertake
physical improvement schemes in the bustee areas, in addition to the munici-
pal and anchal programs, improvement programs for refugees and displaced
persons, slum modernization and clearance schemes (i.e. urban renewal) and
the provision of medical facilities, schools, parks and playgrounds in the
poor urban areas. At present, two Deputy Directors are in charge of the
physical works under the BIP Director. Reporting to these Deputy Directors
are nine zonal engineers and one executive electrical engineer. Supporting
staff consist of administration, accounting and finance personnel and a
Project Planning Wing responsible for planning and architecture services.
16.       The above staff will be strengthened, and planning, contracting
and supervision procedures will be modernized in order to enable the Direc-
torate to cope with the expanded BIP. In 1977/78 - 1981/82, annual average
investment levels, at Rs 6.15 crores, will be more than twice the size of
those in preceding years, at Rs 2.9 crores. Assurances were obtained from
GOWB at negotiations that CMDA will have, by April 1, 1978, necessary addi-
tional staff in position, and improved planning, contracting and monitoring
procedures installed in a manner satisfactory to IDA,
Operation and Maintenance
17.       The CC and various municipalities, within whose areas the bustees
are located, are responsible for operation and maintenance of the infrastruc-
ture, in the same manner in which services are provided to all properties in



- 84 -
ANNEX 2
urban areas. However, because of the dense construction character of these
bustees, and also because of difficulties of access (some were closed quarters
for a p->od in the late 60's and early 70's), maintenance has been neglected.
The very large infrastructure investments now being made will require exten-
sive and continuous maintenance. GOWB will cause the responsible local bodies
to cooperate with CMDA to produce, by December 31, 1978, a detailed plan of
operations to provide satisfactory maintenance in improved bustees in CMD
and provide adequate funds therefore in the 1979-80 and subsequent budgets
z. these authorities.
18.       This component will generate continuous employment opportunities
for 4,800 laborers, most of whom will be recruited from the areas being
upgraded.
Economic Evaluation
19.       The bustee improvement component will generate a wide range of ben-
efits including improvements in living conditions of approximately 176,000
families in bustee areas of the CMD. Physical improvements including provi-
sion of water points and bathing facilities, improved drainage facilities,
sanitary latrines and provision of garbage bins will have a significant im-
pact on improving the health of the bustee dwellers, who traditionally have
suffered from such diseases as cholera, dysentery, smallpox and tuberculosis
which are most likely to spread during the monsoon floodings. Extension ser-
vices and social support programs will be provided in an attempt to improve,
in conjunction with physical works, the earnings and quality of life of the
beneficiaries (see Annex 5).
20.       Measurement of the economic benefits of slum improvement is derived
from the possible increases in rental values of the properties to be improved.
It should be noted that while certain project benefits, such as those that
are health-related, may be only very imperfectly reflected in property val-
ues, this method does provide a useful indicator of the minimum economic
value of the project. Rent control legislation is relatively ineffective
in the bustees and rents are mainly determined by the free play of market
forces.
21.       An investigation of rental values in already improved bustee areas
which have access to basic infrastructure facilities indicates 2that a rental
value of Rs 25-35 per month for a one-room dwelling unit (15 m ) can be ex-
pe ited after improvement, an increase of Rs 15-20 per month. Costs include
the costs of infrastructure, maintenance, and physical contingencies but ex-
clude orice contingencies. The economic rate of return using these assump-
tions is estimated to be 16%.  A 20% increase in project costs would reduce
the rate of return to 12% and a 20% reduction in benefits would reduce the
rate of return to 11.5%.



- 85 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Unit Costs for Bustee Improvement
Estimated Cost                       /1                  /2
Component                   (1977 Prices)       Cost per Family`-  Cost per Capita-
Rs       US$
Crores   Million       Rs      US$          Rs     US$
Sewerage                         5.18       6.02        294    34.2         58.8    6.8
Water Supply                     6.28       7.31        357    41.5          71.3    8.2
Drainage                         3.77       4.38        214    24.9         42.8    5.0
Roads and Footpaths              2.10       2.44        119    13.9         24.0    2.8
Street Lighting                  0.52       0.61         30     3.5          5.9    0.8
Unhygienic Ponds                 1.13       1.31         64     7.4         12.8    1.5
Dust Bins, Garbage Vats,
etc.                           2.02       2.35        115    13.4         23.0    2.7
SUBTOTAL                   21.00     24.42      1,193   138.8         238.6   27.8
CMDA Design & Supervision
& Contingencies                9.76      11.35
TOTAL                      30.76     35.77      1,748   203.0         349.5   40.6
/1 Cost divided by number of families covered (176,000)
/2 Cost divided by total population (880,000)



86 -
ANNEX 3
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Water Supply
1.        The first Calcutta project assigned priorities to works in Calcutta
having regard to population density and the poor service in parts of the
system. This project is generally well advanced and the emphasis for the
second project has been shifted toward improving water supplies in the fringe
areas and in some of the municipalities where increasing population densities
are overtaxing existing supply systems. Calcutta itself is not neglected, as a
part of the project is aimed at renovating installations at Palta and Tallah,
which provide the city's principal water supply.
Water Supply Components
2.        Palta-Tallah System Renovation (WS-001 to WS-003).  The work,
under 22 different subheadings, includes changing the filter media of the
rapid gravity and slow sand filters at Palta, and improving roads around
the slow sand filters. It also covers improvements of electrical and mechani-
cal equipment and the installation of new recording meters; the provision of
a degree of flexibility between the different parts of the treatment plant;
clearing silt from the primary sedimentation lagoons; repairs to buildings
and the construction of staff quarters. At Tallah, the work includes improve-
ments to mechanical and electrical plant, repairs to tanks and pumping station
pipework and renovation of a 40 Ml elevated steel reservoir.
3.        New Fringe Areas Supplies (WS-010).  Each of the seven subprojects
in this component includes one or more tubewells together with associated
elevated service reservoirs and distribution systems of water mains. Details
of the subprojects are set out in the following table. The basis of design
is 90 lcd.
No.   No. of elevated                 Approximate length
1991      of    reservoirs with                  of distribution
Subproject      Pop.    tube      capacities   3   Attendant  mains of 75-300 mm
(WS-010)     ('000s)   wells  cubic meters (m )   houses    diameter
Jagatdal        22       2         1 @ 450               2            30,000
Rajarhat       100       8         1 @ 450               8            62,000
1 @ 340
1 @ 270
Ballygunge      35       4         1 @ 225               4            30,000
Sankrail        36.8     6         2 @ 225              6             36,000



- 87 -
ANNEX 3
4.        Municipal Water Supply Augmentation Scheme (WS-011).  There are
seven subprojects in this component affecting seven municipalities, and each
subproject includes one or more tubewells together with associated elevated
service reservoirs and distribution systems of water mains. Details of the
subprojects are shown in the following table. The basis of design is 90
lcd.
No. of elevated
reservoirs with                 Approximate length
Subproject      No. of            capacities   3   Attendant  mains of 75-300 mm
(WS-010)       tube wells      cubic meters (m )   houses    diameter
Kamarhati I         4               1 @ 340             5             45,000
1 @ 450
1 @ 225
Chandannagar        5           Repairs to exist-       5              16,000
ing reservoir
Garulia             2               1 @ 450             2             22,000
Konnager            2               1 @ 450              2            30,000
Budge Budge         2               1 @ 270              2             5,500
Bansberia           -                                    1             27,000
Kanchrapara         4               1 @ 270             4              12,000
5.        Secondary Grid Systems (WS-027).  The four subprojects in this compo-
nent are for improving water distribution arrangements to the level of 180 lcd
in the municipalities of Dum Dum, North Dum Dum, South Dum Dum and Baranagar,
all located immediately north of Calcutta. The work will be ongoing, and only
that portion of the total program scheduled for the years 1977-1981 has been
put forward as part of the second IDA project. CMDA's long-term plan for this
area is to provide supplies by taking water from the Hooghly River at a new
waterworks proposed to be located at Baranagar. The existing system of tube-
wells is expected to be continued in use at least until 1985. The presently
proposed works, which will in the interval improve the distribution of avail-
able supplies of water, have been designed to form a part of the ultimate
distribution system. If found necessary, further tube wells will be sunk
but provision for such work, at present speculative, has not been included
in the subproject.
6.        Calcutta Distribution System.  A study is currently being made of
the distribution system in Calcutta and this is expected to reveal, inter



- 88 -
ANNEX 3
alia, those parts of the system requiring replacement or reinforcement and
from which a program of improvements may be drawn up. At present, the scope
or value of works cannot be defined but it is likely that a series of rela-
tively small operations would be completed over a number of years commencing
in 1979/80. A provision of Rs 24 lakhs 1/ (US$267,000) has therefore been
included in the project.
Interim Ground Water Supplies
7.        Until the major treatment plant developments have been completed
tubewells will continue to play an important part in providing supplies and
a program of tubewell construction and renovation has been included in the
project.  Both Calcutta and Howrah are affected as follows:
Renovations        New Wells        Totals
Calcutta              61                  4              65
Howrah                17                  3              20
Sewerage and Drainage
8.        The 12 subprojects included in the proposed project will continue
improvements initiated under the first Calcutta project and will provide for a
further significant reduction of the effects of monsoon flooding by improving
surface water drainage in selected areas and will provide for the collection
and treatment of foul sewerage.
Sewerage and Drainage Components
9.        Removal of Water Logging (SD-001 and SD-007).  These subprojects
would continue the work commenced under the first Calcutta credit of in-
creasing the capacity of storm drains in the Calcutta Suburban System and
Town System. The sizes of the drains to be laid range from 225 mm diameter
up to 1,825 mm diameter and in addition box culverts up to 3.3 m x 3.3 m
would be constructed.
10.       Sewering Unsewered Areas in Calcutta City (SD-003).  Although the
greater part of Calcutta City is served by sewerage, there remain isolated
unsewered pockets. The process of extending sewers into those areas, com-
menced under the first credit, will be continued under the proposed second
project.
1/   Excludes supervision costs and contingencies.



- 89 -
ANNEX 3
11.       Tollygunge Drainage (south) (SD-009).  This surface water scheme
continues work commenced under the first credit and is directed at reducing
the incidence of flooding in a heavily populated area on the southern edge
of Calcutta. In addition to construction of sewers, provision would be made
for connecting surface water drains to the new sewers.
12.       Manicktala Drainage (SD-010),  This surface water drainage scheme
extends the benefits of work started under the first credit. Manicktala is
a heavily populated area in northeast Calcutta badly affected by monsoon
flooding. Some 750 m of drains ranging in diameter from 900 mm to 1,525 mm
and about 2,700 m of box culverts 1.5 m x 1.5 m up to 1.5 m x 2.9 m form the
major part of the work. In addition, provision has been made for connecting
surface drains from streets and properties.
13.       Cossipore-Chitpur Drainage (SD-011).  This project is for the pro-
vision of surface water drains in the Cossipore-Chitpur area in the north-
west part of the CC area between the main road north from Calcutta (the
Barackpore Trunk Road) and the Hooghly. The area is densely populated and
suffers from periodic flooding. The subproject includes the completion of
five trunk main outfall sewers discharging, in one case with pump assistLnce,
into the Hooghly.  The drains range from 760 mm to 1,825 mm diameter and  n
addition box culverts up to 3 m x 2.7 m have to be constructed.
14.       Northeast Tollygunge Drainage (SD-012).  This scheme would bene-
fit a heavily populated area straddling the southeast boundary of CC by re-
ducing the frequency and effects of flooding. The work would include some
4,300 meters of open channels, 2,159 meters of 760 mm to 1,675 mm diameter
drains and some 900 meters of 1.5 m box culvert construction.
15.       Howrah Sewerage (SD-014).  This project was presented under the
heading of Arterial Sewerage for Howrah but is being amended to make greater
provision for connection of properties within the same limits of expendi-
ture. The work is an extension of the trunk sewers and sewage treatment
plant constructed under the first credit, work which is almost completed
but not yet dealing with any sewage.
16.       Grand Trunk Road Storm Drainage (SD-015.B).  This project is de-
signed to reduce flooding in a heavily populated part of the Howrah drainage
basin located between the Grand Trunk Road and the Hooghly River. The bene-
fits will affect not only the local population but also the users of an im-
portant and extremely heavily used stretch of trunk road. The work involves
the construction of surface water drains which would discharge, without pump-
ing, to the Hooghly.
17.       Outfall Improvement Schemes for Bustee and Anchal Area Drainage.
These works will improve drainage arrangements in drainage basins of Howrah,



- 90 -
ANNEX 3
Churial, Tollygunge and Bagjola and would include the provision of culverts,
bridges, removal of constrictions on flow caused by access route bunds and
improvement of outlet arrangements at receiving watercourses.
18.       Improvement of the Bagiola Canal (SD-058).  The Bagjola Canal, one
of the main surface water drainage channels serving municipalities immedi-
ately north of Calcutta, has been improved over some 32 km of its length
from the River Kulti to the vicinity of Dum Dum Airport. Benefits from this
earlier work cannot be fully realized until the canal improvements are ex-
tended into the residential and industrial areas within the 50 square kilo-
meters at the upper end of the drainage system comprising Baranagar, South
Dum Dum, Panihati and Kamarhiti. The improvement will provide a four-fold
increase in capacity to 42 m /sec. Of the 9,200 m of canal where improve-
ment is still needed, 4,300 m would be widened and brick lined under the
second credit. The waterway would be divided and regulators provided at
intervals of about 1 1/2 km so that flow can be concentrated on one side
of the dividing wall while maintenance operations take place on the other.
19.       Calcutta Sewer Cleaning (SD-059).  Calcutta has some 650 km of
sewers, and years of inadequate cleaning have brought about a situation
where their capacity has been significantly reduced by accumulations of silt.
There is no question of the importance of having all sewers operating to
their full capacity, since the system is a combined one which has to deal
with surface water as well as foul sewage and therefore vital in removing
flood water during periods of heavy rains. The operation is sufficiently
important to take it from the category of maintenance into that of capital
works. It has been estimated that not less than 130,000 cubic meters of silt
have to be removed from the sewers and the project would therefore include
the purchase of mechanical cleaning equipment.
Cost Estimates
20.       Cost estimates for the water supply and sewerage and drainage
components are shown in Table 1-3.
Development
21.       The subprojects have been prepared by CMDA, CC, HIT, CMWSA under
the aegis of CMDA, and by I and W, and will be implemented by those authori-
ties.
22.       Land is needed in respect of a number of subprojects; CMDA has not
made any acquisitions for WS-010 but do not foresee any difficulties as the



- 91 -
ANhNEX 3
owners of proposed sites for tubewells and service reservoir installations
have expressed a willingness to sell and there are sufficient alternative
sites to meet the land requirement. In the case of WS-011, all the compo-
nents of the subprojects are within municipalities where, in most cases,
the land for tube well installations is already in possession of the munici-
pality concerned. In the few exceptions, the willingness of the owners to
sell and the availability of alternative sites satisfies CMDA that diffi-
culties in acquiring land will not arise. For drainage works no difficul-
ties are foreseen in land acquisition.
Technical Assistance
23.       Arrangements have been made for engineering, accounting and finan-
cial studies for operation and maintenance of water supply, sewerage and
drainage facilities in the CMD by Consulting Engineering Services (India)
Pvt. Ltd. and Price, Waterhouse, Peat and Co. under the first credit. These
studies are expected to be completed by September 1978, and will be instru-
mental in developing improved operational performance of the various under-
takings.
24.       Technical assistance under the second credit (see Annex 8) includes
provision for training in the use of pipe scraping and relining techniques
and equipment which would probably involve sending an engineer to the U.K.
to observe operations using various types of equipment there. Provision has
also been made for training, at both staff and operator level, in operation
and maintenance of treatment plants including oxidation ditch, percolating
filter and sludge digestion equipment.
Economic Evaluation
25.       Presently, water supply and sewerage services are charged on
assessed property value as determined by the District Assessors. Property
values in Calcutta are generally underassessed, and CC estimates that reve-
nues notionally allocated to water supply and sewerage services out of the
total property tax receipts presently finance about 30% of service costs.
Payment on a volumetric basis using meters exists only in a few isolated
cases where supplies are provided to certain industries or other bulk con-
sumers. Domestic usage accounts for the major portion of water consumed.
Thus, for most customers the water charge is an arbitrary percentage of the
general tax base and cannot be avoided by not using water. This charge then
is no measure of the willingness to pay for incremental output and is in no
way related to consumption or production costs.
26.       Water supplies for the five water service districts in Calcutta
are drawn mainly from four sources: treated surface water from the Hooghly:



- 92 -
ANNEX 3
untreated surface water from the Hooghly, which is chlorinated but silt
1qden; large deep tubewells, constituting good supplies; and shallow wells
surface water collecting places.  In many areas, the street supplies
from public standpipes are located near open shallow wells, where protection
_c inadequate or uncertain and with a high risk of pollution. Many property
ow.ers and industries have their own private wells, but the quality of
water supplied from these sources is not known. The supply of unfiltered
water from the Hooghly is gradually being reduced and will be phased out
as tiltered supplies develop. After a major cholera epidemic, this supply
was chlorinated (1963) and although it is not intended as a potable supply,
it is still used as such. In the case of filtered supplies, in some areas
the connecting pipes are laid above ground in such a manner that they are
subject to possible damage. These also constitute a likely source of con-
tamination.
27.       Quantities of water drawn in 1973 from these various sources are
shown below. Although quantities from small shallow wells and other sources
are estimates, in all service districts except Calcutta, they represent pos-
sibly the major source of water supplies.
Water Supplies 1973
(Mld)
Un-                         Small Wells
Treated   treated                           and Misc.
Surface   Surface      Municipal            Supplies,                Serving
Water     Water       Supplies             Municipal-               Population
from      from        (generally            ities                    1970
District  Hooghly   Hooghly    large wells)          and Private      Total   (millions)
Calcutta    590         273          109                  23           995        3.6
Palta          9         -            50                  64            123       1.4
Garden
Reach        2        =              7                  45            54        0.5
Serampore    11         -             34                  45            90        0.6
Ho--ah        20         -            39                  50            109       0.8
lot 1     632        273          239                  227         1,371        6.9
28.       The proposed second project will bring about improvements in the
quality of the existing supplies and provide new supplies in areas with
high population potential. Improvements to the Palta-Tallah Water Treat-
ment Works will bring its operation up to design capacity, resulting in pro-
duction of an additional 136 Mld, and prevent further deterioration of the
filtering system, electrical and mechanical equipment, and pipework. New



- 93 -
ANNEX 3
supplies in fringe areas and municipalities will be drawn from deep tube
wells which will be protected and chlorinated, thus reducing the risk of
contamination and disease. These supplies will amount to approximately 57
Mld and will be provided in areas where the current supply is as low as
32-36 lcd. Service connections to the secondary grid system will improve
the distribution of available supplies, and connections will be underground
thus reducing the risk of damage and pollution.
29.       The economic benefits of the projects are not quantifiable, but
it is believed that these improvements to the quality of the supplies will
result in improving the health of the beneficiaries in terms of reducing
the incidence of sickness due to waterborne disease. In order to illustrate
possible orders of magnitude of the benefits, an attempt was made to employ
an indirect test of the reasonableness of the investment. If improved water
supply resulted in one less day of absenteeism, the resulting increase in
terms of the income of the worker involved would yield a project rate of
return of 26%. This is possibly an understatement, since a worker misses
on average 7.5 days per year, at present, due to disease which is related
to the unsanitary environment in which water quality is an important factor.
In addition, other unquanifiable benefits could result from possibly reduced
child mortality and savings in curative medical costs.



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply Summary
Forecast Costs of Subproject Components to be Executed or Financed by CMDA
(Rs Lakhs)
Equipment, Goods and Services
Civil Works                                Local                                Foreign
Foreign                                     Foreign
Serial No.        Subproject Title             Land       Net Cost   Indirect   Total         Net Cost   Taxes   Indirect   Total         Net Cost   Taxes   Total        Basic Cost
WS 001 to
WS 003         Palta-Tallah                       -        138.68        5.87    144.55        156.83      3.69      16.68    177.20          9.05     6.20   15.25          337.00
WS/010         Fringe areas and new areas       6.83        76.04        3.82      79.86        98.65      9.26      13.54    121.45           -        -        -           208.14
WS/011         Municipal water supply
augmentation schemes           3.12        77.69        3.40      81.09       116.63     5.81      12.14    134.58           -         -        -           218.79
WS/027P        Secondary grid schemes             -         45.18        2.27      47.45        78.03      6.15       2.06     86.24                     -        -           133.69
-          Calcutta distribution
system                          -          10.50        0.50      11.00        12.00     0.70       0.30      13.00          -         -        -            24.00
-          Renovation and construction
of tubewells Calcutta
and Howrah                     0.05        37.86        2.04      39.90        49.03      2.63      5.02      56.68         3.00      2.00    5.00          101.63
-          Various equipments                 -            -           -          -            -         -          -          -          14.95    18.80   33.75            33.75
TOTALS                                10.00       385.95       17.90    403.85       511.17    28.24       49.74    589.15         27.00    27.00   54.00         1,057.00
_I
IX 



ANNEX 3
95 -                                          Table 2
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply Component
Breakdown of Subprojects Costs
(Rupees-Lakhs)
Adoption
Serial                                                Civil                                  Basic    Development    Agency on
No.                                         Land    Works    Materials    Equipment        Cost        Agency         oMple-ioE
WS 010     Fringe Areas and New Areas
(a)  Jagatdal                     0.74     9.94       20.09          0.96        31.73        CMDA        CMWSA
(b)  Rajarhat                     3.17    29.98       49.46          3.85        86.46        CMDA        CMWSA
(c)  Tollygunge 12A               0.80    13.03       19.67          1.33        34.83        CMDA        CMWSA
(d)  Sankrail                     2.12    26.91       23.20          2.89        55.12        CMDA        CMWSA
Totals to Summary                 6.83    79.86      112.42           9.03      208.14
WS 011     Municipal Water Supply
Augmentation Schemes
(a)  Kamarhati I                  1.82    30.13       39.47          1.94        73.36        CMDA        Kamarhati
(b)  Chandarnagar                 0.10     8.15       11.13          2.42        21.80        CMDA        Chandarnagar
(c)  Garulia                       -       9.33       14.93          0.96        25.22        CMDA        Garulia
(d)  Konnagar                      -      10.36       21.23          0.96        32.55        CMDA        Konnagar
(e)  Budge Budge                   -       4.38        5.06          0.96        10.40        CMDA        Budge Budge
(f)  Bansberia                     -       8.79       17.74           -          26.53        CMDA        Bansberia
(g)  Kanchrapara                  1.20     9.95       15.85          1.93        28.93        CMDA        Kanchrapara
Totals to Summary                 3.12    81.09      125.41           9.17      218.79
WS 027P    Secondary Grid Baranagar,
Kamarhati south district
(a)  Dum Dum                       -       2.15        6.15           -           8.30        CMDA        Dum Dum
(b)  North Dum Dum                 -      10.17       18.48           -           28.65       CMDA        North Dum Dum
(c)  South Dum Dum                 -      13.55       24.63           -          38.18        CMDA        South Dum Dum
(d)  Baranagar                     -      21.58       36.98           -           58.56       CMDA        Baranagar
Totals to Summary                  -       47.45       86.24           -        133.69
Calcutta Distribution System
Totals to Summary                  -       11.00       13.00           -         24.00        CMDA        CC
Renovation and Construction
of Tubewells
(a)  Calcutta                     0.04    30.90        5.01         39.68        74.73        CMDA        CMWSA
(b)  Howrah                       0.01     9.00        2.99         14.00        26.90        CMDA        no.:ah
Totals to Summary                 0.05    39.90         8.00         53.68       101.63



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sewerage and Drainage
Forecast Costs of Subproject Components to be Executed or Financed by CMDA
(Rupee.s-Lakhs
_ Equipment, Goods and Services
Civil Works                               Local                               Foreign
Foreign                                    Foreign                                               Grand Total
Serial             Subproject Title                Land      Net Cost   Indirect   Total        Net Cost   Taxes   Indirect   Total        Net Cost   Taxes   Total        (Basic Cost)
SD 001   Removal of Waterlogging -
Calcutta Suburban System (Ph. II)          -          315.58      18.33     333.91      84.51      5.39      16.74   106.65         21.38    15.06    36.44           477.00
SD 003   Sewering unsewered pockets -
Calcutta City System (Ph. II)              -           60.24       3.50      63.74       7.26       -          -        7.26          -         -         -            71.00
SD 007   Removal of Waterlogging -
Calcutta City System (Ph. II)                         195.09      11.34     206.43      41.93      2.61       7.53    52.07                               -           258.50
SD 009   Tollygunge Drainage (Ph. II)               12.25       80.68       4.07       84.75                  -          -         -            -         -         -            97.00
SD 010   Manicktala Drainage (Ph. II)                 -          50.32      2.35       52.67       2.18      0.15        -        2.33          -         -         -            55.00
SD Oll   Cossipore-Chitpur Drainage (Ph. I)          4.00        66.89      2.90       69.79       9.18      0.63       0.40    10.21           -         -         -            84.00
SD 012   Tollygunge Drainage N.E. (Ph. 11)           0.10        83.07      4.41       87.48       8.25      0.58       0.59      9.42          -         -         -            97.00
SD 014   Howrah Sewerage (Ph. II)                    3.34       144.20       7.68     151.88      19.48      1.54       2.26    23.28           -         -         -           178.50
SD 015B  Grand Trunk Road Drainage (Ph. I)           0.88        88.71      4.87       93.58      14.12      1.01       1.41    16.54           -         -         -           111.00
SD 058   Bagjola Canal Improvement                   4.43       157.30      5.51      162.81       3.66      0.10        -        3.76          -         -         -           171.00
SD  -    Outfall Improvement Schemes for
Bustee and Anchal Area Drainage             -         174.00       6.00      180.00      23.00     1.00        -       24.00          -         -         -           204.00
SD 059   Calcutta Sewer Cleaning                                103.82       7.78     111.60       4.46      4.85       0.79    10.10         41.00    33.30    74.30           196.00
TOTAL                                     25.00    11519.90       78.74   14598 64    218.04    17.86        19.72   265.62         62.38    46.36   110.74
-   -   L,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -   -   -         -                       -         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fl
ID ><



- 97 
ANNEX 4
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Solid Wastes Management and Sanitary Latrines
Part One: Solid Wastes Management
A. Background
1.        The solid wastes management (SWM) function is known locally as
"conservancy" and embraces the collection of domestic and trade wastes, the
collection of nightsoil from unsewered areas and the collection of animal
carcasses and hospital wastes. These services require a large fleet of motor
vehicles, garaging and maintenance facilities, and some earth-moving plant.
2.        The standard of all these services has been very low for a long
time and at present many of the smaller authorities in the metropolitan area
are very inefficient, having neither the financial capacity, the qualified
personnel nor the maintenance facilities needed to design and operate effe -
tive systems. For this reason no investment is practical in the outer area,
until viable methods of SWM have been devised and tested and institutional
capacity strengthened.
3.        The performance of CC is better than that of the other authorities,
but its deficiencies have been sufficiently obvious to have led to a Committee
of Enquiry into the administration of conservancy (the Chopra Committee,
1972). During the past two years the Corporation has begun to implement one
of the major recommendations of this committee by creating a Conservancy
Department independent of the Engineer's Department which formerly operated
conservancy services. When fully established, this department could provide
a much stronger institutional capacity than has been previously available.
4.        With a current strength of manual workers of 14,572 the CC Conser-
vancy Department already has adequate labor resources (about 4.5/1,000 popula-
tion). The standards achieved by this large force are, however, far below
what is necessary to safeguard the health and environment of the population.
The main reasons for this are:
(a) lack of the physical infrastructure (esentially a
network of depots) which is necessary for effective
control over workers and their equipment;
(b) shortage of some equipment items (for example,
about half the sweepers have no handcarts);



- 98 -
ANNEX 4
(c) lack of enclosed storage places for collected street
wastes (of about 600 such locations, 400 are exposed
heaps);
(d)  an insufficient number of heavy vehicles to provide
a reliable service for the transfer of wastes from
collection points to disposal sites;
(e) very old garages and workshops, in which the layout
of the buildings and the available equipment are in-
adequate for the present work load;
(f) some aspects of collecting and disposing of nightsoil
which are offensive and give rise to health risks; and
(g) the disposal of refuse by crude dumping (as opposed to
sanitary landfilling) which damages the environment and
destroys land values.
5.        The challenge offered by this situation is that a relatively modest
capital injection of Rs 9 crores 1/ (US$10.4 million), which is approximately
one year's operating cost, could transform these services, given sound man-
agement and a measure of technical guidance, without significantly increas-
ing the total annual operating cost of conservancy. Over two-thirds of the
SWM component will be devoted to the area served by CC. Nearly Rs 3 crores
(US$3.5 million) of this expenditure will represent permanent solutions, in
the form of construction of depots, improvement of garages and workshops,
and conversion of crude dumps into sanitary landfill operations. About Rs 2
crores (US$2.3 million), however, can be regarded only as first aid, in the
sense of providing adequate physical requirements for the reliable operation
of existing systems, some aspects of which may be inherently inefficient or
undesirable.
B. Project Description
Calcutta Corporation: Street Cleaning and Primary Refuse Collection
6.        One hundred ward depots are required, each serving a population
of about 30,000 and controlling about 80 workers. Eighty 2/ depots will be
constructed under the project, each providing secure parking for handcarts,
facilities for mustering and ablution of workers, an office and quarters
for the overseer and a transfer point for collected wastes.
1/   Excludes contingencies and supervision charges.
2/   It is not feasible to acquire all 100 sites within four years.



- 99 -
ANNEX 4
7.      3 At least 400 new enclosed vats will be built, in sizes of 8, 15
and 30 m , to contain wastes awaiting transport to disposal sites and preveat
access by scavengers and animals. The trailer sites will be built to test
the concept of continuous containerization. Five thousand handcarts with
simple fixed containers will be manufactured to sustain the present system,
and three thousand handcarts having multiple portable containers will lay
the foundation for improved methods.
Transport of Refuse from Wards to Landfill Sites
8.        Seventy-seven 7-ton tippers are required to bring the fleet up to
strength for phased renewals of old vehicles. Twelve tractors and 25 tip-
ping trailers will be provided for use at transfer points and at large waste
sources such as markets. Because periods of suspension of services due to
flooding during the monsoons are inevitable, 4 payloaders are included for
the rapid clearance of accumulations after such emergencies.
9.        Four 7-ton tippers are provided for a continuing "clean-up" cam-
paign aimed at the removal of large accumulations of builders' and contrac-
tors' debris from footways throughout the city.
Maintenance of Transport and Mobile Plant
10.       The existing four garage sites are cluttered with old buildings
which inhibit their efficient use; this will be corrected by demolition of
some buildings and reconstruction of the remaindei. A new central automo-
tive workshop will be based on an existing building at Chingrihatta which is
large, inefficiently laid-out and lacks equipment. New ancillary buildings
for stores and specialized workshops will also be built. At all five sites
quarters will be provided for key personnel. The garages will be equipped
for routine servicing and the Chingrihatta workshop for complete overhauls,
body repairs and earth-moving plant maintenance. Four mobile workshops will
be provided to deal with roadside breakdowns and three recovery vehicles for
towing. For the transport of tracked vehicles over public roads, a lowboy
is included.
Nightsoil Collection
11.       Eight tanker standings will be built to screen nightsoil tankers
from view during the emptying of pails and one new "pail depot" will be con-
structed and three existing ones repaired. The latter are places at which
the contents of tankers can be discharged, without spillage, through a spe-
cially designed access to a sewer, and where continuous flushing with water
is available during this process, in order to dilute the nightsoil and to
cleanse the vehicle. Twenty tanker-lorries and six tractors (for use with
existing tanker-trailers) are included as vehicle renewals, together with
two cesspool emptiers.



- 100 -
ANNEX 4
Transport for Supervision and Control
12.       Ts 4S important that supervisory personnel controlling large areas
should have suitable transport; 18 jeeps are to be provided, 11 for districts
(each about 10 square km), 2 for disposal sites, and 5 for headquarters staff;
123 >bcycles are included for overseers.
Sanitary Landfill Sites
13.       The main disposal site is an area of about 2,000 acres, east of
the CC, the average distance to collection points is about eight kms. Levels
within the site vary widely, and there are many lagoons of stagnant water
up to 3 m deep. A correct policy would be to fill the water-logged areas
with inert wastes, of which large quantitites are available at the site,
then to raise the whole area with successive layers of wastes 2 m deep. At
present, however, the site is being used only at two points on the perimeter
where there is access, one at Dhapa, the other at Bantala; mountainous dumps
have accumulated at both points. At Dhapa there is a rail transfer facility
and a network of tracks inside the site at which rail wagons are discharged.
The railway, however, can handle only a small portion of the 1,500 tons
reaching this site daily and it is very expensive to operate. CMDA proposed
to close this railway before the commencement of the 1977 monsoons and the
permanent ways then would provide available foundations for internal roads
which will permit access for road vehicles to the lower levels and the be-
ginning of a phased reclamation scheme.
14.       The SWM component includes provision for 7 km of road construction
at the approaches to Dhapa-Bantala, to ensure two reliable means of access,
and for 15 km of temporary roads within the site; security and/or street light-
ing will be provided as required. Three control areas are to be established,
one at Dhapa, one at Bantala and the third adjacent to a new highway which is
planned to cross the site (and which will provide a third approach from the
city). Each control point will include an office for recording deliveries,
washing and toilet facilities, refuelling facilities and a plant garage. At
the Dhapa-Bantala sites two payloaders and seven dumpers will handle the inert
wastes required initially to build embankments across lagoons and later for
supplying covering material; the bulldozers for this site have already been
provided under the first project.
15.       Two additional landfill sites are proposed to minimize the length
of hau-age, one north and one south, but are not yet identified. Each site
will be equipped with a site control complex at a cost of Rs 2.5 lakhs per
site, but because of the time scale the cost of only one is included. Two
tippers will be utilized at these sites for importing cover. Two medium
bulldozers will be supplied for these sites and Rs 10 lakhs is included for
road construction.



- 101 -
ANNEX 4
Training, Studies, Pilot Projects and Implementation
16.       The main element of technical assistance for the SWM component is
a four-year program of studies and pilot proiects with the following aims:
(a) elimination of the present system of throwing all wastes
into the streets by designing methods of storage and
collection from source which are appropriate for various
levels of urban development (e.g. where home storage
is impractical, design efficient communal containers);
(b)  handling methods should avoid dumping on the ground
and reloading and skin contacts by workers;
(c) transport methods should be labor-intensive (probably
handcarts for primary collection, from which manually
handled containers can be emptied directly into the
body of a motor vehicle);
(d) the separation of the prime mover from the body (e.g.
tractor-trailer or roll-on container) should be con-
sidered for motorized transport to reduce loading time
and increase loads/vehicle/day;
(e) method study should be applied to all manual processes
including nightsoil collection;
(f) small-scale disposal operations should be developed,
particularly manually operated landfill up to 20 tons/
day and manually operated aerobic composting up to
10 tons/day, for small communities; and
(g)  efficient tools and small equipment should be developed,
based on local materials and local manufacturing capa-
city.
Selected systems would be tested on a pilot scale for population units up to
10,000 for a period of at least nine months. Information derived in this way
would form the basis of a Master Plan for long-term implementation. Some
financial provision has been made to commence implementation, the main
benefit of which will be felt by the smaller municipalities.
17.       Terms of reference for these studies have been prepared.  The
studies are to be administered by the SWM cell of CMDA acting in cooperation
with the CC Conservancy Department, with consulting assistance from the Indian
National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (for CC) and the All
India Institute of Public Health and Hygiene (for other authorities). There
is a need to develop training in solid wastes management at senior, middle and
vocational levels. CMDA are to begin with a series of three-week "familiari-
zation" courses. These studies are included in cost estimates tabulated in
Annex 8.



- 102 
ANNEX 4
C. Organization and Staffiing
18.       The value of civil work and buildincg construction will exceed Rs 2
crores (US$2.3 million), hence the work load for design, bills of quanti-
ates, preparation of contracts and supervision af contractors will be con-
siderable. CMDA are better equipped than CC for this task and they have
undertaken to administer all aspects of the component: design and construc-
tion. procurement, studies and pilot projects and training.  However, GC1DA
will consult with CC Conservancy Department at all stages of design and take
full advantage of their practical experience.
19.       The successful deployment of the facilities and equipment to be
provided to the CC Conservancy Department will depend upon the administrative
structure and the quality of management. The following principles have been
agreed with the Corporation.
20.       The geographical structure of the organization is to be:  11 dis-
tricts having an average population of about 300,000, each district having
9 wards with an average population of about 33,000. Each ward would have
a depot for the control of 80 employees, on average. Each ward would be
divided into about 6 blocks, each controlled by a foreman; an average block
would have 3 km of footway, 5,500 population and would be served by 10-12
unskilled workers.  Functions of the Operation Division will include street
cleaning, refuse collection, nightsoil collection and disposal, and such
ancillary services as drain cleaning, subject to a final decision on alloca-
tion of departmental functions by CC.
Part Two: Sanitary Latrine Program
21.       In 1976, CC employed 2,504 laborers to service (on a daily basis)
32,000 privies, a work performance of 16 pails/man/day, an extremely low rate
of productivity.  The task of collection, however^ is not easy.  A service
privy 1/ is a small brick shed containing a platform above an earthenware
bowl, which is fully exposed to flies and to human view and is usually filled
to overflowing with excreta, and is emptied, inefficiently and irregularly
in most cases, for transport to disposal pits. Many privies are not easily
accessible and are some distance from the road. Furthermore, the men are
only able to work from their starting time of 5:00 a.m. until about 7:30 a.m.
After this time residents refuse to have the workers stationed in the road,
and work must cease. Hence, many of these men wiork for only 2-3 hours per
day.
1/   Or nightsoil pails.



- 103 -
ANNEX 4
22.       The areas where service privies are in use are also the areas
of open surface drains and ditches. Many of these are in a septic condition
and emit gas, which is an indication of raw sewage. It seems certain that
many residents, and perhaps some of the collectors, dispose of nightsoil
in these drains.
23.       When CMDA commenced its activities in the latter part of 1970, it
was estimated that there were over 6 million people in the CMD 1/ relying
on approximately 150,000 service privies and 50,000 septic tanks (often
malfunctioning) for disposal of human wastes. The effect of the 200,000
badly maintained privies and tanks on the quality of water, derived at
that time from more than 17,500 tubewells, can easily be imagined. CMDA
is addressing this problem by (i) installing sewers in the unsewered pockets
of CC; and (ii) converting service privies to sanitary latrines as part of
the bustee improvement program and undertaking a similar program for those
households outside the bustee areas which are prepared to contribute towards
the cost of replacing service privies with sanitary latrines.
24.       Both the bustee improvement and sanitary latrine program directly
provide for the elimination of service privies by replacing them with pre-
fabricated concrete flush toilets (referred to as sanitary latrines), with
a connection to a sewer, (wherever possible) or equipped with a prefabri-
cated septic tank below the sanitary latrines where sewers are not available.
In the period since 1970 CMDA have (i) replaced approximately 30,000 service
privies in the bustee areas with 48,000 sanitary latrines; and (ii) installed
approximately 10,000 sanitary latrines in other areas.
26.       The sanitary latrine program provides for the installation of a
sanitary latrine at the request of a property owner and on payment of Rs 400
which is about one-quarter of the installed cost. The balance of Rs 1,200
is met from GOWB funds. Under the proposed second credit, the program allows
for the conversion of about 3,000 service privies per annum. It is considered
that the 75% grant is necessary to sustain this demand and thereby obtain the
desired results.
D. Economic Evaluation
27.       The solid wastes management component will generate a wide range
of benefits. As a result of improved supervision of manpower and the provi>
sion of modern collection and transportation equipment, it is expected that
the productivity of the unskilled labor involved in collection will increase
considerably. With more vehicles and improved maintenance, the operational
1/   The balance being on a waterborne sewage system, mainly in CC.



- 104 -
ANNEX 4
efficiency of the collection fleet will improve. Immediate attention is to
be given to removing the accumulated street refuse and the present systems
of collection and disposal are to be rehabilitated9 providing for a more
efficient service at about the same per capita cost as at present. The
studies and pilot projects will develop an indigeneous technology of collec-
tion, transport, and disposal for application throughout the CMD. Further-
more, disposal is to be by sanitary land filling, which will provide new
areas in prime locations for cultivation, industry and recreation. Benefits
of the improved system of collection, transport and disposal are derived from
the savings in operating costs per ton due to the improvements in efficiency
resulting from the project. The rate of return of the component is estimated
at 27%.
28.       The sanitary latrine component, 1% of total project cost, provides
for the continuation of an ongoing program which aims to eliminate service
privies in the CMD. 1/ About 12,300 sanitary lantrines will be installed
at a cost of US$178 each, 2/ 25% of which will be recovered directly from
the beneficiaries. The benefits are unquantifiable, but the component will
considerably improve the health, hygiene and environment of the beneficiaries
and produce savings in the cost of nightsoil collection.
1/   Exclude bustees provided for under BIP.
2/   Excludes contingencies and supervision charges.



- 105 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Solid Wastes Management Improvement
(Rs lakhs)
Item                 Quantity            Rate       Amount
Street Cleansing and Primary
Refuse Collection
Ward depots                       80              1.5        120.0
Vats (400)                       400           varies         10.0
Trailer sites                     10              .10          1.0
Handcarts (old type)           5,000               .004       20.0
Handcarts (new type)           3,000               .007       21.0
172.0
Transport of Refuse from Wards
to Landfill Sites
7-ton tippers (including
4 for clean-up campaign)        81             1.6        129.6
Tractors                          12              0.6          7.2
Trailers, tipping                 25              0.2          5.0
Payloaders                          4             8.0         32.0
173.8
Maintenance of Transport and
Mobile Plant
Building improvements
garages                         4             5.5         22.0
quarters                        5              3.5         17.5
main workshop & garage          1              7.0          7.0
Equipment
garages                         4             2.5          10.0
main workshops                  1              8.0          8.0
Recovery vehicles                   3             2.0          6.0
Mobile workshops                    4             0.75         3.0
Lowboy                              1             5.0          5.0
78.5
Nightsoil Collection
Pail depots (new)                   1             0.45         0.45
Pail depots (repairs)               3             0.25         0.75
Tanker standings                    8             0.2          1.60
Tanker-lorries                    20              1.4         28.00
Tractors                            6             0.6          3.60
Cesspool emptiers                   2             2.25         4.50
38.90
Transport for Supervision and
Control
Jeeps                             18              0.44         7.92
Bicycles                         120              0.004        0.48
8.40



- 106 -                ANNEX 4
Table 1 (cont'd)
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs Estimates for Solid Wastes Management Improvement (cont'd)
(Rs lakhs)
Item                   Quantity         Rate       Amount
Sanitary Landfill Sites
Access Roads
Dhapa-Bantala                  7 km                       24.0
Dhapa-Bantala lighting                                     4.0
Internal Roads
Dhapa-Bantala                 15 km                       16.0
Other sites                                               10.0
Site Control Areas
Dhapa-Bantala                  3               2.5         7.5
Other sites                    1               2.5         2.5
Bulldozers 80 hp                   2              6.0        12.0
Payloaders                         2              8.0        16.0
Dumpers                            7              3.0        21.0
7-ton tippers                      2              1.6         3.2
116.2
Technical Assistance, Training,
Studies, Pilot Projects and
Implementation, Devoted to
Devising and Installing Improved
Systems
Foreign and local consultant    Costs included in Annex 8 -
services, administration           Technical Assistance
and operation of training,
studies, and pilot projects,
etc.
Equipment for pilot projects                                 38.0
Implementation of pilot projects                            105.0
143.0
Summary
Street cleaning & primary
collection                                                  172.0
Transport, wards to landfills                               173.8
Maintenance, transport and
plant                                                        78.5
Nightsoil collection                                         38.9
Transport for supervision                                     8.4
Sanitary landfill sites                                     116.2
Pilot projects & implementation results                     143.0
Design                                                       44.0
774.8
Taxes and duties - foreign equipment, etc.                   89.0
- local equipment, etc.                    32.0
Subtotal                                       895.8
CMDA design and supervision                                  62.0
TOTAL                                          957.8



- 107 -
ANNEX 5
Part 1
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Primary School Construction, Health
and Small-Scale Enterprise Components
Part 1: Primary School Construction
A. Introduction
1.        Enrollment in recognized primary schools in the CMD presently stands
at 66% and is thus considerably below the rest of the State where it reaches
more than 83% in some areas. Inclusion of unrecognized school enrollment 1/
would not substantially alter this picture as this would add no more than
some 1 - 2 percentage points to the total enrollment in the CMD. This sub-
component seeks to redress this imbalance in selected areas by providing 40
new schools and rehabilitating and expanding 400 existing school buildings.
2.        Enrollment data, however, do not provide a complete picture.  For
example, attendance is estimated at only about 70-75% of enrollment. Fur-
thermore, the dropout rate for the primary school cycle as a whole is esti-
mated at 50-60% by the Department of Education. Thus, only about 33-40% of
the age group actually complete the primary school cycle; this rate may be
as low as 15% in the most deprived wards in Calcutta City.
3.        Many reasons are advanced for the low attendance and high dropout
rates, including: (a) lack of schools within convenient walking distances
or inappropriateness of existing school buildings; (b) low quality of teach-
ing; (c) the depressed employment situation where private rewards from school-
ing cannot necessarily be realized; and (d) the need for children of the low-
est income groups to work. As long as primary education is not coapulsory,
decisions for building new schools or expanding existing ones caninot be based
on present or potential enrollment alone but must be supported by an analysis
of the demand for primary education. CMDA has undertaken to carry out a
demand analysis and assess the feasibility of increasing double-shift work-
ing and of constructing two and three-story schools.
1/   For schools recognized by GOWB, the recurrent expenditure is borne by
the State budget. Unrecognized schools are financially and adminis-
tratively supported by voluntary organizations. Unrecognized schools
often cater to special interest groups in terms of language or religion.
An unrecognized school can apply for recognition if enrollment reaches
at least 100 studentse



- 108 -
ANNEX 5
Part 1
B. The Subcomponent
4.        The subcomponent provides for the construction of 40 new schools
and the upgrading or expansion of 400 existing schools to increase enroll-
ment capacity and improve existing facilities.
5.        The locations for new schools to be constructed will await the
findings of the demand analysis (para 3) but would be chosen in accordance
with the following criteria:
(a) priority will be given to locations serving slum
areas in CC;
(b) priority will be given to areas not presently served
by either recognized or well functioning unrecognized
schools;
(c) effective demand analysis will determine where two-
shift operations of the school building should be
established;
(d)  land must be available for a five to ten room school
building which, where necessary, may be up to three
stories in height.
6.        CMDA has established a detailed enrollment deficiency map of the
CC and Howrah municipality. This will be matched with the demand analysis
,para 3) and with the location of plots of land available for schools.
Land would become available from the administration of the Urban Land Ceil-
ing Act, 1/ but mainly from khatal 2/ areas to be vacated under the Khatal
Removal Program. Notifications for public acquisition of this land under
the Land Acquisition Act, 1948, have been issued. Twenty-nine locations
in CND are also still available from 150 private donations made in response
to an appeal by CMDA.
7.        Concerning the upgrading and expansion of 400 existing schools,
CMDA in cooperation with the Department of Education has already established
a ' st of about 500 schools identified under a previous upgrading program as
be ,c  hysically suitable for expansion.  The screening process proceeded on
the b sis that only schools on Government-owned or school-owned land were
Tigie. Next, only schools having less than five rooms at their disposal
were c-isidered. These locations must still be matched with the deficiency
and demand analysis. At least 250 schools are expected to qualify from this
review. The remaining 150 schools to be upgraded under the subcomponent are
expected to be readily identified.
1/   Establishes maximum size land holdings permitted.
2/   Buffalo compounds.



- 109 -
ANNEX 5
Part I
C. Implementation
8.        CMDA, through its Bustee Improvement Directorate, will carry out
the construction of the 40 new schools according to established standards.
Construction of single storey schools will be in brick with an asbestos
cement roof. Two and three storey buildings will have a reinforced concrete
frame, concrete floors and flat concrete roof. Upgrading and expansion of
existing buildings will be made along the same lines as in the previous up-
grading program. This involves channeling funds through commercial banks
to the school committees. Funds are disbursed upon utilization certificates
issued by the engineers of CMDA in charge of supervising the work.
D. Project Benefits
9.        The expected benefits from the subcomponent are as follows:
(a) 40 new school buildings operating on a double-shift
system will provide places for 16,000 to 20,000 1/
students. The cost per student place based on
double-shift operation will vary between US$43 2/
for a one-storey building and US$85 for a two-storey
building (single shift);
(b) 400 upgraded schools will provide an estimated
average increase in enrollment possibilities of
100 students per school for a total increase of
40,000 at a cost per student place of US$44; and
(c) an unquantifiable improvement in attendance rates in
the upgraded schools.
E. Project Costs
10.       The project comprises capital investments in school building and
upgrading/expansion; the recurrent costs for teachers, maintenance, etc. are
to be borne by the GOWB Department of Education. The Department estimates
that, in the upgraded schools, no additional teachers are required for the
1/   The actual number served will depend on the number of 5 and 10 class-
room schools built and the extent to which double-shift working is
feasible.
2/   Excluding price contingencies.



- 110 -
ANNEX 5
Part I
additional enrollment of students. For the new school buildings, 400 new
teachers and headmasters will be employed for double-shift operation. In
view of the overall budget allocation for increasing the teaching force, the
Department anticipates no difficulty in meeting recurrent costs.
11.       Capital Costs.  Based on sketch plans and preliminary engineering
details these are estimated to cost Rs 215 lakhs (excluding contingencies
and design expenses) and this sum is made up as follows:
Rs Lakhs
1.   Land acquisition                                             15
2.   20 New Schools consisting of 10 classrooms,
administration office, teachers and multi-
purpose room at Rs 2 lakhs each                              40
3.   20 New Schools as above but 5 classrooms
at Rs 1 lakh each                                            20
4.   Remodeling 400 existing schools at
Rs 25,000 each                                              100
5.   Equipment                                                    40
215
Design and Supervision                                 16
Subtotal                                              231
10% Physical Contingencies                             20
Price Contingencies                                    71
Grand Total                                      322
12.       Expenditure is expected to be phased as follows:
Rs Lakhs
1980/81                                          146
1981/82                                          176
Total                                       322



- 111 -
ANNEX 5
Part 2
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Primary School Construction, Health
and Small-Scale Enterprise Components
Part 2: Health Component
Objectives
1.        The objectives of the health component are:  (i) provide through
a pilot program comprehensive health care including nutrition and family
planning services to a target population of 175,000 predominately bustee
inhabitants and (ii) test the effectiveness and efficiency of an improved
health delivery system designed to coordinate community outreach efforts,
patient referral mechanisms and curative and preventive medicine approaches.
If successful, this system could be replicated throughout the rest of CMD
at minimal additional cost.
Description of the Pilot Program
2.        The proposed health delivery system envisages establishing the
following types of health facilities with the staff indicated:
(a) Project Headquarters -- to be located at the Health
Directorate of the GOWB Health Department with the
following professional staff:
(i) Deputy Director
(ii) Assistant Director
(iii) Accountant
(iv) Statistician -- this office will be responsible
for overall organization, implementation, manage-
ment and evaluation of the program
(b) Primary Health Center (PHC) -- the two primary health
centers, in addition to providing services to a popula-
tion of 25,000, each will also give continuous super-
vision and logistic support to the five subcenters
affiliated with each primary center. The staff required
for administration, supervision and logistic support of
each primary health center and five subcenters is:



- 112 -
ANNEX 5
Part 2
(i) Senior Medical Officer
(ii) Accounts Clerk
(iii) Statistician
In order to provide the medical services at the PHC
level, the following staff are needed:
(i)  2 physicians
(ii) 2 pharmacists
(iii)  2 auxiliary nurse/mid-wives
(iv) 6 multi-purpose workers
(v)  18 "voluntary't community outreach workers
(c) Sub-Health Center (SHC) - each SHC will cover a population
of 12,500 with the following staff:
(i)  1 physician
(ii) 1 pharmacist
(iii)  1 auxiliary nurse/mid-wife
(iv) 3 multi-purpose workers
(v)  9 "voluntary" community outreach workers
All "voluntary" workers will be recruited from women's
and youth clubs in the bustee areas or from volunteers
already working for non-government agencies within the
bustees. They will be provided the necessary equipment
and simple medicine but will not become salaried Depart-
ment of Health employees. After one year's service and
additional training, they may advance to the position
of multi-purpose worker which is a sanctioned Government
position.
Health Services to be Provided
3.        The same package of services will be provided at all PUCs and
SHCs. It includes preventive care (periodic health checkups) as well as
treatment for minor ailments and referral of cases to higher levels when
necessary.  Outreach health and nutrition education as well as family plan-
ning motivation will be provided through the use of the community outreach
workers. Also, they will update the family health status with routine home
visiting every four months under the direct supervision of the multi-purpose
workers. Family health records will be kept on all families in the target
area compiled from information collected on home and clinic visits. At the
health facilities, the auxiliary nurse/mid-wives and multi-purpose workers
will provide maternal and child care, nutrition education, and family plan-
ning services and promotion. The family planning services include intra-
uterine device insertion, vasectomy and distribution of pills and other con-
traceptive supplies; those requesting female sterilization will be referred
to hospitals.



- 113 -
ANNEX 5
Part 2
4.        Routine ante-natal and post-natal care will be provided to all
mothers and infants; pre-school child care will be given to those under the
age of six. Referrals of sick children from schools will come through the
school nurses. The entire target population will be covered by vaccina-
tion against smallpox and tuberculosis and innoculation against diphtheria,
tetanus, pertussis, cholera and typhoid fever.
5.        No food will be directly distributed through the health facilities.
All malnourished cases will be identified and referred to the nearest feeding
centers which are run by the Health and Social Welfare Departments and by
non-governmental agencies. Surveillance of the malnourished cases will be
undertaken by the multi-purpose workers through their outreach contacts.
Referral to polyclinics and hospitals will be made for those sick cases seen
in the SHCs and PHCs who require more sophisticated diagnosis and treatment.
Proposed Benefits of the Pilot Program
6.        The review of the current situation indicates the need to relieve
the excessive overloading of hospital out-patient facilities now providing
much routine primary care. An alternative is called for in order to avoid
the additional construction of expensive in-patient facilities for patients
whose serious conditions could have been prevented with earlier treatment
intervention at health centers. In addition, there is the need to improve
the utilization of peripheral health centers as well as the existing nutri-
tion and family planning programs by the bustee inhabitants. Particularly,
the beneficiaries of the massive supplementary feeding program (currently
over 300,000 in the CMD area) must be focused more specifically to include
those most in need. While the target groups are children and pregnant and
lactating women, there is no evaluation of program effectiveness or measure
of actual intra-family distribution of the food. This component will employ
community-based outreach workers who, through their routine household con-
tacts, will detect, monitor and refer needy cases to sub-centers for appro-
priate care. Furthermore, the evaluation and monitoring system designed to
measure the program's impact will allow for improvements in planning and
management. While the total number of beneficiaries is small in comparison
to the denominator for the CMD as a whole, the effort is justified for its
operational research aspect; indeed it represents Calcutta's first attempt
to: (i) systematize patient referral, (ii) introduce community-based out-
reach workers, and (iii) integrate preventive, promotive and curative health
services including family planning at the home level. The estimated capital
cost of providing the package of services is Rs 12.6/capita, which is com-
parable to the current GOWB per capita expenditure on health.
Organization
7.        The GOWB Department of Health will be responsible for implementa-
tion of the pilot project and CMDA, through the Bustee Improvement Direc-
torate, will construct the new physical facilities. Program planning,



- 114 -
ANNEX 5
Part 2
implementation and evaluation will be reviewed by a Joint Committee made
up of representatives of the GOWB Department of Health and the CMDA Health
Division. Financing, personnel, maintenance and supplies will be the respon-
sibility of the GOWB Health Department. Selection of key personnel and sites
for the PHCs and SHCs will be arranged jointly by the CMDA and GOWB Health
Department. Personnel training, as well as the design of management proce-
dures, records and reporting forms and evaluation procedures, will be the
responsibility of the Health Department.
Criteria for Site Selection
8.        The sub-centers will be located within a 6 km radius of their
affiliated PHC. Each SHC and PHC will be assigned the nearest polyclinic
and hospital as its referral facilities. The criteria for selection of
sites for PHCs and SHCs are as follows:
(a) no currently available health center in the area;
(b) improved water and sanitary facilities already in
the area or proposed under the project;
(c) a supplementary feeding center available in the
area.
A recent survey of health facilities in the CMD has identified the location
of all hospitals, clinics, dispensaries, and maternity homes. The prime
target areas for the program are those with no existing health facilities
whatsoever, or only nursing homes which are beyond the economic reach of
bustee inhabitants.
Physical Facilities
9.        The project headquarters will be located in the Health Directorate
at the GOWB Department of Health. For the first year of the program opera-
tions, the PHCs and SHCs will operate out of rented facilities located in
the appropriate areas, during which time CNDA will acquire sites and con-
struct the permanent facilities. Sites will be acquired by CMDA under the
Land Acquisition Acts of 1894 and 1948 and will mostly become available from
the Khatal Removal Program (see Annex 1). Preliminary designs and specifi-
cations have been prepared for the PHCs and SHCs and used as a basis for
budgets. Plans will be finalized by March 31, 1978. Construction contracts
will be awarded to local contractors by the CMDA under local bidding proce-
dures. On completion, the facilities will be commissioned by the GOWB
Department of Health, who will be responsible for future maintenance and
operation.



- 115 -
ANNEX 5
Part 2
Training, Evaluation and Monitoring
10.       Based on the services to be provided and the work loads per health
worker, a training program will be implemented by the GOWB Health Department
for all categories of workers in the pilot program. The trainers will come
from the All-India Institute of Hygiene and the District of Nadia, where the
Government has had extensive experience over the past three years in a simi-
lar program designed for rural areas. The rural program has been replicated
in four additional rural districts with convincing results. The syllabi and
handbooks are already prepared for the multi-purpose workers, doctors and
nurses; the curricula and training manuals will be finalized by December 31,
1977.
II.       The continuous monitoring system for program management will be
adopted from that currently used in the Nadia District. It includes a sim-
ple, service-specific recording of data collected for the family records at
home and clinic visits; later it is aggregated into registers by the multi-
purpose workers for presentation to the senior medical officers at the PHC
level. Well-defined procedure manuals for supervision of manpower and
supply logistics by the SHC and PHC physicians and auxiliary nurse/mid-
wives will also be adapted from ones used in Nadia. A separate register
for referral cases will be maintained. The efficiency of the program will
be measured in terms of: (i) percentage of population covered by specific
health services, (ii) the utilization of services by the target population,
and (iii) the number of referrals and revisits by type required.
12.       As a baseline for program evaluation, a household health survey
scheduled for July 1977 will be undertaken by CMDA and the GOWB Health
Department in selected areas. It will provide data on the current infant
and child mortality rates, the incidence of malnutrition, family planning
utilization rates by eligible couples and the incidence of common infectious
diseases occurring in the families. These indicators will be updated annually
in a program report to be prepared jointly by CMDA and the GOWB Health Depart-
ment. It will be possible to compare, for example, nutritional status of
users and non-users of the nutrition referral system.
Budget
13.       The budget for the three-year pilot program is presented in Table 1.
The GOWB Health Department has agreed to finance all recurrent expenditures;
capital cost expenditures will be made through CMDA's program and facilities
will be transferred to GOWB Health Department on completion.



- 116 -
ANNEX 5
Part 2
Table 1
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Component Budget
Capital      Recurring
(Rs lakhs)
1. Operation of 10 SHCs:
(a)  Capital cost of construction of 80 m2
building together with proportionate
cost of land @ Rs 100,000 per unit x
10 units                                      10.00
(b) Non-recurring expenditure for pur-
chase of equipment and furniture
@ Rs 25,000 per unit x 10 units                2.50           -
(c) Recurring costs for salaries,
medicines, rent, etc.                           -            7.84
2. Operation of 2 PHCs:
(a)  Construction of a 200 m2 building
(including garage) together with
proportionate cost of land @
Rs 15,000                                      4.34           _
(b) Non-recurring expenditure for pur-
chase of equipment and furniture
and 1 vehicle per unit Rs 85,000
x 2                                            1.70           -
(c) Recurring costs for salaries,
medicines, rent, etc.                           -            4.20
3. Operation of Project Headquarters:
Non-recurring expenditure: cost
of furniture, office equipment
and one vehicle                                0.75          1.80
4.  Cost of Referrals:
(a)  Polyclinics                                     -            1.68
(b)  Hospitals                                       -            0.73
5.  Training Program                                      -            0.12
6.  Management Consultant                                 - _0.28
TOTAL                 19.29         16.68
Year 2                                   -            15.03
Year 3                                   -            15.03
19.29         46.75
GRAND TOTAL                 66.03



- 117 
ANNEX 5
Part 3
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Part 3:  Small-Scale EnLrg s   Component
1.        At the end of 1976, CMDA decided that its traditional function
of provision of physical urban infrastructure should be complemented by
efforts to support the economic activities of the slum population in order
to raise their employment and incomes directly. Therefore, CNDA undertook
surveys/studies to prepare a program which would cater to small-scale enter-
prises (SSEs) (para 9).
2.        The SSEs are defined to comprise small-scale industries (SSIs)
which manufacture and small businesses (SBs) which provide services and
include, in particular, trade and commerce. SSIs are defined in India as
manufacturing units with fixed assets in machinery and equipment of up to
Rs 1 million and in the case of ancillaries up to Rs 1.5 million. Howevel,
this definition is much too large for slum industries.  The target group cf
the proposed SSE component would be mainly the very small-scale enterprises
which presently have insufficient access to institutional credit and tech-
nical assistance. The upper limit of total capital employed has been some-
what arbitrarily set at Rs 100,000 (see para 26), which is more than 10 times
smaller than the official SSI definition. Most of these units are unregis-
tered (see para 8) and belong therefore to the informal sector. 1/
3.        The objectives of the proposed SSE component of Rs 30 million,
which would be largely experimental, would be to: (i) extend financial and
technical assistance, now mainly available to the larger units of the small-
scale sector, to the existing smaller units primarily in the informal sector,
particularly through provision of working capital finance; (ii) assist new
entrepreneurs in setting up SSEs through provision of finance and technical
assistance; and (iii) gather experience and information through a monitoring
program so as to learn valuable lessons for a second phase SSE project, which
after execution of additional studies would concentrate on an enlarged target
group and subsector specific support programs.
1/   To obtain any financial or technical assistance from government insti-
tutions an SSI has to register with the Department of Cottage and Small
Scale Industries. Similarly shops can also register with the Govern-
ment of West Bengal.



- 118 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
4.        General.  Since 1965, industrial production in West Bengal actually
declined to a low in 1970, increasing slowly thereafter to 1976 without reach-
ing the 1965 level; 1/ by comparison, India's industrial production grew con-
tinuously with only a small decline in 1966 and 1967, as shown below:
General Index of Industrial Production,
West Bengal and India, 1964-1976
(Base: 1963 = 100)
Area             1964   1965   1966   1967   1970   1973 11976
1.   West Bengal    106.6  112.8  104.8  103.1   94.3   96.9  102.6
2.   India           108.6  118.6  117.7  116.7  139.3  154.8  170.0
5.        Probably the major reason for the stagnation in industrial produc-
tion was the decline of the jute industry (on which West Bengal industry is
heavily based) mainly due to the loss of the raw jute production potential
in East Bengal at the time of partition in 1947 and due to the synthetics
competition on the world market. Other reasons are: (i) emergence of strong
industrial centers around Bombay, Madras and Delhi competing with Calcutta;
for example in 1965/66, the eastern region accounted for 65% of all-India
engineering goods exports, whereas in 1972/73 this proportion had fallen to
22%; (ii) civil disturbances from 1968 to 1972 in West Bengal which slowed
down industrial production; (iii) arrival of refugees from East Bengal in
1971; and (iv) lack of demand from the agricultural sector, since in the
last 10 to 15 years agricultural production technology associated with the
so-called "green revolution" did not take hold very quickly in West Bengal.
6.        However, industrial production in West Bengal has slowly increased
over the past seven years and there is substantial potential for further
growth, particularly in Calcutta, in view of the infrastructure investments
planned for the future. Moreover, some industrial branches which have con-
siderable export potential are heavily represented in Calcutta, like engineer-
ing goods, finished leather and leather goods.
The Small-Scale Enterprise Sector in the CMD
7.        Employment.  Partly as a result of the past stagnant economic
conditions when few additional jobs were created, many people had to fall
back on self-employment in very small-scale and household industries and
trade and commerce. The latest All-India Census of 1971 reveals that of
1/   The Calcutta Port statistics which may be taken as another indicator
for West Bengal's economic activities show similar trends: The 1975/76
traffic was provisionally estimated at 7.5 million tons, which was
about 25% above the bottom level of 1970/71, but still 25% below the
1965/66 level. In 1965/66, Calcutta handled 19% of all tonnages of
the major Indian ports, but in 1975/76 it handled less than 12%.



- 119 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
the about 3.2 million people living in Calcutta City 1/ about lel million
or 37% were employed. The manufacturing sector employed 300,000 people and
of these more than one-third (130,000) were employed by unregistered units
(informal sector), which had an average of 3-1/2 employees per unit (most
of whom are family labor) compared to about 70 employees per unit in the
formal (registered) sector. Trade and commerce employed 192,000 people
and of these more than half (about 103,000) were employed by informal sec-
tor units which have an average of 2 employees per unit (most of whom are
family labor) compared to about 10 employees per unit in the formal sector.
8.        Number of SSEs.  The data available on the number of SSE units
in CMD is fragmentary and largely out of date. Nevertheless, given the
low growth of the local economy, they may be taken as indicative of pres-
ent orders of magnitude. The 1971 census estimated the number of units in
trade and commerce in Calcutta City at about 60,000 of which about 50,000
were unregistered. A census of 1965/66 puts the numbers of SSIs in CMD at
about 115,000 of which 70,000 were unregistered. Therefore about 80% of
trade and commerce units and 60% of SSI units in CMD belong to the informal
sector. These censuses do not cover barbers, rickshaw pullers, street hawk-
ers, etc., whose number may be significant.
9.        The CMDA Survey.  Early in 1977, CMDA undertook to survey (i) manu-
facturing units within ten selected bustee areas, which are likely to be among
the lowest income bustees (and which have a total population of about 200,000),
and (ii) very low income units of five important manufacturing subsectors in
the CMD, i.e. light engineering, leather tanners, garment makers, plywood
makers and clay modellers, and which are physically concentrated in certain
areas of CMD. The major common feature of these units is that most of them
belong to the informal sector and thus are very small (most of them have
less than Rs 100,000 of capital employed) and have insufficient access to
institutional credit and technical assistance. These surveys concentrated
on the manufacturing units only. Service units such as shops, rickshaw
pullers, etc. would be surveyed under the proposed studies (para 36).
10.       The survey results revealed that the surveyed units fulfill all
criteria for a desirable target group: (i) they provide employment to the
lowest income groups in Calcutta; (ii) these units are labor iintensive; (ii1)
the operations of these units are profitable and thus most likely efficient;
and (iv) many units cited lack of finance for working capital as a major con-
straint in their operations.
11.       The survey in the ten selected bustee areas covered 1,341 families
of whom 45% were engaged in garment making, 17% in light engineering works,
1/   Calcutta City covers only part of the area of the CND which includes in
addition part of 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Howrah, and has an approximate
population of almost 10 million.



- 120 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
9% in leather goods, 6% in carpentry and 24% in other activities. 1/ The
average monthly income was about Rs 400 per family of an average of 6.75
members, so that average annual per capita income of Rs 711 (US$79) (pro-
vided that no family member had other employment) is low. An analysis of
9 realistic project profiles have been prepared by the interested commercial
banks and represent the kind of projects to be financed in the slum areas.
The analysis shows that the capital employed 2/ per laborer is low, ranging
from about Rs 1,000 to Rs 10,000. The profit per capital employed is high,
ranging from 2% to 15% per month due to the relatively low capital base.
These figures do not take into account seasonal variations, which reduce
capacity utilization and tend to be frequent for these SSIs.
12.       The survey of the five selected industries groups covered about
4,000 units on a sample basis. The wages paid to employees were low ranging
from Rs 8 to Rs 12 per day (about Rs 270 to Rs 540 annual per capita income
for a family of 7 and 5 members respectively, assuming 220 working days per
year). The annual per capita income was also relatively low for those units
where such data were available (on average Rs 810 for clay modellers, and
less than Rs 1,620 for 80% of tailoring units). The average capital employed
per laborer ranged from Rs 1,000 (clay modellers) to Rs 3,400 (small employed
tanners). 3/ The profitability as percent of turnover was satisfactory, rang-
ing from 10% (tanners) to 20% (tailors).
13.       Marketing.  Marketing channels vary widely according to products:
finished goods for household consumption, government purchases and business
investment, and intermediate goods purchased by other producers as inputs.
Finished consumer goods are sold directly to local household consumers or
through normal retail and wholesale trade channels. Consumer goods are also
produced on sub-contract for larger enterprises which often turn out to be
wholesalers rather than producers, the shoe trade in Calcutta being a case
in point. Intermediate goods are often purchased on sub-contract by some-
what larger firms which constitute part of the formal sector, as well as
by other small enterprises in the informal sector. Inter-industry sub-con-
tracting is particularly widespread within the light engineering industries.
Intermediate goods for agriculture (e.g., grain milling machines and tubewell
sections) are produced either on sub-contract or sold through normal market-
ir- channels in Calcutta and in provincial centers. Production for export
-his distribution of industries is not representative for SSIs in the
w_n1ole CMD, where engineering accounts for about 50%, chemicals for 14%,
and agro-based industries for 10% of units.
2/   This includes machinery and working capital, but not land and buildings
which are assumed to be rented.
3/   This figure is not known for the light engineering units where it is
likely to be higher. However, this would be generally within the limits
established under the urban poverty program of about Rs 8,300 (US$965)
in India.



- 121 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
is, at present, also carried out by many SSIs through traditional channels,
an example being the increase in production of ready-made garments for export
during the last several years. Commercial banks, which would make loans under
the proposed scheme, would evaluate market prospects for individual products
at appraisal of subprojects (para 29).
Policy Framework for SSEs 1/
14.       GOI Policy.  GOI has taken the following special policy measures
to support small-scale enterprises:
Protection - GOI has reserved 177 items for exclusive manu-
facture in the small-scale sector to protect it from the
competition of new large-scale concerns.
Regulation - The small-scale entrepreneur is exempt from the
GOI industrial licensing procedures which apply to the medium
and large sector for setting up a unit, provided the item of
manufacture is not governed by special regulations.
Financial Assistance - The interest rates and security marginE
on loans provided by commercial banks and financial institu-
tions to SSEs are normally lower than for other borrowers.
Moreover, a Credit Guarantee Scheme, which provides for
sharing of possible losses between the lending institutions
and GOI, encourges credit institutions to make loans to SSEs.
Raw Materials - The small-scale units are entitled to import
raw materials according to the Import Trade Control Policy
as announced every year. Most of the raw materials produced
indigenously have been decontrolled and units are free to
take these materials directly from the producers, from the
open market or the State Small Industries Corporation. How-
ever, wherever there is some control, the unit has to apply
to the State Department of Cottage and Small Scale Industry
which will allocate the material to the unit.
Marketing - GOI has reserved 220 items for exclusive purchase
from the small-scale sector. Moreover, a price preference up
to 15% is given to small-scale units in respect of items which
are purchased both from large-scale and small-scale sectors.
Institutions - GOI has two national institutions which cater
to SSIs: (i) the Small Industries Development Organization
(SIDO) of the Department of Industrial Development, which
has a three-tier structure consisting of a network of Small
1/   This section refers mainly to SSIs except for the financial assistance
which also refers to SBs.



- 122 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
Industries Service Institutes (SISIs), branch institutes,
extension centers and workshops throughout India, also in
West Bengal and Calcutta; the SISI provides comprehensive
assistance to SSIs from selection of an item to manufacture
and to marketing of a final product; (ii) the National Small
Industries Corporation (NSIC) which has five Prototype Develop-
ment and Training Centers (PDTC), one of which is located in
Calcutta; the PDTCs concentrate on training of craftsmen,
artisans and engineers and on prototype development for small-
scale industries.
15.       It is unclear at this stage if the benefits of this program justify
the costs. Part of this issue would be addressed in a study by IDBI in con-
nection with the IDBI/SFC II 1/ loan, which would investigate the financial
and economic adequacy of the incentive system.
16.       Institutional Assistance to SSEs in West Bengal and CMD.  In CMD
the SISI, PDTC, the GOWB through its Department of Cottage and Small Scale
Industries (CSSI), the West Bengal Financial Corporation (WBFC), the West
Bengal Small Industries Corporation (WBSIC), and the commercial banks pro-
vide technical, financial and marketing assistance, and training.
17.       The SISI in Calcutta has been relatively successful in providing
such varied services as appraisal of investment projects (it scrutinized
about 5,600 schemes during 1976), provision of workshop and laboratory ser-
vices, designing plant layouts, training in management and technical trades,
a subcontracting exchange mainly for engineering, rubber goods and paints
(six to eight inquiries per month in 1976), and general assistance such as
advice in finance, technical aspects and marketing.
18.       The PDTC in CMD had 2,148 trainees in the period 1965-1976 and had
210 in early 1977. The trainees include: artisans sponsored by individual
small industry units who stay for 1 year; commercial trainees; engineering
graduates who get in-plant training; and engineer entrepreneurs who come for
three months lectures and get assistance to their projects. The prototype
factory specializes in electrical instruments, electrical wiring, pressure
dryers and cable extrusion machines. It also provides services on demand and
against payment.
19.       The CSSI which supervises and coordinates all assistance provided
to SSIs (see para 42) is also administering a financial assistance scheme.
Under the State Aid to Industries Act, it advances loans up to Rs 1,000 on
personal bonds, and up to a maximum of Rs 5,000 against one or more personal
sureties at 5-1/2% interest for 10 years. Since 1974-75, CC area is excluded
from the scheme, but the scheme applies to other parts of CMD, where a small
amount Rs 0.5 million was financed during the past three years.
1/   Loan No. 1260-IN, Report No. 1158-IN.



- 123 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
20,       In 1975/76 the WBFC made term loans for a total of Rs 58 million
to 213 SSIs in West Bengal.
21.       The WBSIC provided in 1975/76 Rs 68 million worth of raw materials
to about 2,300 SSIs. Since inception in 1956 it has assisted 67 SSIs with
hire/purchase machinery of Rs 4 million. Since 1973 it has set up four in-
dustrial estates and one commercial estate for 453 SSIs and 310 SBs. In
addition, it assists in supply of inputs for and marketing of handicraft
products, and administered six demonstration and service centers for leather
processing up to 1976, when this function was transferred to the newly created
West Bengal Leather Industries Development Corporation.
22.       WBSIC is also administering a scheme on behalf of GOWB to help edu-
cated unemployed set up small units by providing seed capital (margin money)
of 10% of the project cost (so as to reduce the amount to be put up by the
entrepreneur to 10% of project cost, since financial institutions normally
put up 80%) at 6.5% interest for 5 to 15 years. From 1973 to 1976 it dis-
bursed in the whole of West Bengal about Rs 10 million (US$1.2 million) to
about 1,330 units with a total employment of 10,500 people.
23.       This assistance program is quite comprehensive and due to the
multiplicity of institutions and the complexity of the sector some overlap
may be unavoidable. The assistance is mainly focused on the organized sec-
tor. One of the objectives of the project component would be to broaden
and intensify this assistance program to SSEs of the informal sector in
CMD.
Summary of the Project Component and its Institutional Framework
24.       The CMDA surveys (paras 9-12) permitted the formulation of an SSE
project component which is summarized below with its institutional framework:
Subcomponents                      Responsible Institutions
A.   Loans totalling Rs 30 million    Four nationalized commercial
mainly for working capital         banks, i.e,, Allahabad Bank,
but also for fixed capital         State Bank of India, United
to approximately 4,800 bor-        Commercial Bank and United
rowers (average loan size of       Bank of India, would make loans
Rs 6,250) over a three-year        available from other sources
period.                            upon directives by GOI. 1/
B.   SSE extension service of 20        Department of Cottage and SmalL
extension workers costing          Scale Industries (CSSI) in close
about Rs 1 million over three    cooperation with the social ser-
years. 2/                          vice organization Kalikata
Bustee Pragati Sangstha (KBPS).
1/   Not funded under the proposed IDA credit.
2/   To be funded by the GOWB Directorate of Cottage and Small-Scale
Industries (CSSI).



- 124 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
C.   Studies of the SSE potential       Calcutta Metropolitan Development
in Calcutta, of specific SSE      Authority (CMDA) through consul-
subsectors, and survey of SSEs   tants.
in all of CMD's slum areas,
costing about Rs 1.5 million
together with the monitoring
under (D).
D.   Performance monitoring of          CMDA, together with social and
loanees, commercial banks,         extension workers.
extension service, and coor-
dinating committee.
A coordinating committee to be chaired by CMDA would assure adequate coordi-
nation. This would be a first phase experimental project component limited
to the already surveyed target population. The proposed studies would mainly
prepare a second phase project with a larger geographical coverage and with
industry specific technical support programs (para 36).
The Credit Component
25.       Background.  The proposed credit component would focus on a credit
gap which presently exists for institutional credit to the small-scale and
household industries and the small businesses in the Calcutta slums. There
are large underbanked pockets in Calcutta amidst relatively rich and well
banked areas. In fact, many bank branches in CMD are located on main streets
even inside the bustees and attend to medium and large businessmen but hardly
to the bustee population living in the area. Some commercial banks have made
some efforts to cater more to the bustee population, but these efforts could
be stepped up substantially. Although RBI has issued a directive that one-
third of the commercial banks' lending should go to priority sectors (which
comprise small-scale industries, transport operators, agriculture, export
retailers, small businesses, professionals and self-employed) by 1979, the
commercial banks have shown in the past little interest in increased lend-
ing to the target group, partly because the target popuiation may be among
the most risky of the priority sectors. In due course the lending to SSEs
in urban areas may rise further. However, the GOI directive to the partici-
pating commercial banks would ensure banking facilities becoming available
to the urban poor at a much earlier stage and with much more emphasis than
wotid otherwise be likely, and the experience gained from this experimental
proje t component would be applied in a larger project later on.
26.       The Target Group.  CMDA proposed that the credit component be
focused on the very small entrepreneur and that, therefore, the maximum
loan size be Rs 20,000 (US$2,325). Larger loans for larger enterprises
are much more easily available from banks (which have a financial interest
to make larger loans because of generally reduced risk and administrative
cost). Judging from the survey data, such a loan limit would encompass
virtually all of the target enterprises. The target group for this proj-
ect component would comprise (i) all service and manufacturing enterprises



- 125 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
in ten selected bustees, (ii) all units of the five selected industrial
subsectors, and (iii) all units in the East Calcutta industrial estate
proposed to be set up under the project, provided that these units have
capital employed of not more than Rs 100,000.
27.       The Demand for Institutional Credit.  Although, due to lack of
historical data, the demand for credit is difficult to project, the avail-
able statistical information, permits a broad estimate of the working capital
credit demand of the surveyed industries and the small businesses in the ten
selected slum areas, by assuming, somewhat arbitrarily, that about 50% of
the surveyed units would require financing of about 50% of their estimated
working capital. The working capital credit would have three major func-
tions: (i) to support expansion of the business; (ii) to ease the constraint
on working capital thus allowing for continued production even in periods
of slack sales; (iii) to compete with the financing of moneylenders (which
charge 70% to 120% interest per annum), although the accessibility and infor-
mality of moneylending operations will continue to be attractive for the small
businessman.
28.       The demand for investment credit of the target group was estimated
on the basis of that, as in the past, the existing number of small-scale
units would grow by approximately 1% per annum and that they would need
finance for about 80% of their investment.
29.       Thus, an estimated 4,800 units (about half from the bustees, and
half from the five selected industry groups and a few from the industrial
estate) would require finance of about Rs 30 million or Rs 6,250 per unit.
About 90% of this funding is estimated to be for working capital credit and
the remainder for investment. 1/ This funding is assumed to be committed over
a three-year period. The four nationalized commercial banks would charge 10%
to 12% per annum to the subborrowers. The commercial banks would finance up
to 90% of investments and working capital. The commercial banks would apply
their normal security arrangements which consist of hypothecation of assets
or, where this is not feasible, of group guarantees. All loans to be made
would be covered under the Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Reserve Bank of
India (para 14). The commercial banks would appraise subprojects through
confirmation of the information entered on the loan application which would
also address the marketing aspects including a site visit and would disburse
in most cases directly to the supplier. For working capital credit lines,
only initial disbursements and subsequent net increases would be counted
towards the Rs 30 million loan fund. 2/ Participating commercial banks would
keep quarterly summaries of the loans made.
1/   In small enterprises, the working capital component is predominant.
2/   For example, if a customer borrows Rs 2,000 in the first month, pays
back Rs 1,000 in the second month and borrows another Rs 2,000 in the
third month, only the Rs 2,000 in the first month and Rs 1,000 in the
third month would be counted towards the Rs 30 million loan fund.



- 126 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
SSE Extension Service
30.       CSSI has an extension service which covers the whole of West
Bengal and which is mainly concentrated in its rural areas. As a result,
there is virtually no SSE extension service covering CMD. However, an
extension service is essential to serve as a catalyst between the institu-
tions catering to the SSE sector, including commercial banks, and the slum
population which often is illiterate and ignorant of these institutions
and their services.
31.       An SSE extension service attached to, and to be paid by, the CSSI
would be created, initially of about 20 officers, whose main tasks would be
to: (a) advise and assist in obtaining technical assistance available from
the various agencies catering to the small scale sector; (b) identify new
entrepreneurs and investment possibilities; (c) assist in provision of in-
puts and marketing; (d) promote associations/cooperatives so that purchase
of inputs, production, and marketing can be pooled; (e) promote loan appli-
cations and help fill them out; (f) assist in statistical surveys; and (g)
identify needs for training of small entrepreneurs and assist in enlisting
them in training programs.
32.       Such extension service would be essential for a successful execu-
tion of this component. It would place much of the promotional costs on
the responsible government department (CSSI), so the participating commer-
cial banks have to bear the costs of the actual lending operations only.
Moreover, the extension workers would play a catalytic role between the
bustee population and all institutions catering to the SSE sector. They
would also have to work closely together with the social workers, who have
the trust of the bustee population and are the most knowledgeable about
them, and the commercial bank branch managers, who have to become aware
of the socio-economic situation in the bustees.
33.       The SSE extension service would initially cover only the target
population of the credit scheme. The 20 extension workers (including one
highly qualified deputy director who would be a member of the Coordinating
Committee and two assistant directors) would have to promote approximately
4,800 small loans, over three years or about 80 loans per extension worker
per year, which appears reasonable. About half of the extension workers
would work in the bustees where about half the loans would be made (cover-
ing a population of about 200,000), and the other half would work on the
five selected subsectors (in which they would have experience) and the in-
dustrial estates. At a later stage, the extension service would be enlarged
(to the same extent as the credit scheme) to cover a larger area of CMD.
Studies and Monitoring
34.       General:  The proposed credit component would close an existing gap
of institutional credit for a limited target group. However, further studies
are required to (i) enlarge the target group at a later stage to all CMD
slums; (ii) identify industrial subsectors to be supported in addition to



- 127 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
the five already selected and their ideal location in CMD; and (iii) provide
for common facilities and services to particular industries so as to obtain
economies of scale in purchase of inputs, in production, and in marketing. The
projects resulting from these studies, some of which may not take longer than
6 to 8 months, could in part be financed from the proposed credit component
and in part under a second phase of SSE projects.
35.       A monitoring program is expected to provide valuable feed-back
for execution of the proposed component and definition of a follow-up project.
36.       Studies.  CMDA would commission the following studies:
(a) A study defining the SSE potential within CMD, in
connection with a study on the industrial potential
for large scale industries presently executed by
Tata Economic Consultants on behalf of the Depart-
ment of Commerce and Industry through the West
Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, and
taking into account the GOWB five year plan. This
supplementary study would in particular concentrate
on the comparative advantage of CMD for certain SSE
subsectors and on locational considerations within
CMD (TOR to be sent to IDA by March 1978 and draft
study by December 1978);
(b) Studies of small-scale industrial subsectors which
are prevalent in CMD. These studies would analyze
the existing situation and make proposals for (Terms
of Reference to be sent to IDA on at least five sec-
tors by June 1978, and draft study by December 1978):
(i) optimal structure of the industry with particular
emphasis on the comparative advantages of the small and
very small-scale units; (ii) inputs and marketing
arrangements; (iii) extension service; (iv) training
needs; (v) investment in individual and common
production and storage facilities; and (vi) institu-
tional arrangements concerning provision of common
facilities and services.
(c) Extension of the basic survey of small-scale enter-
prises (including small businesses) to all slum
areas in CMD. This survey would cover the other
approximately 5 million slum dwellers in CMD, in
particular also the refugee settlement of about
2 million people, and would be the basis for a
later extension of the credit component and the
technical extension service covering the whole
of CMD (Terms of Reference to be sent to IDA by
March 1978, and draft study by December 1978).



- 128 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
37.       Monitoring.  A monitoring program to start in March 1978 would
concentrate on: (i) the economic performance of the loanees and the
employment impact; (ii) the performance of the commercial banks; and
(iii) the performance of the technical extension service.
The social workers covering the target group would pay monthly visits to
the loanees and fill out questionnaires which would record the number of
people employed, number of hours worked, salary of employees and bottle-
necks and changes in the procurement, production and marketing aspects.
This data would be analyzed half-yearly to evaluate the benefits and costs
of the credit scheme. The performance of the commercial banks would be
evaluated through quarterly reports that would stipulate among others the
number of applications received, number of rejections with reasons for re-
jections, the processing time for applications, the loans made by number,
size, purpose and geographic area, the repayment performance, the number
of bank employees working on the scheme, including an attempt to evaluate
the costs of making these loans. An attempt would also be made to review
the adequacy of the eligibility criteria. The monitoring of the extension
service would consist in quarterly compilation of weekly reports to be sub-
mitted by the extension workers, recording among others the number of ini-
tial visits and follow-up visits made, the type of assistance provided and
the number of loan applications made by contacted people. The activity of
the Coordinating Committee (see para 54) would be monitored through the
minutes of meetings which should record the issues discussed and the action
decided and taken.
38.       The description below concentrates on those institutions (and
mainly on those functions) which are directly related to the execution of
the project component, i.e., CMDA for overall coordination and execution of
the proposed studies, the two commercial banks for handling the credit com-
ponent, CSSI for administering the extension service, and KBPS for assisting
the extension service and the commercial banks. All of these institutions
are sufficiently qualified to fulfill their respective functions in execu-
tion of the component.
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA)
39.       The CMDA, with about 4,000 employees, has the function of planning
and construction of physical infrastructure for the CMD to improve the qual-
ity of life and facilitate the economic activities of CMD's inhabitants. At
the end of 1976, CMDA decided to attempt to support the economic activities
of the slum population directly in order to raise their employment and in-
comes. CMDA can usefully play this role, in particular by preparing SSE
projects, since the existing institutions do not focus on this aspect and
do not have a qualified planning wing such as CMDA. CSSI has concentrated
its activities mainly on the rural areas, whereas all the other institutions
catering to the SSE sector have specific functions other than preparation of
such projects.



- 129 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
40.       In view of this, CMDA has created an economic cell which should
have the functions of: (i) keeping close liaison with all economic plan-
ning agencies in West Bengal and India, so as to provide the base for the
planning of urban infrastructure; and (ii) guiding and supervising the SSE
project component and preparing further SSE projects. Since CMDA has only
a catalytic role to play, all such studies would be executed by consultants
to be hired by CMDA. CMDA would be responsible for: (a) drafting of the
terms of reference for the various studies to be carried out; (b) closely
following and supervising the consultants' work and drawing the operational
conclusions from these studies for the CMDA; (c) the establishment of a
suitable methodology for carrying out the baseline surveys in the slum and
refugee areas not yet covered by such surveys, the testing of the question-
naires and the actual execution and analysis of the surveys; (d) establish-
ment of suitable monitoring guidelines and questionnaires and the adminis-
tration of the actual monitoring activities; (e) the analysis, on a quarterly
basis, of the monitoring results and the formulation of proposals for changes
required in the SSE program; (f) preparation for the enlargement of the SSE
program to cover the whole of CMDA at a later stage; and (g) provision of
secretary functions for a Coordinating Committee, representing all institu-
tions involved in execution of the SSE component.
41.       The economic cell which reports to CMDA's Director of Planning, I .
presently staffed by four economists (three of whom have joined only at the
beginning of 1977), two sociologists and some 20 social workers, who do mostly
field work. This staff strength appears adequate for the time being since all
studies are to be executed by consultants. However, to ensure high quality
work and coordination of the cell's activities with the rather complex, on-
going planning activities in West Bengal, a member of the State Planning
Board or a senior staff member from the State's Development Planning Depart-
ment should be part-time advisor to the Director of Planning of CMDA.
Department of Cottage and Small Scale Industries (CSSI)
42.       The CSSI is the GOWB department which has prime responsibility
for formulation, elaboration and execution of State Government policies for
SSIs, including supervision of all the technical and financial assistance
provided to SSIs and registration and statistical surveys of SSIs. The
CSSI has also a technical extension service which is mainly responsible for
the voluntary registration of SSIs and referral service for SSI assistance
provided by government institutions. This extension service is concentrated
in West Bengal's rural areas, although CSSI has eleven "investigators" working
in Calcutta. The CSSI has experience with extension service, and therefore
the propose'd SSE extension service (paras 30-33) would be administered by it.
43.       CSSI is organized into three Directorates:  Hand Loom and Textiles
Industry, Cottage and Small Scale Industry, and Silk and Sericulture. At
the end of 1976, the Directorate of CSSI had a total headquarters staff of
about 340 in 11 divisions and a total staff of 240 in 13 regional offices,
so that the administration of the additional SSE extension service would not
cause any problems.



- 130 -
ANTNEX 5
Part 3
The Participating Nationalized Commercial Banks
44.       Four nationalized commercial banks would make the proposed loans.
As an example of their finances, operations and procedures, the United
Commercial Bank (UCoB) is described below.
United Commercial Bank (UCoB)
45.       General.  UCoB, the headquarters of which are located in Calcutta,
has shown particular interest in the SSE component and has executed the sur-
vey of the tailors in Metiabruz. In 1976 it opened a bustee branch to gain
experience, but it is still too early to draw any conclusions. UCoB is the
fifth largest nationalized commercial bank in India with total deposits of
Rs 6.23 billion as of December 1975. UCoB was created in the early 1940s by
the Birla House and nationalized in 1969. Its share capital of Rs 28 million
as of December 1975 is wholly owned by GOI. As of December 1975, UCoB had
824 branches in India, of which 39 in Calcutta and 9 branches abroad, and a
total staff of 14,500 of whom about 20% are officers.
46.       Finance.  The selected indicators of UCoB's business during 1973-75
in the table below show that UCoB is financially viable:
Amount in million of Rs
1973      1974       1975
A.   1.   Capital                                       28.0       28.0       28.0
2.   Reserve Fund and other reserves              60.0       60.0       60.0
3.   Deposits and other accounts               4,806.5   5,420.7   6,231.7
4.   Total advances (including bills)          3,152.8   3,705.5   4,232.7
of which priority sector advances         794.0   1,140.0   1,217.2
5.   Investments                               1,508.6   1,497.1   1,746.8
6.   Working Funds                             5,413.3   6,025.1   6,847.7
B.   1.   Total income                                 367.4      517.0     610.7
2.   Total Expenditure                           349.3      497.8      590.2
3.   Net profit                                   18.1       19.2       20.5
4.   Amount transferred to Government              4.6        4.7        5.1
UCoB has lower interest rates for small than for large loans (ranging from
10% per annum for loans up to Rs 10,000 to 16% per annum for loans over
Rs 500,000), which is in line with GOI's policy of support of small scale
enterprises.
47.       UCoB's Calcutta Operations and Organization.  As of December 1976,
UCoB had lines of credit totalling Rs 1.2 billion (US$140 million) outstand-
ing in Calcutta and Howrah. Ninety eight percent of this credit was for
industry including 11% for small-scale industry. Thus, the proposed credit
component would be small compared to UCoB's Calcutta operations and UCoB



- 131 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
could easily handle it.  UCoB has a development cell which would be in charge
of supervising the execution of the proposed credit component. Presently,
UCoB has about 10 branches which are located among the target group, so that
it does not need to open further branches for execution of the credit compo-
nent. At the moment, no particular branch staff is allocated for making
small loans, and the existing staff could handle the additional loan volume
initially. However, UCoB would hire one additional development officer for
each additional 400 to 500 accounts.
48.       Policies and Procedures for Small-Scale Enterprises.  UCoB's loan
applications cover all major aspects of the investment proposals. In con-
sidering loans to small-scale enterprises, cash flow considerations have
priority over security considerations. The main criteria for making a loan
are: (a) the honesty and integrity of the borrower and his business expe-
rience; (b) sufficiency of anticipated earnings after allowances for liv-
ing expenditures and loan installments; (c) approval of the technical fea-
sibility by the Small Industry Services Institute (SISI) for loans above
Rs 25,000; l/ (d) financial viability and employment orientation, and (e)
assured market for the product. UCoB has developed project profiles for
29 small scale enterprise schemes which cover as varied activities as pig
rearing, fruit vendors, grocery shops, cobblers, hair dressing saloons, etc.
This facilitates UCoB's appraisals.
49.       The loans are secured by hypothecation of assets and are guaran-
teed under the Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Reserve Bank of India. UCoB
makes disbursements to the extent possible directly to the supplier, and
bank officials periodically visit the borrowers' site, to assure proper
stock registers, so that the drawing power on the credit line can be con-
trolled.
50.       Conclusions,  UCoB is a financially sound, nationalized, commer-
cial bank, which has experience in making small business loans. Its pro-
cedures for small business loans are adequate.
Kalikata Bustee Pragati Sangstha (KBPS)
51.       General,  KBPS (Calcutta Bustee Improvement Association) was
created in 1970 to coordinate the numerous social welfare organizations
operating in Calcutta. It has close links with CMDA which it complements
through provision of social services in Calcutta's slums. KBPS is a feder-
ation of ten social welfare organizations with a total staff of about 100.
The participation of the KBPS in the execution of the SSE component is essen-
tial because their social workers have the trust of the bustee population and
can therefore establish a close link between them and the extension workers
and the commercial banks' officers.
1/   Not applicable under the SSE project component, since maximum loan
would be Rs 20,000.



- 132 -
ANNEX 5
Part 3
Coordination
54.        A coordination and monitoring committee with representatives of
CSSI, UCoB, UBI, and KBPS chaired by CMDA would be created to ensure close
cooperation of all institutions involved in execution of the SSE component.
The committee would convene every two months after March 1978 to (i) discuss
problems and progress of the credit scheme; (ii) to discuss TORs and draft
studies on individual industrial subsectors selected for assistance; and
(iii) to discuss and decide on further priority sectors to be studied and
assisted.
Table 1
Cost of the Technical Assistance Component
for Small Scale Enterprises
US$
Z:tension Service (to be paid by CSSI as part          Rs million   equivalent
of recurrent expenditures).                         (000)
S .?laries average Rs 700 per month per extension
worker x 20 workers x 36 months.                         0.504
C-fices and equipment estimated at 100% of the               -
salaries:                                                0.504
1.008        117
Studies, Surveys and Monitoring
1.  Study of the potential and the locational
considerations for SSE development in CMD -
five man-years at Rs 7,000 per man-month. 1/        0.420
2.   Industrial branch studies of particuhar
importance to CMD.                                  0.365
3.   Base-line surveys of the slum population in
the CMD; population to be surveyed 4.5 million
approximately; estimated investigator input:
315 man-months at Rs 500 per month plus office
supplies etc. at Rs 135 per man-month.              0.200
4O  Monitoring of 4,800 expected borrowers spread
over three years with monthly visits at Rs 2
per visit.                                          0.345
5.   Two visits of expatriate consultant for estab-
lishment and testing of survey and monitoring
forms and for analysis of the results.              0.180
Total Cost           1.510        175.7
1/  This includes all secretarial and research assistance, travel, office
supplies, etc.



- 133 -
ANNEX 6
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal and Anchal Development
Introduction
1.        The local government institutional framework in the CMD, excluding
Calcutta Corporation, consists of 34 municipalities, 61 non-municipal urban
areas and 500 semi-rural units.  The latter 561 units are grouped for local
government purposes into 154 non-municipal areas known as "anchals." Anchals
are the lowest unit in the hierarchy of local self-government and their re-
spective jurisdictions comprise 10 to 15 villages in each anchal. The
anchals are locally governed by elected bodies called 'panchayats' (com-
mittees), headed by a 'Pradhan' (chairman). The anchals perform municipal
functions in non-municipal areas, have power to impose and collect taxes and
fees in their respective jurisdictions, and their functions are regulated by
the West Bengal Panchayat Act of 1956.
2.        As of 1971, nearly 4.6 million people out of a total of 8.3 million
in the CMD were in the 34 municipalities and 154 non-municipal anchals outside
the twin cities of Calcutta and Howrah. Of this, the population within the 34
municipalities stood at about 2.88 million on the east bank and 0.78 million
on the west bank. The average population growth rates during 1961/71 ranged
between 10% and 66% in the municipal areas and between 47% and 81% in non-
municipal and rural areas. The average densities in the municipal areas
ranged between 1,700 and 27,000 persons per sq km . The large growth in the
municipal and fringe areas in the CMD, particularly around the metro center
and on the east bank, was mainly attributable to the strong desire of the
people priced out of the inner city to remain as near to it as possible or
at locations with easy access to the inner city. This overstrained not only
the metropolitan transportation system but also the already deficient and
almost non-existent civic services in municipal and anchal areas.
3.        Under the Fourth Five-Year Plan, CMDA investments, which empha-
sized trunk facilities for transportation, water supply, sewerage and drain-
age, were confined largely to the metro core area of the CMDA. Except for
the fringe area water supply schemes, very few individual CMDA projects
were directly addressed to the population of the municipal and non-munici-
pal areas. Tangible direct benefits for these people are not likely to be
more than marginal until appropriate linkages are made to the trunk infra-
structure.
4.        The CMDA's response to this was to formulate in 1970 the Municipal
and Anchal Development Program which has been mainly concerned with the
accessibility needs of the communities in these outlying areas. The first



- 134 -
ANNEX 6
improvements in the anchal areas were mainly for roads, providing linkages
with railway stations, hospitals, schools and other parts of the road net-
work, and in the municipalities, for improvement of municipal roads and
drains. During the last three years of the Fourth Plan period and in the
first two years of the Fifth Plan period over 1,500 km of roads have been
provided, together with ancillary drainage works, at a cost of Rs 9.11 crores.
Cost Estimates
5.        The estimated cost of this component is Rs 474 lakhs 1/ and rep-
resents the estimated cost of undertaking work in municipalities and in a
number of anchals not yet covered by the program. This will conclude by
March 31, 1982 the first phase of the program and by that time some work
will have been undertaken in each of the 154 anchals.
6.        Cost estimates for anchals are prepared after:  (a)  a formal
request has been received from a pradhan; (b) the proposals have been
checked against the selection criteria (para 8-10); and (c) the site has
been inspected by one of CMDA zonal engineering staff.
Criteria for Selection of Anchal Road Improvements
7.        The following broad guidelines will be followed for selection and
preparation of schemes for improvements of anchal roads within the CMD:
(a) anchals not yet covered by any road improvement
schemes will be given preference, any other road
improvements should rationalize earlier choices,
e.g. providing linkages where gaps exist;
(b) anchal roads should serve as links with major
roads, railway stations, hospitals, health cen-
ters, schools, markets and similar nodes;
(c) anchals inhabitated by scheduled castes and/or
scheduled tribes should be given preference;
(d) unless it is an inter-anchal road, individual
road schemes within an anchal shall not be more
than 3 km long, or cost more than Rs 5 lakhs.
In the case of inter-anchal roads, costs shall
be prorated between the anchals served;
(e) no land acquisition cost shall be included in
the scheme for improvement of anchal roads.
Should land be required for improvements of
bends, sharp curves or marginal widening of the
1/   Including contingencies and design costs.



- 135 -
ANNEX 6
carriageways, this should be arranged by either
acquisition or gift by the local people at the
instance and initiative of the anchal pradhan
and should be a condition precedent for under-
taking the scheme by the CMDA;
(f) inter-anchal roads with future potential for
being developed as a component of a primary
or secondary road network system, requiring
improvements in geometrics, carriageway, etc.
and involving land acquisition, should after
identification be subjected to a traffic
analysis by the CMDA Planning Directorate and
given a priority rating which indicates likely
construction phasing and financing;
(g) anchal roads, which under existing conditions
would not permit having an improved carriageway
width of at least two meters, should not be
considered for inclusion in the program; and
(h) anchal roads which are not likely to develop
heavy vehicular traffic in the foreseeable future
may be provided in the first instance with a bitu-
minous stabilizing coat laid on a waterbound base
course. This will reduce initial cost without
impairing functional utility.
Criteria for Selection of Municipal Roads, Water Supply, Drainage
and Sanitation
8.        The following guidelines will be followed for selection and prep-
aration of schemes for improvement of municipal roads and rains (outside
Calcutta and Howrah) in the CMD:
(a) schemes which could not be taken up and/or completed
in earlier phases either because of shortage of
funds or local circumstances should be considered
for early inclusion in the next phase of the pro-
gram. These cases would mainly constitute missing
links, abandoned works, important communication
links not originally considered, etc.; and
(b)  inter-municipal roads linking up railway stations
and major highways should be considered by CMDA
on the Authority's initiative, if not sponsored
by one of the concerned municipalities. The same
would apply to inter-municipal roads.  The prior-
ities, phasing and financing arrangements of such
schemes shall be determined by the CMDA.



- 136 -
ANNEX 6
Areas Bordering East Calcutta and West Howrah
9.        Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to complement the area devel-
opment schemes at East Calcutta and West Howrah it is proposed to upgrade the
adjoining unserviced areas through the municipal and anchal program.
Operation and Maintenance
10.       The upkeep and maintenance of the improved roads and drains will
be the responsibility of the municipalities, anchals and panchayats. The
water supply and sanitation facilities will become the responsibility of
CMWSA for operation and maintenance.
Implementation
11.       Implementation of anchal road schemes are reviewed and supervised
by the CMDA zonal engineers from the Bustee Improvement and Municipal and
Anchal Development Directorate who process the schemes for approval by CM1A,
execute the contracts and render accounts. The municipalities, however,
generally possess the necessary technical expertise to prepare estimates
and plans and to implement them. After approval by CMDA, the municipalities
enter into contractual commitments and proceed with the work.
12.       The overall control of the program in regard to policies, guide-
lines, fund allocations, and operational procedures is exercised by the CMDA
through a Municipal and Anchal Development Committee set up by the Authority
comprising two of its members (representing the CMD municipalities), the
Secretary and the Technical Adviser, CMDA.
13.       The development needs in the municipal and anchal areas go beyond
the limited program proposed to be implemented in the period up to 1982,
particularly since these areas are expected to facilitate future urban ex-
pansion in the CND. Assurances therefore were obtained at negotiations
that GOWB will require the Department of Municipal Services and CMDA to pro-
vide by March 31, 1980 a second-phase development plan for the 154 anchals
in CMD and that this development plan would contain, inter alia, proposals
for institutional reform, boundary adjustments, physical and economic plan-
ning, employment generation and local taxation for the period 1981-1986.



- 137 -
ANNEX 7
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traffic and Transportation Component
1.        The Traffic and Transportation component aims to:
(a) facilitate the movement of all modes of traffic along
existing corridors in the central area of the CMD with
a minimum of expenditures and road works; and
(b)  increase the level of economic activity in the CMD by
building certain missing links and opening up new cor-
ridors.
2.        The component consists of:
(a) implementation of a Traffic Operation and Management
Improvement and Road Repair Program in selected areas
of the CMD, by providing:
(i) traffic operation improvements on over 140 km of
roads and footways;
(ii) traffic engineering and control equipment; and
(iii)  road and footpath maintenance equipment for the
Calcutta Corporation;
(b) upgrading, widening and rationalization of three roads in
the Calcutta Corporation and the Howrah Municipality areas;
(c) construction of a flyover in the Sealdah Railway Station
area in Calcutta;
(d)  reorganization of a taxi and minibus terminal at the Howrah
Railway Station; and
(e) construction of three major roads to provide connections to
the Second Hooghly River Bridge under construction at Princep
Ghat, and to open up new developments at Kalyani, West Howrah
and East Calcutta.



- 138 -
ANNEX 7
Traffic Operation and Management Improvement, Road Repair and Street
Lighting Program
3.        In the 1966 Basic Development Plan, it was pointed out that the
capacity of the existing street system in Calcutta could be expanded by at
least 25% by modernizing traffic operations. Over the years, various traffic
engineering measures have been proposed on an ad hoc basis, mainly by the
police in view of their experience with traffic enforcement, and implemented
without adequate technical analysis. In 1976, however,'CMDA established a
Traffic Engineering Cell to plan and design priority traffic engineering
schemes in the CMD on a systematic basis. This cell, assisted by foreign
and local consultants' services financed under the project, will carry out
a comprehensive four-year design program and monitor traffic engineering
schemes during implementation. The project would provide funding of works,
material and equipment for such schemes, including intersection improvements,
guard rails, street lighting and traffic signals. Four schemes are already
under preparation by the Traffic Engineering Cell and experience gained under
these will be applied to future schemes.
4.        The present condition of roads and footways in heavy traffic areas
is such that road markings will not be readily visible on the road surface
and to overcome this, the project provides for bringing up road surfaces and
footways to appropriate standards as the traffic engineering works are being
implemented.
5.        In the past, maintenance and repair of roads in Calcutta has suf-
fered from inadequate organization and scarcity of funds. Only about 5% of
some 3,200 lane-kilometers of classified roads in the city were maintained
annually by CC, as against a desirable goal of 20%. In 1976, however, GOWB
decided to establish a separate Roads Wing Department in the Corporation
(para 28) and arranged for supplemental funds. 1/ Over the next three years,
this Department will implement a program aimed at 20% annual maintenance/
repair coverage of city streets by optimizing existing manpower and acquir-
ing additional plant and equipment (Table 4).
6.        Traffic control in the CC area and in the rest of CMD, is the
responsibility of the Calcutta Police and the State Police, respectively
(paras 23 through 25 below). The project provides for additional radio
equipment and motorcycles, jeeps and vans to assist in police mobility,
and equipment to assist the police in regulating speeds, controlling traffic
in emergencies, and analyzing accidents as they occur. This supply of addi-
tional equipment will also enable centralization of radio control of police
covering the whole of CMD (Table 3).
7.        The cost breakdown for the Traffic Operation Improvement Schemes
is detailed in Table 1 (except for the technical assistance component, which
is detailed in Annex 8).
1/   75% of a recently introduced surcharge on the Motor Vehicle Tax will
be made available to CC; amounting to Rs 1.65 crores in 1978-79,
the first full year of operation.



- 139 -
ANNEX 7
Road Improvement Projects
8.        There are parts of the road networks in the already developed urban
areas of Calcutta and Howrah where gaps impair the operation of the network
as a whole and where considerable advantage can be obtained by bypassing some
particularly difficult points. Similarly, there are some bottlenecks which
need improvement so that the road corridors of which they form a part will
operate to their full efficiency. Finally, some roads are unsatisfactory
structurally and need rebuilding to carry out their design purpose.
9.        The following road improvement schemes are proposed under the proj-
ect (see Map IBRD 12874):
(a) Foreshore Road (Howrah). This existing 4.0 km road serves
as a bypass for the main shopping street (Grand Trunk Road),
as an industrial road to a steel stockyard and as the link
between two railway stations on different lines. The pro-
ject allows for temporary reconstruction of the road so that
it can function effectively, but in the long term it is
proposed to move the railway tracks to avoid the existing
level crossings;
(b) Makardah Road (Howrah). This 5.0 km road is one of the most
important east-west arterial roads on the west bank of the
CMD.  Widening the existing road to 30 feet (9.14 meters)
in the first phase will accommodate expected future traffic
growth due to development for the West Howrah Township; and
(c) Manicktala Main Road Extension (Calcutta). This 1.0 km road
is also an important connection from the Salt Lake Develop-
ment to the City Center.
Flyover at Sealdah Station (Calcutta)
10.       The Sealdah Railway Station handles about 750,000 passengers
per day, most of whom cross APC Roy Road which is the ring road for the
center of Calcutta. In order to segregate pedestrians from fast traffic,
this scheme provides for such traffic to be taken over a flyover or slight
"hump" under which a substantial number of pedestrians can walk. Future
development to the west will be arranged by CMDA to accommodate pedestrians'
movements for better use of the space under the hump.
Terminal
11.       At Howrah Stationa, a substantial complex of bus stands and pedes--
trian subways has been constructed to eliminate traffic conflicts and to
improve the traffic capacity of the west approach to the Howrah Bridge. The
project would rationalize the use of the available space and would therefore
be effective in contributing to the capacity of the road network in the
Howrah Bridge area.



- 140 -
ANNEX 7
New Road Construction
12.       The project includes three new road facilities:
(a) the Eastern Metropolitan (EM) Bypass with two connectors;
(b) the Kona Expressway; and
(c) the Barrakpore-Kalyani (B-K) Expressway.
They are important links for improving movements in the CMD as a whole, for
connecting up a new river crossing under construction, and for opening up
additional areas for development. The ES Bypass and B-K Expressway form
part of a larger road sys em linking the eastern part of the CMD with its
hinterland in the north, the west and the south.
(a) the Eastern MetrpIt.*an (EM) Bypass. The two-lane
sections proposed under the project are:
,' Lpart I, from Salt Lake City to the Park Circus
Connector, and also connecting with Ultadanga
M4ain Road, Manicktala Main Road, Narkeldanga
Main Road, and Beliaghata Main Road;
xii) part TI, from the Park Circus Connector to the
Rtashbehari Connector (total length of part I
and part II, 10.8 km);
(iii)  construction of the 4.2 km Park Circus Connector;
and
(iv)  construction of the 2.8 km Rashbehari Connector.
This system will support economic development in the
area, including the East Calcutta Area Development
which forms part of the project (Annex 1). It will
also provide much needed relief to the CMD core area
from through traffic. Construction works on parts I
and II have been started by CMDA and CIT, respectively;
'b' Kona Expressway. To the south, a new bridge across the
river is being constructed at Princep Ghat. The Kona
Expressway is planned to connect it to National Highway 6.
This connection will also lead to further development of
Howrah along the new road, and to the development of a
market and truck terminal at the intersection of this
road with National Highway 6 in West Howrah. The Kona
Expressway will be built to only two-lane standard for
the tim.e being; and



- 141 -
ANNEX 7
(c) Barrackpore-Kalyani (B-K) Expressway. At Kalyani, located
in the most northern part of the CMD on the eastern bank,
there is a new township with a well laid-out road system,
good utilities, good community facilities and some industries.
The modern infrastructure available can support a population
of at least 140,000, but the current population is only
about 18,000. A major reason for the present under-utiliza-
tion of this investment is the lack of an adequate road link
from Kalyani to the CMD core area, and to the west bank of
the river. The present north-south road on the eastern bank
of the river is winding through a number of town centers,
where local traffic and activities make full use of the
extremely narrow road, preventing effective through traffic
to Kalyani. The new 25.8 km, two-lane B-K Expressway under
the project, located east of the present road (see Map IBRD
12874), will connect Kalyani with Barrackpore, bypassing
densely populated areas, and providing additional road
capacity for new developments. Construction works by
CMDA have started on 20 km of the road.
D. Project Organization
13.       The responsibility for execution of the Traffic and Transportation
component rests primarily with CMDA. Most of the road works will be directly
implemented by its Traffic and Transportation Directorate, but some sub-com-
ponents will be implemented under CMDA's control, by CIT and HIT. The CC
and the State Police will be responsible for some aspects of the Traffic
Operation Improvement Scheme.
14.       Implementation responsibilities are shown in Table 1.  CIT will
execute works on roads which they have already planned or which are adjacent
to roads they have built. These include the Rashbehari Connector and the
section of the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass immediately adjacent to it.
Similarly, HIT will execute the Makardah Road in Howrah.
15.       Responsibility for implementation of the Traffic Operation Man-
agement Scheme will be shared between the CMDA Traffic and Transportation
Department, the police forces and CC. Traffic engineering works will be
executed by CMDA (assisted by consultants) through its Traffic Engineering
Cell. Resurfacing of selected roads and footways under this component will
be the responsibility of CC. The police will continue to be responsible for
provision of road markings and signs, and will be provided with additional
equipment which will increase their efficiency in traffic control. The
Calcutta Police will coordinate traffic control activities with strengthened
police organization outside its jurisdiction, and one radio control station
for traffic will be established. CMDA will take responsibility for allocation
of police equipment under the project between the police forces concerned, and
will also implement the street lighting program.



- 142 -
ANNEX 7
CMDA Traffic and Transportation Directorate
16.       This Directorate is responsible for planning, design and execution
of road projects in designated areas within the CMD. Headed by a Director,
the T&TD has two Traffic and Transportation circles and one Project Planning
and Design Circle, each headed by an additional director. In addition, the
Department has functions for programming, finance and accounts, and adminis-
tration. The Traffic and Transportation circles, decentralized within CMD,
comprise seven construction divisions and one electrical division. The
Project Planning and Design Circle includes divisions for design, surveys,
quantity control and control of plant and equipment. There are 22 staff at
Executive Engineer grade and above; the total engineering staff is about 180.
17.       The Planning and Design Circle uses local consultants to strengthen
its capacity, as needed. Similarly, the T&TD relies partly on other implement-
ing agencies for execution of works. The combined annual execution capacity
of the Directorate, PWD, CIT and HIT in the sector is about Rs 12.5 crores
(US$14.5 million), which is sufficient to cope with ongoing road works in the
CMDA program, whether included under the project or not. Contractors are
normally used for road works; T&TD has its own park of construction equipment
(rollers, paving equipment) which is partly leased to contractors, and partly
used by force account, especially for paving works.
The CMDA Traffic Engineering Cell (TEC)
18.       Planning of Traffic Operations is the responsibility of the TEC of
CMDA. Headed by a Deputy Director (Traffic and Transportation) in the CMDA
Planning Directorate, he has at present a staff of four assistant transporta-
tion planners, each responsible for a limited number of traffic engineering
schemes, assisted by local consultants for traffic surveys and engineering
drawing. This group will form the nucleus of the TEC being formed in by CMDA,
with a staff of 20 assistant planners. When fully established, TEC with their
consultants will be capable of undertaking all the necessary traffic engineer-
ing works, including necessary consultation with Police and other authorities
to ensure that schemes designed within the project take account of needs of
all groups of road users.
Calcutta Corporation
19.       Until recently, road improvement and maintenance in the Corpora-
tion's jurisdiction was under the direction of its Chief Engineer, also
responsible for maintaining other services in the area. About 20 mainte-
nance crews at borough level carried out minor repairs on some 3,200 lane-
kms of roads, supported by deliveries of hot-mixed asphalt from one plant
serving the whole of CC. Inadequate planning and lack of funding, however,
resulted in poor maintenance standards; only 5% of the road system was
attended to annually against a desired goal of 20%. The GOWB, realizing
the need for improved road maintenance in the Corporation area, decided in
September 1976, to establish a separate Roads Wing in CC, and to establish
a separate road maintenance fund. Headed by a Chief Engineer (Roads), the



- 143 -
ANNEX 7
Roads Wing will consist of four departments, for Repair and Maintenance; Con-
struction and Reconstruction; Mechanical Plant and Stores; and Laboratories,
respectively, each under a senior engineer. At full strength, the Roads Wing
will employ about 80 engineers and 1,100 labor force.
20.       In its first three-year period, the Road Wing's aim will be to reach
the annual 20 percent coverage of road repairs and maintenance, focusing on
arterial roads covering public transport, and other heavy traffic roads with
acceptable drainage. To achieve this objective, the Road Wings will optimize
the output of existing manpower by procuring adequate stocks of materials,
modernizing the existing hot-mix asphalt plant, and acquiring additional
plant for mobile road repair units. The project provides for additional
investments in such plant and equipment (Table 4).
Calcutta Improvement Trust (CIT)
21.       The jurisdiction of the CIT, created in 1911, covers the CC area.
It is organized as a semi-autonomous body and operated by a Board of Trustees.
CIT is responsible for planning, design and execution of general improvement
schemes, housing accommodation schemes, rehousing schemes and street works.
Since the formation of CMDA, CIT has acted as executing agency for, inter
alia, selected street works. As CMDA has expanded its T&T Department, how-
ever, CIT's participation in road construction works has been reduced. CIT
is adequately staffed and equipped to execute the works assigned to it under
the proposed project.
Howrah Improvement Trust (HIT)
22.       The jurisdiction of HIT, created in 1956, coincides with that of
Howrah Municipality. Established along the lines of CIT, HIT has among its
duties development and improvement of streets. Acting as executing agency for
CMDA, HIT is capable of executing the works assigned to it under the proposed
project.
Calcutta Police
23.       The Calcutta Police, under the Commissioner of Police, has an
area of responsibility roughly the same as that of CC. Responsible for
administration of traffic, they have a Traffic Department of 1,400 under a
Deputy Assistant Commissioner (Traffic). Organized into a Headquarters and
seven "guards" defined geographically, the majority of the Traffic Department
Police force of about 1,400 are deployed on shift work controlling particulcar
junctions and other traffic points. This force would be more effective if
more of its members were centralized and made more mobile. Vehicles, and
communication and other equipment included under the project, would assist
the Police in this respect. It has adequate facilities for repair and main-
tenance of additional vehicles proposed under the project.
24.       The Calcutta Police are also responsible for making and installing
road markings and traffic signs, and for installing and maintaining traffic



- 144 -
ANNEX 7
signals, using the PWD as executing agency. These arrangements in the Corpo-
ration area are not satisfactory. Assurances have been given by GOWB that
adequate funding for this activity will be provided, and that CMDA will be
the executing agency on behalf of the Traffic Police Department.
State Police
25.       Outside the Calcutta Police Area, police administration is under
the Inspector General of Police, West Bengal. Traffic control is done by
the general police who report to the three Superintendents of Police in
Howrah, 24 Parganas and Hooghly Districts. This organization is not ade-
quate for coping with the current spreading of traffic problems outside
the Calcutta Corporation area. GOWB has decided that:
(a) traffic control in the CMD outside the jurisdiction of
the Calcutta Police will be appropriately staffed and
adequately organized under the Deputy Inspector General
(Traffic); and
(b) traffic control in the whole CMD area will be centralized to
a single room using extensive radio facilities.
The project would provide vehicles and other equipment to assist the Deputy
Inspector General (Traffic) to discharge his duties.
Maintenance of Roads in the CMD
26.       CMDA has no responsibility for maintenance of roads in the CMD.
Following completion of a road, its maintenance is normally the responsi-
bility of the contractor for a period of time, as stipulated in the con-
tract. Thereafter, the road is handed over to the agency responsible for
road maintenance in the actual area.
27.       In the CC area, road maintenance is the responsibility of Calcutta
Corporation (see para 19 above), except in the heart of the city, where
specified roads are maintained by the GOWB Public Works Department (PWD).
In the rest of the CMD, responsibility for maintaining close to 20,000 km
of roads is shared by the Public Works (Roads) Department (PWD-Roads), PWD
and local municipal bodies. PWD and PWD-Roads are two separate agencies
under the GOWB. PWD-Roads are responsible for State and National Highways,
PWD for major district roads, other district roads and village roads. The
local municipal bodies are responsible for roads within their jurisdiction.
As further described in Annex 9, maintenance funds are provided by GOI for
national highways, and by GOWB for all other roads in the CMD. Inadequate
funding, and in the case of constituent local bodies, inadequate staffing,
has led to inferior maintenance standards in most areas of the district.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOWB will provide local
bodies in the CMD with sufficient funds to adequately maintain existing local
government services and assets provided by CMDA investments and transferred to
the local bodies during the project period.



- 145 -
ANNEX 7
B. Economic Evaluation
28.       The measurement of benefits of the different projects are derived
from one or more of the following:
(a) savings in vehicle operating costs resulting from improved
traffic flows;
(b) time savings of car, taxi and bus passengers, motorcyclists,
and truck, van and tempo operators; and
(c) traffic generated by new areas of development.
29.       Vehicle operating costs were assumed to vary according to speed.
Value of time has been taken at one-third the average wage of each class of
beneficiary as follows:
Mode of                 Average             1/3 of
Beneficiary            Monthly Income      Hourly Wage
(Rupees)          (Rupees)
car/taxi                   1,200               2.00
truck                      1,500              1.40
bus                          300                .50
motorcycle                   500                .85
van/tempo                   1,000               .95
Goods vehicles are assumed to operate 360 days and other fast vehicles
300 days/year. All costs include costs of land acquisition, civil works,
relocation works, equipment and physical contingencies. The traffic volume
for the new connectors have been assumed depending on the overall develop-
ment, the corridor network and the minimum travel path. Traffic figures
for road redevelopment and widening schemes were projected from 1976 survey
data collected over a 12-hour period.
Road Redevelopment and Widening Schemes
30.       The road improvement schemes are designed to improve the overall
transportation system in the metropolis and relieve congestion in important
corridors by widening existing roads within the right-of-way, provide missing
links in the existing network, and remove existing bottlenecks. Footpath
width will vary for each project, but six feet will be the minimum accept-
able width. Provision for parking is included on one or both sides of the
carriageway of several of the projects. Benefits of these schemes are de-
rived from travel time savings and savings in vehicle operating costs of
traffic diverted from their present routes to the improved roads. The aver-
age economic rate of return for the three projects (5% of total cost) is
estimated to be 17% if the value of time is assumed at 1/3 the average
hourly wage rate, and 14% if no value is attached to time savings of in-
dividuals.



- 146 -
ANNEX 7
New Road Construction
31.       These new roads representing 60% of total costs are required to
connect up the new areas of development and the new river crossings, and
will form, along with existing arterials, a major ring system of the metro-
politan core. Benefits of these new highways are derived from operating
cost and travel time savings of the traffic generated by new areas of de-
velopment, traffic bypassing existing north-south corridors, and local traffic
resulting from new subcenter and industrial development along the corridors.
Additional benefits will result from further development in these new areas
and considerable increases in land values along the routes. The economic rates
of return for the three subprojects Barrackpore-Kalyani Expressway, (including
approach roads and Kalyani Bridge to be financed by GOWB); Eastern Metropolitan
Bypass, including Park Circus and Rashbehari Avenue Connectors; and Kona
Expressway are 15%, 22% and 13% respectively, if value of time savings is
included, and 12%, 20% and 11% if no value is attached to time savings.
32.       Benefits of the B.K. Expressway are derived from savings in vehicu-
lar operating costs and time savings resulting from improved traffic flows of
traffic diverted from their present routes and local and transriver generated
traffic. Additional benefits will result from increased vehicle speeds on
the existing parallel road, which is presently characterized by extremely
heavy traffic with segments that narrow to four meters, mixed traffic and
"stop and go" conditions.  Widening of this existing road would involve
relocation of approximately 30,000 people; the two-lane expressway repre-
sents the least cost solution. Costs included in the analysis include
costs of the expressway, Kalyani Bridge and its approach roads, and main-
tenance costs as per GOI standards. The rate of return is estimated at 15%
if time savings to passengers are valued and 12% if no value is attached to
time savings.
33.       Benefits of the E.M. Bypass and the Kona Expressway are derived
from operating cost and travel time savings of the traffic generated by new
areas of development, traffic by-passing existing north-south corridors, and
the local traffic resulting from new sub-center and industrial development
along the corridors. These highways will stimulate additional development
of the surrounding areas and considerably increase land values along the
routes. Costs for Kona Expressway include an estimate for construction of
the Second Hooghly Bridge. These highways represent the least cost solution;
their respective rates of return are 22% and 13% if time savings are valued
and 20% and 11% if no value is attached to time savings.
Sealdah Hump Proposal
34.       The Sealdah Hump proposal will segregate pedestrians, slow-moving
and other traffic on the traffic corridor adjacent to Sealdah Station, which
accommodates about 750,000 passengers each day. Separation of motorized
traffic and pedestrians will improve pedestrian access to the station, speed
up traffic flows and result in fewer accidents. The total investment repre-
sents about 2% of the total cost of the roads component.



- 147 -
ANNEX 7
Howrah Station Terminal
35.       By eliminating the haphazard location and parking of buses, the
proposed terminal will result in a smoother and more uniform operation of
buses. Better traffic circulation will result without the use of the adjacent
arterials for turning and parking. The project represent 1% of the total
cost.
36.       The portions of the roads and traffic component for which it has
been possible to quantify the benefits account for about 66% of the total
cost of the component. The weighted average rate of return for these com-
ponents is estimated to be 18% if the time savings to individuals are
applied at 1/3 their average hourly wage rate, and 16% if such time sav-
ings are ignored.



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates of Roads and Traffic Sector
(Rs Lakhs)
Estimated Expenditures from November n 12977/
Goods and Equipment                                       Expenditures
Execution                 Civil -   Relocation   Traffic -               Taxes,                       prior to
Description                   Responsibility    Land    Works           Works       Signals       Other    etc.        TotalL4    November 1, 1977            Notes
I.  Traffic Operation and Management
Improvement. and Road Repair
Program                               See Table 2           -       214.45         -          54.00      253.25    69.90       591.60                           Detailed estimates
in Table 2
TOTAL I                                               -       214.45         -          54.00      253.25    69.90       591.60               -
II.  Road Improvement Projects
(a)  Foreshore Road (Howrah)          CMDA                 1.00      25.40                      -          2.46      0.94       29.80               -
(b)  Makardah Road (Howrah)           HIT                  4.50     36.70                       -          3.80      1.50       46.50               -
(c)  Manicktala Road Extension
(Calcutta)                      CMDA                 8.00      30.14        4.05          -           3.21     1.20       46.60               -
(d)  Sealdah Station (Calcutta)    CMDA                     -      118.00         5.00          -          7.30      4.80      135.10               -                                  X
TOTAL II                                            13.50    210.24         9.05           -         16.77      8.44      258.00
III.  Terminals
Howrah Station                        CMDA                  -        16.69         -            -          3.00      1.11       20.80
TOTAL III                                             -        16.69          -            -          3.00      1.11       20.80
IV. New Road Facilities
(a)  Eastern Metropolitan
Bypass                          CMDA/CIT           286.00    351.00        64.00           -         57.65    17.35       776.00L3         144.00
(b)  Kona Expressway                  CMDA               153.00    217.40          -                      30.00      8.60      409.00             57.00
(c)  Barrackpore Kalyani
Expressway                      CMDA               137.00    287.60           -            -         34.77    11.23       470.601-          285.00
TOTAL IV                                           576.00    856.00        64.00           -        122.42    37.18   1,655.60             486.00
V.  Design Consultancy                    CMDA                  -          -                         -         90.00       -         90.00           _
TOTAL                                              589.50  1.297.38         73.05        54.00      485.44   116.63   2 616.00              486.00
LI  Including cost of materials.
12  Cost of related works included under civil works.
/3  Including estimated value of current contracts on November 1, 1977:
(a) for Eastern Metropolitan Bypass - RS 71.00 Lakhs.
(b) for Barrackpore Kalyani Expressway - Rs 45.00 Lakhs.
/4  Net of contingencies.



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traffic Operation and Management Improvement,
Road Repair and Street Lighting Program
Detailed Cost Estimate
(Rs Lakhs)
Execution       Civil /1   Traffic-2             Taxes,
Description                Responsibility   Works       Signals       Other    etc.       Total             Notes
Traffic Engineering &
Management Improvement Schemes   CMDA/Police/CC
Lane Markings                                          1.40         -           -      0.15       1.55
Traffic Signals                                       13.50       54.00         -       6.80     74.30
Traffic Signs                                          1.60         -          3.25    0.50       5.35
Guard Rails                                           20.00         -         80.00   10.00    110.00
Intersection Improvements                             46.75         -           -      4.70      51.45
Realignment & Resurfacing
of Roads & Footpaths                                91.00         -           -      9.10    100.10
Road Widening                                         39.20         -           -       3.95     43.15
Bus Stop Lanes                                         1.00         -           -       0.10      1.10
Police Equipment                                        -           -         90.00   21.60    111.60   See details, Table 3.
Subtotal                                        214.45       54.00     173.25   56.90    498.60
Plant/Equipment for CC
Roads Wing                       CMDA/CC              -           -         80.00   13.00      93.00    See details, Table 4.
GRAND TOTAL                                     214.45       54.00      253.25   69.90    591.60
t,Bz
/1  Including cost of materials.
/2  Cost of related works included under civil works.



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traffic Operation Improvement - Police Equipment
(Rs lakhs)
Volume /1
Calcutta   State
Description                      Police      Police      Equipment    Taxes    Total
Heavy Trucks/Buses                   7:1        5:-        11.15        0.80    11.95
Light Trucks/Mini Buses             10:8        6:-        16.20        1.17    17.37
Light Cars                          27         10          16.40        1.19    17.59
Motorcycles                         42         10           5.60        0.40     6.00
Heavy Duty Wreckers                  8          1          14.00        8.12    22.12
Radio Communication Equipment       75%        25%          6.30        0.58     6.88
Radar Equipment                      -          -           2.70        1.16     3.86
Camera Equipment                    75%        25%          0.90        0.07     0.97
CCTV-System /2                       1          -          13.50        7.83    21.33
Miscellaneous /3                    75%        25%          3.25        0.28     3.53
GRAND TOTAL                     -           -          90.00      21.60   111.60
/1 Distribution between Calcutta and State Police as
indicated is indicative only.
/2 Closed circuit TV system, including camera, tower,
cables, airconditioning units, etc.
(a) Esplanade Crossing
(b)  Chowringhee Road - S.N. Banerjee Road (Dorina Crossing)         subject to review by
(c)  Government Place East - Waterloo Street                         Traffic Engineering Consultants
Government Place North
(d)  BBD Bag South - East Corner
(e)  Park Street - Chowring Kee Road                                                                  X
/3 Miscellaneous includes:  road marking  machines, road                                                   W <
measuring machine, Doppler speed trap, portable lights, etc.



- 151 -
ANNEX 7
Table 4
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plant and Equipment for Calcutta Corporation's Road Wing
(Rs Lakhs)
Description                   Equipment       Taxes       Total
Renovation of existing bitumen
batching plant, Palmer's Bazaar           10.00          2.34       12.34
Provision of two new plants, at
Tallah and Alipore                        20.00          4.81       24.81
Support equipment for above
plants /1                                  5.00          0.65        5.65
Equipment for 5 mobile units /2           40.00          2.60       42.60
Heating planning machine, one
unit                                       4.00          2.08        6.08
Testing laboratory with
equipment                                  1.00          0.52        1.52
TOTAL                               80.00          13.00      93.00
/1 Pavers, road rollers, loaders and trucks.
/2 Portable mixers, pavers, tar boilers and road rollers.



- 152 -
ANNEX 8
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consulting Services, Technical Assistance and Training
Introduction
1.        This annex deals with external technical assistance needed in
undertaking studies on valuation, employment, accounting and management,
solid wastes collection and disposal, traffic engineering and public trans-
port. External assistance needed for design and detailing of the project
is covered in the appropriate annex.
2.        Technical assistance totalling over 2,038 1/ man/months and cost-
ing about Rs 2.75 crores (US$3.2 million) 2/ will be required by the follow-
ing agencies:
(a) Government of West Bengal (GOWB) through its
Department of Municipal Services (DMS);
(b) Calcutta Corporation (CC);
(c)  Other local bodies in CMD; and
(d)  Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA).
3.        The attached Table sets out the forecast of local and foreign
inputs, including man/months of consulting services. The requirements for
local bodies in CMD, except CC, are included with the DMS. It is anticipated
that most of the funds will be channelled through CMDA for these activities in
order that this authority can maintain continuous monitoring and performance
review, but the costs and any debt service resulting would be borne by benefi-
ciary departments or authorities.
4.        The cost estimates (para 19) are based on April 1977 estimates of
the cost of consulting services. Local services are estimated at an average
inclusive rate of Rs 7,000 per man/month and foreign services os US$7,000 per
1/   Split into 1,965 man/months local and 73 man/months foreign assistance.
2/   Including Rs 75 lakhs for training.



- 153 
ANNEX 8
man/month. A foreign consultant would also require about Rs 7,000 per month
allowance for local accommodation and transport. This cost has also been
included, where appropriate. However, where it is possible that a lower
foreign rate may be possible, this has been included. No allowance has been
made for bilateral assistance for some of these services, although this may be
available, It is considered prudent to irnclude the full costs in the project
cost statement and obtain assurances that financial provisions will be made in
the CMDA investment program and the GOWB plan for the complete program.
5.        The estimated cost of training requirements is Rs 75 lakhs.  CMDA
will engage training advisers and coordinate the training programs to be
developed in CMD. The allocation of funds between the three principal
authorities should be regarded as provisional until the advisory reports
are available.
6,        Assurances were obtained at negotiations that terms of refer-
ence for these consulting services, assistance and training will be submitted
to IDA for review, and the engagement of consultants will be in accordance
with IDA guidelines.
Detailed Technical Assistance
7.        Central Valuation Board.  The requirements of the DMS are for
organization and operation of the proposed new Central Valuation Board and
for training of departmental and local authorities' staffs in local govern-
ment services operation, maintenance, administration and finance, including
staff of an experimental local government unit. The requirements are dis-
cussed in detail in Annex 9 and will involve 155 man/months (local) and 20
man/months (foreign) consulting services.
8.        Employment Program.  CMDA (assisted by the GOWB Department of Cottage
and Small-Scale Industries) will require 190 man/months (local) and three man/
months (foreign) consultancy assistance to undertake a demand analysis, sur-
veys, and studies of selected industrial activities, base line studies and
monitoring.
9.        Accounting and Management Study for Calcutta Corporation.  CC shall
commission a study to be undertaken by local consultants for design and in-
stallation of accounting, stores and financial management. A total of 300
man/months local consultancy assistance will be required. The study is to
be completed by March 31, 1979 with an interim report available by March 31,
1978.
10.       Solid Wlastes Management Program.  As stated in Annex 4, CMDA will
require the services of local and foreign consultants, both in undertaking
the design of the project component and in studies for the formulation of
future work programs. Studies for future work programs are estimated to
require 300 man/months (local) and 15 man/months (foreign) consulting ser-
vices.



- 154 -
ANNEX 8
11.       Traffic Engineering and Management.  In addition to the detailed
design of traffic engineering schemes (Annex 7) it will be necessary to
undertake traffic studies for establishing design parameters, formulation
of a basic circulation plan, and undertake monitoring and supervision.
150 man/months of local consulting services will be required, in addition
to foreign consulting services to be financed from bilateral sources.
12.       Public Transport Project.  A study to establish the feasibility
of improving public transport will be undertaken and will require the ser-
vices of 200 man/months (local) and 15 man/months (foreign) consulting ser-
vices.
13.       Evaluation of Strategic Plans and Area Development Planning.  During
the next two or three years CMDA will prepare the future urban development
program, with a ten-year time horizon. This will require the evaluation of
alternative development plans, and it will be necessary to establish priori-
ties for the development of activity centers and evolve plans of new areas
chosen for early development. CMDA will require 150 man/months (local) and
20 man/months (foreign) consultancy services.
14.       Sewerage and Drainage Planning.  A comprehensive sewerage and drain-
age program for CMD, consistent with funding capabilities, will be prepared
as an integral part of the total urban development program. CMDA shall re-
quire the assistance of 125 man/months of local consultancy services in under-
taking this work.
15.       Pollution Studies.  The air and water pollution studies that are
currently being conducted through the National Environmental Engineering
Research Institute (NEERI) (previously commissioned by CMDA), should be
continued and completed and the project makes provision for 10 man/months
of local consultancy services to do this.
16.       Tube Wells and Ground Water Studies.  The studies will assess ground
water availability in the municipalities of CMD in terms of quantity and qual-
ity; survey and list tube well extractions currently taking place; identify
areas where possible over exploitation is taking place; and make recommenda-
tions for remedial and other measures that should be taken. Approximately
230 man/ months of local consulting services will be required.
17.       Accounting and Management Studies for CMDA.  Under the first
Calcutta project and in agreement with IDA, C1DA sought proposals from five
firms for accounting and financial management systems (covering both design
and installation) for the Authority. The successful firm has been invited
to extend the contract to include a management information system with proj-
ect monitoring and control. These commissions are necessary to provide CMDA's
new management with: (i) a management information system (by April 1, 1979);
(ii) a project appraisal system (by July 1, 1978); (iii) a project budgeting
and accounting system (by April 1, 1979); and (iv) a project monitoring system
(by April 30, 1978). 155 man/months of local consultancy services will be re-
quired.



- 155 -
ANNEX 8
Training
18.               The training program will cover requirements of:  (a) local gov-
ernment staff under DMS; (b) Calcutta Corporation staff; and (c) CMIDA staff.
The estimated cost of Rs 75 lakhs is provisional, because no detail assess-
ment will be possible until an expert can make an exhaustive review. The
provisional figures include for consulting services, accommodation, equip-
ment and materials, and allowances for training of staff in national and
foreign centers. Assurances will be sought from GOWB at negotiations that
'i) GOWB will engage, or require the responsible authorities to engage, con-
sultants to prepare by September 30, 1978 five-year training programs for
staff of (a) Calcutta Corporation, (b) an experimental local government unit
in CMD, (c) other local bodies in CMD, and (d) CMDA, and (ii) will implement,
or require the responsible authorities to implement, agreed training programs
in (i) from January 1, 1979.
Cost Estimates
19.               The&following table shows the cost estimates for this component:
Consulting Servie... Technical Asei.tance and Tratin,
LOCAL                         FOREIGN                       TOTAL
Ohof    R   80500         Pan0/    Rs. L.khs               4n/      R
Organization    h(enthe  Lolhs E   ulvalent    Moeth_  jai "&IOU   IL500          7th   Leakhe  U551000
EClII OIAL ASSISTANCI
CO'iSCLT#LCY
Contral Valuation Bard            COWB            155   12.30       143.0        20        12.00     139.5        175   24.30     282.5
Smplay-ent Progren                GOWb            190   13.30       154.7         3         1.80      21.0        193   15.10    175.7
Ascont in& and HMnaae-t           CC              300   21.00       244.2                    .300 .I 00    244,2
Solid Wactee Program              CMDA/CC         300   21.00       244.2        15        10.50     122.1        315   31.50    366.3
Trefic E8in.eertng e Manage-
t-nt Inproven.,t PrOArm         0DI/Cv          150   13.85       161.0        1.1         -          .         150   13.85     161.0
Pu'blic Transport, Project
Proparation                    CMDA             200   14.00       162.8        15        10.50     122.1        215   24.50    284.9
Evaluation of D*ve.lopent
PIn 6 Ar.. DSvlop..nt
PC.nninj                        CMDA            150   12.25       142.4        20        12.00     139.5        170   24.25    201.9
Severoge e bnaineg. Planning      0n40            125    8.0        102.3        _-                     -         125    8.00    102.3
Pollution Studios                 0iDA             10    0.70         8.1                                          I D _  10    0.70  8.1
Ground Water Studie.              CHDA            230   25.00       290.7        .           .                    230   25.00     290.7
Acc-unting 4 Hen1es,.nt
Studies                         ChD             155   11.00       127.9        .          -           _         155   11.00     127.9
Subtotal               i,i96   153.20    1,781.4                          4       6      6            T6O    200.00  2,325.6
TRAINING
For local government staff        0O0Dd           -      20.90      243.0        -          4.10      47.7               25.00     290.7
for CC staff                      CC              -      15.00      174.4        -         10.00     116.3               25.00    290.7
For CKDA staff                    CHU             -      12.50 _    145S3                  12.50      45.4                 0      290.7
C00D TOTAL                             I'l965  201.60   234.1          73        9J"%        5.       Z2 q             L7100
LI Financed by bilateral sourse



- 156 -
ANNEX 9
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Administration and Finances in
the Calcutta Metropolitan District (CMD)
Introduction
1.        Local government in India is an extension of the State government
function. The GOWB is responsible for framing and enacting legislation
governing all local authority activities in West Bengal, and has a Department
of Municipal Services (DMS) which regulates and sanctions all those activi-
ties of local bodies which by law have to be reviewed by GOWB. A second
tier of authority is the District Administration, under Districts Magistrates,
which intervenes between DMS and local bodies, principally in the areas of
law and order, maintenance of water courses and district roads, community
development, poor relief, land taxation and review of municipal matters
referred by law to GOWB, e.g. budgets. CC, which provides local government
services in Calcutta City area, is the only exception in the State to the
District Administration system, which is replaced in Calcutta by a Muni-
cipal Commissioner appointed by GOWB and responsible to DMS.
2.        The CMD has been delineated as a planning region by the GOWB.  It
is not a single administrative unit but comprises parts of four District
Administrations, 35 municipal authorities of varying size and importance, 61
non-municipal urban areas and over 500 semi-rural units. In addition, a num-
ber of federal, state and local agencies are involved in financing development
activity and in operating utilities. The municipal authorities have responsi-
bilities for re-development, operation and maintenance of most basic urban in-
frastructure services but their organization, management and finances are in
serious disorder and their fiscal base has been eroded by adverse legisla-
tion, litigation and inefficiency to the extent that most authorities do not
have adequate means of financing basic urban services for the present popula-
tion at even minimal standards. Failure by local authorities to perform their
functions was one of the principal causes of the virtual breakdown of public
services in the CMD by 1970. In addition, local abuses in hiring and payments
to employees caused excessive and unwarranted establishment costs in munici-
palities. The first urban project included steps to initiate municipal re-
forms in the CND.
Reform as Part of the First Project
3.        The West Bengal Agreement of the first project (Credit 427-IN) con-
tained institutional covenants relating to assignment of responsibilities for
operation and maintenance of facilities constructed by CMDA; preparation of a
financial and institutional plan to improve the performance of local bodies;



- 157 -
A1iEX 9
preparation of forecasts of costs of operations and maintenance of municipal
facilities in CND; and an undertaking for GOWB to meet any fiscal deficits in
municipal operations to ensure adequate standards of operation and main-
tenance.
4.        The financial and institutional plan (para 3) was prepared in
September 1975 and has formed the basis for schemes by GOWB since that date,
and for several of the agreements obtained as part of this second project.
The major proposals of the plan were to:
(a) delink the charges for water supply and sewerage services
from general property taxation and provide for their
separate accounting;
'b) reform the existing system for assessment and levy of
property taxes through the establishment of a central
valuation organization and through modifications to the
graduated slab system for levy rates;
(c) augment the yield from existing taxes through extension
of levies, surcharges and other arrangements;
(d) improve the performance of the municipal units through ad-
ministrative changes and more purposeful control by the
state government; and
(e) enlarge the tax base in the metropolitan district by bring-
ing the existing non-municipal urban areas under adjoining
municipal jurisdiction in a phased manner.
5.        This plan was not fully responsive to the initial objectives which
may not have been achievable in the time allowed. The plan contained no
specified fiscal strategy for urban public investment and servicing in the
CMD, nor any identified specific relationship between resources and needs
based on ascribed functional responsibilities. The sources of funds to
achieve and maintain this relationship were not identified nor the criteria
defined for the devolution of funds from higher levels of government. The
impact of the numerous fiscal, administrative and institutional reforms
recommended was not adequately assessed and the plan was therefore viewed as
a first step toward developing an effective institutional structure and
viable fiscal systems for the CMD. Some proposals have been implemented while
others are being reconsidered. Overall service and fiscal strategies remain
to be defined because the long-term shape of local administration has yet to
be resolved.
Reforms Implemented by GOWB
6.        Arising from the plan proposals (para 4) a 50% surcharge on prop-
erty taxes has been imposed on non-residential and commercial premises;



- 158 -
ANNEX 9
municipal tax on professions, trades and salaried persons has been extended;
vehicle tax is increased by 30%; minor property tax relief have been removed
and to improve collections occupiers have been made liable to property tax
as an alternative to owners. In addition, powers of creating posts in local
bodies is now to vest in GOWB, which now exercises a strict control over sal-
aries, emoluments, establishment expenses, retirements and re-employments
after retirement, and is proposing to establish work-norms for the local
government service in CMD.
Reforms in Course of Implementation by GOWB
7.        Following adoption by GOWB of the Financial and Institutional Plan,
(para 4) certain measures proposed required further examination, but most are
now in the process of finalization including preparation of legislation, where
necessary. CC estimates that revenues notionally allocated to water supply
and sewerage services presently finance about 30% of service costs. The pro-
posal to delink water and sewerage changes from property taxes follows the
GOWB decision to reform the arrangements for financing water and sanitation
services, and provides for functional accounting for these major heads of
expenditure. The CC municipal fund currently receives all receipts of the
Corporation including consolidated rate (property tax); taxes on vehicles,
businesses and professions; allocations from GOWB, and subventions from GOWBo
There are no separate service taxes, but limited user charges are levied, in-
cluding metered water consumption. To achieve long-term financial viability
of water supply and sewerage services, assurances were obtained that CC will
(i) establish from April 1, 1978 a separate water supply and sewerage fund
controlled by suitable financial regulations; (ii) from April 1, 1978 meet all
deficits of the fund from revenues of the municipal fund; and (iii) from
April 1, 1981 delink water supply and sewerage taxes from the consolidated
tax and meet not less than 84% of the expenditure of the fund from such taxes
and water supply and sewerage charges for fiscal year 1981/82 and thereafter.
8.        As part of the first project, CMDA has commissioned studies for com-
pletion at end-1977 to determine in CC and other local bodies in the CMD the
standards and costs of satisfactory operation and maintenance of water supply
and sewerage services and the necessary tariffs and related accounting systems
to support these services.  In the meantime, GOWB has removed concessional
arrangements whereby ratepayers with metered water supplies were entitled to
quantities of "free water", and those with their own supplies received a re-
mission of 6.25% of the consolidated rate. The provision of privately owned
tubewells is to be discouraged and consumers will be encouraged to take
supplies from the municipal services, where available. Metering of water sup-
plies will be expanded but technical problems have to be overcome. Assurances
have been received that GOWB will:
(a) commission studies to be completed by March 31, 1979 to
advise on regulation, and licensing if necessary, of
tubewells and use of groundwater in the CMD;



- 159 -
ANNEX 9
(b) by September 1, 1978 draw up a program for metering of
water connections to be implemented from April 1, 1979
through March 31, 1982; and
(c) develop proposals for institutional responsibilities
for water and sewerage revenue collection in the CMD
by December 31, 1978, and implement such proposals by
April 1, 1980.
Property Valuation for Local Taxation Purposes
9.        Properties in the CMD are presently revalued in six-year cycles.
Increased revenues in the meantime, therefore, result from amendments to the
valuation register and/or improved collections. Property valuation through-
out India is presently based on the market rental value, which have long
been depressed by rent controls imposed in 1949. A further property valua-
tion problem lies in existing legislation which authorizes each municipal
authority to assess the holdings in its area. Local pressures on assessors,
and inability to retain or train adequate staff, together with adverse
effects of litigation, have resulted in current valuation lists containing
values which bear little resemblance to current market values. The result
have been to progressively worsen the taxation base for local bodies.
10.       The present system for assessment and levy of property taxes is
therefore to be reformed. In 1975 a consultant reviewed GOWB proposals for
reform of the existing property tax system under technical assistance pro-
vided in the first project, and following his findings GOWB proposed con-
siderable reform of the property tax system. GOWB has decided to take over
responsibilities for property assessment and a Central Valuation Board (CVB)
will be established for the whole state with probably an identifiable divi-
sion for the CMD. The second project contains provisions for up to 175
man/months of consulting services and training (foreign and local) to assist
GOWB to establish and operate the CVB and to commence revaluation of prop-
erties in the CND, Assurances have been received that GOWB will:
(a) establish by December 31, 1978 a CVB with an operational
area including the CIMD;
(b) engage consultants by not later than March 31, 1978 to
prepare a report on the organization, management and
timing of establishment of the CVB;
(c) take necessary steps to implement the consultants' recommen-
dations; and
(d) use its best endeavors to complete a revaluation of lands
and buildings in the CMD to provide new assessment books
for use in the responsible authorities by not later than
April 1, 1982.



- 160 -
ANNEX 9
Reforms Proposed as Part of Second Project
11.       GOWB Department of Municipal Services,  GOWB proposes to reorganize
the DMS to cope with the proper development and organization of local govern-
ment services in West Bengal, and in particular in CMD. GOWB will commission
a report to reorganize the DMS, and establish directorates to administer plan-
ning, engineering and fiscal operations. The report should be finalized by
December 1977. Assurances were given that GOWB will complete an appropriate
reorganization for DMS to enable this department to respond to the needs of
the local bodies in CMD by March 31, 1979.
12.       Calcutta Corporation.  Comprehensive reforms to the management,
accounting, stores and financial control systems are necessary. GOWB have
given assurances that consultants will be engaged to design and install by
April 1, 1979 the suitable accounting, stores and financial management sys-
tems, and to have an interim report available by April 1978. In addition,
GOWB have assured IDA that improvements in the Corporation's management will
be effective before April 1, 1979, and that independent auditors acceptable
to IDA will be appointed to provide audits for each fiscal year from April 1,
1977, not later than nine months after the close of each year.
13.       During the project period, the effect of fiscal changes now made,
or in course of implementation in CC will become known. With a revaluation
effective from 1982 and the ongoing reforms, this authority should be finan-
cially viable in the mid-1980's. However, three key actions will be necessary
during the project period to ensure that this target can be achieved and that
service standards will be consistently improved. These are: (i) the revenue
collection performance is substantially improved; (ii) water supply and sew-
erage services become financially viable as early as possible through full
cost beneficiary charges; and (iii) other services have sufficient resources
(Table 1). Assurances have been given by GOWB to the effect that:
(a) CC will provide satisfactory standards of operation
and maintenance for services and public facilities
for which it is responsible, and in order to finance
not less than 84% of expenditures from revenues in
1981/82 will not finance not less than the following
proportions of expenditures on such services and
facilities in the fiscal years indicated by actual
receipts from statutory revenues including octroi
allocations, but excluding grants-in-aid from the
GOWB:
1978/79     1976/77 proportion plus  4% thereof
1979/80                  ""   8%    "
1980/81         "        "         "  12%
1981/82                  ""  15%



- 161 -
ANNEX 9
and thereafter; and
(b) require CC in respect of: (i) collections due on
each year's property tax and water and sewerage
taxes, plus (ii) amounts due and not collected on
the first day of each year, but excluding receiv-
ables outstanding for more than five years, to col-
lect not less than 70% in 1978/79, 80% in 1979/80
and 90% in 1980/81 and thereafter.
With respect to (b) above, IDA had initially urged that debts over five years
old as at March 31, 1977 shall be written off, but GOWB requested that further
attempts should be made to collect these, particularly as many are due from
affluent tuxpayers. Such amounts due currently total about Rs 2.0 crores
and because~ the likelihood of their collection within the project period is
uncertain, it was agreed to exclude such amounts from the collection perfor-
mance undeztaking in (b) above.
Other Local Authorities in CMD
14.       The financial position of other local bodies in CMD appeared lil"ely
to worsen during the project period (Table 2). The resource base is poor and
not adequately exploited and revenue collection performances are poor.  The
GOWB proposed to review the present system of financial aid to local bodies
as a means of developing economic efficiency in municipal finance. However,
improved local performance is essential and the following assurances have
been received:
(a) provide local bodies in CND, including CC, with
sufficient funds to provide satisfactory standards
of operation and maintenance of (i) existing local
government services and (ii) assets and systems pro-
vided by CMDA and transferred to these local bodies
during the project period;
(b) ensure that municipalities in the CMD excluding CC
provide satisfactory standards of operation and
maintenance of services and public facilities for
which they are responsible and to finance not less
than the following proportion of expenditures in
the fiscal years indicated by actual receipts from
statutory revenues and octroi allocations, but ex-
cluding grants-in-aid from the GOWB:
1978/79     1976/77 proportion plus 10% thereof, subject
to a maximum of 68%
1979/80     1976/77 proportion plus 15% thereof, subject
to a maximum of 70%
1980/81     1976/77 proportion plus 20% thereof, subject
to a maximum of 73%
1981/82     1976/77 proportion plus 25% thereof, subject
to a maximum of 75%



- 162 -
ANNEX 9
Provided that where the 1976/77 proportion of revenues
to expenditures exceeded 65%, the percentages indicated
would be reduced to 4%, 8%, 12% and 15%, respectively,
and that all authorities by 1981/82 would achieve not
less than 50% coverage of expenditures from such reve-
nues;
(c) prepare, by March 31, 1979, a revised grant structure
for local bodies in CMD which would be designed to
promote local efficiency and improved fiscal partici-
pation; and
(d) enact necessary legislation to implement the grants
system in (c) from April 1, 1980.
With respect of (b) above, because of the difficulty of providing suitable
standards for 34 authorities with wide variances in performance, the fixing
of maxima was requested by GOWB to avoid imposing too heavy a burden on any
local body which may be currently in the 60%-65% range and who would have
been required to achieve 1981/82 targets substantially higher than authori-
ties in the 66%-70% range. The objective of this undertaking is to ensure
that no authority has a below 50% performance by 1981/72 and that all author-
ities should have made significant improvements in these four years compared
to their declining performances in recent years.
15.       Institutional and boundaries reform for these 34 municipalities
presents many problems, among the most significant are fiscal and personnel.
Fiscal problems are being addressed in para 14, and GOWB also intends to con-
duct major experiments to try to resolve the personnel problems. The GOWB
departments and the district administrations are staffed by State government
staffs, who also have access to federal posts through the municipal cadres
of the Indian Public Service including the Administrative Service (IAS) and
the engineering cadres. Their status, career possibilities, salaries and
conditions of service are superior to local government staffs, who have had
no effective cadre system (although GOWB is now making a start with engi-
neers, education officers and health inspectors), and little chance of pro-
motion or of transfer to better posts either in local authorities, or in
the state government. Diminishing financial resources have further worsened
prospects for any municipality to employ a qualified officer in any sector.
16.       GOWB is proposing to investigate the possibility of using the or-
ganizations and staffs of the entire three-tier system in the area of four
or five adjoining local authorities to operate local services. This would
automatically involve the higher-quality staffs of government/districts,
and would probably necessitate a review of the local authorities' func-
tions, finances and staffs. Assurances were obtained that:
(a) by April 1, 1978, nominate such areas and such local
bodies within CGID as shall have the benefits of state
level public service employees;



- 163 -
ANN4EX 9
(b) by December 31, 1978, prepare a feasibility report
on the organization, structure and financing of the
appropriate arrangements; and
(c) establish and implement the proposals in (b) by
April 1, 1979.
Training
17.       Extensive training of staff at all levels and in all sectors of
local bodies in the CMD, and in DMS following its reorganization, will be
required during the project period. Funds have been provided in the project
for technical assistance and training (Annex 8) and assurances were obtained
from GOWB at negotiations that (i) GOWB will engage, or require the respon-
sible authorities to engage, consultants to prepare by June 30, 1978 five-
year training programs for staff of (a) Calcutta Corporation, (b) an experi-
mental local government unit in CMD, (c) other local bodies in CID, and
(d) CMDA, and (ii) will implement, or require the responsible authorities
to implement, agreed programs in (i) from January 1, 1979.



- 164 -
ANNEX 9
INDIA                                                             Table I
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN PROJECT
Calcutta Corporation - Forecast of Revenues and Expenditures
1977/78 Through 1981/82 (Rs Crores)
1977/78      1978/79       1979/80       1980/81       1981/82
REVENUES (Note I)
Sources Pre-1976/77 Reforms                                                            12.4          13.0          13.7          14.4          15.1
Sources From 1976/77 Reforms
-Surcharge on Conwnercial Properties                                                  1.2           2.3           2.5           2.6           2.8
-Surcharge on Vehicles                                                                1.4           1.5           1.6           1.7           1.8
-Increased Fees on Taxes and Professions                                              0.6           0.6           0.6           0.6           0.7
Octrol Receipts                                                                         4.1           4.3           4.8           5.2           5.5
Total Revenues                                                               19.7          21.7         23.2          24.5          25.9
EXPENDITURES (Note 2)
Recurrent Expenditures (Note 3)                                                        22.8          24.4          26.1          27.9          29.9
Debt Service as at 1976/77 (Note 4)                                                     3.0           3.0           3.0           3.0           3.0
Operation and Maintenance of New Projects                                               2.2           3.5           4.7           5.2           5.6
Total Expenditures                                                           28.0          30.9          33.8          36.1         38.5
REVENUE DEFICIT                                                                             8.3          9.2          1o.6          11.6          12.6
Deduct GOWB Grants (Note 5)                                                             3.4           3.6           3.9           4.2           4.5
ADDITIONAL GOWB SUBVENTION REQUIRED                                                         4.9          5.6           6.7           7.4           8.1
REVENUES AS PERCENTAGE OF EXPENDITURES                                                    70%           70%           69%           68%           67t
EFFECT OF INCREASING REVENUE PROPORTION OF EXPENDITURES
ASSUMING 1976/77 Revenues as a percentage of expenditures    734
the percentage increases on this datum figure for each year
as set out opposite - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                    4t           84           12t           15I
would provide these revenue yields  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                  23.5           26.6         29.5          32.3
(Percentage of Expenditures)                                                              (764)         (79%)         (824)         (844)
REVISED DEFICIT                                                                            8.3           7.4           7.2           6.6           6.2
Deduct GOWB Grants                                                                       3.4           3.6           3.9           4.2           4.5
AODITIONAL GOWB SUBVENTION REQUIRED                                                         4.9          3.8            3.3          2.4           1.7
EFFECT OF IMPROVING PROPERTY TAX COLLECTIONS (Note 6)
AMOUNT OF PROPERTY TAX included in revenue sources (Pre-1976/77 Reforms)
above i.e. actual recoveries in cash based on current collection
of 66%                                                                               9.0           9.5           9.9          10.4          10.9
A.    INCREASE BASED ON GOWB ASSESSMENTS                                                    -           70%           80t           90%           90t
YIELD OF INCREASED PROPERTY TAX COLLECTIONS ON BASIS OF
AGREED RECOMMENDATIONS                                                               -             0.5           2.1           3.8          4.0
ADDITIONAL REVENUES REQUIRED TO ACHIEVE TARGETS                                        -             L3            1.3           1.2           2.4
B.  EFFECT OF ACCELERATING  IMPROVED COLLECTION PERFORMANCE (Say)                           -           77.5t         85%           90%           904
REVISED YIELD                                                                          -             1.7           2.8           3.8           3.8
ADDITIONAL REVENUES REQUIRED TO ACHIEVE AGREED PERFORMANCE TARGETS                     -             0.1           o.6           1.2           2.6
Source: C.M.P.O. and Mission Estimates
NOTES:
1.  Revenues representing cash receipts escalated at 5  per annum.
2.  Expenditures representing cash payments escalated at 7t per annum.
3.  The expenditures and grants do not reflect special expenditures by Calcutta Corporation on roads maintenance in 1977/78 and
associated grants from GOWB, as these were a one-time exercise.
4.  Debt service transfers to Calcutta Corporation from CMDA will commence 1982/83.
5.  Government grants consist mostly of dearness allowance award repayments and have been escalated at 7t per annum.
6.  The increases in property tax collections take no account of possible recoverie  of arrears pre 1974/75.  The 1977/78
collections of 9.0 crores inclu,des normal ~arrears c-ollections of the years 1975/76 and 1976/77.Tharesatndo
1975/76 were about Rn 12 crores (US$ 13 million).7Tharesatndo



- 165 -                                                      ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN PROJECT
CMD Municipalities - Forecast of Revenues and Expenditures
1977/78 Through 1981/82 (Rs Crores)
1977/78      1978/79       1979/80      1980/81       1981/82
REVENUES  (Note I)
Sources Pre-1976/77 Reforms                                                            5.7           6.o          6.3           6.6          6.9
New Sources from  1976/77 Reforms                                                      1.5           2.0          2.2           2.3          2.4
Octroi Receipts                                                                        2.8           2.8          2.9           2.9          3.0
Total Revenues                                                             10.0          10.8         H1.4          11.8         12.3
EXPENDITURES (Note 2)
Recurrent Expenditures                                                                11.2          12.0         12.8          13.7         14.6
Operation and Maintenance of new assets commissioned by CMDA                           1.5           1.9          2.7           2.9           3.3
Debt Service                                                                           2.2           2.2          2.2           2.2          2.2
Total Expenditures                                                         14.9          16.i         17.7          18.8         20.1
REVENUE DEFICIT                                                                         (4.9)         (5.3)         (6.3)        (7.0)         (7.8)
Deduct GOWB Grants (Note 3)                                                            3.3           3.6          3.8           4.1          4.4
ADDITIONAL GOWB SUBVENTION REQUIRED                                                       1.6          0.7           2.5          2.9           3.4
REVENUES AS PERCENTAGE OF EXPENDITURES  (Note 4)                                        67%           67%          64%           63%           61%
EFFECT OF INCREASING REVENUE PROPORTION OF EXPENDITURES (Note 5)
ASSUMING 1976/77 Revenues as a percentage of expenditures = 67%,
the percentage increases on this datum figure for each year
as set out opposite - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                 4%            8%           12%          15%
would provide these revenue yields  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    11.2                    12.8          14.1         15.5
(Percentage of Expenditures)                                                            (70%)         (72%)         (75%)        (77%)
REVISED DEFICIT                                                                          (4.9)       (4.9)         (4.9)        (4-7)         (4.6)
Deduct GOWB Grants                                                                     3.3          3.6          3.8           4.1          4.4
ADDITIONAL GOWB SUBVENTION REQUIRED                                                       1.6         1.3           1.1          0.6           0.2
EFFECT OF IMPROVING HOLDING (PROPERTY) AND RELATED TAXES COLLECTIONS
AMOUNT OF HOLDING AND RELATED TAXES Included in revenue sources (Pre-1976/77 Reforms)
above,i.e. actual recoveries in cash based on average current performance
of about 55%                                                                       5.1          5.4           5.7           5.9          6.2
EFFECT OF IMPa0VING COLLECTION PERFORMANCE
by (say) 15% per annum
- Revised Collection Percentage                                                    55%          63%           73%           83%          96%
Yield of Increased Collections                                                     -            0.8           1.9           3.0          4.6
Source: C.M.P-O. and Mission Estimates
NOTES:
I.  Revenues representing cash collections are escalated at 5% per annum.
2.  Expenditures representing cash payments are escalated at 7% per annum.  However, the expenditures shown are based on past
performance and, in many cases, do not represent adequate standards of maintenance.
3. GOWB Grants consist mostly (about 90%) of dearness allowance awards refunded to GOWB to municipalities, escalated at 7% per
annum.
4. Revenues as a percentage of expenditures represent the average of 35 municipalities. About 12 municipalities have very
good performances, but about an equal number, including the largest, Howrah Municipality, have revenue yields under 50%
of expenditures.
5. The demonstrated yields of Improved cash collections are not specifically called for in assurances, but are shown as an
example of a means of achieving the IDA required targets.



- 166 -
ANNEX 10
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) - The
Institution, Management and Finances, and its Role in Project
Implementation and Future Calcutta Metropolitan Development
Introduction
1.        CNDA is a GOWB statutory authority charged primarily with plan-
ning, design and construction of public works in the ClD. The appraisal
report of the first project 1/ detailed events in Calcutta leading to the
establishment of CMDA in 1971. 2/ It has authority to carry out operations
and maintenance in default of responsible authorities, but has not used this
facility, except for water supplies in outlying areas (para. 28). As the
principal agency rehabilitating and developing urban infrastructure schemes
normally executed by local authorities, CMDA initially engaged a number of
existing ad hoc authorities e.g. CIT, to design and supervise construction
of large-scale works. Recently, diminishing use has been made of these
agencies and CMDA has expanded its activities and its staff in an endeavor
to respond to pressures to accelerate metropolitan improvements. However,
CMDA's response has not been timely or cost-effective.
2.        The following table demonstrates the declining output of CMDA in
the six fiscal years 1971-72 through 1976-77, 31 valued in 1977 prices,
and the staff employed. The figures should be regarded as indicative only
because they do not reflect four important factors: (i) the employment
of consulting engineers and architects; (ii) use of executing agencies;
(iii) a major attempt by CMDA in the last two years to concentrate on im-
portant, productive investment and eliminate wasteful expenditures; and
(iv) the staff build-up necessary to support the proposed second project.
Nevertheless, future supervision missions should review this very large
staff establishment.
1/   IDA Credit No. 417-IN - Report No. 159a-IN.
2/   Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority Act, 1972.
3/   The Indian fiscal year runs from April 1 to March 31.



- 167 -
ANNEX 10
Table of CMDA Investments at 1977 Price 1
and Staffing 1971-72 through 1976-77 -
1971-72  1972-73  1973-74  1974-75  1975-76  1976-77
Investments (Rs crores)    51.0       55.9      41.1      28.7      34.4     36.6
Staff employed               772       905      2136      2730      3184     3408
/1   Inflator based on percentage change in Index of Manufactures Wholesale
Prices - Table 6.10 of Bank's Economic Report for India 1977.
3.        This decline in output post-1972-73 immediately affected the first
credit disbursements performance and has been of continuing concern to GOWB
and IDA. The following table demonstrates the forecast and actual annual
disbursements to end FY 77.
Credit 417-IN - Annual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY 74       FY 75        FY 76        FY 77        FY 78
Forecast at                 9.5         16.0          8.5          1.0          -
appraisal
Actual                      0.6          4.4          9.0          5.9         0.9
(as at August 5, 1977)
4.        Disbursements were scheduled 1/ to have been completed end FY 77,
but US$15.1 million (43%) remained to be disbursed as at that date. Planning
failures have resulted in completion of investments without supporting systems
e.g. bridges without approach roads; sewage treatment plants without sewerage
systems. Failure to acquire land in good time resulted in late starts, or in
some cases, no start at all.
5.        The first IDA project formed only 34% of CMDA's original program
from 1973 through 1976, and CMDA's budgetary pattern developed into two
categories of works - IDA works and non-IDA works. CMDA, as a body which
grew out of the State's public works department (PWD) retained out-dated
practices, and persisted in an annual planning and capital budgeting systems
without long-term planning and forecasting. These systems gave the oppor-
tunity at the annual review to reconsider each scheme, and reallocate prior-
ities each year, to match the annual allocation of funds by GOI and GOWB.
The planning policy appears to have been to try to start or continue as
many schemes as possible each year to give the appearance of working on a
widespread and intensive scale. The result was inadequate funds allocation
1/   At appraisal in 1973.



- 168 -
ANNEX 10
to ongoing schemes and a mounting number of incomplete project components.
With CMDA's failure to achieve output targets, a large number of incomplete
schemes remain, with IDA schemes forming consistently about 50% of output,
as the following demonstrates.
1973-74  1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  Total to-date
(…                --Rs crores           --)
Total output /1             32.37    28.00    33.20    34.80         128.37
IDA financed schemes         4.00    14.56    16.68    18.08          53.32
IDA project as
percentage of
total output              12%       52%       50%      52%          42%
/1   Commissioned schemes and work-in-progress.
Improvements to CMDA Management
6.        In November 1975, IDA mounted a large supervision and pre-appraisal
mission, with terms of reference to identify problems preventing adequate
CiDA performance and to recommend improvements which would be necessary to
(i) ensure early completion of the first project; and (ii) execute a possible
second and larger project. The principal recommendations of this mission as
defined during subsequent discussions with GOWB and CIDA during 1976 were:
(i) appointment of a full-time Chief Executive;
(ii) establishment of a management team consisting of
Directors of Planning, Operations, Finance and
Administration and led by the Chief Executive;
(iii) introduction of modern methods of accounting
and financial management by consulting accoun-
tants;
(iv) introduction of management information systems
and project monitoring and control systems;
(v) use of a "rolling-program" system of budgeting
for the second project in the period 1977/78-
1981/82;
(vi) development and use of modern project appraisal
techniques, and systematic planning of investment
strategy;



- 169 -
ANNEX 10
(vii)  establishment of specialized divisions or units
to plan, design, evaluate and implement traffic
schemes, sewerage and drainage. area development,
social welfare and community develspment schemes
(as compared with CMDA's traditional basic infra-
structure development approach by providing roads,
water supply, sewerage, etc.); and
(viii)  introduction of auditing by coinercial auditors.
7.        A continuous dialogue with GOWB and CMDA has now resulted in agree-
ment on the implementation of all the proposals KiL para 6 except the use of
commercial auditors in (viii) because this is the prerogative of the Comptrol-
ler and Auditor General of India.  Some have been introduced, others are yet
to be implemented. The effective and early implementation of all proposals
are a principal justification of the second project, which without their
introduction has no chance of completion in a reasonable period of time.
8.        The Chief Executive, the Director General of Operations and tLce
Directors of Planning, Finance and Administration have been appointed. Con-
sultants are currently employed to design and install accounting and manaGe-
ment information systems (para 6(iii), (iv) and (viii)). The necessary divi-
sions and units have been established to design and implement specialized
development schemes (para 6(vii)), together with effective means of linking
with GOWB departments responsible for employment generation and small-scale
enterprises. Improved appraisal and monitoring techniques (para 6(vi)) are
to be introduced in 1978 to assist the management team in the review and
decision-making process. Assurances have been given that CMDA will intro-
duce a project appraisal system with suitably experienced and skilled staff
by not later than June 30, 1978.
9.        GOI and GOWB have authorized CMDA to adopt (i) a capital budgeting
and expenditure program system from fiscal year 1977-78 throughn at least fis-
cal year 1981-82, which will form the start of a five-year investment program
budgeting system to permit schemes or projects' components to be consistently
provided with the necessary capital finance over the designed construction
period. The amount of the 1977-82 CMDA investment program has been agreed
at Rs 248 crores (US$288 million). Contracting procedures which will permit
the prompt completion of works or services, by the letting of all or any
part of the works or services as single contracts without regard to time and
annual budget constraints previously practlsed or imposed by CMDA's annual
fiscal planning and budgeting system prior to 1977-78.
10.       The implementation of the "investment program system" and full-
term contracting in para 9 will permit C1NDA to let a contract for a period
of (say) three years for completion of a road by one contractor, by commit-
ting resources in the 4-5 year rolling capital program to meet the forecast
expenditures. The practice of small annual contracts, with no guarantee to
a contractor of continuation of contract in the following year should now



- 170 -
ANNEX 10
cease. However, IDA will need to closely supervise budgets and the letting
of contracts to ensure compliance with this agreement. Assurances have been
received that CMDA will consult with IDA on any changes to its investment
program budget for the next succeeding four years and the annual budget for
each forthcoming financial year.
CMDA Organization
11.       Chart 17580 sets out the proposed organization of CMDA which should
be established and in full operation by end 1978. The Chief Executive and
the four Directors (para 6(ii)) will form the management team to make all
decisions relating to policy implementation, and the Chief Executive will be
the link with the Chairman and the Authority. The project appraisal unit
(para 8) will be directly attached to the Chief Executive, as will the Man-
agement Information and Project Monitoring unit. However, each operational
division (water supply, roads, etc.) in the Directorates will have its own
monitoring system linked to the Chief Executive's unit, and to the Finance
Director.
12.       The Planning Director will have two principal fields of activity:
(i) long-range development and area planning, with development control in
CND; and (ii) project planning, design of area development schemes, and
design review of schemes to be implemented by CMDA or other agencies. The
Operations Directorate has adequate staff to design and supervise construc-
tion of the basic infrastructure works (roads, drainage, water supply) but
may need to hire short-term consultants to meet peak loads relating to new
types of projects, e.g. traffic engineering.
13.       The Administration Directorate will be substantially affected by
the proposed changes and will actively participate in the management infor-
mation system. There is now an increasing need for active and prompt liaison
with the key GOWB departments and agencies involved in project implementation.
A separate legal unit is now necessary to enable contracting and claims pro-
cedures to be expedited. The Finance Directorate will be the subject of
major changes as a result of: (i) the accounting and financial management
consultants' design and installation of new systems (para 8); and (ii) the
introduction of a Director having the rank of Accountant-General. It is
probable that adequate staff are available, but considerable retraining and
reallocation of functions will be necessary. The completed new systems of
accounting will not be fully operational until 1979/80, but in the meantime
the consultants are required to assist in ensuring continuity and quality of
accounting. The same firm (Messrs. Price, Waterhouse and Co. of Calcutta) will
also install the management information and project monitoring system which
will also not be fully operational until 1979-80, but interim reporting data
will be available to enable management and IDA to review the early progress
of the project. Provision has been made in the project costs for training
expenditures for CMDA staff totalling Rs 25 lakhs (US$0.27 million) (Annex 6).



- 171 -
ANNEX 10
Finances of CMDA
14.       CMDA derives its financial resources from:
(i) market borrowings;
(ii) GOI loans and grants;
(iii) GOWB loans and grants;
(iv) capital recoveries for services assets transferred to
other entities;
(v) share of octroi receipts collected in CHD by GOWB;
(vi) charges for services; and
(vii) short-term 'bridging' loans.
15.       Market borrowings.  CMDA is allowed to issue bonds limited to
Rs 11.0 crores (US$12.2 million) bearing interest at about 6.5% once each
year on the money market, for subscription by the nationalized banks. Up
to and including borrowings for the fiscal year 1974-75, CMDA is required
to make annual interest payments over ten years and repay the principal by
means of annual sinking fund contributions. From 1975-76 onwards, annual
interest will be payable, but no sinking fund contribution will be payable,
and, on the repayment date of each borrowing, CMDA will be authorized to
reborrow the amount due to be repaid (i.e. a "roll-over" operation), plus
the new annual borrowing requirement.
16.       All GOI and GOWB loans up to the end of 1975-76 have been con-
verted to grants, and from 1976-77 all GOI and GOWB assistance is likely
to be in the form of grants, except in respect of finance for revenue-earn-
ing schemes (water supply, area development). In the event that a revenue-
earning component e.g., a sites and services scheme9 is transferred to an-
other agency to operate e.g. WBHB, that agency will take over responsibilic-
for debt service when assets are handed over. Interest during construction
of revenue-producing assets will not be charged to CMDA. On transfer of
any asset and associated loan amount to an operating agency, GOWB will in-
crease the normal interest rate (6%) by a surcharge interest rate (up to 2%)
to recover the equivalent sum of interest during constructiorn over the loan
repayment period. CMDA will not transfer debt service in respect of com-
pleted non-revenue earning schemes to any local body or agency, nor will
it transfer any debt service liabilities for schemes financed by market
borrowings. Financial resource allocations will be so arranged within CMDA
to ensure that GOI/GOWB loans are 'earmarked' to finance revenue-earning
schemes.



- 172 -
ANNEX 10
17.       The justification for these fiscal changes recently imposed by
GOWB on CLfMDA are primarily because, although CMDA can pass on debt service
to local bodies in CMD for which it constructs assets or provides services,
these local authorities, including CC, are unlikely to be capable of ser-
vicing substantial amounts of non-revenue earning debt in the foreseeable
future. Revenue producing assets in all CMD local authorities and CMDA
will still attract debt service liabilities, and it will thus still be pos-
sible to determine the full costs of such services for recovery and repli-
cability.
18.       Expenditures of CMDA are of three principal categories:  (i) capi-
tal or project expenditures; (ii) debt service; and (iii) administration
costs. CMDA has required each sector in each year to operate to a balanced
budget i.e. expenditures cannot exceed resources, but, from 1977-78, a fis-
cal operation will be in force (para 9). This will mean that, although
every effort will be made to operate to an annual budget or program, CMDA
will be authorized to allow any scheme which can make rapid progress to
proceed without being stopped for lack of funds as in the past. This can
be achieved by allowing underspendings in a year to be carried forward in
all sectors, or inter-sectoral transfer of underspendings during a fiscal
year.
19.       The IDA I components will total about Rs 36 crores when completed in
1980-81.  This project was redefined in FY76 following a period of high
inflation and extended construction periods, caused by delays in implementa-
tion. The CMDA element of the proposed second project will total about Rs 155
crores (US$180 million). The full details of the proposed second project cost
estimates are set out in Annex 11. Non-IDA financed expenditures contain
intified items which CNDA wishes to exclude from IDA supervision, or which
ID' considers inappropriate for financing for reasons such as not demonstrably
least cost solutions, or where IDA participation could be considered politi-
cally controversial, e.g. schemes using waters controlled by the Farraka
Barrage on the Ganga River. The total of such expenditures is forecast by
CMDA to be about Rs 57 crores (US$67 million) in the period 1977-81. This
amount is probably understated by about 20-25%, because of inadequate physical
and price contingency allowances. Also included is an amount of Rs 22 crores
(US$26 million) for expenditures in FY 1981/82 on schemes not yet identified.
Assurances were given at negotiations that GOI and GOWB will ensure that CMDA
is provided with access to adequate funds to complete the projects by March 31,
1982.
20.       The forecast balance sheets of CMDA are shown in Table 2.  They
demonstrate, inter alia, the progressive development of the CMDA Program
and transfer of completed assets to other local bodies or agencies. Al-
though not demonstrated in Table 2, it will be a requirement of published
final accounts and balance sheets to show the allocation of CMDA adminis-
tration charges. Currently, these are charged annually to an "income and



- 173 -
ANNEX 10
expenditure" account, without regard to the actual incidence of expendi-
tures i.e. no records are maintained to demonstrate the costs of planning,
design and construction supervision of each scheme. Until this can be
achieved under the financial management reorganization (para 6), meaningful
data on costs of schemes will not be available. For purposes of the pro-
posed second project, the administration costs have been allocated to the
project costs.
Table 1
Calcutta Metronolitan DeveloDnent Authority
Statement of Forecast Sources and Anplications of Funds 1977/78 thrnugh 1981/82
(Rs crores)
1977178       1978/79      1979180      1980181      1981/82
SOURCES
Bet operating surplus/deficit                          0.86          1.60         4.90         6.75         9.90
Add depreciation on operating assets                   0.75          0.75         0.75         0.60         0.55
Net cash generation                                    1.61          2.35         5.65         7.35        10.45
Grants - GOI                                          10.50         10.50        10.50        10.50        10.50
- GOWB                                        12.50         13.50        10.50        16.50        25.50
Loans  - market borrowings                            11.00         11.00        11.00        11.00        11.00
- GOWB                                        11.90         19.20        16.64        15.34        12.88
Sinking funds investments - interest                   0.90          1.16         1.44         1.73         2.04
Octroi allocation/I                                    9.65          8.92         9.37         9.84        10.33
TOTAL SOURCES                             58.06          66.63        65.10        72.26        82.70
APPLICATIONS
Capital expenditures on operating assets               2.00          1.25                      0 0.35       0.3D
Project Expenditure L.
IDA 1                                            34.95         13.89          4.40         2.32         0.50
Proposed IDA II                                  14.99         26.63        39.14        40.86         33.38
don-IDA - identified                             11.37           9.72        10.25        12.91        13.04
- unidentified                            _                           -           -          22.35
Sub-total - Project Expenditures          41.31          50.24        53.79        56.09        69.27
Debt Service
Interest                                          5.77           6.59         7.38         8.07         8.76
Sinking fund contributions                         6.42          4.98         5.26         5.55         5.86
Sub-total - Debt Service                  12.19          11.57        12.64        13.62        14.62
Increase in working capital                            0.50          0.50         0.50         0.50         0.42
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                         56.00         63.56        66.93        70.56        84.61
CASH
Surplus/(Deficit) for Year                             2.06          3.07        (1.83)        1.70        (1.91)
Balance at Beginning of Year                           0.88          2.94         6.01         4.18         5.88
Balance at End of Year                                 2.94          6.01         4_18         5.88         3.97
LI  Predicted  to increase at 5X per annum.  1977/78 receipts include arrears receivable.
/2 Includes CMDA design and supervision costs charged to project expenditures.
SOURCE: Mission estimates.



- 174 -                                          ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
Forecast Balance Sheets as at March 31, 1976 through 1982
(Rs crores)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981          1982
ASSETS AND OUTLAY
Capital Outlay on Infrastructure and
Development Projects                        141.12  185.98  228.18  276.41  328.81  383.97    449.72
Less assets transferred to operating
authorities                                   -        -       0.20    7.66   30.55  110.19    261.85
Assets retained by CMDA                     141.12  185.98  227.98  268.75  298.26  273.78    187.87
CMDA operating assets (net of
depreciation)                                 3.54    3.75    5.00    5.50    4.75    4.50           4.25
Subtotal - Assets Operated by CMDA         144.66  189.73  232.98  274.25  303.01  278.28    192.12
Work in Progress                               25.00   14.95   14.06   16,07   17.46   18.39           21.91
Sinking Fund Investments                        9.22   12.81   19.02   23.79   28.84   34.18           39.83
Current Assets
Advances and debtQrs                         3.13    3.20    3.50    4.00    4.25    4.50           4.00
Stocks                                       2.32    2.00    1.70    1.40    1.00    0.70           0.40
Cash                                         4.58    0.88    2.94    6.01    4.18    5.88           3.97
Subtotal                                   10.03    6.08    8.14   11.41    9.43   11.08           8.37
Less current liabilities                     2.32    5.50    5.00    4.70    4.05    3.50           2.28
Subtotal - Net Current Assets               7'71    0.58    3.14    6.71    5.38    7.58           6.09
TOTAL ASSETS AND OUTLAY                   186.59  218.07  269.20  320.82  354.69  338.43    259.95
LIABILITIES AND SURPLUSES
Long-Term Debt
GOWB loans                                           12.80   24.70   43.90   60.54   75.88         88.76
Less transfers to operating authori-
ties                                     _-                   -                1.01    5.12       20.56
Subtotal                                           12.80   24.70   43.90   59.53   70.76          68.20
Market borrowings - redeemable 1983-87         61.60   61.60   61.60   61.60   61.60   61.60          61.60
- nonredeemable            15.40   26.40   37.40   48.40   59.40   70.40          81.40
Subtotal                                   77.00   88.00   99.00  110.00  121.00  132.00    143.00
Subtotal - Loans Outstanding               77.00  100.80  123.70  153.90  180.53  202.76    211.20
Sinking Fund for Maturity MarketBorrowings  9.22   12.81   19.02   23.79   28.84   34.18              39.83
Equity
01 and GOWB grants                          91.60  102.60  125.60  149.60  170.60  197.60    233.60
Other                                        3.31    3.31    3.31    3.31    3.31    3.31           3.31
CMDA surplust(deficit)                       5.46   (1.45)  (2.23   (2.12)   0.95    5.65          13.30
100.37  104.46  126.68  150.79  174.86  206.56    250.21
Less transfers to operating
authorities                               -         -       0.20    7.66   29.54  105.07    241.29
Subtotal - Equity                        100.37  104.46  126.48  143.13  145.32  101.49            8.92
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SURPLUSES          186.59  218.07  269.20  320.82  354.69  338.43    259.95
SOURCE: Mission estimates.



ANNEX 11
- 175 -                       Table 1
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year              Disbursements         Disbursements
and Quarter                during Quarter      at End of Quarter
(US$ million)         (US$ million)
FY 1978
March 31, 1978
June 30, 1978                 8.0                    8.0
FY 1979
September 30, 1978            5.0                   13.0
December 31, 1978             3.0                   16.0
March 31, 1979                4.0                   20.0
June 30, 1979                 5.0                   25.0
FY 1980
September 30, 1979            4.0                   29.0
December 31, 1979             4.0                   33.0
March 31, 1980                6.0                   39.0
June 30, 1980                 6.0                  45.0
FY 1981
September 30, 1980            4.0                  49.0
December 31, 1980             4.0                  53.0
March 31, 1981                7.0                  60.0
June 30, 1981                 5.0                  65.0
FY 1982
September 30, 1981            3.0                  68.0
December 31, 1981             4.o                  72.0
March 31, 1982                6.0                  78.0
June 30, 1982                 5.0                  83.0
FY 1983
September 30, 1982            4.0                  87.0



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA UDOBAN DEVULOPINUNT PROJECT
1 9 77                           1 9 70                            1 979                            lA190                                                               197I
Agenc           1       27                 3             4        1       2~                        U       4       N        2       3       4                                                  2 3 4    D
PHARTA ARAEA DEVELOP-7NT,                    CMIDA/WBSIC            ___    Y1   /8FT 19 8/79                                          l       ~~9/______ 19194/(
loud RuNutnittun                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CcN.1,1979                                                                                     I   otClot,a   eo   5   Oln
Wost Hio-ha                                                       n** 000*** O*e   **                                                                                                                                                                               iib   uia           by October _11,, 1978,
last Ca_cutta                                                    *oao       *      a-    'cI.--n*                             00                                                                                                                                    o  11  bo_loecce  by 0.pL  Nb  1979.
Land OilDing                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~~~~~Oct. E  1978  OgREj 1,197                                                                                             -      .b1-b     ~~l1    99
West IIn h------- A0r                                                                                                                                                        1Qm                                                   M-och 3l,M9
On-Sit  Ar..terial----ad--Oct.-197-----97E-                                                                                                                              June 377,1981
On-Site ~0A0L        Rd
10-  Calcutta: W_t_S__y
E..t C.1ctt.: Dt.i-g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             ------ --                                        D~~~~~~~~c.31 1980.31 98
Os-Site St-et Lighting
E..t C.1-t.                                                                                                                   .10.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  i ,196UL------                 Ornc.3  1981
On SEts Llnd.t.ti%
East Esinetta                                                                                                                           Jul IB                        -                      ---                              - -*Se D.c 4 1901
Sf1-Sits Ss... t ... IDi....
las:t Calcu1tte, SZenerags                                                                                                                                            ------H 9.Dct 1 19807           flo-e 3  1981
East Celcutto,                                                                                                                                  Ocrainage
E..t C.1c.tt.: S..it.ty C-/                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OcI 1,1979
East C.,uts  Sniay   n.lp ee3c
_Lc.                                                                              Fit.,                                                       ----- - 0,1981~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sc.  10
ls    autta, Milkbena -- -ygrop                                                                                                                           -                        -Jue        98
C-DIoitn Facilitine
las  Calcunea                                                                                                                                   Oc    ,99Sn3 1901
Iodnlrl1 Dnit-i
les  El-tts                                                                                                                                  Oct I1,1979                                                               Oc.   '19771
H-.he Fish and Pan Merkete
yell    1~9*7 9                  Ape~l  1, 1900
Fleh Munket                                                                                                 Q119-7,99                                                              n    17 8S  3                    ~ 3710LacA roqaired fcr cne-nig   o. wilt
tj,                                                      -                    -0 19 97 9                    Oc, 1,19.LQ-,                  Sap-;                                              b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b  -cqired by April 1, 1979; tbr
P.  h                                          ------ -                                                                                                              ":"9,8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S9<!unbaian-  by April 1, 1900.   The..noh Mtorn
g   teo     notrSs                                                                                                       'JE                              gg.        97
.. t, L.... P.-                                                                                                                      1:198,                                                     !h'. . t.  -c.t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oup   Eoaat   londaire-dy   -alabl.
bad                                                                                                                                                          'JOC/./ 1-g,198-1 27                                                                                          b   .d
Waler Supply/Sererago/Irainage                                                                AmA   1.1707……1,1901                                                                                                                 0111 be o*deP-
LEGEND:  -*-OO*  L-nd ocuisiti-n  ...cerdlnic                                          Cucut 6rnaCu,    -Oty  -d   fonUto                                    c   011,,nlu,IUun  1   nilcn                                                                                                                    oj
Cluetereclene, on lpientno                                  en  nudtndrn                                                           n    egonl*0 eo                cIn
schetduleh t1c D0 ret_d i_sO



-                                        0                                                                             Table 2
0                        0.00          aC                               toC
= { - -rvv _ X = = r --a 
z1i~~~. 10    .0 0t0    .0                                                                                                                                .00 
X~~~0                          0    -                                                                                                                    -  -
l f + i ; = -i i i i =0000 =
.  4  a        ll     z                          .1 .01      0           .0           .0   .,,,          *00..                         .0.0     C0
_~   ~ ~       ___ ______________                                                                     0000 }  __                                     C G__
_~~~~0 _1                                                     01=_ 00
a              I                         O                                 *j °                                                                         E  = 
0.                                                                                            _  olI                                .1



_INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URANA DEVELOPMEtIT PROJECT-
ARenry  1  2  3  4  1  2      3        4       1       2        3       4        1       2       3       ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~4  14 -3                                             4
PC  19 7/79    ______    FT 19 8/79                       PT 19 9/80                         T19 0/8                          FT 19 1(82
PART C,  SEWERAGE AND DRAINADE               CMDIA/CIR7SAI                                                                                                        -
HIT/CC/DRWI
iR.tel gia   (Ph II)………----    --    
Coloota. City Syoten, Se-eiog 
lot    ,1900
f-  B..t.. A-..                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~April 1 1929M          - --    --  -   -    --    --    J-O-             0,1982
3o 31,198
Honcah leornga  (Ph II)                                                -Nurv        - -------                                                                         --------                       _h 31,199
CraodTeookloadDrainage  (P1,1)                                        ~~~~~~~April                                 . .1978  ..            gArth   31,1981
Outfal Impr.....at inb... fo                                                                                                                                        - orh 31,190
Dute  and.  An-ha1 Area Dr_ltag
RagjolsCunallopraoeaenr                                                    Ont.l ~~~~~ ~        ~~~~1978  --J.ne   0,1981
CrtaSame  Cle-nato                                                                       Apr11                 -          - --                    ---7            -          --       -- --       ----     -8                           30,198
PARC 8:  SOLID WASTES MANIAGEMIENT           C8DAACC/
o T  Ipli                           D.0.1, 977                Rrr.] 1979                        0an .2197950.oladroaedPrwrd ear
Chingr,ibatta Wurkabp                                                                     ----a-----   -- --                      -mlol-  be a                                                                                                                                         -qutrd-b   M-.ddp
Raaa   fpr-gro   on be detailed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and rbr balance  by M-hr 31, 1980.
-ad aNed  gai  by C8IDA and rb                                                                  pi  11h                                                                                                                                arb3,9
PROD I,  17800700 1.7,211811  CRIA~p~i    ~,   781~-                                                                                                                                                                     3119
Dogolng Proaesa of aopply And
tnta-  alo    f prefab (oard                                                                                                                                                                                                         March 31,198
PART J:  MUNOICIPAL. AND ANCHAL.             CMDA/Rnici-
kDVE111P11NT                      paliti  -
Peugr-ttoh  d-iatld andiagred                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mar01707   31,198
upon by IRDA  -nd the Ama tia-o                                                                           I        --    --           --    - -        --    --     April-                     --       --,19--78--    
LE0END: - - - - Clue- t         h-sbe ,  or-panainah-mee
…----D-aig  and tedern



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA 0URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ig1 9 77                                 191 8                           1 9 79                          1 9 80                          1 981I                          1 98a2
EA;:,.,y  2  3  4   1       2       3       4       ~~     ~~~~~~~1         2       3       4       1       2       3       4 1                     8        2       3       4
PART IV,  TRAFIC AND TRANSPORTATION  CMDAICITI                    F-     Y 19 77                        FY 19 8/79                     P  1992/80                      P0 19 0/81    ____P  19 1/82
HIT/Pol ice7   7                                                                                -y                                            ___      ____
Pnagrao no be deEeil.d ad ag-ed…1I9…arh31,198;
Road    ronp--, Projecre
Po_ hoeRod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -ti~3 *r ~ s   .  ,/9UlEE  1ad  -erq.i-ed h.. been
Maberdab Road                                            Cl.                                                                                                                                            ac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~119.q.ir-d.
lee-1dalheElt--'nia..i"2J_ nO1981
H.nr.b  METo                                                                                                                                             arch 91,198(
/12
Lend Acqoleltlon  ~ ~      ~        ~        ~       ....  ...    ...   ........    ..  ....LI  E.M. Bypn..  p-np-r,  nd P-rk
Reeed ARln.trooi-                                       .............                                            78    ___                       -1,g   ,~1                                                                                                   IEa  lneno
Kae  Enpr -newei-   Oypy...                                                                                                                               -      -t-                   i9 m'. J,19D j19eebbebe    Coneter                                                               n
ef eRrd beerblde eleg Ra.hbbeber
Klyn  Adilni,r-ti-,  Fi.-i~d.l, L.gileltk- and Tenbn'i-l Aer-lonan.. AcEtone                                                                           c ...arll  be E,,pl.-1d by Apr11  1,
1979.
Oppailn Dir,rn attl PEnanc- En
Ebeaneeenelcar   of CMD                    OW88                        ... .aa..C..a  prEn  En Rn-d p--tni-ER
.y.t..  CHDA                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~April 1,1979
(iii) apr-jenl badgeting and                                                       i
__0*0 Clg epene tCIlA                                                .....            30,197                   April....   1,1979
E)apr-j-cf  n-anLbrEng eyeree   CMDA8                                                    4 .
Anne1  adite nI CC ecnal -t                owB/CC                                                    ...... .                          ......ea..b..year..
EcEei fe  dEe  endae-i-n  and                                                                                                                                                                             1
tree  nd ernEne  endrenra  ant    G8WR/WBHB                                                                .....c.......               9  1979
E.tebli.h EeEaEe M-ng-tn anitE            CR48A/HI8-317                                                                                                                        ...    ...  ......
Ke.tbli.b C-t-re  Veba-Eti- B-ed    Gcana..   .... .....                                                          3..   97.
En PI8Oa/VRIIlen   31,198
LEGEND: - - --   C-----b--,o-npnenainiia8  adrndrn
Cane.ra t E-on, del iner  end EnliCanad Erhc-ni                                     ... ania_-n   -tion-
nn eRLend -cqn~lai-i procedIng,



817018ll CA,LCUTTA 888-7  LEV8L8p~-i88tr ~P84,1?
C-P.-'r   E ....                      ~~~~~~19 77               19 78                      [9719                     1990                     1981                      18
Component  Agency    1      7      3     4      8      2           ~         ~         ~~        ~~~~4  3    1 2  -3     4      1    2-      9                   2      3     4Rea
7i)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~GW f.m.ie...rpamil                                          porh 31, 1 78
(ii)impiemepr prapoaaie                                                                      tare~..  ...   ...   ........M.     31, .979
()Prepa. reprpWB/CpiA                                                           ..    .... ttlebre      197
of fin- Yp-   at- m-                                                                                                              .... ..e..3..o.. ....
Cop. ide- & impie--p  tm,p..........
aetoCorp-potio                       UfWB/CC.............. Ap,i  1, 1 79
(i  prepre det.il pi-, pP             GOWB/M-Umiei
(ii)impiemept proposale                                                                 peeO ~~~~.......  ... ...31  1978
(t) prepare feppet           CP.A.                        ...........             i,- 31, 1 78
.t)omee  ...p                                                               ...e.enAoniApr   1, 177
1d prepare- Peor t88i98 WBCMA....                                                                                      -    31, 1989
(1   oi.popr- e   8-8A1l ..... ..... ....  ....--78                                                                      1
(if-)SprparL   fasbite  report.........
(ii)aoeebeieh thpf-diOWmCa....t...o... A,il1,  9 
COetern ofi-    4 fae     -omeLe-  [p
Ii) prepare progeen  C8gtl/11p8A                              ..8 peepl   1, 1 78~ ~ ~ ~~~... ...  ....   ..   Apl,1,  08
(ii) impiemepratfop                              411i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .hA  )'                                                   itape4   31,   2   93 ~   ~      ~       ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~  -1



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPtENT PROJECT
Eey AdmnltroEivo, Financitl, Lwegis laCive. a-d Tcchnicol Ani-- tance Action-
1977                       1978                          1979                         1980                      1981                      1932
Compon ent           E        AXgenc"          1-    2       3              1      2      3      4       1      2      3      4       U      2      3  I4         1   1  2              4       1      2      3 4                         Re--rkt
'C  Property Tax  Revenue Collection
T-r-er  Ifn    errneatv)                        GOWB/cc
(fi yr%                                                                                                                    ..... ..... ....  ....  Apri  1, U SO
(i 'i'lgd/l ..... ....... .......  ........ Apriiib  .. pi I,   1 82
(i.) ROT                                                                                                                                                                               .......                       A 1, 1 01
Renie and Implement "mproIenente in
iccounting. Utoree and FinnOanil
Man..enent in CC:                               GOWE/CC
(io)   fter finai  eport                                                                                                              .    ... .    .... ..... ..... .....
Eatabliah an orban enaUt-tcole entr_
anditeeeinn    u   -n    R  the Totte.  e
.d mnit-orIng nervie   i          DA            OW/MDA                               ....  . .... Arli  1, 1938
JnlynlTnl 00 dnmnnd for and nyoll- 
abiity        o        ryho C    l              -                                           ..... .....r.  Jun-   0, 1  8
SEC Studies                                     CMA l... ....en r D                                                                   1  1978
Solid Wattent                                   CMDA/CC
(i) dnige of  -krfebp.                                                                                mo       
(ii) pilot pr-je-tt and atdi-                                                                         ...ene....... ...3................             -b-  31, 197
Traffi Et gioneering and Manegem-nt:            CMDA
(ii)d                                                                                                                                ..         ..         . . .... ..... ..... ......m...e...... .. .        -  b      1 , 1981
(ii) Rest ConabCMDAt                                                                                      ...... D              31  1978 0
(iii) Fiah and Pan Markelt.                                                              .....o...   ......            ecem l er   31, 1978
ublic Tr-onport Fe-sibility:                    C"DA/CTC/
CSTC
(i) Ph=renICT  ..  . ... June  0,1L 
(ii) Phaee II t.... ...  .. F                                                                                                Marc1: 31, 1 79
erevelper FPlo-  - 1981-86:                    CMDA
Ii) general land use preparation
oR.d bg......  ..... ..... ..... ... t.. .... Mrh 31r  18
(Ii) aaaerage and deain-ge planning
t nd featbility   tudies                                                            .... ..... ..... ....  ..... .......... ........ ..... ..........   ....                         31 1980
:laa   Rtd_...een   31   1900



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
(Rs crores)
LAND           CIVIL WORKS                             EQUIPMENT, GOODS AND SERVICES
Local                           Foreign                 CMDA
COMPONENTS TO BE FINANCED                       Net    Foreign                 Net    Taxes,   Foreign                 Net    Taxes,              Design and       Sub-    Physical       Price       GRAND
THROUGH CMDA                                   Costs   Indirect   Total    Costs    etc.    Indirect   Total    Costs    etc.    Total    Supervision    total    Conting.    Conting.    TOTAL
AREA DEVELOPMENT                       3.01      8.52     0.88       9.40      1.64    0.20       0.28       2.12      0.24    0.11      0.35        0.21          15.09       1.48         3.29       19.86
West Howrah  /                       1.77     1.99      0.24       2.23      0.04      -          -        0.04        -        -        -         0.01           4.05
East Ca.2utta-                      1.04      5.74      0.52       6.26     0.84    0.12        0.14       1.10     0.24    0.11       0.35        0.15          8.90
Markets-                               -      0.20      0.02       0.22     0.72    0.08        0.14       0.94        -       -         -           -           1.16
Washermen/Milkmen Work Areas/!    0.20        0.59      0.10       0.69     0.04       -          -        0.04        -       -         -         0.05          0.98
RUSTEE IMPROVEMENT                     0.07    17.29      3.00      20.29      0.56    0.08         -        0.64        -        -        -         1.47         22.47        3.15         5.74       31.36
SCHOOLS                                0.15     1.54      0.26       1.80      0.15    0.05         -        0.20        -        -        -         0.14           2.29       0.20         0.77        3.26
HEALTH AND NUTRITION                   0.02     0.13      0.01       0.14      0.04       -         -        0.04        -        -         -           -           0.20       0.02         0.08        0.30
WATER SUPPLY                           0.10      3.88     0.18       4.06      5.06    0.28       0.53       5.87      0.27    0.27      0.54        0.74          11.31       1.05         2.20       14.56
SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE                  0.25    15.21      0.80      16.01      2.06    0.18       0.31       2.55      0.67    0.52      1.19        1.40          21.40       2.00         3.92       27.32
SOLID WASTES MANAGEMENT                0.16     2.50      0.38       2.88      3.34    0.32       0.33       3.99      1.04    0.89      1.93        0.63           9.59       0.27         1.86       11.72
SANITARY LATRINES                        -      0.39        -        0.39      1.29    0.15       0.14       1.58        -        -         -        0.14           2.11         -            -         2.11
MUNICIPAL AND ANCHAL DEVFLOPMENT         -       4.98     0.85       5.83      0.16    0.01          -       0.17        -        -         -         0.42          6.42         -            -         6.42
TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORTATION             6.30    10.99      1.67      12.66      3.64    0.61       0.43       4.68      1.81    0.71      2.52         1.82         27.98       1.61         5.17       34.76
Traffic Engineering & Manage-
ment Improvement Schemes             -      1.89      0.25       2.14      1.65    0.35       0.27       2.27      1.06    0.30      1.36        0.44           6.21
Road Maintenance Equipment and
Street Lighting                   0.40      0.32      0.02       0.34     0.78    0.20        0.05       1.03      0.50    0.05      0.55        0.12           2.44
Road Schemes                         5.90     8.62      1.40      10.02      1.18    0.05       0.11       1.34      0.25    0.36      0.61        1.25          19.12
Terminals                              -      0.16        -        0.16      0.03    0.01         -        0.04        -        -        -         0.01           0.21
Sub-total                  10.06    65.43      6.03      73.46    17.94    1.88         2.02      21.84     4.03    2.50       6.53        6.97        118.86      9'.78        23.03      1 6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING        -         -        -          -       2.09       -          -       2.09      0.66       -       0.66                      2.75         -          0.58        3.33
TOTAL COMPONENTS TO BE FINANCED
THROUGH CMDA                          10.06    65.43      8.03      73.46    20.03    1.88         2.02     23.93      4.69    2.50       7.19        6.97        121.61       9.78        23.61      155.00
_  __   _                                                                                                                                         F3  B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3I
/I  Tncludes Rs 1.45 crores building materials loans. ExcMides (i) approximately 13 crores                                                                                                                  rI r
to be provided by cormercial ban/ks and WbHB to develop MIG and LIG home6 and c ommercial
.tructures, etc., and (ii) Rs 7.12 crores equivalent provided by the Netherlands Gover-mcent.                                                                                                            -
/2  Excludes approximately Rs 1.83 (excluding supervision and contingencies, etc.) requlired
by the commercial banks to complete Phase I.



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calcutt. Meprtpolitan Development Authority
Five-Year Ineret-ent Pro-rU. (1977/78 to 1981/82)
(All figure= incrores of rupees)
1977/78                           1978/79                           1979/80                              1980/81                            1981/82               Tot.l 1977/78 - 1981/82    GRAND
SECTOR                     Non-IDA   IDA I  IDA Ei    Total Non-1DA   IA I    IDA II  Total Non-IDA  IDA I   IDA I1    Total Nou-IDA   IDA I    IDA II  Totol  Nor-IDA   IDA I   IDA II   Total  Nor-IDA  IDA I              IDA II  TOTAL
1. Area De-elnp.e.t-(a)      0.42     0.25      -       0.67    0.38     0.65       -      1.03    0.38    0.08       -       1.26    0.37     0.50       -      0.87    0.46       -              0.46   2.01      2.28        -      4.29
(b)    0.40        -      -       0.40    0.50       -        _      0.50    0.72      -                0.72    0.82       -         -     0.82    1.04        -       -      1.04   3.48       -         -      3.48
(c)       -     0.10    1.31      1.41      -      1.34     2.88     4.22      -     1.45     4.51      5.96     -       1.59     4.03     5.62       -      0.45    2.15     2.60     -      4.93     14.88    19.81
0. 35   T31)    T~  4     0.-88-    E0-9-    2. 808     37-5 T  -      - -   - i-i        -    Ti.i      2.0o9    Z.of     773-    1.5      0.45   ~           1      49       .21              27.98
2. Baoter Ioprovenent        0.05       -    2.85       2.90      -        -      3.20    7.28       -       -      5.15      5.15      _        -      4.92     4.92      -        -    4.80       4.80   0.05       -      21.00    21.05
3. Sc.oula                   0.02       -       -       0.02                                     -        -        -           -         -              8.20 1    .00                      1.15     1.15   0.02       -       2.15     2.17
4. Nen-th                      -        _-                                                       -        -        -           -         -              0.10     0.10      -         _     0.10     0.10     -        -       0.20     0.20
5. Water Supply              3.50     3.47    1.29      8.26    3.30     3.21     2.06     8.57    3.00    1.47     2.42      6.89    4.70       -      2.41     7.11    4.70        _     2.39     7.09  19.20     8.15     10.57    37.92
6. Sewerage & Dralo-ge       1.02     2.58    2.53      6.13    1.28     0.81     4.72     6.81    2.00      -      5.09      7.09    2.14       -      4.81     6.95    1.68       -      2.85     4.53   8.12     3.39     20.00    31.51
7. Solid Wastes Mg.nt.         -      0.18    1.12      1.30      -        -      1.75     1.75      -       -      2.04      2.04      -        -      2.03     2.03      -        -     2.02      2.02     -      0.18      8.96     9.14
8. En-ir-rr-ntsl Hygie.e
& Sn-it-ry Letri-es         -     0.17    0.15      0.32      -        -      0.50     0.50      -       -      0.50      0.50      -        -      0.52      0.52      -        -    0.30      0.30     -      0.17       1.97     2.14
9. Traffic sod Tesn.p.       3.78     5.88    1.51     11.17    2.06     5.96     3.20    11.22    1.75      -      7.60      9.35    2.31       -       7.85    10.18    2.47       _     6.00     8.47  12.39    11.84     26.16    50.39
10. Te-heical Assistance        -      0.66    0.49      1.15      -      0.63     0.45     1.08      -       _      0.50      0.50      -        -      0.75     0.75       -        -    0.56      0.56     -      1.29       2.75     4.04
11. On-ivnpal & A-h1al
Development                -         -    1.00      1.00      -        -      1.10     1.10      -       -      1.20       1.20     -         -      1.30     1.30      -              1.40     1.40              -        6.00     6.00
12. Par-k                     0.23       -       -       0.23    0.10       -        -      0.10    0.10      -        -       0.10    0.10       -        -      0.10    0.10        -       -      0.10   0.63       -          -      M,3
13. BPsic Map                 0.20      _        -       0.20    0.25       -        -      0.25    0.35      -        _       0.35    0.39       -         -     0.35    0.35       _        -      0.35   1.50       -          -
So,b-total            9.62    13.29   12.25     35.16    7.87    12.60    19.94    40.41    8.30    3.80    29.01      41.11   10.81     2.09    29.78    42.62   10.80     0.45   23.72    34.97  47.40    32.23    114.64   194.27
CGDA DesIgn &
Supervi.ion              1.75       -    1.27       3.02    1.85       -      1.34     3.19    1.95      -      1.41      3.36    2.10        -      1.46     3.56    2.24       -     1.49     3.73   9.89        -       6.97    16.86
Cottingencies              -      0.66    1.47      3.13      _      1.29     5.35     6.64      -    0.60      0.72      9.32      _      0.23      9,68     9.91     _       0,05    8.17     0.22      -      3.83     33.39    37.22
TOTAL                 11.37    14.99    14.99   41.31    9.72    13.89    26.67    50.24   10.23    4.40    39.14      53.79   12.91     2.32    40.86    56.09   13.04     0.50   33.38    46.92  57,29    36.00    155.00   248.35       I
/1 COteo-ies (a), (b), and (v) represent only internal -r-nia-ti-on af project developnpat anita iR CODA.
/2  E-cludes program e-pendituros on -nid-rnified schema (Rs 22.35 cro...) and capital e-pend.tatoi   an operating --coto (Rs 3.90 crorenl.



ANNEX 12
- 184 -                           Table 3
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Equipment to Be Financed under the Project
(US$ million)
Estimated
Category                                         Value
Under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
Workshop equipment                                               0.50
Pumps and accessories                                            1.80
Heavy vehicles, bulldozers and pipe
jacking equipment                                              5.50
Sewer cleansing equipment                                        0.90
Road construction equipment                                      3.20
H.D.P. pipes and specials                                        0.90
Water metering equipment, pipe cable
locators and other meter equipment                             0.20
Subtotal                                     13.00
Under Competitive Bidding Advertised Locally (LCB)
Transformer and switchboard equipment                            0.20
Concrete mixers and accessories                                  0.02
Traffic operation equipment                                      0.80
Valves and accessories                                           0.07
Steel poles                                                      0.50
Light vehicles                                                   0.20
Handcarts and bicycles                                           0.50
Concrete pipes and specials, all kinds                           5.50
Stoneware pipes and specials                                     0.24
Miscellaneous equipment of small quantities                      0.50
Subtotal                                      8.53
Total                                        21.53



ANNEX 12
185                      ~~~~~~~Table 4
- 185-
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Project Implementing and Operating Agencies
Agency
Agency                      Responsible
Responsible                  for Operation
Project Component              for Execution                 and Maintenance
Area Development
Sites and Services
Physical Works             CMDA                      CMDA/Municipalities
Community Development      CMDA                      GOWB Agencies
Building Materials, or
Self-Help Construction
Loans                      WBHB                      WBHB
Industrial Estates         WBSIC                     WBSIC
Fish and Pan Market
Re-Development                 CMDA                       CMDA
Bustee Improvement             CMDA                      CC/Municipalities
Primary School Construction   CMDA                       Education Department, GOWB
Health                         CMDA                      Health Department, GOWB
Small-Scale Enterprises        CSSI/Nominated Banks      CSSI/Nominated Banks
Water Supply                   CMDA/CC                    CMDA/CMWSA/CC
Sewerage and Drainage and      CMDA/CMWSA/HIT/CC/        CC/CMWSA/HIT/IWD/
Sanitary Latrines              IWD                       Municipalities
Solid Waste Management         CMDAJCC/Municipalities   CC/Municipalities
Municipal and Anchal                                     Municipalities/Anchals/
Development                    CMDA/Municipalities       Panchayats
Traffic and Transportation
Traffic Operations         CMDA/Police/CIT           CC/Police
Roads and Terminal
Facilities                 CMDA/HIT                  GOWB (PWD Dept.)/CC/HIT
Technical Assistance           GOWB (DMS)/CC/CMDA/
CSTC/CTC I/
1/ CSTC - Calcutta State Transport Corporation Ltd.,
CTC - Calcutta Transways Company Ltd.



INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority-Proposed Organizational Structure
CMDA Board
Chairman
Chief Executive
Officer
Project Appraisal              fManagement Information
Unit                          and Monitoring Unit J
I
Directorate of                        Directorate of                           Internal                                                                  Directorate  of      1
Operations           _            Financial Services        _                 Audit              _       _       _    _                               Administration
Director, Water Supply                                                                                                       Directorate of
Plannring Services                        Eegal Unit
Director, Sewerage and Drainage
Director, Traffic and Transportation
Director, Area Development and                                                                                      Traffic Engineering Cell
Bustee Improvement
Sewerage and Drainage Planning and
Director, Material Purchase and                                                                                     Design Cell
Stores
Stores                                                                                                              Economic and Social Support
Coordination Unit
Solid Wastes Project Group
World Bank-17580



- 187 -
EXISTING CONDITIONS FOR WASHERMEN,EAST CALCUTTA






- 188 -
WS:;2 S:S~~~~~~~~~~~~
. W '7 .,- _';'r W/ X . O .. L',,- D'r .
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .4    y.''._.:o C  ...   .''t   
*  '  '  '  "" - ' * ' ; ' ' ' ' ' ' '.r                            i     4A
-   r   $  ,"-   ,y  <"   ,-.'    .    <-'   J   X   .   5'   .  S   ' .   _  '.   "'.1',5
.,   q   .  -,,    .    ,    .e  _,   .   :         .  . -,   ,   -  , 4
.;   .  /   q                               .        '  . ~~~~~~~<
4 ~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~    '  .'. ,A  '.  , ; '       
.. :   ;,                     4.....'  ......  .'.    '                                4,.. ',' ,,'_' .
-~~~~~ <2,½j'    .,.5
STREETFLOODNG INLOW-LING CD ARE






- 189 -
1~~~~~~ >
LOADING SOLID WASTE FROM AN OVERFLOWING STREET DUMP.
TYPICAL CONDITIONS IN AN       BUSTEE AFTER IMPROVEMENT
UNIMPROVED BUSTEE






190
CONETIN N TE H        H FH M E T
CONGESTION IN THE HOWRAH FISH MARKET






- 191 -
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
E.W.S.-I & II (RENTAL)
10OROOM DORMITORY RENTAL
\   /    /                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~UNITS for E.W.S. I & II
SECTION 11
20.0 m.
Rm. i      Rm. 2      m       p6"E4 :=   R m.3   Rm. 4|
Rm.1  Rm2    ~~BLOCKt                            1
COOKING AREA
Rm. 5     Rm.6     Rm. 7    Rm.8      Rm.9    Rm 10
L..c2 i . I                      _      _      
PLAN
World Bank--17572






- 192 -
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
E.W.S.-Ill (OWNERSHIP)
PLINTH WALL
STAGE-I                                                 STAGE- 1ll
STAGE - Il                                               STAGE - IV
4.5 m.
co
L__
STAGE-I              STAGE II           STAGE - IlIl         STAGE - IV
PLOT AREA -44m2                   INCREMENTAL PLOT DEVELOPMENT             World Bank-1 757:3






INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
E.W.S.-IV (OWNERSHIP)
BATH
PLINTH WALL\/
STAGE - I                                                STAGE- III
STAGE-Il                                                  STAGE-IV
6.1 m.
X   L   L~~~~~L
CN
co
STAGE-I                   STAGE-II                 STAGE- III                STAGE-IV
PLOT AREA - 50m2                                              INCREMENTAL PLOT DEVELOPMENT
World Bank-17574






- 194 _
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
L.I.G. (OWNERSHIP)
q   ov                          E~~~ ~~~~~ATH  
PLINTH WALL                                 <
STAGE- I                                                STAGE -Il
STAGE - II                                               STAGE - IV
1      6.1m
STAGE - I                     STAGE - 11                  STAGE -Il                     STAGE - IV
PLOT AREA - 60m2                                    INCREMENTAL PLOT DEVELOPMENT
World Bank-17576






- 195 -
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ISOMETRIC OF CLUSTER OF CORE HOUSES
\   ',   X                  ~~~~~~~~~OF TYPES E.W.S. -III, E.W.S. -IV, & L.l.G.
World Bank-17576






- 196 -
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HOWRAH FISH AND PAN MARKET AREA REDEVELOPMENT
I I  I 
Middle Income Housing
Phase 2
Low Income Housing (2)
Dormitory                                                                        Bridge
|lL  - 1[     11    ng
Elevation/Section 1-1
Financed by:
l.D. A.
D Commercial Banks
Middle
Income
Housing
Office Towers - Phase 1 -
Phase 2                                        Financed by Commercial Banks
Existinig
Buckiand
Low                                                                                                    BridgE
Income
Housing
___                     _Housn __                                                                                                                          JE   S11t1  
Section 2/2
World Bank-17577






INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Howrah Fish and Pan Market Area Development
Haroohan Boe RFoad
H-r-mohao Bose Road                                                                                                                                                   Hariohan B.os. Road
E 0svn                                                                                                (TStsTtT  Prpoe   PlnPoosdPa
Ground Leve                                                                           Dec
I C Rose Rood~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CB-R
BoE.inig Site                                                                Proposed Pi.o                                                                          Pro,os d Plan.
Gro...d L-oe                                                                          Deck Leo-I
W.IrVd B-ok-17578






INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DISTRICTS WITHIN  CALCUTTA  METROPOLITAN  DISTRICT                                    ,           .  'y
EXISTING FEATURES
-            National H,ghoays
-             Ma1o, Roads
_Minra Roads
Railroads                                                                  7                                ''       '
3oidges                                                                              N .-5Wi I .  /
Conals, Channels                                                        -
Corporation and Municipality Boundaries
… Kalyani-Bansberic Boundaries                                                                         -.
-   - -Ccicutto Metropolitan Boundaries
__ District Boundaries,
International Boundaries                                     J
o              [~~~~~OMETERS
hr~~~~ 4V/ttw                   'y'
uS\la urn  /'i                                                                            "'us 
/ 0 a f CA  H      ,N A
|PAtK,STAN ,                                                                                         ' ._-.a'
g   4tq>.'-,n  ~          ',  '                                                                        ;   .1
lI                            _N DrI_A__ ___ ___ ___) _                              _L._' _7_ _ __ _ __ _ __i. _
tE  i  E  ,;  SURMA  <4 - .. a-\;.R.S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z






INDIA                                                                  ,e                          p
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                      ,
TRANSPORTATION AND TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT SCHEMES                                                 /         .
EXISTING FEATURES
National Highways
-             Major Roads
Minor Roads                                                                              A   A  C
Railroads                                                               :
Bridges                                                                            fid  VAIAA
IDA 11 PROJECTS.                                                               (                                  F---r
Road Widewng and Improvement Schemes                               c-<  /t
Major Highways                                                  /                     AVid-,
:    Area Circulation Scheme                                          i_ /                AiSli
Terminal Pro1ects                                               I                                .-s,     x- A,.e
Study Area for Traffic Operations Improvement              -vpsurr -                                <..       4>
OTHER MAJOR PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION.                                j                 (
-      Bridges
Roads                                                                    --5AsAr   /
Rapid Transit System                                                                                  /
C… ;poration and Municipality Boundaries                                                         a   -
- - -- - Kalyan,-Bansberia Boundary                              w     .AAAAT AnAAAAiAA
----Calcutta MAetropolitan Boundcaries                       > , ,         --     
International Boundaries
9K LOMTEAV
r *
,Q \ i _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~srOSA'    Cf,.                                                           -S .t+,X  
,4<;  .? '.  f   , H I N A                                                                             /       A>XA    '
+   J'   <<:,   A~~~HUTADIX   ,IJ\Z 
. ,                 , ?wre                                                     ii4:    txrlJ
i  9  BURMA                                                dANA Vi                                          -,     A
'J9 6ur < a           V.          5-----             _
r~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~                                               4 .ALA                           LAA.JV              \ia
4   ...         : s71 S  <./MnU     r a .,.,                                                       wO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
~~~  ruEn ... el.tme\_ ___  ____ _____  _                                                         7D






IBRD 12875R
SEPTEMBER 197-T
INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Bustee  Improvement Plan
, ,Appro-orote Ce-0Fire1 --
rqP  S  r          C H I N A                          fa..                   l     g             
CA LCHCNJ
CA-CU7TA~~JiA~'O
ND                ax0XX\-                                               - 1 A    /UM  0                          i      1;
S$\~               ~~                                                                                          K f\  h  (
CO PO-AFN
N-, Ar th -P dl                                                                                  - t       J .0 
EX ISTI NG FEATURES
Huts iC=    g<:  
PROPOSED PROJECT                   0;                        .1S       -      Co         't     
Access Lanes [/.<   ,.p  
Black Topped                                  /                       i                :-    8 
Brick Paved -i/:,/X/
Water Mains                       .                                                             0/ 
Drainage Channels <~D;
EA Sanitary Toilets,converted   _     _       -==                                     \     \/g/                  \
O      Street Lighting Poles           BrdeP O T T E R y/>t 
Dust Bins, Garbage Vats       _.=                                               D      -\0
0      Deep Tube Wells ..\ 
with Pump Houses.. \ -
o                        so~~~~~~~5                       100
EETERS






AtI~    oN        5130    -,u1                                                               WNLT J1n
a ,. . ~C H I N A hD{sSdt:lz ....=
, I 1,  D  I A                                                                              12 i.
DITIC  DA         amsmos
~     '''- ARAAN                                     I                               1  1jVT  '\
r l
SIACE~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-                     INN
.   1g   g    )At                  1    -      ,1   ,'---}'     /   I_  /   zZ-.  -  0TN.";*   Ž:
£f    /:]/X '- ff----/-fte#                                                              /e "             V L,
Pe,~~~~~eM~ ~ P, ,  S,..  C- ,g             F                                        r ................. ;
4=;  ,     75L-                                                          I    1         44    -  T
_r =: = 0 L ~~~~~~~~~~~i                                    S                   /- S  [ -         ;N-~  
'10 t.              ' 25e
_ - - - -    d  - -      |                                 -           /                -\
I~~~~~I*,~~~~~~                4L N-                . II(\ 
_ _                                          / _       o2  --  NJ4.W<                    - E                          NE
-----  Wclrd oundcrles /                                               S            / t;t ;E
-~~~CIU+ Copoc-o                                ANTdoie            a,-g,   --j}I DTEt
F I LOM ETE R S                                                       X  , f/
INDIA
SECOND CAlCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
PRIMARY SCHOOL COVERAGE IN CALCUTTA CORPORATION  AREA  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 _






PAIT                        TAC H I N A   4                                                                          T          A
__'-'N< D I              A"                                                                                      4
DIT I NDACTAARA 
> ,; 4                                                                                     Nt r - W > ] a L > 4  U   *1  0 t/
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AREA COVERED BY OSPITALS
I  S                                                                      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
J I EA    CO,,E       ,                                                     VESUANDNOTHER HEPAND     TER-LTICES  ' -
L   _.JAREASCOVEHEDBYOTHERHEALTHSERVICESONLY                              
L    2AREASNOTCOVEREDBYANYINSTITUTIONALMEDICALFACILITIES    a'", .                        _ _  
_  -- -   D a,JRDOUNDARIES'                                                                /'  ', 
-       ALCUTTA CORPOHATIDN BUDRF                 
KILOMEIERS
I,N-IDTIkA
)                                                --V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROEA
INSTITUTIONAL HEALT___                 i - EVCSI   CALCUTTA  C RO                        TION~  ARE AA






INDIA
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  Q>
CMD WATER SUPPLY SERVICE DISTRICTS                                 \
AND MAJOR FACILITIES                                                                         ,
Urban Area with Ground Water Supply                          )     I
..  Service District Boundcries                                     /
O     Treatment Plant and Major Pumping Station (Existing   ,
or Under Construction)
- r    Existing Transmission Main
Proposed Treotment Plants
Canals, Channels
Major Roads
Other Roads
Railways
--_  Corporation and Municipality Boundaries                                            7 |
_____…Kalyoni - Bansberia  Boundaries
Calcutta Metropolitan Boundaries                Li
--.-     International Boundaries
I                              10              15 
KILOMETERS
\'          '                                         s87-                                  , <A
Le -xt               '-..
15 I ND IA        XB UtttA                                                                              q, 
0    %     t . 1   f       1                                                                          4 '5
I      .   zIA~Sti LANKhA        .                                                                                                                    'i r






INDIA                                                                                                                1
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMD DRAINAGE BASINS AND SEWERAGE ZONES
Zone Boundaries
A' ::Basin Boundaries
i     Existing Pumping Stations                                                ,         \
Proposed Pumping Stations                                                              ,
-C       Chonnels, Canols
-      Major Roads
_         Other Roads
Railways                                                             j         :F
Corporation and Municipality Boundaries                          V
…----    Kalyani-Bonsberio Boundaries                                                  U       cISiUSUSA]
-  --- Calcutra Metropolitan Boundaries                                                           .
International Boundaries                                                                         .
/ 5S 1KSWEREYX/gS 1 5i
KLOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(siS5
>;=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gg P-in r;                                                         t.-h- .n
()   _  / C H I 1. A                                                ' r   -
o                 5                                                                           d0 150                     f
BURTN7-5A/*
|    t:] ;0   *7y i  n|3  
|   h-Uszz                                            
|S                    r)==-$;fdl.el .  a1l1 1v_N






X  =  -  -  M CFPT MFen 197 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11  101
INDIA                                                                             !                =
SECOND CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                      i==
EAST CALCUTTA AREA DEVELOPMENT PLAN                                                                   ,/                                          __       I.;
EXISTING LAND USE       PROPOSED PROJECT                                                                            __j                   -  ______. __ _
W. 1-reboo                 A-, .l R..d,
E er- d e- ,.l            -r e   os!==
P                                                                    A,-11-A e                H h 'crnIlk                                                                          F     I          N       _P C_ N___
rS ,    f    j   Y Li @     ;                (       | Oe h Spoce             ro eelhCeners                                                   i           ________.___;___j___\
_0,P .Sp.              Ib- TSmo'- & C|r-
L~ ~     ~     ~      ~o ,r>      k                            000 ,C:v;"        Trir .e,oPoeee .7'. 'S '                                                                                                                                                                           /'' 0" '''i'-0a'; ''-
F        !JSr                                                                                                                                                                                          1 <  <  _ sI   -  -   + \  U  \=   <  lrl   |  ,    S  O,; .  ;  A  D  Nt  b4  er  Oz D NG RY 1W
.,'
S.C                 C                  1                                                                                                                                                            OOO.0..¶                      'N'q
'-'I                                                                        C                                                                                                      lE~SIQ
IT J,I 
)                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iJ
J -" 
Ž0'.                                              00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
P ~~~~~~~~Id                                                                                                                                                                                                   IKRSADWSEMNSCLN
- ----- -----                           .~AND  NTEGRATFIC  PONDING SYSTEM
<'U  ---                                               , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IM, ke-e' Dorrwtoy
0  ~ ~ ~  ~        ~        ~        SLUDOT-i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 Milk1 Collcton  ee
DRY    FlIT                         ~~~~~~~3 Cortle Shede
AR CA                              ~~~~~~4 Vereriovoy Cli-i
CFodder Store
6 Wol1oo-,,g Te1,
7 Comm,ritY Cenrer  'u r FrneY Sco-l
8 We-h.errees L-eg Areo
9 Rio De FiorPrr
I We-hi,,g So.bo
II Opertor Roo   -nd Lenbrt-ry2
12 Sto-ge R.or. fee Eq,,ip-et (Fishpond)






IBRD 13017
-j  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ThII ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGjI17
SPIN           R            I         4       '-A                     4C.44             
-                        444-3          -      434 ~
LIVU  L¶21i2                  F-A'       4 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  F-A 3  L     14         E 
PRMARY   43     4        F~~~~~~E3                                                                        A
«1       13                                HI    H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mi  H.  -i H    H-                                   H-2
1 4~, 
-                       43   4-A       4-4   13          jjj~~~~~~jjJ              II        I ~~~I         4                1            H-A-
~~JjProposed Rental Butldins 
- ~Proposed Residential Lots-                                                                                     4        4A     44        4
Greren Areas 
Trees                                        44     44       -E                                         j~H
Pr mary School                            E44                                                                                           4A      FA   -  E~  -
Roads                                           43                                                                 I44                    4 4
Footwoys                                                                                                 4A     FA      FA      A        4-m
l~~~~~44 14414   - P 411   tcrtnI ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ji3                                                   '    -LE-               I -
Sc herdu e  of Lots and Rental UnIts                                          4                                                -                                               -
ES 1&2                    25         30                                                                                                                                                  
E -4         752                     152                                                                                                                                    _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _    _ _  _  _
M1     40                     402.     -L
M-1 1                     1 6         1 5                                                               INDIA                                                                                       CHINA
1- 2               1           2                                                                    CALCUTTAPAKISTAN                                                                 -       42A
10    10                                          ~~SECOND  CLUT
-                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URBAN DEVELOPMENTI  PROJ% E C
4143                                         ~~~~~~~~TYPICAL FOUR HECTARE RESIDENTIAL CLUSTERNS
PHR..& 411A14 I,                      24                                        0                            55O                           100                                3
ASPI                                                                  METERS
14 21
NHtIDBAr ly                        1522 Si-/h.                                                                                                  44  HH1 44m4,3114 ;           - 4    
D-rIIy mjP 543041443414-           151 4 LJ-,l/,lI                                                                                               HI     1441'H                      1           SR, 14 K



