Document of
The World B;uk
FOR OFFIGIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 7364-TH
STAFE APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 22, 1989
Industry and Energy Division
Country Dep rtment II
Asia Regional Office
Thi docoanee. as a restdded distribution and may be used by recipins only in the performanoce of
tbef official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dbdosed wihoat Wodd Bank authrizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 1989)
Currency Unit = Thai Baht (B)
US$1 - S 25
B 1   -  US$0.04
GOVERNMENT AND EGAT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bpd       -       barrels per day
km        -       kilQmeter (0.62 miles)
ckm       -       circutit kilometer
km2       -       square kilometer
kV        -       kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA       -       kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA       -       megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-umperes)
kV        -       kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW        -       megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh       -       kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
GWh       -       gigawatt-hour (1 million kilowatt-hours)
m3        -       cubic meter
bm3       -       bank cubic meter
kcal      -       kilocalorie (3.97 British thermal units)
Gcal      -       gigacalorie (1 million kilocalorie)
ft3       -       cubic foot (0.0283 cubic meter)
tcf       -       trillion cubic feet
MMcfd     -       million standard cubic feet per day
MMBtu     -       million British thermal units
MMt       -       million metric tonnes
tpa       -       tonne per annum
toe       -       tonne of oil equivalent
MMtoe     -       million tonnes of oil equivalent
ppm               parts per million
ug        -       microgram (1 millionth of a gram)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAB      -       Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB       -       Asian Development Bank
DMR       -       Department of Mineral Resources
EGAT      -       Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ERR       -       Economic Rate of Return
ESMAP     -       Energy Sector Management Assistanceb Program
IFR       -       Internal Financial Rate of Return
LRMC      -       Long Run Marginal Cost
MEA       -       Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MIS       -       Management Information System
MOP       -       Ministry of Finance
NEA       -       National Energy Administration
NEPO      -       National Energy Policy Office
r-.SDB    -       National Economic and Social Development Board
OECF              Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PEA       -       Provincial Electricity Authority
PDP       -       Power Development Plan
PTT       -       Petroleum Authority of Thailand
RTG       -       Royal Thai Government



FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
Guarantor:             Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                US$90 million
Lending Terms:         Repayable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:   The project consists of a two-year (FY89-90) time
slice of EGAT's FY87-91 investment program. The
project would help meet the growth in power demand
expected over the medium-term and support the
concomitant development and economic use of
domestic lignite and natural gas. The project
involves the expansion of generation facilities,
the reinforcement and extension of transmission
systems, and other miscellaneous works.  The
project would also support measures to strengthen
EGAT's institutional and financial capabilities.
Benefits and Risks:    The project forms an integral part of .nAT's least-
cost expansion program. The bulk of the proposed
investments is predicated on the use of domestic
lignite and natural gas, both of which have been
shown to provide the most economic means of
producing electricity in Thailand. The risk of
implementation delays is minimal given EGAT's past
implementation record. There is also little risk
associated with the proposed expansion of the Mae
Moh lignite mine envisaged in the program, given
EGAT's satisfactory performance under two previous
Bank-assisted lignite projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiewis only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ix -
Estimated Costs
Local   Foreign       Total
EGAT's Investment Program (FY89-90)           ---- (US$ million) -----
Power Generation
Thermal                              244.7    790.4s    1,035.1
Hydro                                 25.3     30.4         55.7
Power Transmission                       80.8    139.6        220.4
Lignite Mining                           60.1      28.1        88.2
Miscellaneous                            54.2       8.0        62.1
Taxes and Duties                        186.6       -         186.6
Total Base Cost                      651-7    996.5      1,648.1
Contingencies
Physical                           47.5     86.4        134.0
Price                              40.3     63.2        103.6
Total Project Cost                   739.6  1,146.2      1,885.7
Interest during construction         129.3     22.4        151.7
Total Financing Required             868.9  1,168.5      2,n37.4
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign       Total
Sources                                      ----- (US$ million) -----
World Bank
Ongoing Power Transmision Project    -        110.0        110.0
Proposed Loan                          -       90.0         90.0
Other borrowings                        316.5    968.5      1,285.0
Internal cash generation                552.4       -         552.4
Total                                868.9  1,168.5      2,037.4
Estimated Disbursementst
Bank FY             FY90      FY91       FY92
----- (US$ million) ----
Annual              40.0      40.0       10.0
Cumulative          40.0      80.0       90.0
Rate of Returns 14S



- iii -
THAIL^N
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary
I.   THE ENERGY SECTOR ............................................                                                          1
A. Overview .............                                                                                           1
B.   Resource Endowment ......................................                                                      1
C.   Energy Consumption ......................................                                                      3
D.   Organization and Planning ...............................    4
E.   Energy Sector Issues and Strategy .......................                                                      5
II.   THE POWER SUBSECTOR ..........................................                                                          6
A.   Organization ............................................                                                      6
B.   The Power Market ........................................                                                      6
C.   Generation and Transmission Facilities ..................    7
D.   Fuel Options for Power Generation .......................    8
E.   EGAT's Power Development Plan ...........................   10
F.   Private Sector Participation ............................    12
G.   Sector Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement ......   13
III.  THE BORROWER .................................................    14
A.   Organization and Management .............................   15
B.   Staffing and Training ...................................   16
C.   Operational Performance .................................    17
D.   Financial Management ....................................    17
IV.   THE PROJECT ..................................................    19
A.   General .................................................    19
B.   Specific Project Components .............................    22
C.   Implementation of Project Components ....................   26
D.   Environment and Resettlement ............................   28
E.   Cost Estimates ..........................................    31
F.   Financing Plan ..........................................    32
G.       Procurement   ............................................                                               33
H.   Disbursements ...........................................    35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Thailand in
April/May 1988, comprising Jean-Paw.l Pinard (Mission Leader), Margaret Hanson
(Financial Analyst), Darayes Mehta (Senior Power Engineer), and Peter
Kotschwar (Principal Mining Engineer).



- iv -
Page- No.
V.   FINANCIAL A       N      A      L     YSIS ...........................................    35
A. EGAT's Past Performance .35
B. Present Financial Position .37
C. Financial Outlook .38
D. Lignite Mine Operations .39
E. Subsector Finances .41
F. Tariff Levels and Structure .42
G. Financing Plan .43
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .44
A. Economic Analysis .44
B. Project Risks ................  48
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .                  .48
A. Agreements .............                                           . 48
B. Recommendation .50
ANEXES
1.  Highlights of E'-AT, MEA and PEA Operations           .       .               51
2. EGAT's Existing Generating Capacity    .                   .52
3.  EGAT's Existing Transmission and Substation Facilities . .53
4. EGAT's Demand Forecast                ..54
5. EGAT's Power Development Plan    ..55
6.  Balance of System Load Requirements and Capabilities  . .57
7. EGAT Tariff Structure    ..58
8. Lignite Resources    ..59
9. Lignite Mine Component                ..65
10. EGAT's Investment Program FY89-90                      ..                      69
11.  A. Cost Estimate for Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Component                     73
B. Cost Estimate for Mae Moh Lignite Expansion Component                     75
12. Disbursement Schedule                ..76
13. EGAT's Past Financial Performance    ..77
14. EGAT's Financial Projections               ..80
15.  EGAT's Lignite Mine Operations - Financial Statements. .                      87
16. Power Subsector Financial Projections              .        .                  89
17. Comparison of Power Generation Options    .                  .93
18.  Rate of Return on EGAT's Power Development Plan   .              .95
19.  Rate of Return on Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Component                  97
20.  Rate of Return on Mae Moh Lignite Expansion Component . .98
21. List of Documents in Project File    ..100
CHART
EGAT's Organization Chart
IBRD No. 20579R



THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.1      The social and economic transformation of the Thai economy over the
past 25 years has resulted in rapid growth in energy consumption. Most of
this growth was initially met by energy imports: ac the time of the second
oil crisis in 1979/80, Thailand's dependence on imported oil was in excess of
902 of total primary commercial energy. In the ensuing years, however,
efforts made by the Royal Thai Government (RTG) to promote the development of
indigenous energy resources have had a visible 4mpact on the pattern of
commercial energy consumption: the share of oil has fallen markedly, being
reduced from 912 in 1977 ti 622 in 1987, with that of imported oil down to
52Z. Conversely, the shares of indigenous lignite and natural gas have grown
steadily, reaching 102 and 232, respectively. This notwithstanding, the
energy situation in Thailand remains characterized by relatively modest
commercial energy consumption in relation to the country's development (280
tonnes of oil equivalent [toe] per US$ million of GDP), with traditional
energy, particularly fuelwood, remaining the predominant fuel in rural
households. The outlook is therefore for rapid growth in commercial energy
consumption as the economy continues expanding.
1.2      Within this general context, the power system in Thailand has grown
at a rapid pace over the past two decades. Considerable progress has been
made in making electricity widely available, especially in provincial urban
areas. Industrial consumption has also been growing rapidly. Overall, growth
in power demand has consistently exceeded that of overall commercial energy
consumption. This has resulted in a per capita electricity consumption in
Thailand (about 550 kWh in 1988) higher than the average for countries at the
same income level. Similar trends are expected to prevail in the future as
the country's industrial and socio-economic development accelerates.
B. Resource Endowment
1.3      Thailand has a diversified energy resource base, consisting of bio-
mass, petroleum (oil and natural gas), lignite, hydropower, and geothermal
energy which is still at an exploratory stage in the Northern Region. Both
natural gas and lignite are poised to gain greater prominence in the country's
energy balance as key fuels for electricity generation over the next decade.
Oil and Gas
1.4      Thailand has a substantial potential for oil and gas:  some 170 mil-
lion barrels of liquid (crude oil and condensate) and 13 trillion cubic feet
(tcf) of gas (2.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent) already have been identi-
fied out of ultimate recoverable reserves estimated at 4-5 billion barrels of
oil equivalent.



- 2 -
1.5      Petroleum exploration has led to substantial gas discoveries:  in the
Gulf of Thailand, by Unoca' (previously, Union Oil) and Seagram (previously,
the Texas-Pacific Co., [TP]); and onshore at Nam Phong ifi the lUhorat basin by
Esso. Proven and probable economically recoverable gas reserves are currently
indicated at about 5.5 tcf. While, so far, only part of the Unocal zeserves
have been brought into production, output of natural gas is expectel to
increase sharply in future years as additional reserves are brought under
development. The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT), which owns and
operates the pipeline linking the Unocal fields to Bangkok, is currently
negotiating with Unocal and Esso for the purchase of additional quantities of
gas. PTT has also taken over the TP offshore concession area, which it
expects to brirng into production by the early-to-mid 1990s. Overall, gas
production, which averages about 500 million cubic feet per day (MMcfd) at
present, is expected to double over the next ten years. The development of
the gas sector, however, has been made difficult by the complex geology of
reservoirs which is responsible for a higher than usual degree of uncertainty
in production levels and costs. The main problem facing policy makers is
therefore to optimize the timing of the development of each area, taking into
account uncertainties in tne magnitude of economically recoverable reserves
and the lead-time required to develop a market for the gas, particularly in
the power sector which offecs some of its most economically attractive uses.
Lignite
1.6      Thailand's coal resources are all relatively low grade, of the
variety generally categorized as lignite. Geological lignite reserves amount
to a total of 2.1 billion to.anes, i.e., 450 million tonnes of oil equivalent
(IMtoe), 702 of which is in the Mae Moh basin in Northern Thailand which is
exploited by the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT). Econom-
ically mineable reserves are estimated at 730 million tonnes (MMt), of which
614 MMt are located in Mae Moh. Potential for additional discoveries is good;
recent nation-wide exploration by EGAT has resulted in a number of discover-
'ies, including in 1987 that of a major deposit at Saba Yoi in Soutbern
Thailand with potential reserves in excess of 200 MMt. Lignite production
increased over the last ten years from 0.6 HMt to almost 7 MMt in 1987, of
which 79% was at Mae Moh. Annual output is scheduled to expand futther to 11
MMt by 1991, mainly to fuel additional power generation capacity.
Hydropower
1.7      Thailand's hydropower potential, excluding that of its two main
international rivers--the Mekong and the Salween, is estimated at 9,300 MW.
Of this, about 2,250 MW, with an annual generation capability of 5,400 GWh,
have already been harnessed by EGAT in 48 units. However, higher investment
costs and environmental concerns are seen as major constraints to the further
development of hydro sites as evidenced by the recent shelving of a ma4or
hydro project (Nam Chon) for envirormental reasons. The hydro potential of
rivers within Thailand is dwarfed by that of rivers forming the Thai frontier



with Laos and Burma. The development of possible sites would require agree-
ment between the riparian powers, including in particular acceptable terms for
'rhailand to use a major part of the energy generated since the other countties
are unlikely to be in a position to &bsorb the energy provided by such
projects. Preliminary discussions have been initiated for a possible joint-
pro,ect with Burma, while feasibility studies are under way for a hydro
project in Laos.
Biomass
1.8      The process of modernization occurring in rural Thailand notwith-
standing, use of traditional fuels has remained predominart_ in rural areas.
About two thirds of the reliance on biomass consists of charcoal and firewood
use by rural households (at the rate of 10 MMtoe/year), and consequently
forests near inhabited areas are being heavily overcut. The remaining third
of biomass supply consists of bagasse and paddy husks used as fuel in the
sugar and rice industries. Thailand suffers from an increasing scarcity of
woodfuels and other wood products, particularly in the Northeast. A Woodfuel
Preinvestment Study was completed by the Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESMAP) in February 1988; the study recomnends that the Government aim
at curbing furthpr deterioration of the country's biomass endowment by
promoting the participation of the rural population in reforestation efforts.
A follow-up project, to be financed with bilateral assistance, has been
designed to support such a strategy.
C. Energy Consumption
Consumption Trends
1.9      Rapid economic growth in Thailand over the last two decades has been
accompanied by growing energy consumption. Final commercial energy consump-
tion grew at an average rate of 4.92 between 1977 and 1986. The sectoral
composition of energy demand has been marked by a progressive increase in the
share of the transport sector, which reached 54Z in 1986, accounting for 632
of petroleum products consumption. Electricity consumption has increased
faster than energy consumption as a whole. As a result, the share of elec-
tricity in final commercial energy consumption has grown from 102 to 152
between 1977 and 1986, with a similar increase in the share of electricity in
primary energy use (from 25Z to 332).
Energy Pricing
1.10     The Govet-nment has been attentive to the need to set energy prices at
levels above international prices for traded commodities and econom'c costs
for non-tradables. Thus, retail prices of the principal petroleum products
are, on average, higher than international prices. The Oii Stabilization
Fund, which was established by the Government in 1974 as a mechanism to dampen
the effect of large short-run movements in international oil prices on retail
product prices, is being progressively phased out with the stable trend now
envisaged for oil prices. In December 1987 the Government took a major step



-4-
towards flGating retail oil prices by tying local ex-refinery prices to the
world market through *.eekly price adjustments based on Singapore posted
prices. However, significant distortions still exist in the relative price
structure, particularly between diesel and gasoline. The Government is aware
that such distortions may, over time, encourage uneconomic decisions for
refinery investt.ents and interfuel substitution, and it has takell steps to
narrow down the remaining differences to reflect more closely the structure of
international prices and domestic refining costs.   Greater flexibility in
price setting will also facilitate maintenance of price parity between heavy
fuel oil and natural gas, the price of which is linked, inter alia, to a
basket of crude prices. Electricity tariffs have been raised regularly and
broadly reflect the marginal cost of power generation (paras. 5.22-5.25).
D. Organization and Planning
Ir Ititutional Framework
1.11     A number of well managed public institutions operate ia the energy
sector. The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT)-- the dominant entity in
the petroleum sector--is responsible, inter alia, for thn purchase, transport,
processing and sale of natural gas. The power sector is organized around
thr-e state enterprises: EGAT, which is responsible for power generation and
transmission, the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) and the Provincial
Electricity Authority (PEA) responsible for power distribution in the Bangkok
metropolitan area and the rest of the country, respectively.
1.12     The main weakness of the sector's organization in the past has been
the lack of an effective coordinating body to help harmonize investment plans
and policies. Energy sector polic' and ilanning traditionally involve the
National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB), which is under the
Office of the Prime Minister and oversees public investment planning; the
National Energy Administration (NEA), under the Ministry of Science and Tech-
nology, which is primarily engaged in the promotion of energy conservation and
the development of renewable resources; and the Department of Mineral
Resources 'TMR) of the Ministry of Industry, which is responsible for regulat-
ing petroleum and lignite exploration and production on behalf of the Govern-
ment. Policy coordination has been further complicated by the fact that the
main public enterprises operating in the sector report to different ministries
(e.g., PTT to the Ministry of Industry and EGAT to the Office of the Prime
Minister). The establishment in 1986 of the National Energv Policy Committee
(NEPC), which acts on behalf of tl'e Cabinet on all matters related to energy
policy and planning, with the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO) under the
Prime Minister's Office serving as its secretariet, has improved significantly
the effectiveness of sector coordination, particularly by facilitating the
interface between the petroleum, power and refining subsectors.
1.13     While public enterprises engaged in the energy sector enjoy a large.
degree of autonomy in the conduct of day-to-day operations, they are subject
to strict government control in all matters related to investment planning and



- -
financing. In particular, reflecting growing concern over public sector
indebtedness, recent government reforms have Introduced stringent procedures
for the control of public debt. All loans made by public enterprises requir-
ing government guarantee must now be approved by the National Debt Policy
Committee and by the Cabinet, and subsequently endorsed by the Fiscal Policy
Office of the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, in 1985, a Nation&l State Enter-
prise Committee was appointed under the Prime Minister to monitor compliance
by public enterprises with government guidelines in the area of pricing.
These procedures have not affected the efficient operation of power utilities.
Role of the Private Sector
1.14     The Government s.as made increased participation of private investors
in the energy sector one of the main planks of its energy program. Participa-
tion of the private sector is already prominent in the petroleum industry,
particularly in the exploration and production of oil and gas, refining of
petroleum, and import and distribution of petroleum products. The Government
is conscious of the need to maintain Thailand's competitiveness vis-a-vis
other countries in attracting foreign investment, and petroleum legislatiL.I
has been updated accordingly in 1987 to provide additional incentives for the
international oil industry to undertake petroleum exploration in Thailand.
The local private industry has also begun to play an increasingly significant
role in the lignite industry, which is dominated by EGAT's operation of large
captive mines of low quality lignite for power use--first, as subcontractors
to EGAT at the Mae Moh mine for the removal of overburden and, secondly, as
the suppliers of high-quality lignite to industrial users. A lignite study
was initiated in 1988 by ESMAP to assess, inter alia, the potential for non-
power uses of lignite and the role to be played by the private sector in
meeting this potential.  Current efforts made by the Government to identify
means of expanding private participation in the power sector, which is
presently limited to a small amount of captive generation, are discussed in
paras. 2.15-2.16.
E. Energy Sector Issues and Strategy
1.15     Thailand's heavy dependence on petroleum imports along with rapidly
escalating oil prices in the 19709 prompted the RTG to pay special attention
to the energy sector. The Government's strategy emphasizes (a) rational
development of domestic resources; (b) energy conservation, to be encouraged
in part through economically efficient pricing of energy resources; and
(c) increased reliance on private sector initiatives. The share of indigenous
energy resources increased substantially during the Fifth Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan (FY82-86) and is expected to continue expanding as arrangements are
made, in cooperation with the oil companies, for the development of the most
economic discovered gas fields, and as EGAT accelerates the exploitation of
the Mae Moh lignite mine. Mechanisms for regular adjustment of energy prices
to reflect developments in world markets have been introduced and electricity
tariffs have been raised regularly in line ?ith increases in the cost of power
generation.



- 6 -
1.16     The Govertment is now focussing its attention on (a) optimization of
public investment in the sector, in particular for power generation, gas
development and petroleum refining; and (b) investigating avenues for greater
participation by the private sector. As regards the power subsector, this has
translated into a detailed review by RTG of EGAT's load forecast to ensure
that the magnituds of its Power Development Plan (PDP) is appropriate to the
country's circumstances. Separately, the Government has Initiated studies to
help determine the conditions under which private resources could be mobilized
to finance investment for power generation in view of the large investment
program required in the years ahead. The Government is also aware of the need
for strengtnening intrasectoral coordination in view of the increased comple-
xity of relationships among the public enterprises involved in the sector. In
the absence of a ministry of energy, the recent establishment of NEPO in the
Prime Minister's Office is expected to help harmonize investment programs and
policies. The sector would also benefit from some reinforcement of contrac-
tual relationships among public enterprises. Arrangements between PTT and the
Bangchak refinery for the purchase of crude and offtake of products have
recently been rationalized. There is room for a similar formalization of gas
offtake arrangements between EGAT and PTT.
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Organization
2.1      The rapid growth of the power system has been facilitated by an
intricate but comparatively efficient subsector organization. In iddition co
EGAT, MEA and PEA (para. 1.11). many other government entities are involved in
power planning, policy making and sector coordination., Yet, while no one
agency has overall policy responsibility for the sector, anid most decisions
are reached by consensus, intrasectoral coordination has been relatively
effective. This has been facilitated by institutional arrangements embodied
in (a) the Load Forecast Working Group, which comprises representatives of
NEPC, NESDB, NEA, EGAT, MEA and PEA, r.-d is responsible for preparing a common
power forecast; and (b) specific rate adjustment proce.ares designed to ensure
that each utility generates an adequate proportion of its investment while at
the same time preventing cash imbalances. These arrangements work reasonably
well. Statistics on recent EGAT, MEA and PEA operations are in Annex 1.
B. The Power Market
2.2      The electricity market has grown at a very rapid pace over the past
two decades. Tot. , sales of electricity and per capita consumption increased
from 467 GWh and 19 kWh, respectively, in 1961 to about 23,800 GWh and 460 kWh
in 1987. Growth since 1980 has averaged 9.5% p.a. (compared to an average GDP
growth rate of 5.0Z). Over the years, the industrial sector has become the
major electricity consumer, accounting for 442 -f electricity sales in FY87.
Recent growth, however, has been fueled largely by a substantial expansion in
residential consumption both in urban and rural areas. As a result, EGAT's
daily load curves have shown an increasingly pronounced evening peak. There
is limited scope in the foreseeable future for suppressing the contribution
made to the system peak by small consumers through conventional load manage-



- 7 -
ment techniques. Significant opportunities exist, nowever, for reducing the
demand of large industrial consumers at system peak time. partly through the
introduction of time-of-day tariffs as EGAT is now considering (para. 5.25).
2.3      Thailand is experiencing a sharp upsurge in economic activity after
several years of relatively slow growth, following Government's implementation
of a program of structural adjustment to control the fiscal and external
imbalances that developed in the early 1980s. This turnabout became apparent
during the first half of 1986 and has since gained momentum. The growth of
GDP was 7.4Z in FY87 and 10.4Z in FY88. It has translated into much higher
than expected growth in electricity demand (14Z in FY87) and the outlook is
for continued rapid growth over the medium term. Taking these developments
into account, in February 1988 EGAT revised its load forecast and reformulated
its PDP, with emphasis on acceleration of generation capacity additions to
keep system reliability at acceptable levels during the early 1990s.
2.4      EGAT's revised load forecast (Table 2.1) envisages a 12? growth rate
in electricity generation over the next three years. This is reasonable in
view of the high GDP growth rate anticipated for the same period (6.3Z) and
the high historical elasticity of demand for electricity in periods of rapid
economic growth. These projections have been endorsed by the Government as
providing a suitable basis for planning purposes.
Table 2.1: EGAT LOAD FORECAST, 1988-2001
FY88    FY91       FY96     FY01
Peak Generation (MW)    5,444    7,440   11,066   15,112
Net Energy Generation
(GWh)                 31,990   45,062   69,065   96,373
Annual Load Factor (X)   68.1       69.1     71.3      72.8
Growth Rates
(average Z p.a.)
Peak Generation            11.0       8.3      6.4
Net Energy Generation      12.1       8.9      6.9
C. Generation and Transmission Facilities
2.5      As of July 1988, EGAT's installed capacity was approximately 6,900 MW
with another 675 MW under construction. Generating facilities (Annex 2)
consist of conventional thermal plants (52%), hydropower (33?), combined cycle
plants (11Z) and combustion turbines (4Z).1/ Over the years, EGAT has
1/  Combined cycle plants consist of internal combustion turbines, waste
heat recovery boilers to generate steam using the hot exhaust gases
from those turbines, and steam turbines to generate additional
electricity. Combined cycle plants are designed to optimize the use of
natural gas in generating electricity; however, alternative fuels are
limited to costly distillate fuel oil or diesel oil.



- 8 -                                                  I
converted most of its oil-based thermal capacity (2,400 MW) to dual oil/gas
firing to take advantage of the increasing availability of natural gas. Other
thermal plants include lignite-fired units (865 MW) and the remaining oil-
fired units (340 MW). The share of gas-dedicated capacity (i.e., essentially
the combined cycle units) has r-mained low and the system has an inbuilt
flexibility to adjust easily to changes in the fuel supply situation.
Overall, there has been a substantial substitution away from fuel oil, with
EGAT's oil consumption declining from 2.5 MMt in FY80 to 0.6 Mt in FY87 when
natural gas consumption for power generation reached 396 MMcfd and lignite
consumption, 5.7 MMt. By FY87, the share of oil-based generation had been
reduced to 82, down from a peak of 81% in FY80. Electricity purchases from
Laos accounted for another 22 of total generation.
2.6      Plans for additional generation capacity were deferred for some time
partly because of the slowdown in economic activity during the mid-80s and
Government's decision to deter noncritical public investment so as to minimize
public sector indebtedness. As a result, the hitherto comfortable plant
reserve margin is expected to deteriorate substantially in the short term due
to the recent resurgence in the demand for electricity. EGAT may be further
handicapped in meeting peak demand over the next few years by the low water
levels in hydro plant reservoirs due to a succession of dry years and the
competing demand for irrigation.
2.7      EGAT's transmission facilities are tabulated in Annex 3.  In addition
to the construction of transmission lines and substations required to evacuate
the output of new generation plants, EGAT is progressively developing a trans-
mission system to serve various areas of the country. At present, EGAT
operates 16,554 circuit-kilometers (ckm) of transmission lines, including 326
ckm constructed for 500 kV.
D. Fuel Options for Power Generation
2.8      EGAT has several fuel options on which to base its long-term
generation expansion strategy. For base-load generation these options include
natural gas, lignite, fuel oil and imported coal. Thailand has no major hydro
schemes suitable for base load generation--apart from those that could develop
following international agreements. Many issues are involved in making the
appropriate fuel choices. With respect to indigenous energy resources
(natural gas and lignite), the principal factors include the magnitude of
economically exploitable reserves, their respective timing, and economic costs
in relation to the price of alternative fuels. A constant re-examination of
the program is thus inevitable in view of the uncertainties involved.
2.9      Within the range of foreseeable prices and costs, both natural gas
and lignite score over imported coal and fuel oil although imported coal is
seen to play a major role in EGAT's plans for years after 1996 when presently
4dentified reserves of gas and lignite could be fully committed. In a
comparison of generating costs based on current and anticipated fuel price
relationships (Table 2.2; see Annex 17 for assumptions and details), combined
cycle plants are shown to be the most attractive option because of their lower



-9-
capital and running costs, shorter construction period and higher efficiency
compared to conventional steam units. However, because combined cycle plants
can only operate using natural gas or middle distillates (which are more
expensiva than fuel oil by about -.)-40Z), the attractiveness of the combined
cycle option hiages on the long-term supply availability of natural gas. Any
long-term supply constraint, however, can be skirted by relying on dual-fired
(gas/fuel oil) conventional steam plants. Generating costs in lignite-fired
and gas-fired steam plants are comparable when differentials in transmission
requirements are factored in, and both are lower than imported coal-based
generation costs. Although both natural gas and lignite are available in
substantial quantities, both need to be developed to meet the growing
requirements of the power sector. Moreover, the timing of development of gas
fields which depends on agreements to be reached with oil companies has proved
difficult to predict accurately, while there are technical and institutional
constraints on the pace at which the Mae Moh lignite mine can be developed.
To minimize the risk of fuel disruptions, EGAT's PDP is based on balanced
reliance on the two fuels, which are being developed in parallel with the
common objective of deferring the development of coal-fired capacity as much
as possible.
Table 2.2: COMPARISON OF POWER GENERATION OPTIONS
(Economic co;ts of generation in USC per kWh at 1988 prices) la
Combined
__   Conventional Steam Plants --------            Cycle
(Coal)    (Lignite)    (Fuel Oil)    (Gas)         (Gas)
Capacity charge          2.3         2.2            1.4         1.4          1.3
Energy charge
in 188                1.6         1.3            2.0         2.0         1.8
in 1996                2.0         1.4            2.8         2.3         2.1
Total Generating Costs
in 1988                3.8         3.5            3.4         3.4         3.1
in 1996                4.3         3.6            4.3         3.7         3.4
/a With load factor of 70Z.
Source: Annex 17
The Natural Gas Option
2.10     The future of gas-based generation relates closely to both the supply
and cost of natural gas. As indicated in para. 1.5, gas production is
projected to double over the next ten years, with the power sector expected to
remain the main gas consumer. The viability of possible gas development
schemes is being worked out by PTT so as to guarantee competitiveness with



- 10 -
fuel oil (cif in Bangkok); royalty payments by the producer (12.5 both on gas
and recovered condensate) further improve the economic attractiveness of
natural gas vis-a-vis fuel oil and imported coal, in the case of coal largely
because of the high capital costs of coal-fired plants. A delicate planning
issue will be to optimize the balance between the use of gas in dual-fired
(oil/gas) thermal plants and in more efficient combined cycle plants which, as
indicated earlier, require an assured long-term supply of ratural gas.
Complexities involved in the negotiating process with oil companies have
hindered attempts at optimizing the development of the gas sector, let alone
the necessary integration of gas and power development plans. For these
reasons, as well as its limited operational experience with combined cycle
plants, EGAT has chosen to follow a cautious approach to combined cycle
expansion (Table 2.3); this approach is appropriate under the circumstances.
As its experience with combined cycle plants grows, and the gas market in
Thailand reaches greater maturity, EGAT would be treading on firmer ground in
maximizing its reliance on combined cycle installations.
The Lignite Option
2.11     Lignite production for power generation is concentrated at the Mae
Moh open pit mine in Northern Thailand. Delineation of the deposit has
essentially been completed. As indicated in para. 1.6, economically mineable
reserves are estimated at 614 MMt, which would support an ultimate installed
capacity of about 2,900 MW, necessitating lignite production of 19 million tpa
by 1996. The volume of economically mineable reserves was determined on the
basis of, inter alia, a cutoff cost of US$10/Gcal or US$25/tonne (based on an
average estimated heating value of 2,500 Kcalikg). This is in line with the
expected loaag-term import price of coal and provides a suitable basis for
sector planning. Based on current economic costs of production (about
US$13/tonne or US$5.1/Gcal), domestic lignite is, as indicated earlier,
competitive with imported coal (Annex 20, p.2); the separate accounts set up
for EGAT's lignite mining operations under prerious Bank-financed projects
will provide a convenient instrument to monitor the competitiveness of lignite
as both lignite production costs and international coal prices evolve in the
future.
E. EGAT's Power Development Plan
2.12     EGAT's latest power development plan (PDP) reflects the load forecast
presented in Table 2.1. The Bank has had a significant input in its formula-
tiunt, first through the 1985 Energy Assessment Report (Report No. 5793-TH),
which advocated increased reliance on domestic lignite and natural gas for
thermal generation and, more recently, through a study carried out by ESMAP
jointly with RTG on appropriate investment strategies in the light of
uncertain oil prices. EGAT's investment program is in line with the
recommendations made in these two studies, and involves an immediate
acceleration of generation capacity additions to keep system reliability at
acceptable levels during the early 1990s. EGAT's PDP also takes account of
the expectation of a more abundant supply of natural gas over the next 10-20
years, including a "gas/lignite" phase in the medium term foilowed by a "coal"
phase starting around 1997 when presently known reserves of lignite and



- 11 -
natural gas could be fully committed. EGAT's long-term generation expansion
program was reviewed during project appraisal and found reasonable (Annex 5).
It is summarized in Table 2.3:
Table 2.3: EGAT's POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN (FY89-2001)
(CAPACITY ADDITIONS IN MW) /a
Type of Facility              FY89-91      FY92-96     FY97-01        Total
Steam Plants
Natural Gas /b                   -        1,200            -        1,200
Lignite                        600        2,435       1,500         4,535
Coal                             -            -       3,000         3,000
Fuel oil                        75            -       (200)         (125)
Combined Cycles                1,440          320            -        1,760
Hydro                            180          560         560         1,300
Gas Turi,ines                      -        (165)         (30)        (195)
Total                      2,295        4,350       4,830        11,475
la Net of retirement of 425 MW of existing capacity.
Jb Units will be equipped for dual gas/oil firing.
2.13     EGAT's projections assume an average energy growth of 122 p.a. during
FY89-91 (Annex 4). They indicate that the system's firm generating capacity
(defined as total dependable capacity (hydro and thermal] less dependable
capacity of the first and second largest units in the system) would go below
system peak demand in 1989-90 and would be barely above peak demand in mid-
1991. This underscores the need for EGAT to expedite the installation of
additional capacity, and further justifies the prioritv given to facilities
with short construction periods such as combined-cycle plants, part of wltose
power output becomes available as soon as the gas turbine portion of the plant
has been completed (roughly 12-15 months after construction start-up).
2.14     EGAT's tranamission program is aimed at txtending high voltage 230 kV
and 115 kV transmission facilities to all provinces of Thailand by the mid-
1990s. The extra high voltage 500 kV transmission system, which is super-
imposed on the 230 kV system, is required for bulk power transmission to
accommodate the large-scale development of lignite-fired power plants at Mae
Moh. EGAT's transmission development plan, shown in Table 2.4, is considered
reasonable.



- 12 -
2.15     Overall, EGAT's PDP is apprepriate to the present circumstances.
Project supervision would provide the Bank with an opportunity to review
regular updates of EGAT's PDP to monitor in particular the impact of changes
in power demand and fuel supply scenarios on the composition and magnitude of
power investments.
Table 2.4: EGAT's TRANSMISSION DEVELOPMENT PLAN (FY88-2001)
FY88-91   FY92  S   FY97-01    Total
Transmission Lines
(in ckm)
500 kV /a                      210       869       194      1,273
230 kV                       1,170       932          -     2,102
115 kV                         788     1,225         -      2,013
Total                     2,168      3,026       194      5,388
la  Excluding conversion of 326 km of 230 kV lines to 550 kV.
F. Private Sector Participation
2.16     Out of a general concern over the magnitude of the public debt, the
Government is investigating ways of encouraging private initiatives in sectors
of the economy dominated by the public sector.  The development of Thailand's
power system has been particularly capital intensive and a major burden on the
financial resources available to the country. Accordingly, one approach
pursued by the Government is to seek ways of facilitating private-sector par-
ticipation in the generation of electricity. With initial assistance from
NEA, the private sector has already become involved in an effort to build a
number of small hydroelectric plants operated as cooperatives. The potential
for mini-hydropower development, however, is limited by high seasonality,
which makes it difficult to match demand requirements in the case of isolated
systems, and relatively high cost compared to that of grid-power.
2.17     A further step would involve developing new technologies and
resources as alternatives to those traditionally used by electric utilities,
such as industrial cogeneration and small-scale systems based on agricultural
wastes (bagasse, rice husks anl sugar cane wastes, in particular); these two
options are expected to be economicilly and financially viable in relation to
EGAT's own generation costs, although the increment in generation capacity
would be small. A waste-to-energy system designed to use municipal waste to
generate electricity in Bangkok is also under consideration. Besides bringing
private capital into the power system, the development of such alternatives
would also improve the overall efficiency of energy utilization and increase
the use of indigenous fuels. A longer-term objective would be to identify the



- 13 -
conditions under which private investors could be involved in the financing of
electric utility operations. At the Government's request, EGAT is reviewing
the above options to determine how they can be incorporated into its own power
planning framework. One such option would be to follow the BOOT (Build, Own,
Operate and Transfer) approach, whereby the private sector would mobilize the
financing for constructing and initially operating new generating plants
against guaranteed electricity offtake agreements. Methodologies and policies
would need to be developed for setting demand and energy charges for the sale
of power to t- grid at appropriate levels, taking EGAT's avoided costs into
account. EG. and RTG are presently reviewing the amounts of power which
could be purchased from outside supplies without jeopardizing the reliability
of supply.
G. Sector Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement
Experience with Past Loans
2.18     The Bank has made 15 loans to Thailand for power, of which twelve
heve been made to EGAT and its predecessor for financing expansion of
electricity generation and transmission facilities, and three to PEA for rural
electrification. Of the twelve loans to EGAT, ten have been fully disbursed
and one is almost so. Of the loans to PEA, one has been fully disbursed and
the other two are proceeding satisfactorily.
2.19     In thie .ast several years, EGAT completed three Bank-financed
projects for power generation: Bang Pakong thermal (Loan 1690-TH) and Khao
Laem hydro (Loan 1770-TH) in 1985, and Pattani hydro (Loan 1485-TH) in 1983.
The corresponding project completion reports and project performance audit
reports highlight EGAT's financial recovery following the oil price increases
of the 1970s from a -2Z rate of retu.rn on revalued assets in FY79 to 9.1Z in
FY86.  These projects were completec on schedule and within the appraisal cost
estimates with the exception of the Khao Laem hydro project which was 12
months behind schedule and had a 42 cost overrun because of unexpected
complications in civil works. One lesson learned from previous experience is
that careful consideration needs to b. given to subsurface investigations
before embarking on large power projects so as to minimize the risk of cost
overruns on civil works. This was taken into account when reviewing the
provisions made for site extension for the proposed project.
2.20     Bank participation in the power subsector has helped EGAT to develop
into a technically competent and efficient power utility. The Bank's associa-
tion with PEA is elso oriented towards achieving major institutional improve-
ments. Through its continuing dialogue with the subsector institutions, the
Bank has been instrumental in the implementation of adequate overall electri-
city tariff levels, ensuring the sector's financial soundness and the cost
effectiveness of oower generation investments. Bank-sponsored sector work in
investment planning and energy pricing also represented significant contribu-
tions towards improving sector coo.dination. Overall, the Bank's presence in
the power subsector has helped ensure that utilities were soundly managed and
has encouraged other lenders to provide investment financing for the subsector
on favorable terms.



- 14 -
2.21     In the lignite mining subsector, the Bank has made two loans to BOAT
to finance the development of the Mae Moh mine. The first loan (Loan
1852-TH), which financed expansion of production capacity from 1 million tpa
to 2.8 million tpa, was closed in April 1988: a PCR is under preparation. The
second loan (Loan 2407-TH) is supporting further expansion of production
capacity to 5 million tpa. Through these two projects EGAT received
substantial technical assistance that has led to improved capabilities in all
aspects of mining operations, including the exploration for and evaluation of
lignite reserves in ether parts of the country. Establishment of a mine
accounting system separate from accounts for power operations and the carrying
out of a lignite pricing study have enabled the monitoring of costs and
establishment of an internal lignite pricing formula based on appropriate
economic and financial criteria.
Bank Strategy in the Sector
2.22     The Bank has been closely involved in the financing of EGAT's power
generation, transmission and lignite mining investments in the past. Its con-
tinuing participation assisting in the formulation of sound investment
decisions in a rapidly changing economic environment is a next logical step in
this involvement.  Specific ways in which the Bank would contribute to the
power subsector would be (a) in providing a continuous review of EGAT's PDP to
ensure that optimum decisions are made in regard both to its composition and
overall magnitude; (b) in seeking to improve intrasectoral coordination
through Bank involvement in both the petroleum and power subsectors; (c) in
monitoring power tariffs through financial covenants to ensure that EGAT and
the power subsector are financially able to undertake and operate future
system expansions effectively; and (d) in contributing to EGAT's policy
assessment in the areas of demand management and reserve requirements. The
Bank would also assist the Government in monitoring the continued orderly
development of the lignite mining sector and provide vital inputs in
addressing crucial long-term environmental concerns. Based on this general
assessment of areas where the Bank would be in a position to contribute
effectively to the strengthening of government policies and company opera-
tions, given that both have already reached a high level of maturity, the Bank
strategy is to combine the financing of high-priority projects that provide a
vehicle to address the above issues through regular supervision, together with
sector work focusing on areas of particular concern to RTG (e.g., lignite
utilization, refinery investment planning, gas pricing for non-power users).
1II. THE BORROWER
3.1      The Borrower of the proposed loan would be the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand (EGAT), which was established in 1968 by a merger of
three generation and transmission authorities. EGAT operates as a bulk
supplier of electricity, relying on MEA and PEA for retail distribution except
for a few large industrial consumers. EGAT is owned wholly by the Government
of Thailat.1 and comes under the direct jurisdiction of the Prime Minister. It



- 15 -
is a well-run organization, capable of managing the substantial growth in
investment and electricity sales expected over the project period without
significant change in staff levels or organization.
A. Organization and Management
3.2      EGAT functions as a modern public utility and enjoys a considerable
degree of autonomy in its day-to-day operations. Although decisions concern-
ing planning, contracting, pricing, and financing of investment are subject to
Government's vetting, EGAT management provides the predominant inputs. EGAT's
operational and policy decisions are made by a Board of Directors, which
consists of a Chairman and not more than ten other members, including the
General Manager. With the exception of the General Manager, the Board
members, who are appointed by the Council of Ministers, act in a part-time
capacity. Implementation of the. Board's decisions is the responsibility of
EGAT's management.
3.3      EGAT's operations are divided into six divisions, each headed by a
Deputy General Manager: Administration, Accounting and Finance, Hydropower
and Transmission System Development, Thermal Power and Mine Development,
Transmission System Operation, and Power Plant Operation. Separate depart-
ments for Legal, Internal Audit, Economic Policy, Power System Planning, Cor-
porate Planning, Public Relations, and Research and Development report
directly to the General Manager (see Chart 1). EGAT's organizational struc-
ture is sound and appropriate to its operational needs.
Thermal Power Development Directorate
3.4      The Thermal Power Development Directorate is responsible for
engineering and construction of new thermal power plants and for general
construction work. The Thermal Engineering Department has a staff strength of
about 330; it employs consultants to the extent necessary to meet its workload
and to avail itself of expertise in specialized areas. The Thermal
Construction Department has a staff strength of about 1,500; it lets out work
on contract as required depending on the number of projects simultaneously
under construction. The Directorate's workload is expected to be very high
over the next 5-10 years and the proposed project will therefore need to draw
substantially upon external assistance for both design and construction.
Lignite Mine Directorate
3.5      The Lignite Mine Directorate consists of a central office in Bangkok
and field offices in Mae Moh and Krabi; the latter have direct operational
responsibilities for the mines. The headquarters office consists of four
departments responsible for geology, planning, feasibility studies and
technical designs, respectively. EGAT operates its mining activities as
separate profit centers with their own accounts and financial statements.
There is a separate Mine Accounting Section within EGAT's Controller's
Department. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that EGAT would
continue to operate its mining activities as separate profit centers, and to
maintain separate accounts and financial statements for each center.



- 16 -
Power System Planning Department
3.6      EGAT's Power System Planning Department is responsible for survey.
site investigation, planning of generation and transmission projects, economic
studies, power develcpment programming and system planning, financial fore-
casting and review of tariffs. The Department is well staffed and makes an
extensive use of computer models whose scope and quality art among the best in
East Asia. It also oversees all EGAT's electronic data processing activities;
as such, it plans, installs equipment, and develops and maintains all the
users' eoftware in relation to teleprocessing within the corporation. The
Department is currently in the process of acquiring a new central mainframe
computer and updating its satellite minicomputer systems. With the
introduction of the new systems, EGAT would be in a position to greatly expand
and improve its management infQrmation system (MIS) and introduce such
facilities as computerized maintenance management.
B. Staffing and TraininB
3.7      EGAT's management and staff are competent and well qualified.  as of
1987 over half of the staff had received some form of higher education, and
the number of university graduates as a percentage of total staff increased
substantially during the 1982 to 1987 period, rising from 12Z to 172. EGAT
staffing ratio is five employees per MW installed. The main reason for this
somewhat high ratio is that EGAT carries out most of its field investigations,
survey and geological explorations using its own staff and maintains a large
construction force for the construction of access roads, site preparation
works and installation of equipment.  Since construction workers are not given
permanent employment status, EGAT has been able to reduce its manpowe- over
the last three years after completion of its last two generation projects.
EGAT's staff amounted to 31,110 as of September 30, 1987 (Table 3.1), of which
about 6,000 are on temporary status.  With the proposed substantial increase
in EGAT's generating capacity between 1989 and 1991, the ratio of staff to
installed capacity is projected to decrease over the next five years.
Table 8.1: EoAT STAFFING EVOLUTION
Increase
1982-87
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY66  FY87   X p.*.
University graduates          8,282  8,800  4,866  4,6832  4,610 5,210   10.0
Diploma and higher
professional education      3,369  4,011  4,529  4,662  4,798 4,479    6.9
Higher vocational education   6,163  6,026  8,680  6,765  6,611 6,489    4.7
Others                       16,016 16,240 16,632 18,754 16,138 14,932    (0.1)
Tota1                    26,789 30,077 32,167 31,801 31,157 31,110    3.1
Source: EGAT.



- 17 -
3.8      Training falls under the overall responsibility of EGAT's Aiministra-
tion Department. EGAT has three training centers for technical and managerial
training, with the largest center at the Bang Pakong Thermal Power Complex.
This center provides training in the operation and maintenance of power plants
and transmission systems, and is equipped with a replica simulator of the Bang
Pakong steam power plant. EGAT's training program is ccmprised of three
courses: (a) basic--for apprentices; (b) upgrading--for promotion to higher
positions; and (c) management--for senior officers. Training is imparted both
by in-house and external staff through regular courses and special seminars.
and is adequate to EGAT's needs. During FY87 alone, almost 8,000 employees
attended a training program.
3.9      EGAT's Lignite Mining Department also has a training center at Mae
Moh. In-house training is supplemented with training abroad financed under
bilateral grants. The most fruitfui and continuing technical assistance has
been provided by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB), which
has assisted in previous lignlte expansion projects and imparted specialized
training to EGAT's mining staff.
C. Operational Performance
3.10     EGAT operates its plants and equipment properly, and its efficiency
compares favorably with that ot ..he better run utilit4es in the developing
world. EGAT conducts regular maintenance within stipulated intervals, but
while the standards observed for major maintenance work are satisfactory,
further improvement would be achieved through the introduction of a
computerized maintenance management system. Power losses, including betL
transmission and generation losses, amount to slightly less than 92 of
electricity produced, with estimated transmission losses being about 5Z and
auxiliary consumption being nearly 4X of generation. Network losses are
relatively high when compared to thuse recorded for the more developed power
grids of countries such as South Korea and Japan. but are reasonable ir. vIew
of EGAT's large transmission system which is still under evolution. Network
losses are projected to decline in the 1990s, with the implementation of
EGAT's high voltage and extra high voltage transmission expansion programs
(para. 2.14).
3.11     EGAT has an excellent record in project cost control, implementation
and management. It has. been borrowing from the Bank since 1957 and is very
familiar with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Processing of tenders and
award of contracts are undertaken equitably and expeditiously.
D. Financial Management
Accounting
3.12     EGAT's accounting system conforms to modern power utility practices.



- 18 -
The staff is well qualified and competent. Accounting applications uuch as
general ledgers, payroll, inventory transactions, accounts payable, and
accounts receivable have been fullv computerized. EGAT prepares annual
budgets for its capital and operating expenditures. Periodically, reports are
prepared enabling management to compare actual results against budgeted
amounts.  The budget process haR been operating satisfactorily.
3.13     EGAT's billing and collection system is adequate.  Accounts receiv-
able decreased front an average of 76 days of sales at the end of FY87 to 70
days at the end of FY88. In accordance with a government regulation requiring
all state enterprises to collect receivables within 60 days, EGAT's accounts
receivable have declined and are projected to be 60 days by the end of FY89.
EGAT's efforts to reduce its receivables, however, are htndered by PEA's
inability to collect its own bills promptly. At the end of FY87, EGAT's
receivables from PEA averaged 76 days, those from MEA, 66 days and from EGAT's
direct customers, 49 days. Given PEA's difficulty in reducing its own
receivables, the target set for EGAT of 60 days of receivables is appropriate.
3.14     EGAT has been developing an online MIS since 1984.  Currently, over
200 reports dealing vith operational and financial mat_ers, construction,
procurement and personnel, can be retrieved. Although the system is not fully
integrated--a step which depends on the procurement of a mainframe computer--
it is already used by EGAT's top management oa a regular basis. Plans to
upgrade the MIS system are under way with the assistance of a consultant.
Audit
3.15     EGAT has an Internal Audit Department with a staff of 62 auditors,
which reports directly to the General Manager. The Internal Audit Department
reviews the accounts of each operating unit throughout the year as they are
compiled by the Controller's Department. EGAT's year-end financial statements
are also reviewed, primarily to check for accuracy and compliance with
regulations of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). There would now be scope for
EGAI to broaden its internal a:dit function to deal not only with purely
financial issues but also with operational aspects including internal
procedures and efficiency improvement measures.
3.16     EGAT's external audit is performed by the Office of the Auditor
General, the government orgrAnization responsible for auditing all state enter-
prises. The international accounting firm, Coopers and Lybrand, has been
retained as financial consultant to cooperate with the Auditor General and
issue a separate report on EGAT's annual accounts. To date, reports have been
submitted on time and the performance of the consultant has been satisfactory.
As provided under previous Bank loans, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that EGAT would submit to the Bank unaudited quarterly and
audited annual financial statements for its mining operations and EGAT as a
whole, on both an unconsolidated and consolidated basis, w1thin six months of
the close of each fiscal year. EGAT also agreed during negotiations to
continue employment of independent auditors.



- 19 -
Insurance
3.17     In FY79, EGAT shifted to a self-insurance program and established a
sinking fund to which it contributes annually an amount equal to what it would
have paid otherwise as insurance premia.  Under Lo,an 2407-TH, EGAT's self-
insurance policy and procedures were evaluated by an independent expert and
deemed satisfactory by the Bank. The status of the sinking fund was reviewed
during project appraisal and found adequate. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with EGAT that it would continue to make provisions satisfactory
to the Bank to provide insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Taxes
3.18     Prior to September 30, 1982, EGAT was exempted by a Cabinet
Resolution from the requirement to remit any of its net income to the HOF
because power tariff increases had lagged behind the rise in oil prices.
Under a January 1983 Resolution, however, and following successive tariff
adjustments, it was determined that EGAT would remit a portion of its net
income to the MOF as determined by the Ministry on a periodic basis. EGAT has
been remitting taxes each year at a level which has risen from 52 of net
Income in FY82, to an agreed 15Z in FY88-90 subject to EGAT's attaining a
self-financing ratio of at least 25? (para. 5.5).
3.19     Customs duties and business taxes on imported equipment and materials
for EGAT's projects included in the Fourth and Fifth Five-Year Development
Plans (1977-1986) were covered by the Government in the form of equity contri-
butions. However, the Government did not agree to EGAT's request for a
aimilar concession for projects in the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan.
Duties and taxes are therefore now met from EGAT's own resources.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General
4.1      The project consists of a two-year (FY89-90) time slice of EGAT's
investment program during the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (7Y87-91). The main
objectives of this program, which is described in Chapter II, are to:
(a) meet the growth in power demand expected over the medium term at
least cost;
(b) reduce the country's dependence on imported fuels by supporting the
develoi,ment and economic use of domestic lignite and natural gas for
power generation; and



- 20 -
(c) assist EGAT to further strengthen its operational performance, in
particular through the introduction of a computerized maintenance
management system for thermal and hydro generating urits, the
acquisition of environmental monitoring equipment, and specialized
training for its Environmental Division.
4.2      Major components of EGAT's investment program include the
installation of additional generation capacity, the reinforcement and
expansion of its transmission system as required to transmit the additional
production of electricity, the expansion of its lignite mining capacity to
fuel additional lignite-fired thermal units, and miscellaneous works and
equipment acquisition.
Power Generation and Transmission
4.3      In response to the recent rapid increase in electricity demand and
the expectation that rapid growth will continue at least until the end of the
current Five-Year Plan period, EGAT has accelerated the preparation and
initiated a number of new generation and transmission projects. The list of
such projects for which EGAT expects to make procurement or financing
commitments partially or wholly before the end of FY90 is given in Table 4.1,
together with their expected completion dates. To bring additional generating
capacity on line in the shortest possible period so as to meet the incremental
power requirements expected over the near term (FY90-91) while maintaining a
reasonable reserve margin, EGAT is relying on the construction of additional
combined-cycle capacity, which can be installed more rapidly than conventional
thermal units and part of whose output will be available as soon as the gas
turbine portion of the investments is completed. Accordingly, priority items
in EGAT's program include the construction of combined-cycle blocks 3 and 4 of
300 MS each at Bang Pakong in the vicinity of Bangkok and that of a new 3x300
MW combined-cycle plant near Rayong (the exit point of the offshore gas
pipeline). Subject to the finalization of arrangements for the supply of gas
from the Esso concession in the Khorat basin (para 1.5), EGAT also proposes to
initiate the construction of a 2x105 MW combined-cycle plant at Nam Phong.
The con-truction of additional conventional thermal units at Bang Pakong
(natural gas/oil) and Mae Moh (lignite) would proceed more or less in parallel
but with later commissioning dates. EGAT's proposed investment program also
includes a number of small, economically attractive hydro units.
4.4      The transmission system expansion program comprises the construction
of the 230 kV Tha Tako-Khon Kaen line 3 designed to strengthen the link
between Regions 1 and 2, miscellaneous 230 kV and 115 kV line expansions with
associated substations, and the reinforcement of the EHV system for evacuating
additional generation from Mae Moh.



_ 21 -
Table 4.1: EGAT'S POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECTS
A. Generating Sets                                    Date of Commissioning /a
Al. Under construction
(i)    lx75 MW Khanom Unit 2 (oil)                        February 89
(ii)   lx300 KW Mae Moh Lignite Unit 8                    July 89
(iii)  lx300 MW Mae Moh Lignite Unit 9                    December 90
A2. New Commitments
(i)    2x300 HW Bang Pakong Combined Cycle (Blocks 3&4) August 90/August 91
(ii)   2x300 4W Rayong Combined Cycle (Blocks 1&2)        October 90/October 91
(iii)  2x105 HW Nam Phong CozLbined Cycle                 November 90/December 91
(iv)   lx300 MW Rayong Combined Cycle (Block 3)           January 91/January 92
(v)    lx180 MW Srinagarind Hydro Unit 5                  April 91
(vi)   lx50 MW Lan Krabu Combined Cycle (steam turbine) October 91
(vii)  lx300 MW Mae Moh Lignite Unit 10                   February 92
(viii) Bhumipol Hydro Renovation                          March 92
(ix)   1x600 MW Bang Pakong Thermal Unit 3 (gas/oil)    May 92
(x)    lx75 MW Krabi Lignite Unit 1                       November 92
(xi)   lx300 MW Mae Moh Lignite Unit 11                   February 93
(xii)  lx600 MW Bang Pakong Thermal Unit 4 (gas/oil)    May 93
(xiii) 4x34 MW Pak Mun Hydro 1-4                          November 93
(xiv)  2x40 MW Kaeng Krung Hydro                          December 93
B. Transmission Systems
B1. Under Construction
(i)    Second Central-Southern Tie Line                   February 1990
(ii)   Transmission System Expansion No. 7                October 1990
(iii)  230 kV Kon Kaen 3 - Roi Et                         January 1991
(iv)   EHV Transmission System Stage 3                    April 1990
B2. New Commitments
(i)    230 kV Tha Tako - Khon Kaen 3                      January 1992
(ii)   EHV Transmission System                            February 1992
(iii)  Accelerated Transmission Project                   April 1992
(iv)   Transmission System Expansion No. 8                April 1993
La  In the case of combined-cycle plants, the earlier date refers to the
commissioning of the combustion turbines, the later one to that of steam
turbines.



- 22 -
4.5      EGAT's investment program shows an increasing reliance on combined-
cycle technology. This parallels a similar trend in a number of countries
worldwide with access to a natural gas resource. Combined-cycle processes,
which are based on traditional combustion turbines retrofitted with steam
turbines to make use of exhaust gases, were developed to optimize the
utilization of natural gas for the generation of electricity. The first two
combined cycle blocks at Bang Pakong were commissioned in 1982. Combined
cycle technology has since made substauntial progress and reliable operating
performance, combined with increasingly high efficiency standards, has been
achieved in several countries.
Lignite Mining
4.6      Significant lignite mining development at EGAT's Mah Moe mine began
in 1978 with the commissioning of the first of three 75 MW thermal power
plants (units 1-3), when production reached about 0.5 million tpa. Since
then, in V.ne with RTG's policies of rapid development of lignite as an
economic indigenous fuel, four more generating units (4-7) have been con-
structed with installed capacities of 150 MW each, bringing the total
installed capacity at Mae Moh to 825 MW. Production at the mine reached the
planned level of over 5 million tpa in 1987. Details of power plant and maiie
development are given in Annex 8.
4.7      The long-term mine development plan for Mae Moh, based on current
estimates of reserves, envisages expanding the power generating capacity from
the current level of 825 MW in 7 units to a total capacity of 2,925 KW in 14
units. This plan would, by the year 2005, require a lignite production level
of 19 million tpa. Detailed mine planning and basic engineering of mine
expansion to about 13 million tpa by 1993 are already under way and include
the opening of a second pit in the western part of the deposit, starting by
1992. This would cater for 11 units and an installed capacity of 2,025 KW.
Immediate pit expansion plans are to increase output to about 9 million tpa by
1991 to supply units 8 and 9.
B.   Specific Project Components
4.8      Any component of EGAT's investment program would be suitable for Bank
financing. For administration convenience, however, EGAT has identified two
major components against which it intends to apply initially the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan. These are (a) the construction of Bang Pakong
combined-cycle blocks 3 & 4 (including ancillary power transmission works)5
and (b) further expansion of the Mae Moh lignite mine to meet the requirements
of power units 8 & 9 now under construction. These two components have been
more closely analyzed and are discussed in detail in the following sections
and related annexes. Use of Bank funds for any additional program component
would be subject to prior review by the Bank (para 4.21).



- 23 -
2x300 MW Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Component
4.9      This component would cover:
(a) construction of combined-cycle blocks 3 and 4 rated 300 MW each at
the existing Bang Pakong thermal power plant site;
(b) expansion of the 230 kV substation at Bang Pakong and reinforcement
of the transmisaion line from Bang Pakong to the Bang Phli
substation; and
(c) consulting services for detailed engineering, design and construction
supervision.
4.10     The Power Plant.  An in-depth site selection study carried out by
consultants (under U.S. grant funding) has established that the existing Bang
Pakong thermal power plant site would be the least cost location among several
feasible alternatives for the construction of additional thermal units in the
Bangkok area. A nominal block rating of 300 MW has been selected for the
combined cycle power plants because of the availability of proven 100 MW
(nominal) rated combustion turbines from several manufacturers. Although
offers of higher block ratings would be acceptable and would attract credit in
the evaluation, a larger nominal size has not been selected as such in order
not to restrict competition. Each block of the combined cycle plant would
comprise: (a) two 100 MW (nominal) rated combustion turbines; (b) one 100 MW
(nominal) rated steam turbine; (c) one heat recovery boiler sized to match the
steam turbine; and (d) mechanical and electrical accessory systems and
controls. The combustion turbines would be specified for burning gas or
distillate oil. Though the combined cycle blocks would primarily be intended
for base-load operation, they would be specified to meet load-following cycles
as well. The combined cycle plants are expected to achieve efficiencies of
42Z to 45Z, which compare favorably with the efficiencies of modern large
conventional steam units of ratings 500 MW and above.
4.11     The Bang Pakong thermal power station currently consists of 2x550 MW
conventional dual-fired (gas/fuel oil) steam thermal units and 2x360 MW
combined-cycle power blocks (each consisting of 4x60 MW combustion turbines
and lxl20 MW steam turbine) primarily designed for gas/distillate oil firing.
The Bank assisted in the financing of the first 550 MW thermal unit (Loan
1690-TH of 1979). Almost half of the additional generating capacity to be
committed during the project period will be located at Bang Pakong, comprising
the construction of two combined-cycle blocks of 300 MW each and two
conventional thermal units of 600 MW each. This will bring tbh overall
capacity of the station to 2,620 MW -- the largest in the country.
4.12     Natural gas is piped to the Bang Pakong power plant site from PTT's
gas separation plant at Rayong through a 28-inch diameter pipeline. This
pipeline is tapped at PTT's regulating station at Bang Pakong to supply the
Bang Pakong power plants using 2x24-inch diameter pipes. The main gas supply
system needs no reinforcement to meet the gas requirements of the proposed



- 24 -
project. PTT has confirmed adequate supplies of gas for the 25-year lifetime
of the proposed combined cycle blocks.  The oil tank farms at site which
support power generation, automatically switched from gas to oil in the event
of gas supply failure, will have to be augmented to meet the proposed
additional generating capacity. The two combined cycle blocks would be
located towards the north, upstream of the Bang Pakong River. Hydraulic model
studies performed by EGAT at the Asian Institute of Technology in Bangkok have
confirmed that there would be no pronounced disturbance of tidal flow or water
recirculation and temperature rise problems at this location.
4.13     230 kV Transmission System Expansion.  A total of four 230 kV switch-
ing bays will be c4ded at Bang Pakong substation, two for controlling the
proposed 300 MW combined cycle blocks and two for sectionalizing the 230 kV
bus bars to limit fault level. To evacuate the additional power from Bang
Pakong, the existing 44.5 km long double circuit 230 kV Bang Pakong-Bang Phli
transmission line will be reinforced from lxl,272 MCM ACSR to 2x1,272 MCM ACSR
conductors. Intermediate tower supports would be introduced to take the
additional loading. This approach, apart from being least-cost, poses no
right-of-way problems in an area which is already heavily zongested.
4.14     Consulting Services.  The estimated consulting effort for detailed
engineering and design is about 940 man-months, while the need for field
services (which would be used by EGAT only as necessary) is estimated at 170
man-months. These estimates are considered reasonable. The relatively large
consultancy involvement during the engineering and design phase of the project
is due to EGAT's manpower commitments on other projects, including Mae Moh
units l0&ll and the 2x600 MW steam units 3 & 4 at Bang Pakong, which would be
engineered in-house with very limited consultancy assistance.
Mae Moh Lignite Mine Expansion Component
4.15     This component would cover:
(a) acquisition and installation of in-pit crusher, conveyors and
stacker-reclaimers to transfer lignite from the pit to the stockyard
and power plant units 8 and 9;
(b) auxiliary mining equipment including graders, dozers and two 70 m3
spray trucks for dust pollution control;
(c) civil works associated with the lignite handling system including
workshops and warehouses, housing, and power supply;
(d) water supply management for water diversion from the end-of-life pit,
and establishment of wetlands for water quality improvement;
(e) land purchase, construction of infrastructure and compensation for
the resettlement of about 1,500 families; and
(f) engineering, technical assistance and training of EGAT's technical
staff.



- 25 -
4.16     This component would provide the facilities necessary to increase the
capacity of the Mae Moh mine from 5.6 million tpa (as produced in 1987) to 9.5
millior tpa so as to meet the needs of power units 1 to 9 (with a total
installed capacity of 1,425 MW). The proposed investment component would
cover (a) the acquisition of mining equipment; (b) associated civil works; (c)
a water supply management program; and (d) the resettlement of households
displaced by the expanded open pit operations. Major equipment items include
in-pit crusher/conveyor/stacker-reclaimer systems for lignite transportation
to the new power units 8 and 9 (2x300 MW). The water management program
includes water diversions for cooling wat'r and the establishment of wetlands
for environmental purposes (para 4.33). The resettlement program includes
land purchases, infrastructure development and compensation payments (paras
4.35-4.37). This component also includes about 70 man-months of foreign
training of managerial, financial and technical personnel in addition to the
ongoing technical assistance program financed by the Australian Government. A
detailed description of the lignite mining component is given in Annex 9.
4.17     The first two lignite mine projects financed by the Bank have been
implemented generally on schedule and within budget. About US$44 million was
cancelled from the second loan (Loan 2407-TH) when, in line with EGAT's policy
to involve the private sector more broadly in mine operations, and in
consultation with the Bank, the decision was taken to contract out most of the
overburden operations. Outside contracting now accounts for 37X of mining
costs on the average.
Institutional Components
4.18     Two separate program components, pertaining to maintenance management
and environmental monitoring, respectively, are critical to the future
strengthening of EGAT's overall operational performance. While use of BS&k
funds is not envisaged for their financing, their implementation will be
monitored closely in the course of project supervision.
4.19     Computerized Maintenance Management System.  EGAT is currently in the
process of upgrading its central mainframe and satellite minicomputer systems.
The new systems are expected to be in place by the end of 1988. The proposed
project would provide for the installation of a computerized maintenance
management system (CMMS), taking advantage of the upgraded computational
facilities. The CMMS would (a) produce plant maintenance schedules; (b) form
a basic plant technical data bank; (c) produce routine maintenance reviews;
(d) optimize labor resources; (e) issue job instructions and procedures; and
(f) monitor budget expenditures. Software for the CMMS is expected to be
obtained from an Australian source.
4.20     Environmental Monitoring Equipment and Training.  The proposed
project would further strengthen the capabilities of EGAT's Environmental
Division applicable to all its operations through (a) procurement of air and
water quality monitoring equipment, noise measuring equipment and a mobile



- 26 -
laboratory; and (t) staff training abroad in (i) design and management of
environmental monitoring networks; (ii) dissemination of environmental
information; (iii) compilation of an environmental data base; and (iv)
predictive and diagnostic mathematical modelling.
Eligibility Criteria for Bank Financing
4.21     Use of the l1an proceeds to cover the cost, or part thereof, of any
component of EGAT's investment program during the FY89-90 period would be
penmissible, provided, however, that the project component shall be
technically sound and economically justified and shall have been approved by
the Government, and subject to the Bank's prior review of its environmental
and resettlement impacts. During negotiations, it was agreed that, for any
subproject other than the two components discussed in the previous sec'tons,
EGAT would provide the Bank with the necessary justification and background
infor :.tion prior to loan disbursement.
C.   Implementation of Project Components
4.22     EGAT is fully responsible for the implementation of its investment
program. The implementation of the two specific project components identified
for Bank financing is discussed below.
Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Component
4.23     EGAT's Directorate for Thermal Power Development will be responsible
for implementing the Bang Pakong Combined Cycle component. In view of the
anticipated heavy demand growth, the project schedule is extremely tight and
has been drawn up to meet commissioning of the 4xlO0 MW combustion turbine
generator units by August 1990 and the 2xlO0 MW steam turbine generator units
by July 1991. Consultants (Black and Veatch International Consulting
Engineers (BVI) of USA) have already been appointed for the project and the
major bid document for procurement of the 2x300 MW combined cycle blocks was
awarded in January, 1989. The consultants will be fully responsible for
detailed engineering and design work on the project, with EGAT's Thermal Power
Engineering Department providing the necessary coordination. The supplier of
the combined cycle plant will be required to erect and commission the
combustion turbine generators on a turnkey basis. EGAT wiYl be primarily
responsible, through its Thermal Power Construction Department, for the
erection and commissioning of the steam generator units and associated
systems, with supervisory assistance from the supplier. Civil works will be
let to local contractors. The consultants will provide project management and
supervisory field services as called for by EGAT. While ECAT's Thermal Power
Development Directorate, reinforced as needed with consultant's personnel, is
fully competent to implement the project, the timely completion of the project
will necessitate very close coordination with the main equipment contractor.
For this reason, the two combined cycle power blocks are being procured
through a single responsibility contra t, as it would be impossible to achieve
the necessary coordination to meet the targeted commissioning dates if



- 27 -
procurement were split into several packages. Reinforcement of the 230 kV
transmission line from Bang Pakong to Bang Phli will be executed by EGAT's
Transmission System Development Department.
Mae Moh Lignite Expansion Component
4.24     Responsibility for overall execution of the Mae Moh Lignite Expansion
component will rest with EGAT's Directorate for Mine Development. Project
implementation will be entrusted to the Superintendent of the Mae Moh mine
with areas of responsibility covering: (a) implementation of the mine plan
with technical assistance provided under the Australian Development Assistance
Bureau (ADAB) program; (b) supervision of the overburden contractor;
(c) supervision of crusher, conveyor and stacker system erection; and
(d) implementation of the water management and supply construction contract.
Implementation of the resettlement program (paras 4.35-4.37) will be directed
by EGAT's senior management in cooperation with the RTG, the Environmental
Department and the Lignite Mining Directorate. The Lignite Mining Directorate
has demonstrated its capability for sound project execution, and has the
requisite technical and financial staff.
4.25     The mining method at Mae Moh is by truck and shovels, with in-pit
crushing of both lignite and overburden followed by haulage by belt conveyor
to either waste dumps or coal stock yards. A small quantity of overburden is
still being hauled by EGA?'s trucks to the dump; this, however, will be phased
out in 1989 when all long-haul transportation will be by conveyor only.
EGAT's equipment, in line with the rapidly increasing lignite demand, will be
used exclusively for lignite mining and minor interburden removal, whereas
almost all overburden removal will be let to private contractors. Because of
long mobilization times, prequalification for these contracts is already
underway since commencement of work will be required as soon as the present
contract expires in 1990. As in the past, EGAT has requested assistance from
the Bank in reviewing and commenting on the draft contracts prior to bidding.
The decision of letting overburden remuval to private contractors while EGAT
retains control of long- and short-term pit planning, pit stability, water
management, environment and reclamation, as well as all aspects of lignite
production, is considered an efficient one.  It gives the private sector a
considerable share of mining operations (the contractor's share is now about
37? of operating cost and is expected to increase to 54? by FY92), while it
uses EGAT's technical expertise in open pit mining (which is unique in
Thailand) and thus ensures a safe, and technically and environmentally sound
overall operation with uninterrupted fuel supply to the power plants.
4.26     The project implementation schedule is closely tied to the
commissioning of thermal units 8 and 9 in 1989 and 1990. Project preparation
Is well advanced; basic engineering and bid preparation for the most important
equipment package (lignite handling system) has been carried out by Horrison
Knudsen Int. (MKI - USA) under assistance from the Technical Development
Bureau (TDB) of the U.S., and resettlement negotiations are underway. The
construction contracts for the water management and supply system, which would
not be covered by the Bank loan, have been let by local bidding to Chiang Mai



- 28 -
Engineering Co., a proven contractor previously utilized by EGAT. The
implementation schedule for this program component is realistic, provided the
resettlement can be implemented as programmed (para. 4.36).
4.27     As covenanted under the two previous Bank loans for lignite mining,
EGAT has carried out intensive geotechnical studies to ensure pit slope
stability and is now implementing a geotechnical monitoring system. Such
safety measures are especially important in open-pit operations where
conditions necessitate the use of large outside-pit overburden dumping areas
which impose additional stress on pit slopes. During negotiations an
understanding was reached that EGAT would continue the necessary geotechnical               H
investigations and monitoring in order to ensure pit slope stability as a
routine part of its mining operations, and submit the results thereof on an
annual basis to the Bank for comments.
4.28     As stipulated in previous Bank loans. EGAT has for the past ten years
carried out a nationwide exploration program.  This has resulted in the
finding of several medium-sized lignite deposits and, in 1987, in the
discovery of an apparently major find at Sabah Yoi in Southern Thailand.
Given the economic significance of increasing overall lignite reserves in
Thailand, assurances were obtained during negotiations that EGAT would
continue in the future with its nationwide lignite exploration nrogram and
submit annual reports discussing exploration results to the Bank for comments.
D.   Environment and Resettlement
4.29     The environmental impact of the two components identified for Bank
financing was closely reviewed during the project appraisal and, as discussed
below, each component was found to provide satisfactory environmental
safeguards and to include adequate provisions for the resettlement of
displaced households. Use of the loan proceeds to finance any additional
component of EGAT's PDP would be subject to EGAT's submission, and prior
review by the Bank, of the provisions made to mitigate the impact of the
investment component on the environment and to handle any resettlement
implication it may entail.
Environment
4.30     Bang Pakong Combined-Cycle Power Component.  The Bang Pakong thermal
power plant-complex, with its existing Zx55O MW conventional thermal units and
2x360 MW combined cycle blocks, and the proposed 2x300 MW combined cycle
blocks, will normally burn natural gas with a negligible sulfur content. On
rare occasions, if gas is not available, the plants may operate on
fuel/distillate oil having a low sulfur content of about 0.5Z by weight. A
report prepered by EGAT's Environmental Department examined the potential
impact of thae project component on the environment from the standpoint of
atmospheric emissions, thermal discharge and noise, and determined that the
impacts would remain within acceptable limits (i.e., World Bank and Thai



- 29 -
Government standards). In particular, air quality data from the Bang Pakong
area covering the years 1986 and 1987 (Table 4.2 below) indicate that air
pollution levels can be expected to remain well below permissible levels even
with the addition of the 2x300 MW combined cycle blocks. These blocks will be
specified to limit stack emissions with gas or oil firing to 100 ppm for NOx,
10 ppm for CO and 7 ppm for unburnt hydrocarbon. The sound emission level of
the combustion turbines will be limited to 54 dBA at 122 meters or 80 dBA at
1 meter. The temperature rise of the cooling water will be limited to 7C, so
that with a maximum ambient water temperature of 33CC, ti: Ministry of
Industry standard of 40C will be met. Actually, water temperature of 400C
would be limited to a very small area in the immediate vicinity of the dis-
charge. Model studies conducted by the Asian Institute of Technology in
Bangkok have confirmed that the additional thermal plume effect of the
proposed project would expand the area of the 2C temperature rise contour
along the river bank only. The existing marine ecosystem is exposed to a
natural temperaturP variation of 8C and it is highly unlikely that an
intermittent and localized change of 2-3C will have any discernible impact on
living resources in the area. Residual chlorine discharged with the cooling
water will be maintained within 0.5 mg/liter.
Table 4.2: BANG PAKONG AIR QUALITY MONITORING RESULTS
Emission
Ambient ground               levels from
level conceDtrations (24 hours)   2 x 550 MW stack
IBRD
T!.ai      IBRD                 guide-
Measured   standards  guidelines  Measured  lines
*          S2 (ug/m3)                 4.7-13.6       300          500
0N2 (ug/m3)                 4.2-8.1        320         100 /a
Solid particles (ug/m3)    44.8-58.9       330         500                   -
NOX (lb/106 BTU)               -             -            -   0.021-0.055   0.2
/a Annual.
4.31     Mae Moh Lignite Expansion Component.  EGAT has produced several
Environmental Impact Assessment and Resettlement repLrts dealing with previous
mine power projects at Mae Moh and proposals for furth,.' expansion. Mae Moh
lignite has a comparatively high sulfur content of about 1.5Z. At present,
with units 1-7 in operation, S02 ground level concentrations as continuously
monitored in 18 stations, fall within a range of 3 to 24 micrograms/m3
(ug/m3), and are well below maximum permissible levels. Projections oL air
quality on jite indicate that even under the most conservative assumptions,



- 30 -
Bank standards of 100 ug/m3 would not be exceeded until power development
reaches unit 11; EGAT's investment plan provides for further power units
(12-14) to be located at a different site.
4.32     All power plants are equipped with electrostatic precipitators to
minimize particulate emission, and fugitive dust from the open pit is
controlled by water spraying on haul roads and other dust generating areas.
However, monitoring has shown that, with the rapid mine expansion over the
last two years, ambient dust load has increased, exceeding during several days
of the year both the Bank's and the National Environment Board's (NEB) guide-
lines. Corrective measures are now under way: stationary spray systems are
being upgraded, and enclosures and spray systems at conveyor transfer points
and crushing points are being improved; the project would also provide for the
acquisition of two 70 m3 water spraying trucks by 1989. These measures,
together with the minimization of truck haulage foreseen in the mining plan,
should ensure that the prescrib d dust emissions standards are met.
4.33     Water quality in the Mae Moh basin, which is constantly monitored, is
impacted both by the power plants and by mine sump discharges, both of which
require mitigation in order to arrest degradation of water quality. Actions
to be initiated include the recycling of waste water, both at the power plants
and at the mine where sump water will be utilized to the maximum extent for
dust suppression, the overflow already being settled in passive ponds.
Furthermore, in order to control the quality of runoffs from waste dumps into
the natural drainage system, a system of wetland areas will be implemented
starting in 1989, together with the revegetation program provided in the mine
development plan. EGAT's investment program also includes a broad water
supply and management program, which will have a beneficial impact on water
control. The cost of revegetation of overburden dumps is met from a
revegetation fund established by EGAT, which will ensure land reclamation
during the mine's lifetime and thereafter. Although large outside dumps are
required during mining operations, reclamation follows whenever operationally
possible: so far, 100 ha have been reclaimed, and a furthet 14 ha are
presently under recultivation.
4.34     At the request of the Bank, EGAT's proposed measures for mitigation
of the adverse environmental impacts of its Mae Moh operations have been
incorporated in a detailed environmental management plan.
Resettlement
4.35     Under the two previous Bank-financed lignite expansion projects, EGAT
carried out a resettlement program for 300 families. This program was
implemented without major problems and in a timely manner. Relocation and
compensation procedures included: (a) payment of negotiated compensations for
land, dwellings and other immovable assets of the affected families;
(b) provision of fully developed lots for new dwellings, free of charge to the
affected families; (c) provision of infrastructure requirements for the new
settlements, including school, police station, hospital, temples, electricity



- 31 -
and water supply; and (d) provision of agricultural land free of charge.
Review of past eaxperience indicates that the provisions made by EGAT proved
appropriate and that the program could be implemented in a timely manner.
4.36     Under the further expansion of the Mae Moh mine envisaged in EGAT's
PDP, an additional 1,500 families (about 7,500 persons) will have to be
resettled in 1989 and 1990. Because of the success of the previous scheme, a
similar approach will be adopted. Negotiations with the affected fami'ies as
to the levels of compensation are underway with the active participation of a
resettlement committee including local and central government authorities.
Families to be relocated have the choice between two resettlement areas which
have already been acquired: the first one, located close to the previous
resettlement area, consists of house plots and is intended for artisans,
merc.:ants etc.; the second area consists of agricultural land. EGAT has
prepared a detailed plan and budget for this Lesettlement exercise; the
provisions made were reviewed during project appraisal and found appropriate.
About US$30 million is inc'uded in EGAT's investment program to cover expected
resettlement expenditures. Ho major constraints are anticipated in the
execution of the proposed resettlement program which experience under previous
projects indicates will be carried out in a timely and socially acceptable
manner. In fact, this program goes well beyond a mere compensation scheme and
aims at improving the livelihood of affected families, as was indeed the case
of previous programs. Overall, the mission considered the provisions made by
EGAT satisfactory. EGAT has made available to the Bank an English version of
its complete resettlement plan for Mae Moh and the actual status of this
program will be monitored regularly in the course of project supervision.
4.37     Construction of Combined-Cycle Blocks 3 & 4 at Bang Pakong would not
require displacement of local population.
4.38     During negotiations assurances were obtained from EGAT that the
resettlement of displaced population occasioned by any subproject to be
financed under the loan would be carried out in accordance with a plan
satisfactory to the Bank.
E. Cost Estimates
4.39     Total financing required by EGAT for its investment program in
FY89-90 (including capitalized interest during construction) is estimated at
about US$2,037 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$1,168 million.
Costs are based on July 1988 price levels. Physical contingencies are about
82 of base cost. Price contingencies for both foreign and local cost
components are estimated on the basis of escalation factors of 3.02 for 1989
and 4.02 for 1990. Table 4.3 summarizes the project cost estimate; details
are in Annex 10. Annex 11 gives detailed cost estimates for the two project
components initially selected for Bank financing under the loan.



- 32 -
Table 4.3: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS /a
FX as 2
Baht million lb           US$ million         of total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    cost
ECAT's Investment Program (FY89-90):
Generation
Thermal                      6,119  19.760 25,878    244.7   790.4 1,035.1         76
Hydro                          633      760  1.392      25.3    30.4    55.7       55
Subtotal                     6,751  20.519 27.271    270.0   820.8 1,090.8         75
Transmission                    2,020   3,491  5,511       80.8   139.6   220.4       63
Lignite Mining                  1,503      703  2,206      60.1    28.1    88.2       32
Miscellaneous                   1.354      199  1,553      54.2      8.0    62.1      13
Taxes and Duties                4,664        -  4,664    186.6       -     186.6       -
Total Base Cost                16,292  24,912 41.204    651.7   996.5 1,648.1         60
Contingencies
Physical                      1.188   2,161  3,350       47.5    86.4   134.0       65
Price                         1,009   1,580  2.589       40.3    63.2   103.6       61
Total Project Cost             18,489  28,654 47,143    739.6 1,146.2 1,885.7         61
Interest during construction  3.232        560  3,792    129.3    22.4   151.7        15
Total Financing Required       21,721  29,214 50,935    868.9 1,168.5 2,037.4         57
/a   July 1988 price levels.
lb   Exchange rate US$1 = B 25.0.



- 33 -
F. Financing Plan
4.40     Table 4.4 below summarizes the expected financing sources for EGAT's
PDP durinp FY89-90. EGAT proposes to increase significantly its reliance on
export credits which are expected to account for as much as 54% of the total
foreign exchange cost of its investment program during the project period.
Table 4.4: FINANCING PLAN
Foreign     Local     Total      (%)
------- US$ million -------
World Bank
Loan Outstanding a/       110         -         110        5
Proposed Loan             90          -          90        4
Other official sources        75         -           75       4
Export credits               519         -         519       26
Commercial borrowings        374        317        691       34
Internal cash generation      -         552        552       27
Total                 1,168         869      2,037      100
a/ Power Transmission Project (Loan 2915-TH of May 1988)
4.41     Bank financing, including expected disbursements under the ongoing
Power Transmission loan, would account for 10% of EGAT's overall investment
program during the FV89-90 period. The proposed loan would meet about 4% of
the program cost and about 8% of its foreign component (including interest
during construction). The loan would be made to EGAT at the standard variable
interest rate for a 20-year term including a 5-year grace period. EGAT would
bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. The Kingdom of Thailand
would guarantee the loan.
G.   Procurement
4.42     Contracts for the supply and erection of equipment to be financed by
the Bank would be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. In the evaluation
of bids, domestic price preference would be applicable for specific components
as approved by the Bank. Civil works and local equipment would be awarded
through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Prior Bank review of bid documents would be mandatory for contracts
expected to cost the equivalent of US$2.0 million or more. This would cover
over 90% of total contract value. Contracts expected to cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent each and not exceeding, in the aggregate, US$5.0
million, may be avarded through local shopping, or following LCB procedures



- 34 -
open to foreign suppliers. Specialized mining instruments and control
equipments, not exceeding US$0.7 million in the aggregate, would be procured
from proprietary sources to achieve uniformity in operation and maintenance.
Consultant services would be awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
for the use of consultants.
4.43     Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Comgonent.  The major packages
foreseen for procurement are: (a) 2x300 MW combined cycle blocks; (b) supply
and erection of transmission line; (c) supply and erection of substation
equipment; and (d) supply of environmental monitoring equipmcnt (in several
packages). A single contract for the acquisition of equipment for the two
combined cycle power blocks has already been awarded through ICB; related
civil works would be awarded through LCB. The supply and erection of the
transmission lines and substations would be contracted through ICB, under
which locally manufactured towers would qualify for domestic price preference.
4.44     EGAT has appointed Black and Veatch International Consulting
Engineers (BVI) of the United States as consultants for detailed engineering
and design and construction supervision for the proposed two combined cycle
power blocks. BVI has been retained by EGAT for engineering and des'T,n of its
thermal power plants, and has engineered and designed the existing c ibined-
cycle blocks at Bang Pakong. BVI's record of performance with EGAT 'ias been
satisfactory and the firm has good expertise in modern combined-cycle
technology. Further, BVI has carried out the feasibility study for the
project and has also drafted preliminary bid specifications. It would be
impossible to meet the stringent schedule envisaged for this compor.ant if
fresh consultancy proposals were to be invited and evaluated at this stage.
Considering, therefore, the consultant's experience and familiarity with the
projact and the need for EGAT to meet a tight commissioning schedule, the                   f
appointment of BVI on a sole-source basis is acceptable to the Bank.
4.45     Mae  goh Lignite Exoansion Comnonent.  Almost 961 of the value of all
contracts would be procured through ICB procedures. The construction contract
for the water management and supply system has already been awarded following
LCB procedures.
4.46     Table 4.5 summarizes the procurement arrangements for the
expenditures expected to be covered by the Bank loan.
Table 4.5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurs,ment method          Total
ICB         LCB        Others LA    cost
Eligible Expenditures        76.0         2.3        12.0         90.0
La   Refers to procurement through local shopping and use of consultants.



- 35 -
H. Disbursements
4.47     The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 10OZ of foreign expendi-
tures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 1002 of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory) of locally manufactured items procured through ICB; (c) 502
of local expenditure for materials and works procured locally; and (d) 10OZ of
total expenditures for consulting services.
4.48     For equipment and material contracts above US$2.0 million equivalent,
disbursements would be made against full documentation.  Reimbursements for
expenditures relating to c-ntracts valued at less than USM' million equivalent
would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation
supporting the SOEs need not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained by
EGAT and be made available for review by the Bank supervision missions. To
facilitate project disbursements, a Special Account ir. a fully convertible
currency would be established on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The authorized allocation to the Special Account would be US$5 million,
representing four month's average project expenditure. Replenishments to the
Special Account would be made quarterly or whenever the Account has been drawn
down by about 502 of the initial deposit.
4.49     Retroactive financing would be permitted to the extent of US$6
million equivalent for payments mace pr.ior to the date of loan agreement but
after June 1, 1988.
4.50     Annex 12 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan
as well as the standard profile of disbursements for power projects in Asia.
The loan ib expected to be disbursed faster than indicated by the standard
profile because: (a) consultants for the Bang Pakong combined-cycle project
have already been appointed; and (b) EGAT has already awarded the contract for
the supply of the two combined-cycle blocks and bid documents for other major
components of the project have been issued. Moreover, the project would
provide for substantial flexibility in the use of the loan proceeds and
facilitate disbursements. The loan closing date would be September 30, 1991.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Past Performance
5.1      EGAT's performance for the period FY82-87 is summarized in Table 5.1.
Detailed statements are given in Annex 13. Data cover both EGAT's lignite
mining, and power generation and transmission activities.



- 36 -
Table 6.1: SUMARY OF EGAT'S FINANCIAL OPERATING STATISTICS, FYe 82-87
(Daht million)
Flscl year ending September 80   1882    1883  1984   1985  1w    1987
Energy sales (1h)               16,408  17,568  19,886 21,196 22,658 26,778
Average revenue (8/kWh)           1.43    1.89   1.87   1.868  1.8    1.80
Operating revenues              22,084  24,878 26,488 28,902 80,120 83,716
Operating expenses /            17,808  19,726 21,891 28,810 22,941 24,002
Operating income                 4,226   4,647  4,642  5,686  7,179  9,634
Net Income                       2,845   8,096  8,878  1,702  1,078  4,198
Rate base                       42,250  47,692 56,788 70,178 79,960 86,544
Long Term Debt                  81,499  39,129 389,341 61,062 08,882 68,120
Primary Ratios:
Rate of return (X) L            10.0     9.7    8.0    8.0    9.0   11.1
Debt service coverage (times)    2.8     1.8    2.4    1.8    1.4    1.4
Operating ratio (U) La            81      81      88     81     76     71
Current ratio (timesV-           0.9     1.0    0.9    0.8    0.9    1.0
Debt as U of total capitalization    47   48      45     50     68     61
Self-financing ratio (X)
(3-year average)                81      16     47      41    a8      88
/a Including taxes, but excludes interest charged to operations and foreign exchange
losses.
Lb On average net revalued fixed asots in operation for power.
5.2       During the period FY82-87, EGAT's energy sales increased from
15,403 GWh to 25,773 GWh--at an average annual growth rate of nearly 11Z.
Higher economic growth and stable electricity prices caused energy sales to
increase 142 in FY83, 102 in FY84 and FY85, and 62 in FY86. Buoyed by the
country's overall economic expansion in FY87, EGAT sales increased over 142 in
that year.
5.3       During the past six years, EGAT has been a strong financial
performer, largely because of a three-step tariff increase in FY81. EGAT's
self-financing ratio, which averaged 352 during the FY82 to FY87 period,
increased from 182 in 1983, to 472 in 1984, and was 38Z in FY87. Its rate of
return (ROR) on net revalued assets in operation has remained at or above 82
between 1982 and 1987, and was 11.1Z in FY87.
5.4       Tariff reductions of 42 in April 1983 and 52 in June 1987 were imple-
mented to correspond with declines in EGAT's operating costs resulting from
oil price decreases. Because of the rate decreases and substantial increases
in EGAT's rate base, EGAT's self-financing ratio fell from 312 in 1982 to 182
in 1983, and its rate of return dropped from 102 in FY82 to 9.7% in FY83 and
8X in FY84 and FY85. Although both the self-financing ratio and the rate of
return rose in FY87 in spite of the 1987 tariff decrease, the effect of the
reduction will be felt for the full year FY88 and is expected to cause EGAT's
ROR to decline from 11.12 to 9.02 The self-financing ratio is not expected to



- 37 -
fall in 1988, however, partly because of budgeted reductions in working
capital. Although substantial foreign exchange losses (B 1,289 million in
FY85 and B 2,821 million in FY86) reduced net income in both FY85 and FY86 to
below 1983 levels, the sizeable sales volume increases of FY87 enabled net
income to surpass its earlier levels, though foreign exchange losses remained
high (B 1,786 million in 1987).
5.5      EGAT, which was not obligated to pay income tax before FY82, has been
required since then to remit to the Ministry of Finance a portion of its net
income, at a level determined at year's end by the Ministry according to the
needs of the National Treasury. For FY82 and FY83, EGAT paid remittances of
about 52 of its net income. The remittance level was increased to 102 for
FY84, 13Z for FY85, 14Z for FY86, and 152 for FY87 through FY90. With the
increased taxation level, however, the Government has agreed to reconsider the
tax rate for any year in which EGAT's self-financitUg ratio (SFR) falls below
252 in order to bring the SFR to the required minimum level (para. 3.18).
5.6      EGAT's borrowings have been heavy, and the amount of its debt has
been expanded substantially by the appreciation of the Japanese yen, German
mark and Swiss franc, the currencies in which most of EGAT's debt is denomi-
nated (para. 5.8). Long-term debt in foreign currencies is exchanged into
baht at the exchange rate effective on September 30 of the year for which the
financial statements are prepared. At year end FY87, the total unrealized
exchange loss on the revaluation of loans for completed projects was B 15.0
billion. Debt service coverage fell from 2.4 times in FY84 to 1.4 times in
FY86 and FY87. Nevertheless, EGAT's capital structure has remained satisfac-
tory. Debt as a percentage of total capitalization increased from 45Z in FY84
to 53Z in FY86 but fell to 512 in FY87.
B. Present Financial Position
5.7      EGAT's financial position as of FY88 is healthy, with a self-
financing ratio of 472, an ROR of 102, and a debt service coverage of 1.4
times. Substantial sales increases in both 1987 and 1988 (14.32 and 14.02,
respectively) and relatively low capital expenditures both contributed to
these robust financial ratios. However, even with the greater than expected
growth in energy sales in 1988, operating income decreased by 7Z from its FY87
level because of a mid-1987 tariff decrease which was effective for all of
FY88. In turn, the reduction in operating income, together with increases in
interest charges and foreign exchange losses, caused net income in FY88 to
fall from FY87's level. This reduced amount, however, was ample for EGAT to
meet the self-financing ratio covenant agreed with the Bank (para. 5.10).
Foreign Exchange Exposure
5.8      As of September 30, 1987, EGAT had long-term debt (net of current
maturities) of B 63,120 million, of which over half was denominated in
Japanese yen, German mark, or Swiss franc. Since the Baht has weakened
substantially against these currencies, EGAT has incurred considerable foreign



- 38 -
exchange losses, which it plans to write off over the respective terms of the
loans. This policy reflects a 1986 Ministry of Finance directive that all
state enterprises revalue foreign currency loans as of September 30 of each
year starting in 1986, and either take the entire exchange loss in FY86 or
spread the loss over the remaining terms of the loans. Before 1986, EGAT had
deferred such losses and charged them against revenue only when the loans were
repaid. As of FY86, EGAT has adopted the policy of revaluing the loans each
year and writing the exchange losses off over the remaining terms of such
loans. The Government policy and the alternative adopted by EGAT are appro-
priate since spreading the foreign exchange losses is a far better alternative
than affecting the net profit of one single year by the entire amount of the
loss. The deferred exchange adjustment account enables EGAT to reflect the
loss in a timely manner and at the same time smooth out the effect of the
exchange rates swings on the net income of any given year. Even with the
substantial increase in EGAT's debt caused by the inclusion of the foreign
exchange adjustment component, the debt to equity ratio remains well within
the 60/40 ratio previously agreed with the Bank (para. 5.12).
C. Financial Outlook
5.9      EGAT's healthy financial performance is projected to continue through
1997. The challenge for EGAT, particularly over the next five years, will be
to assimilate and finance the expected sizeable expansions in its electricity
sales and capital investment. Its current financial strength should allow it
to do this without excessive difficulty. Projections for EGAT's financial
performance for the period FY88-97 are presented in Annex 14.
5.10     Agreement was reached at negotiations that EGAT would set its tariffs
so as to generate funds from internal sources (as defined in Annex 14)
equivalent to not less than 252 of the annual average of its capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that fiscal year, the
previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year. A similar self-
financing covenant will apply to the power subsector as a whole (para. 5.21).
According to current projections, EGAT's prices for electricity sales to MEA
and PEA would need to be increased in FY90 in order to stay above the
covenanted 25Z self-financing ratio level; total increases averaging 3.62 per
annum over the 1990-97 period would be required. If the volume of EGAT's
investment increases over the projected amounts and/or if the remittance to
the Government is higher than the 152 assumed here, additional rate increases
would be required.  Government and EGAT currently are exploring a variety of
approaches to keep near-term rate increases to a minimum: these include
negotiated oil and gas price reductions, lower remittances to the Government,
and equity participation by the private sector in EGAT or specific EGAT
capital projects.
5.11     Because of continuing strength in the Thai economy, EGAT's energy
sales growth is currently projected to increase an average of 11% per year
through FY93, and then by about 8% p.a. between FY94 and FY97. EGAT's



- 39 -
operating income is projected to increase with sales growth through FY92, and
then to level off after FY93 as fuel price increases and increased
depreciation resulting from EGAT's substantial investment program reduce
margins. Due largely to price-related increases in operating income, EGAT's
total net income in FY92 will triple the FY89 amount, and quadruple the FY88
figu e. The operating ratio for power sales will range between 70Z and 79Z
during the projected period, increasing in later years as the rate of return
declines. The ROR is projected to remain above 82 throughout the 1988 to 1997
period. EGAT's power assets, which are revalued eacht year according to an
index published by the Ministry cf Finance, will increase at about 152 p.a.
from B 101,286 million in FY88 to B 372,287 million in FY97.
5.12     EGAT's debt service coverage ratio will range between 1.3 and 1.7
times throughout the projected period. The capital structure will remain
satisfactorys the debt/total capital ratio is expected to average 512 and
remain below 552.  EGAT's current debt control test provides for Bank review
of borrowings when the debt-equity ratio exceeds 60/40; agreement was reached
at negotiations to continue this test for the proposed loan. In addition,
EGAT has been required under previous Bank loans not to contract short- and
medium-term debt (debt which matures within five years) in excess of 152 of
its total debt outstanding.  EGAT has always complied with this covenant,
which was again agreed under the proposed loan.
5.13     EGAT has mainLained a current ratio averaging 0.9 over the past six
years, with the ratio never falling below 0.8. Projections show that the
current :atio will not fall below 0.8 during the project period. Since EGAT
has easy accers to short-term borrowing in the case of cash constraint, its
liquidity position is satisfactory.
D. Lignite Mine Operations
5.14     The operations of EGAT's Lignite Mine Directorate comprise the Mae
Moh and Krabi mines. Each mining operation is treated as a separate account-
ing center and overhead costs are allocated proportionately. The financial
projections are based on the expectations that Mae Moh production will
increase from 5.8 Mt in FY87 to 9.1 Mt in FY91 and 19.4 Mt in FY97. Table 5.2
shows the forecast of EGAT's lignite production.
Table 5.2: EGAT LIGNITE PRODUCTION, FY87-97
(million tonnes)
FY87    FY88      FY91       FY97
(actual)  ------- (forecast) ------
Mae Moh Mine           5,628    5,589      8,736    18,344
Krabi Mine               192      343        343       --
Others                   --       --         --      1,030
Total              5,820    5,932      9,079    19,373



- 40 -
5.15     Financial projections for the Lignite Mine Department are summarized
in Table 5.3 and detailed in Annex 15. Department revenues would cover mine
operating costs and other expenses (depreciation of equipment, amortization of
overburden removal, administrative expenses, exploration expenses, interest
charges, contribution to the reclamation fund, resettlement expenses, and
royalty payments) over the forecast period (FY88-97) and generate sufficient
cash to meet debt repayment obligations and on-going capital requirements.
5.16     The above projections are predicated on the transfer price
methodology agreed with the Bank under previous loans. The transfer price
reflects the long run marginal cost of lignite; it is equal to the sum of EGAT
mining costs and a depletion premium that accounts for the increasing economic
scarcity value of lignite and the associated cost to the economy of the early
use of an exhaustible resource. The depletion premium is derived from the
opportunity cost of lignite (based on imported coal as a substitute), future
mining costs and the magnitude of reserves. The transfer price of lignite is
projected to increase modestly in real terms during the projection period,
from US$17.8 per tonne in FY88 to US$18.2 in FY91 and US$19.6 in FY97 (in
constant 1987 prices.) Agreement was reached during negotiations that EGAT
would continue to set the transfer price for the lignite produced and used in
its power plants on the basis of economic principles and so as to ensure the
financial viability of its lignite mine operations, in accordance with the
methodology previously agreed with the Bank.
Table 5.3: LIGNITE MINE DIRECTORATE SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(Baht million)
FY87     FY88     FY91      FY92     FY97
Lignite Sales (MMt)             Y.82      5.93     9.08    10.62    19.37
Transfer Price (Baht/t)          476       464      501       518      699
Total Revenue                  2,772    2,752    4,700    5,728   13,542
Operating Expenses             1,535    3,743    3,118    3,730    8,367
Depreciation                     158        73      410       685    1,659
Interest                         152        67      217       340      584
Other Expenses                   358       356      477       525      840
Net Income                       569       513      478       448    2,092
Ratios
Return on Assets /a (2)          8.9       7.4      4.6       3.9      4.4
Debt as % of Total
CaDitalization (2)             52        52       44        48       33
Debt Service
Coverage (times)               2.2       1.5      1.7       1.9      3.2
la  Average net revalued assets in operation.



_ 41 -
5.17     To ensure that adequate financial discipline continues to govern
mining operations, assurances were obtained from EGAT during negotiations that
the Lignite Mine Department would meet standard debt covenants as agreed under
previo'is lignite mining operations. The corenants are (a) a debtsequity ratio
not exceeding 60:40; and (b) a debt service coverage of at least 1.3.
E. Subsector Finances
5.18     Consolidated financial projections of the power subsector (EGAT, PEA
and MEA) are presented in Annex 16.
5.19     Tariff increases in FY80 and FY81 brought the average retail electri-
city price in Thailand to a level which was at or above the long-run marginal
cost (LRMC) of supply, and created the base for the financial viability of the
power subsector during the FY82-87 period. Although extensive capital
expenditures in FY84 and FY85 (which increased the rate base in those years by
19? and 24?, respectively) reduced the rate of return of the power utilities
between FY83 and FY85, reductions in fuel prices in 1986 and 1987, as well as
substantially increased electricity sales in 1987, helped to keep the self-
financing ratio above 25? for both EGAT and the power subsector as a whole.
5.20     With rate increases beginning in FY90 and averaging 2.6Z per year
through FY97, the subsector would produce the covenanted 25? self-financing
ratio level throughout the projected period, and earn an average rate of
return on revalued net fixed assets of 11Z. With the estimated tariff
increases, the subsector will remain financially strong through 1997. Energy
sales will increase at an average annual rate of 12Z between 1989 and 1992 and
at 8? per year thereafter. Revalued net fixed assets will grow at about 13?
per year throughout the ten-year period. The debt service coverage is
projected to be at least 1.4 times. Debt as a percent of total capital will
average 47? during the FY88 to FY97 period and will not rise above 52Z.
5.21     Agreement was reached at negotiations that tariffs for the power
subsector would be set so that the sector would generate funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 25? of the annual average of its capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that fiscal year, the
previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year. For this purpose
the Government would provide to the Bank consolidated financial statements for
the power subsector within six months after the end of each fiscal year. This
covenant would ensure that the subsector remains financially sound. The
covenant is used to determine the appropriate tariffs with all retail
customers--whether of EGAT, MEA or PEA--paying according to the same schedule.
Once the sector self-financing ratio has been ensured, self-financing ratios
or rates of return are set for the individual utilities. Because PEA, with
its extensive rural distribution system and low density coverage, has costs
which exceed those of EGAT and MEA on a per kWh basis, subsidies from EGAT and
MEA to PEA are built into the rates chargec by EGAT to each utility (EGAT's
tariff to MEA in 1988 is B 1.48 and to PEA B 1.04, compared to its average
tariff of B 1.26).



- 42 -
F. Tariff Levels and Structure
5.22     Successive power rate increases in the course of FY80 and FY81
resulted in an average increase of 158Z in the tariffs charged by EGAT to PEA,
MEA and its large direct consumers. Retail tariffs charged by PEA and MEA
were correspondingly increased by 1112 and 1312 respectively. These tariff
adjustments have been sufficient to keep EGAT revenues at healthy levels to
the present time and even to allow occasional small rate reductions--the last
time in June 1987--as EGAT's operating costs were reduced due to the oil price
decline.
5.23     As agreed under Loans 2000-TH and 2915-TH, agreement was reached
during negotiations that EGAT would review quarterly the adpouacy of its rates
and maintain a fuel cost variation charge clause in its tar. .- structure.
Although EGAT and the sector have complied substantially with these covenants,
rate adjustments to reflect fuel cost variations have not been automatic, but
subject to Government review. Accordingly, in the past tariff adjustments
have at times been delayed.  RTG undertakes periodic reviews of EGAT's bulk
supply tariffs to PEA and MEA and the retail tariffs to the consumers to
ensure that: (a) they are adequate to meet the financial covenants for EGAT
and 'or the power subsector; and (b) they accomplish the required cross-
funding between MEA and PEA. RTG is now considering shifting in the future
toward a tariff policy based on automatic fuel cost adjustment.
5.24     Annex 16 (Table 1) shows the calculation of the average rate levels
for the power subsector that would be necessary to keep a minimum self-
financing ratio of 25Z. The rate levels projected at current prices (in baht
per kWh) are presented in Table 5.4 below. Thev are within 152 of the average
revenue that would result from strict LRMC pricing.
Table 5.4: POWER SUBSECTOR--PROJECTED AVERAGE RETAIL TARIFF
Current
l1vel
FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 Fv92 FY98 FY94 FY95 FY96 FYO6
Average tariff (B/kWh)  1.69 1.69 1.89 1.89 1.69 1.90 2.01 2.10 2.12 2.12
Projected tariff incresse  -    - 11.9   -    -   0.7  6.6  4.5  1.1   -
5.25     Under Loan 2915-TH, EGAT agreed to undertake a program of adjustments
in the existing tariff structure so that tariffs would (a) reflect cost
differences between the main voltage levels of delivery; (b) reflect cest
differences arising from marked variations in consumers' usage patterns, viz.
load factor, power factor and intensity of peak time demand; and (c) reduce
subsidies for consumers falling outside low-income groups. In the pursuit of
these objectives, in June 1987, the Government eliminated tariff surcharges



- 43 -
and simplified the tariff structure. For ir.dustrial and business customers
for whom a two-part tariff is applicable, kW demand charges were increased and
kWh charges were reduced to reflect the relative marginal capacity costs and
energy costs. Tariff differences between high, medium and low voltage users
were introduced to reflect network costs and energy losses. A working group
including representatives of the National Energy Policy office and the three
electric utilities was established to study implementation of time-of-day
rates for large industrial consumers, with rates differing for each of three
daily periods; the Government's intention is to introduce time-of-day rates in
FY89.
G. Financing Plan
5.26     A financing plan for EGAT and the subsector over the project period
(FY89-90) is presented in Table 5.5.
Table 5.5: EGAT AND SECTOR FINANCING PLAN FY89-90
EGAT               Power Subsector
Baht     US$      X    Baht     US$      X
--- (million) ----    ---- (million) ----
Financial Requirements
EGAT Investments (incl. IDC)Ia        50,935  2,037   101    50,935  2,037   80
MEA/PEA Investments (incl. IDC)          -       -      -     11,141    446   18
Total Investment                  50,935  2,037   101    62,076  2,483   98
Decrease in Deferred Liabilities         177       7     0        177      7    0
Working Capital Requirements            -722    -29    -1      1,313      53    2
Total Requirements                50,390  2,016   100    63,566  2,543  100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation              37,715  1,509    75    49,135  1,965   77
Less:  Debt Service                   23,906    956    47    30,250  1,210   48
Net Internal Cash Generation    13,809    552    27    18,885    755   30
IBRD Borrowings
(Proposed and Committed)               5,000    200    10      5,000    200    8
Other Borrowings                      32,719  1,309    65    37,218  1,489   58
Equity                                    82       3     0     2,038      82    3
Asset Disposal and Other (net)        -1,220    -49    -2         426     17    1
Total Sources of Funds            50,390  2,016   100    63,566  2,543  100
/a IDC - Interest during construction.



- 44 -
5.27     The proposed project, including interest during construction,
represents 82? of the overall power sector investment program during the
FY89-90 period. The proposed Bank loan of US$90 million is expected to meet
4.5Z of EGAT's total financing requirements for the period.
5.28     During the 1989-90 period, EGAT and the power sector expect to meet
27? and 30Z, respectively, of their total capital requirements from internally
generated funds. Less than 1t of EGAT's financing requirements will be met
from government equity contributions, which are expected to be restricted to
reimbursements of a portion of the cost of some of EGAT's multipurpose dam
projects.
5.29     Borrowings from external sources amount to 752 of EGAT's financing
requirements between FY87 and FY90. EGAT has a longstanding association with
the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) of Japan and more recently with the Kuwait Fund and the OPEC Fund. A
list of EGAT's loans and their terms is included in the project file. No
difficulties have arisen in the past in obtaining bilateral financing and
suppliers credits. For the past ten years, EGAT has made increasing use of
Euro-dollar and other foreign financing sources, local bond markets, and
commercial bank loans; it will continue to use these sources to cover any
financing gap.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Analysis
EGAT's Power Development Plan
6.1      The project forms a part of EGAT's least-cost expansion plan.  To
confirm the economic viability of EGAT's PDP, an adjusted Internal Financial
Rate of Return (IFR) is calculated, as an approximation of the Economic Rate
of Return (ERR), on the basis of the incremental cost and benefit streams
associated with the 1988-97 time-slice of EGAT's overall investment program.
This period covers all the proposed gas- and lignite-fired generating units
predicated on present reserve estimates of each of the two domestic fuels;
subsequent units which are presently assumed to be based on imported coal are
not included in the analysis. The (adjusted) IFR on this expansion program is
14Z. Incremental fuel costs are based on the Bank defined scenarios of
international fuel prices. Estimates of the economic cost of natural gas are
derived from the cI,Litract terms for the purchase of gas from Unocal by PTT,
net of royalty payments both on the gas itself and on recovered condensate.
Additional benefits accruing from the recovery of LPG are ignored. Estimates
of the economic price of lignite are based on the methodology agreed between
EGAT and the Bank for the establishment of the transfer price of lignite
within EGAT, net of taxes, duties and royalty payments. The projected levels
of EGAT tariffs producing the minimtun covenanted 25% self-financing ratio are
used as a proxy for benefits, ignoring possible consumer surplus. The ERR on
EGAT's expansion program would, therefore, be greater than the IFR. Because
financial covenants are agreed to ensure tariff adjustments in response to



- 45 -
changes in EGAT's cost structure, the (adjusted) IFR is relatively insensitive
to changes in EGAT's fuel costs. Even though EGAT's PDP can be adapted
relatively easily to changes in load forecast by modifying the timing of
future units, the IFR was tested with a decline in projected demand. A
reduction of 5% in the sales of electricity brings the IFR down to 12?.
Details of assumptions and calculations are in Annex 18.
Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Component
6.2      The Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power component is one of the priority
items in EGAT's least-cost development program. The adjusted IFR for this
project component is calculated based on assumptions similar to those used for
EGAT's overall investment program. In particular, EGAT's tariffs are used as
a proxy for benefits. Capital costs are net of taxes and duties and reflect
all investments, including the transmission facilities required to transmit
the incremental electricity generated by the project. Estimates of the
economic cost of natural gas are derived following the methodology outlined in
para. 6.1. The base case IFR for the project is estimated at 24Z.
6.3      Sensitivity tests were carried out to ascertain the impact on project
returns of changes in capital and operating costs. While increased production
of natural gas from the Gulf of Thailand as well as from onshore acreage in
the Northeast region is expected to be sufficient to meet the needs of Ell
additional gas-based generation units included in the PDP, together with those
of existing units, there is a possibility that, for part of the life of the
project, some of EGAT's dual-fired conventional steam plants may have to
revert to fuel oil use. To reflect this eventuality, the project economics
were tested using the projected price of fuel oil in costing natural gas used
by the project (on a calorific equivalent basis). The results of the
sensitivity tests are shown in Table 6.1. Details of calculations are in
Annex 19.
Table 6.1t BANG PAKONG COMBINED-CYCLE POWER COMPONENT
SENSITIVITY TESTS ON (ADJUSTED) IFR
IFR
(percent)
1.  Base case                                       24
2. Capital and operating (non-fuel)
costs increased by 102                       20
3. Natural gas priced at
fuel-oil equivalent after iO years           20
4.  2. & 3.                                         16



- 46 -
The results of the sensitivity tests confirm the robustness of the proposed
project within the range of anticipated fuel costs. Even under the unlikely
assumption that the project could displace use of natural gas in thermal
plants to the full extent of its own use, an acceptable rate of return is
obtained for the project.
Mae Moh Lignite Expansion Component
6.4      The economic analysis of the Lignite Mine Expansion component of the
project is based on the consideration that optimum use of lignite from the Mae
Moh deposit is in power generation because of its low heat content, which
would make its transport over long distances and trading for purposes other
than in situ power generation prohibitive. The analysis is carried out on a
substitution basis, i.e., by comparing the benefits and costs involved in the
incremental production of lignte for power generation with those of importing
coal for use in a coastal power plant, which would be the next most attractive
alternative option for Thailand in the absence of lignite deposits. This
comparison was done in two ways: first, by assessing the return on the
combined investment in lignite mining and power generation for Units 8 and 9,
taking the benefit stream as the substitution value of the additional
electricity generated from estimates of coal-based power generation; second,
by considering the investment in mining only, taking the netback value of
lignite when used for power generation (again based on a comparison with coal-
fire' generation) as the benefit stream. While the two approaches are based
on the same general assumptions as regard substitution benefits, they differ
in that the second method ascribes to the mining investment alone the economic
rent available from the use of domestic lignite, whereas the first method
relates it in part to the large investment in power generation. Since power
investment of comparable magnitude would be required whether or not lignite is
available domestically, the second approach tends to underestimate the econo-
mic benefits derived from mining domestic lignite.
6.5      In both cases the benefit and cost streams are calculated in 1988
prices taking into account expected changes in the real value of operating and
fuel costs. All calculations exclude taxes, duties and royalties.
Calculations are based on a comparison of Power Units 8 and 9 at Mae Moh,
which would use the incremental lignite production and will have a capacity of
300 MW each, with an hypothetical 600 MW coastal power plant burning imported
coal. The reason for the smaller size of the lignite units is that larger-
sized equipment could not be transported to the remote location of the mine -'
the northern part of the country. The capital and operating costs data for
the coal-fired plant are estimated by EGAT assuming the plant site to be at Ao
Phai, which would require a 230 kV double-circuit transmission line, 97 km
long, from Ao Phai to the Min Buri Substation. The long transmission lines
required to evacuate the additional electricity from Mae Moh are also included
in the calculations.



- 47 -
6.6      Based on current coal prices, economic cost of coal-based power
generation is estimated at USc. 3.60/kWh, which translates (after accounting
for differentials in non-fuel charges in the power plants) as a netback value
for domestic lignite of US$18 per tonne or US$7.2 per million kcal (US$1.8 per
MMBtu) assuming an average heat content of 2.530 kcal/kg: the netback value of
lignite is expected to grow progressively over the life of the project due to
the anticipated increase in the real price of imported coal, reaching US$24
per tonne in 2021 or US$9.4 per million kcal (US$2.4 per MM3tu). Details of
the assumptioas and calculations are shown in Annex 20.
6.7      In the first case, the benefit stream consists of the incremental
energy sales generated by Power Units 8 and 9 (totalling 600 MW) taking esti-
mates of coal-based generating costs as the reference price. Capital and
operating costs cover both the mine and power plant operations. In the second
case, the benefit stream consists of revenues from sale of lignite to the
power plants calculated on the basis of the netback value of lignite In
electricity generation. Capital and operating costs cover the mine operations
only. The economic rate of return Is estimated at 13Z for the combined mine
and power development and at 292 for the mine development alone. This
confirms the economic viability of lignite minig operations even though the
resource rent in the total opportunity cost of lignite (i.e., its cost
advantage over imported coal) Is relatively small.
6.8      The ERR on the combined mine-power InvestmenZ was tested for changes
in the capital and operating costs of the mining component (most of the costs
for power development having been already incurred).  An increase of 102 in
such costs drops the ERR to 112. which is satisfactory.  Additional tests were
carried out on the ERR for the mine Investment alone since this return Is more
indicative of the cost to the economy of developing lignite.  In particular.
the project component is tested against the hypothesis that international coal
prices would not increase in the future as expected. The results of the:
sensitivity tests are shown in Table 6.2:
Table 6.2: MAB NOR LIGNITE MINING COMPONENT
S3USITIVITY TESTS ON ERR
ERR
(percent)
1. Base case                            29
2. Capital costs and operating
costs increased by 10             24
3. Coal price kept constant
at 1988 level                      19
4. 2. & 3.                              14



- 48 -
The return is particularly sensitive to changes in international coal prices.
However, the ERR remains acceptable even in the somewhat unlikely scenario
that coal prices would remain constant in real terms over the life of the
project while mining costs of lignite would exceed current projections by 102
on the average.
B. Proiect Risks
6.9      No major risks are associated with the combined cycle power component
of the project which is an extension of an existing facility and will be
implemented by a .tility having significant experience in the power field.
Further, consulting engineers will assist with engineering and design
coordination and construction supervision. The principal challenge would be
in meeting the implementation schedule which is tight but achievable, with
both units to be commissioned by July 1991. To reduce the implementation
period, and also to achieve cost savings, the plant equipment would be
procured under a single responsibility contract. The risk of slippage in the
execution of the transmission needed to dispose of the incremental generation
of electricity at Bang Pakong is minimal, as the project requires only the
strengthening of an existing line and EGAT already has zubstantial experience
in similar work.
6.10     The project would require an assured long-term supply of natural gas.
While the overall gas supply is expected to expand sharply in the future, some
uncertainty remains regarding the timing of future supply increments.
However, EGAT would be able to absorb variations in gas supply by converting
part of the dual-fired generation capacity back to fuel oil, should this be
necessary. The risk that the project operations could suffer from gas supply
constraints is not only minimal but economically acceptable.
6.11     There is relatively little risk associated with the lignite expansion
component of the project. Measured lignite reserves are more than adequate.
Potential environmental hazards to air and water quality have been well
handled by EGAT under previous expansion piojects and would be monitored
closely to avoid undue risk. EGAT's satisiactory experience to date with its
contractor for the major and critical task of overburden removal has also
considerably alleviated the element of risk initially associated with this
cost-effective approach to mine management in terms of its potential impact on
the timeliness of fuel deliveries to the power plant. EGAT's reliance in the
future on several contractors will further reduce this risk element. The
power units that are intendeu to use the incremental lignite production are
already under construction and no delays are expected in their completion.
This will ensure that full use would be made of the facilities to be installed
as part of the project as soon as those have been implemented.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
7.1      During negotiations, agreement was reached with EGAT that it would:
(a) continue to operate its lignite mining activities as separate profit
centers and to maintain separate accounts and financial statements
for such centers (para. 3.5);



- 49 -
(b) submit to the Bank unaudited quarterly and audited annual financial
statements for the mining operations and EGAT as a whole, on both an
unconsolidated and a consolidated basis, within six months of the
close of each fiscal year and continue to have the accounts audited
by independent auditors (para. 3.16);
(c) continue to make provisions for insurance consistent with appropriate
practice (para. 3.17);
(d) submit to the Bank for its review and approval an evaluation of any
additional subproject to be financed under the loan, establishing
that the subproject is technically sound and economically justified,
has been approved by the Government, and meets internationally
accepted environmental and resettlement standards (para. 4.21);
(e) continue its nationwide lignite exploration program and submit an
annual report discussing exploration results to the Bank for comment
(para. 4.28);
(f) carry out the resettlement of the population to be affected by any
subproject financed under the loan in accordance with a plan
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.38);
(g) maintain a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 60:40 and short- and
medium-term debt at no more than 152 of all debt (para. 5.12);
(h) continue to set the transfer price for the lignite produced and used
in its power plants on the basis of economic principles and so as to
ensure the financial viability of its lignite mine operations, in
accordance with the methodology previously agreed with the Bank
(para. 5.16);
(i)  lwait borrowing related to lignite mining activities such that the
Lignite Mine Department's debt/equity ratio is no greater than 60:40
and its debt service coverage ratio is at least 1.3 (para. 5.17); and
(j) provide a quarterly review of the adequacy of its rates and maintain
a fuel cost adjustment clause in its tariff schedule (para. 5.23).
7.2      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
it would:
(a) undertake a periodic review of power rates to ensure that tariffs are
adequate for both EGAT and the power subsector to produce funds from
internal scurces equivalent to not less than 252 of the annual
average capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, by
them for that fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next
following fiscal year (paras 5.10 and 5.21); and



D 50 -
(b) provide to the Bank consolidated financial statements for the power
subsector within six months after the end of each fiscal year (para.
5.21).
B.  Recomindation
7.3      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$90 million to
be made to EGAT at the standerd variable interest rate for a 20-year term
including a 5-year grace period. The Guarantor would be the Kingdom of
Thailand.



THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
Highlights of EGAT, MEA and PEA Operations
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    rY87
EGAT
P7eFak generation (MW)                           2,417   2,589   2,838   3,204   3,547   3,878   4,181   4,734
Annual load factor (Z)                           69.5    70.9    67.9    67.9    67.6    68.7    67.7    68.0
Net energy generation (GWh)                     14,754  15,960  16,882  19,066  21,066  23,357 24,,780  28,193
Energy sold (GWh)                              13,652  14,552  15,386  17,544  19,338  21,208  22,529  25,756
Network losses (GVh)                             1,102.  1,408   1,496   1,522   1,728   2,149   2,251   2,437
Network losses (as % of generation)               7.46    8.82    8.86    7.98    8.20    9.20    9.08    8.64
Number of employees                            20,316  22,233  26,769  30,077  32,157  31,801  31,157  31,110
Employees per MW installed                           6       6        7        6       6        5        5        5
MEA
Teak demand (MW)                                 1,392   1,388   1,499   1,631   1,776   1,823   1,983   2,178
Energy purchased (GWh)                          8,263   8,492   8,719   9,666  10,498  10,910  11,391  12,930
Energy sold (GWh)                                7,867   8,182   8,438   9,166   9,917  10,330  10,672  12,104
Losses (GWh)                                       396     310      281      500     581      580      719     826
Losses (as % of purchases)                         4.8     3.7      3.2      5.2     5.5      5.3      6.3     6.4
Number of consumers ('000)                         739     794      838      876     914      962   1,001   1,052
Sales/consumer (kWh)                           10,645  10,305  10,069  10,463  10,850  10,738  10,661  11,506
Annual load factor (X)                           67.6    69.8    66.4    67.7    67.3    68.3    65.6    67.8
Number of employees                             9,676  10,045   10,11  10,264  10,301  10,422  10,640  10,865
Number of consumers/employee                        76      79       82       85      89       92       94      97
PEA
Teak demand (MW)                                 1,010   1,181   1,335   1,356   1,722   1,955   2,082   2,376
Energy purchases (GWh)                          5,131   5,261   6,428   7,385   8,222   9,424  10,213  11,808
Ener,gy generated (GWh)                             70      45       35       27      21       19       25      25
Energy avaiable (GWh)                          5,201   5,306   6,453   7,412   8,243   9,443  10,238  11,833
Energy sold (CWh)                               4,696   5,210   5,840   6,680   7,433   8,557   9,305  10,944
Losses (GWh)                                       505     596      613      732     810      886      933     889
Losses (as % of available)                         9.7    10.3      9.5      9.9     9.8      9.4      9.1     7.5
Consumers ('000)                                1,886   2,270   2,723   3,186   3,620   4,054   4,542   5,069
Average energy sales/consumer (kWh)             2,490   2,295   2,145   2,097   2,053   2,110   2,049   2,159
Annual load factor (M)                           56.9    56.1    55.2    54.1    54.5    55.1    56.1    56.9
Number of employees                             14,310  16,262  18,188  19,605  21,382  22,584  23,502  24,397
Number of consumers/employee                       132     139      150      162     169      179      193     208
Colmtry Department II
February 1989



- 52 -                                   ANNEX 2
THAILAND
POWE SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJEaC
EGAT's Existing Generating Capacity
(AS Ot JUly 1988)
Average energy
Commissioning   No. of        Capacity (MW)          capability
Plant type                      date(s)       units    Installed   Ultimate        (GWh/yr)
Hydroelectric Plants
Bbumibol                      1964-82          7        535.0       710.0         1,200.0
Sirikit                           1974         3        375.0       500.0         1,000.0
Ubolratana                    1966-68          3         25.0         25.0            56.0
Sirindborn                    1971-84          3         36.0        36.0            86.0
Chulabhorn                        1972         2         40.0         40.0           95.0
Kang Rrachan                      1974          1        19.0         19.0            78.0
Nam Pung                          1965         2          6.0          6.0            15.0
Sriragarind                   1980-85          4        540.0       720.0         1,140.0
Bang Lang                         1981         3         72.0        72.0           200.0
Tha Thung Na                  1981-82          2         38.0         38.0           165.0
Rhao Laem                      1984-85         3        300.0        300.0          760.0
Huai KuM                          1982         1          1.3          1.3             2.0
Ban Yang                          1974         3          0.12        0.12            0.3
Ban Santi                         1982         1          1.3          1.3            6.0
Ban Chong Klum                    1984         1          0.02         0.02            0.2
Bank Khun Klang                   1983         2          0.18        0.18            0.7
Mae Ngat                          1985         2          9.0          9.0            29.0
Huai SanFan Hin                   1986         2         12.2         12.2           27.0
Ra]japrabha                   1986-87          3        240.0        240.0          550.0
Total                                      48      2,250.12    2,730.12        5,410.2
Thermal Power Plants
Mae Mob (lignite)              1987-85         7        825.0                     5,420.0
Krabi (lignite)               1964-68          2         40.0                       200.0
North Bangkok (oil)           1961-68          3        237.5                     1,250.0
Surat Thani (oil)                 1973         1         30.0                       210.0
Rhanom PPB (oil)                  1981          1        75.0                       525.0
South Bangkok (oil/gas)       1970-77          5      1,300.0                     9,110.0
Bang Pakong (oil/gas)         1983-84          2      1,100.0                     7,710.0
Total                                      21      3,607.5                    24,425.0
Combined Cycle Power Plant
Bang Pakong (gas)             1980-83          2        771.6                     4,055.0
Total                                        2        771.6                     4,055.0
Gas Turbines
Nakhon Ratchasima                 1968          1        15.0                        33.0
Udon Thani                        1969         1         15.0                        33.0
Hat Yai                       1969-71          3         45.0                        99.0
Surat Thani                   1969-70          3         45.0                        99.0
Lan Krabu                     1969-81          7        145.0                       735.0
Total                                      15        265.0                     1,054.0
Grand Total                                86     6,894.22                    35,042.2
Country Department II
February 1989



- 53 -                                ANNEX 3
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGAT's Existing Transmission and Substation Facilities
(As of July 1988)
Transmission lines
Substationd              (circuit-kilometers)
Region and                         Transformer /a       Double-   Single-
system voltage             Number   capacity (MVA)        circuit   circuit  Total
Region 1
230 kV                      19           5,860          2,750          18    2,768
115 kV                      41           2,235            632      1,437    2,069
69 kV                       1              34              -         128      128
Subtotal                 61           8,129          3,382      1,583    4,965
Region 2
230 kV                       1             400            290           -      290
115 kV                      28           1,062          1,711      1,686    3,397
69 kV                       4              35              -         327      327
Subtotal                 33            ,497001                  2,013    4,014
Region 3
230 kV                       3             400            806/b         -      806
115 kV                      21             976          1,149      1,137/c  3,092
Subtotal                 24           1,376          1.955      1,137    3,092
Region 4
500 kV                       -               -              -        326/d    326
230 kV                       8             750          2,040        218    2,258
115 kV                      20             924            634      1,072    1,712
69 kV                       5             125              -        187       187
Subtotal                 33           1,799         2.680       1,803    4.483
All Region
500 kV                       -               -              -         326      326
230 kV                      31           7,410          5,886        236    6,122
115 kV                     110           5,197         4,132       5,332    9,464
69 kV                      10             194              -        642       642
Total EGAT              151          12,801         10,018      6.536   16,554
/a Station service and generator unit transformers are excluded.
lb  550 circuit-km of which are presently energized at 115 kV.
77 9 circuit-km of 132 kV transmission line are included.
7-d Presently energized at 230 kV.
Country Department II
February 1989



- 54 -                                      ANNEX 4
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGAT's Demand Forecasts
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Energy Sales (GWh)
Residential              2,803   3,306   3,347   3,701   4,125   4,552   5,019   5,521   6,056
Business                 4,133   4,646   5,090   5,585   6,178   6,774   7,430   8,121   8,848
Industrial               5,366   6,054   6,836   7,456   8,153   8,824   9,549  10,314  11,098
Special rates              568      642      642     642      642      642     642      642     642
Government, hospitals
and education            961   1,050   1,147   1,241   1,351   1,460   1,579   1,701   1,827
Street lighting              66      72       76      80       83       86      89       92      96
Network losses              950   1,061   1,171   1,278   1,403   1,528   1,661   1,804   1,953
Received from EGAT    14,847  16,561  18,309  19,983  12,935  23,866  25,969  28,195  30,520
PEA
Residential              3,591   4,025   4,456   4,939   5,500   6,053   6,630   7,238   7,899
Business                 2,137   2,479   2,858   3,266   3,700   4,112   4,516   4,958   5,435
Industrial               5,727   6,613   7,685   8,774   9,821  10,677  11,594  12,545  13,464
Special rates              228      246      260     276      294      312     332      353     375
Government, hospitals
and education          1,060   1,186   1,315   1,455   1,630   1,806   1,982   2,145   2,316
Street lighting               -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
Losses - generation,
free of charge         1,184   1,336   1,496   1,677   1,864   2,031   2,201   2,377   2,556
Received from EGAT    13,927  15,885  18,070  20,387  22,809  24,991  27,255  29,616  32,045
EGAT's direct customers   1,185   1,303   1,348   1,354   1,360   1,366   1,372   1,378   1,384
Grand Total            29,959  33,749  37,727  41,724  46,104  50,223  54,596  59,189  63,949
EGAT network losses (GWh)   2,637   2,835   3,019   3,338   3,689   4,017   4,368   4,735   5,116
As Z of net generation       8.09    7.75    7.41    7.41    7.41    7.41    7.41    7.41    7.41
EGAT net generation (GWh)  32,596  36,584  40,746  45,052  49,793  54,240  58,964  63,924  69,065
EGAT load factor (X)          68.35   63.49   68.82   69.14   69.55   69.83   70.28   70.82   71.25
EGAT peak demand (QW)         5,444   6,098   6,759   7,440   8,173   8,867   9,578  10,304  11,066
NEA peak demand (MW)          2,468   2,751   3,016   3,291   3,583   3,890   4,206   4,526   4,875
MEA load factor (2)           68.66   68.71   69.29   69.32   69.89   70.03   70.48   71.12   71.46
PEA peak demand (MW)          2,805   3,178   3,589   4,023   4,469   4,862   5,263   5,676   6,095
PEA load factor (Z)           56.69   57.07   57.47   57.86   58.26   58.63   59.11   59.56   60.02
Country Department II
February 1989



- 55-                                        MIME! S
Page r of 2
TUAllAD
rAT's Power Devlopment Plan
Capa-  Scheduled       Capital investment
Unit                   clty    completion  Foreign   Local   Total
no.       Type        (NW)       date     -    (USS million) -
Uader Construction
ae Itob                               8        Therml         300   Jul 1989      171.8    97.3   269.1
Nae mob                               9        Therml         300    Dec 1990     154.4    81.2   235.6
Kbalom  second poer plant barge       2        Thermal         75   Feb 1989       64.9    23.9    88.8
WUV transmiggion gyaCte- stge 2
(for Mae Mob unlt 8)                -           -             -   Apr 1989       17.7    11.5    29.2
WIV transmission system stage 3
(for Mae mob unit 9)                -           -             -   Apr 1990       40.8    34.4    75.2
Second central-soutbern tie line      -           -             -   Feb 1990       19.9    25.1    45.0
Transmission system expoan0o no. 7
part A                              -           -             -        1990      45.0    47.7    92.7
part B                              -           -             -        1990      15.6    14.3    29.9
Mae Nob mine expansion for Hae Nob
units 5,6,7                         -           -             -        1989      28.8    48.6    77.4
Mae Nob mine expansion (stage 1)
for bae Nob units 8,9               -           -             -        1991      40.0   134.2   174.2
Srinagarind                           5         Hlydro        180   Apr 1991       26.4    11.8    38.2
Bang Pakong combined cycle            3    Gas turbine 6      300   Jun 1991      114.9    83.4   198.3
combined cycle
Bsank Fakong combined cycle           4    Gas turbine &      300   Aug 1991      105.9    64.1   170.0
combined cycle
Mae mob                              10        Thermal        300   Feb 1992    166.7   127.9   294.6
Bang Pakong therml                    3        Therml         600   Kay 1992    200.9   227.9   428.8
Bang Pakong thermal                   4        Thermal        600   May 1993    192.3   220.1   412.4
Rrabi lignite                         4        Thermal         75   Nov 1992       71.6    48.1   119.7
230 kV fbon Ken 3 - goi Et trans-    -            -             -   Jan 1991       10.9    11.5    22.4
mission project
230 kV Tba Takohbon Keen 3            -           -             -   Jan 1992       16.5    17.7    34.2
WIV transmission system for Mae Rob   -           -             -    Feb 1992      42.3    43.6    85.9
unit 10
Mm transmission system for Mae Nob   -            -             -   Feb 1993       27.2    34.3    61.5
unit 11
Krabi mine expansion for rati lig-   -            -             -        1993      12.6      9.2    21.8
nite unit 4
Hisc. transmission system expnsnion   -           -             -     1987-91      22.2   161.6   183.8
and constructlon work
Total                                                    3.030               1,609.3  1,5?9.4  3,188.7
Biidl bydro plant renovation         1-2        Rydro        (140)  Mar 1992       18.7      4.8    23.5
Pak Yn                               1-4        Hydro         136   Nov 1993       74.6    74.6   149.2
Kseng Krung                          1-2        Bydro          80   Dec 1993       48.3    62.9   111.2
Mae Taeng                            1-2        Hydro          26   Jun 1995       18.7    17.3    36.0
Bhudbol                               8         Bydro         178   Jan 1996       48.0    34.7    82.7
Sirikit & Ler Sirikit                4         Hydra         140    Feb 1996      52.9    26.0    78.9
Km comblned cycle                     I    Gas turbine A      300   Sep 1991      123.2    84.3   207.5
combined cycle
New combined cycle                    2    Gas turbine 6      300   Oct 1991      110.9    59.7   170.6
combined cycle
Now combined cycle                    3    Gas turbine A      300   Jan 1992      112.5    74.6   187.1
combined cycle
Lan Krabu comblned cycle (steam       I    Combined cycle      50   Oct 1991       32.6    17.5    50.1
turbine)
Mam Phong combiad cycle              1-2    Gas turbine 6     210    Dec 1991     110.6    56.9   167.5
combined cycle
Has Nob                              11        Thermal        300   Feb 1993      145.7   105.6   251.3
Mae Nob                              12        Thermal        300   Oct 1993      159.2   122.8   282.0
Mae Nob                              13        Thermal        300   Apr 1994      160.5   124.1   284.6
Mae Nob                              14        Thermal        300   Oct 1994    160.5   124.1   284.6
Mae Nob                              15        Therml         300   Apr 1995      161.8   125.2   287.0
Mae Nob                              16        Thermal        300   Nov 1995      161.8   125.2   287.0
Nortb Bangkok plant reovtion         1-3       Thermal     (237.5)  Aug 1993       28.7    20.1    48.8
South Bangkok pIant tRenovtion       1-5       Thermal
Baba Yoi                              I        Thermla        150   Oct 1995    106.7    82.1   188.8
Saba Yoi                              2        Thermal        150   Apr 1996       93.6    69.2   162.8
Accelerated trasmi_sion proJct        -           -             -   Apr 1992       47.3    37.7    85.0



-  6                                            A11M41 5
Page  of 2
Capa-   Scheduled        Capital tivestont
Unit                     city    completion  Foreign   Local    Total
no.        Type         (KW)       date     -    (US$ million)
RamProJects (cont'd)
tHV transmission system for Mae Koh   -             -               -    Oct 1993      27.5      22.8     50.3
unit 12
8HV transmission system for Nee Mob h               -              -    Apr 1994       14.5       9.8     24.3
unit 13
EHV transmission aystem for Mae  ob    -            -               -    Oct 1994      21.6      17.1     38.7
unit 14
EBV transmission system fot Mae Khb   -                             -    Apr 1995      45.1      46.2     91.3
unit 15
EHV transmaision system for Mae Koh   -             -               -    Nov 1995      44.8      42.7     87.5
unit 16
Transmission system expansion No. 8   -             -               -    Apr 1993      49.9      49.0     98.9
Transmission system expansion No. 9   -             -              -    Apr 1995       50.0      49.5     99.5
Mae  oh mine expansion (stage 2)        -           -              -         1996      54.0      30.4     84.4
for Mae Mob unite 8.9
Mae Mob mine expansion for Mae Kob    -             -               -    Feb 1992       9.8      21.9     31.7
unit 10
Mae Mob mine expansion for bse Koh    -              -              -    Feb 1993       19.9     25.5     45.4
untt 11
Mae Koh mine expansion for Hae Mob    -             -               -    Oct 1993      71.2      44.0    115.2
unit 12
Mae Koh mine expansion for Mae 80b    -             -              -    Apr 1994       61.7      32.5     94.2
unit 13
Mae Hob mine expansion for Mae Mob    -             -              -    Oct 1994       20.1      11.3     31.4
unit 14
lae Mob mine expansion for Mae Noh    -             -              -    Apr 1995       20.2      11.4     31.6
unit 15
Mae Mob mtne expanston for Mae Mob    -             -              -    Nov 1995       82.5      42.0    124.5
unit 16
Saba Yoi mtne development for Saba    -             -              -         1996      57.6    162.4    220.0
Yoi untts 1.2
Total                                                       3.820                2,665.7  2,088.2  4.753.9
Project to be Initiated  (but to be completed after September 1996)
3        Thermal         300    Oct 1996      163.5    128.0    291.5
Mae Kob                                17        Thermal         300    Nov 1996      163.0    127.7    290.7
Mae Moh                                18        Thermal         300    Apr 1997      164.4    131.6    296.0
New tbermal                             I        Thermal         600    Oct 1997      349.5    397.0    746.5
Mae Mob                                19        Thermal         300    Nov 1997      164.4    131.6    296.0
lever Mae Ping                         1-2        Hydro           40    Jul 1998       37.9     44.0      81.9
kw thermal                              2        Thermal         600    Oct 1998      329.4    391.4    720.8
Saba Yoi                                4        Thermal         300    Nov 1998      193.3    160.2    353.5
Nam Khek                               1-4        Hydro           120    Feb 1999      77.8      96.2    173.0
New tbermal                             3        Thermal         600    Oct 1999      332.1    412.1    744.2
Nam Chern                              1-4        Hydro          400    Nov 1999       95.1     84.1    179.2
NeW thermal                             4        Thermal         600    Oct 2000      356.7    443.3    800.0
memv thermal                            S        Thermal         600    Jan 2001      383.1    454.6    837.7
EHV transission system for Mae Mob   -              -              -    Nov 1996       22.6      18.3     40.9
unit 17
ENV transmission system for Mae Mob   -             -              -    Apr 1997        1.3       1.0      2.3
unit 18
EHV tranamission system for Mae Nob   -             -              -    Nov 1997        6.4      6.7      13.1
unit 19
Transmission system expansion No. 10  -             -              -    Apr 1997       50.8      51.5    102.3
Transmission syatem expansion No. 11  -             -              -         1999      53.3     57.2    110.5
Trangmission system expansion No. 12  -             -              -         2001      61.5     66.0    127.5
Transaission system expansion No. 13  -             -              -         2003      70.9     76.1    147.0
Mae Mab mine expanilon for Mae Mob    -             -              -    Nov 1996       20.4      11.5     31.9
unit 18
tae Mob mine expansion for Hse Nob    -             -              -    Apr 1997       75.9      39.4    115.3
unit 19
Mte Mob mne expansion for Mae Mob             -                    -    Nov 1997       10.9       7.9     18.8
unit 20
Saba Yoi mine development for Saba    -             -              -         1998      88.0     84.7    172.7
Yoi units 3,4
Total                                                      5O60                 3,272.2  3,421.1  6,693.3
Notes:  (1) Data as of PDP88-O2 (August 1988).
(2)  Including interest daring construction.
(3) Exchange rate:  US$1.00 - B 26.0.
(4) Under-construction projects are tbe projects that bave already been approved by the NESDB and
bad budget In PY1989.
Country Department It
February 1989



THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
Balance of System Load Requirements and Capabilities
Requirement                               Capability and reserve margin
reaK       energy                       Capacity                     _Energy
genera-     genera-                              Reserve capacity                             Reserve
Fiscal     tion         tion     Installed   Dep2ndable    ross/a    Net/lb   Average        Firm      from firm
year      (MW)         (GWh)    --  -  (MW) ----- 3___            )           ---- (GWh) ---             (%)
1980      2,417.4   14,753.7    3,239.4       3,084.2      27.58     12.36    18,673.0   16,673.1       13.01
1981      2,588.7   15,960.0    3,739.4       3,555.O      37.33     23.11    19,813.0   18,576.5       16.39
1982      2,838.0   16,882.0    4,097.7       3,910.2      37.78     24.81    21,028.0   21,195.8       25.55
1983      3,204.3   19,066.3    4,992.0       4,801.9      49.86  - 24.64    25,412.0   22,813.7        19.65
1984      3,547.3   21,066.4    5,859.2       5,668.3      59.79     37.01    31,778.0   28,622.0       35.87
1985      3,878.4   23,356.7    6,457.7       6,163.7      58.92     38.09    34,635.0   33,155.9       41.95
1986      A,180.9   24,779.5    6,622.2       6,328.9      51.38     32.05    34,535.0   34,397.7       38.82
1987      4,733.9   28,194.3    6,928.4       6,483.3      36.95     19.88    35,112.0   32,765.9       16.21
1988      5,444.0   32,596.0    6,894.2       6,392.5      17.42      2.59    35,040.0   33,065.4        1.44
1989      6,098.0   36,584.0    7,269.2       6,748.8      10.67     -2.57    37,535.0   33,961.9       -7.17
1990      6,759.0   40,746.0    7,869.2       7,318.2       8.28     -3.66    39,112.0   36,226.6    -11.09
1991      7,440.0   45,062.0    9,189.2       8,573.8      15.24      4.38    46,824.0   43,197.7       -4.14
1992      8,173.0   49,793.0   10,409.2       9,732.8      19.08      8.62    54,780.0   49,546.1       -0.50
1993      8,867.0   54,240.0   11,344.2      10,628.8      19.87     10.23    60,990.0   55,893.8        3.05
1994      9,578.0   58,964.0   11,995.2      11,210.7      17.05      8.12    64,885.0   62,061.0        5.25
1995     10,304.0   63,924.0   12,621.2      11,806.5      14.58      6.28    68,936.0   66,096.2        3.40
1996     11,066.0   69,065.0   13,539.2      12,682.4      14.61      6.88    73,201.0   70,444.3        2.00
1997     11,816.0   74,016.0   14,439.2      13,537.4      14.57      7.33    79,111.0   75,883.7        2.52
1998     12,596.0   79,170.0   15,349.2      14,403.9      14.35      7.57    85,021.0   82,649.1        4.39
1999     13,414.0   84,660.0   16,369.2      15,368.5      14.57      8.20    91,241.0   88,806.9        4.89
2000     14,271.0   90,568.0   17,369.2      16,338.5      14.49      8.50    96,091.0   92,975.9        2.66
2001     15,126.0   96,373.0   18,369.2      17,288.6      14.40      8.75   103,971.0   98,771.9        2.49
/a  Dependable capacity minus peak demand.
71  Gross reserve minus dependable capacity of first and second largest units in the system.
Country Department II
February t989



THAILAND
MOMER SYSTEK DEVttOMENT PRWOECT
Prolected Energy Balance
Types of
power plant           FY88/a    FY89       FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95      FY96      FY97     FY98      FY99    FY2000   FY2001
GMh                  3,611    4,518    4,571    5,410    5,410    5,410    5,905    5,942    6,060    6,082    6,132    6,506    6,599    6,599
2                     11.3      12.3      11.2     12.0      10.9     10.0      10.0      9.3       8.8       8.2      7.7       7.7       7.3      6.8
Natural Gas
dGW                 18,263   19,106   18,238   18,132   20,646   25,116   28,269   28,384   28,002   29,302   28,958   28,805   27,697   27,697
2                     57.1      52.2     44.8      40.2     41.5      46.3      47.9     44.4      40.5      39.6     36.6      34.0     30.6      28.7
MKSCFD                 463       498       478      508       502      614       694       697      687       721       712      708       688      688
Hleavy Oil
CWh                  2,853    5,073    7,910   11,569   12,161    9,899    7,350    8,218    9,108    7,402    5,945    5,300    8,267    7,160
2                      8.9      13.9     19.4      25.7     24.4      18.3      12.5     12.9      13.2      10.0      7.5       6.3       9.1      7.4
Million liters         755      1,32    2,026    2,927    3,025    2,466    1,847    2,065    2,281    1,873    1,500    1,333    2,070    1,794
Diesel Oil
01h                       1      173      916         -         -        -         -         -        -         -
X                      0.0       0.5      2.2         -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -
MIllIon liters           4        85       451        -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -
LlgaLte
6,790    7,01'    8,421    9,236   10,866   13,110   16,735   20,675   25,190   30,525   33,480   35,450   35,450   35,450
X                     21.2      19.;     20.7      20.5      21.8     24.2      28.4     32.3      36.5      41.2     42.3      41.9      39.1     36.8
Million tons         5.904    7.012    8*323    9.079   10.617   12*648   16*070   19.788   24.068   29.094   31.868   33.698   33.698   33.698
lnported Coal
ush                      -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -    3,950    7,900   11,850   18,762
z                                                                                                     -         -       5.0      9.3      13.1      19.5
Million tons              -        -         -        -                            -         -         -        -    1.517    3.033    4.550    7.204
Purehase
GVh                    480       700      690       715       710      705       705       705      705       705       705      705       705       705
X                      1.5       1.9       1.7      1.6       1.4       1.3      1.2       1.1      1.0       1.0      0.9       0.8       0.8      0.7
Others
%                        -         -             -         -         -        -              -        -         -         -        -         -         -
Total (GWh)       31,998   36,584   40.746   45,062   49,793   54,240   58,964   63,924   69,065   74,016   79,170   84,666   90,568   96.373
/a  Actual.
Country Department II
February 1989



ANNEX 8
- 59 -                                Page 1 of 6
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LiRnite Resources
a. Reserves and Production
1.       Geological lignite reserves (Table 1) amount to a total of 2.1
billion tonnes in the measured and indicated categories. It is estimated
that about 35Z or 730 million tonnes are mineable. They occur in widely
scattered tertiary basins, of which Mae Moh with 1.5 billion geological
and 614 million tonnes mineable is the largest (Table 2). Thai lignite
deposits are of medium to good quality. Heating values lie in the 2,300
to 3,000 kcallkg range. Volatile matter can be as high as 35 X, ash
content usually varies from 20 to 35 X, and is very variable in sulphur
(from < 1 Z to as high as 62).
2.       Resource potential for lignite in Thailand is from medium to good
and there are a number of promising areas requiring further exploration.
Among the most promising prospects is the Saba Yoi area in Southern
Thailand, where in 1987, EGAT discovered a major deposit and where initial
drilling indicates a potential that may well surpass 200 million tonnes of
reserves.
3.       Exploration work is carried out by the Department of .Mineral
Resources (DMR), EGAT, and several private companies. While the DMR
concentrates on grass- root exploration on a minor scale (with a
limited budget of USS 3 million over 5 years) and private operators
usually take over discoveries made by DMR and explore close to their
mining operations, EGAT has over the last 10 years carried out major
nationwide exploration campaigns, resulting in various discoveries,
including Saba Yoi (Table 2). EGAT's exploration investments as of
March 1987 have amounted to approx. US$ 25 million.
4.       Lignite production in Thailand has increased over the last ten
years from 0.6 million tonnes to almost 7.0 million tonnes in 1987,
equivalent to about 10 of total commercial energy consumption. From
1982 onwards, when the power sector still consumed 90 1 of the lignite
production, there has been a strong increase in demand from the
industrial sector, which in 1987 consumed 182 of total. Over the last
four years, there has been a large growtn rate in both supply and demand
of about 451, due to the large power developments at Mae Moh, but also
from the private sector mainly because of increased lignite fired cement
production capacity and new entrants, like pulp and paper and food
processing. Supp'.y and demand figures are given in Table 3 and are
summarized below:



-60 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
Lignite Production and Consumption
'000 tonnes
Production               1984       1985        1986         1987
EGAT                      1,939      4,612       4,543        5,695
Industrial Sector           396        533         777        1,265
TOTAL                     2,335      5,145       5,320        6,960
Consumption
Power Generation (EGAT)  1,797       3,853       4,522        5,820
Industrial Sector           332        642         736       1,058
TOTAL                     2,:29      4,495       5,258        6,878
Source: EGAT, DMR
5.       The major development prospects for lignite are in the power
sector, particularly at Mae Moh where the largest part of known reserves
(about 80Z of mineable) is located. Under the proposed project, power
generation capacity and lignite production will be expanded from 825 MW
installed and 5.6 million tonnes produced in 1987 to 1,425 MW installed
and 9.5 million tonnes produced in 1991. Ultimate installed capacity
that can be supported by the deposit is 2,925 MW with a production of 19
million tonnes, scheduled to be completed by the mid- 1990's.
6.       Although lignite has certain handling disadvantages (possible
spontaneous combustion, high moisture content), which makes it somewhat
difficult to transport, its use is on the increase especially in
industries where pulverized or small granted coal can be used, e.g.,
cemeot manufacturing, and where the transport disadvantages of a low-
grade fuel can be compensated by backhauls in road transport. It
therefore can be anticipated that the existing mines catering to
industry, which generally have a better quality than those dedicated to
power use, would expand and other, known deposits could be developed.
The largest potential would be the Saba Yoi deposit which is still under
exploration and which offers a reasonable quality (average 3,000 kcal/kg)
and which, if exploitable, could provide lower grade fuel for power and
higher grade for industry. Demand projections vary widely, but a
reasonable estimate of lignite demand for the industrial sector would be
a doubling to about 2 million tonnes by 1995.
b. Sector Institutions and Government Policies
7.       Overall policy setting and strategy formulation rests with the
National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC) and its secretariat, the National
Energy Policy Office (NEPO), which is attached to the Prime Minister's
Office and closely interacts with the National Economic and Social
Development Board (NESDB).  It coordinates the energy and lignite related
activities of the Department of Mineral Resources and the National Energy
Administration (NEA).



-61 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
8.       Former institutional overlaps have been eliminated recently by
clearly defining the role of these institutions. The DMR is responsible
for conducting surveys and preliminary exploration of lignite deposits
and for issuing and granting lignite concessions. The NEA is responsible
for research and development on lignite utilization, formulating and
setting quality standards, as well as the promotion of lignite
utilization.
9.       Part of the Government's energy strategy is the further
development of domestic energy resources, including lignite, by providing
incentives to the private sector for exploration and development, and the
promotion of lignite utilization. Recently, the concession system has
been overhauled whereby areas previously investigated by the government
would be auctioned off to qualified private bidders. A policy- oriented
lignite study to be carried out jointly by the government, UNDP and the
Bank has been initiated to serve as a base for more detailed strategy
formulation for the lignite sector in Thailand.



-62 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6
THAILAND
POWER SYS     EVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table ls Geological Lignite Reserves
(Million tonnes)
Deposit Location (County)              Measured    Indicated       Total
1.  Mae Moh (Mae Moh)                   820.90       670.60     1,491.50
2.  Krabi (Khlong Thom)                  83.60        37.20        120.80
3.  Li (Li)                              28.00        25.30         53.30
4.  Mae Tip (Ngao)                       11.00                     ;1.00
S.  Hong Ya Plong (Nong Ya Plong)         1.40                       1.40
6.  Mae Tun (Mae Ramat)                   1.23                       1.23
7.  Ban Mae Lamao (Mae Sot)               1.63         2.42          4.05
S.  Mae Than (Mae Tha)                    0.80                       0.80
9.  Wiang Haeng (Wiang Heng)             93.09        34.05        127.14
10.  Sinpun (Thung Yai)                   91.06                      91.06
11.  Rhian Sa (Khian Sa)                  15.41        40.02         55.43
12.  Chai Buri (Chai Buri)                             13.50         13.50
13.  Wang Nua (Wang Nua)                              .62.20         62.20
14.  Ngaa (Ngao)                                       24.50         24.50
15.  Chae Hom (Chae Hom-Muang Pan)                     14.73         14.73
16.  Soem Hgam (Soem Ngam)                              4.60          4.60
17.  Mae Rmoat (Mae Ramat)                              2.50          2.50
18.  Hua Sua-Pha Maeo (Mae Tha)                         1.85          1.85
19.  Chiang Muan (Chiang Muan)                          1.59          1.59
20.  Mae Tha (Mae Tha)                                  1.50          1.50
21.  Bo Luang (Hot)                                     0.63          0.63
TOTAL s                   1,148.12       937.19      2,085.31
Sources Department of Mineral Resources



I!1lLAftfl
POWE  SYSTEK DEVEIPV=   PROJECT
Table 2: General Information About EGAT Lignite Deposits
(UP TO MARCH, 1998)
3       ,                                                 DEPOSITS
I   UNIT.              MAE MOM               KRABI            SIN PUN        WAING HEANS            SABA VOI
BASIN SIZE                       a  89.1M:                135.00             340.00              t35.00             144.00             545.00
LIONITE DEPOSIT SIZE             a  S9.K1M                 39.00               7.50                7.33              13.10            N/A (1)
*       U
BEOLOSICAL RESERVE                  N HIO.ta             1491.50             120.70               65.17             104.90                 N/A
NINEABLE RESERVE                 t  MIO.ta                614.00              20.00               23.00              25.00                 N/A
NET CALORIFIC VALUE (2)          skcal/kg,               2307.00            2065.00            2715.00             2900.00            3000.00
DRILLINS PERFORHED               a    M. a               595,639            206,913             70,795              29,059              9,000
,tHOLES)i               (4325)              (3000)             (1200)               (153)               (50)
EXPLORATION EXPENSE USED         oNIO.BHTe                320.00             150.00               97.00              29.50                3.00
ADDITIONAL LISNITE POTENTIAL   a   -                         LOW                LOW                 LOW             MEDIUM                HIGH
EXISTING DEVELOPHENT             a   -   a      PRODUCTION RATE   PRODUCTION RATE          UNDERTAKING            DETAILED        EXPLORATION
s  a      5.5M10. tpa          0.3B10.tpa        FEASIBILITY        EXPLORATION
a       a                                                 STUDY
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT PLAN                              I -   a   11 MIO.tpa  0.4 MI0.tpa  0.5 MIO.TON/YEAR       1.0 MIO.tpa        FEASIBILITY
I       a                               FROM 1992           FROM 1993                               STUDY
I                                                                                                  "IN 1990
REMARKSt (1) N/A * NOT AVAILABLE
(2) NET CALORIFIC VALUE ON AS-RECEIVED BASIS
SOURCEt EGAT                                                                                                                                              |j
o 
Oh



- 64 -                     ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
THAIL&ND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lignite Production
'000 tonnes
Producer            Location    1984       1985     1986      1987 2   GROWTH
EGAT                Mae-Moh    1,659    4,217    4,331    5,503          49.12
EGAT                 Krabi        280       395      212       192      -11.82
Ban Pu Mining       Lamphun       134       255      512       608       65.62
Lanna Mining         Lamphun       37        48       58       308      102.7Z
Asia Mining          Petcaburi-     0        25       87        85       84.42
G.B. Chieng Rai      Lampang        0         0        2        16         --
Boonsong            Lampang         0         0        0        28         --
Thai Lignite         Tak           80        41       20        29      -28.72
Su Je Lignite Co.   Tak             0         0        0        19         --
Lee Wattana          Lamphun        0         0        0        44         --
World Fuel           Lamphun        0         0        6        62         --
Others                            145       164       92        66      -23.12
Total EGAT                      1,939    4,612    4,543    5,695         43.22
Total Industrial Sector           396       533      777    1,265        47.32
Grand Total                     2,355    5,145    5,320    6,960         43.92
Soruces EGAT, DMR
Apparent Lignite Consumption
'000 tonnes
Industry                         1984      1985     1986     198? 2    GROWTH
Power Generation (EGAT)         1,797    3,853    4,522    5,820         48.02
Cement                            224       387      517       704       46.52
Pulp & Paper                        0         1       82       126         --
Food Processing                     0         0        9        43         --
Tobacco                            76        92       64        78        0.92
Lime Burning                        0         5       10         3         --
Other                              32       157       54       104       48.12
Total EGAT                      1,797    3,853    4,522    5,820         48.02
Total Industrial Sector           332       642      736    1,058        47.22
Grand Total                     2,129    4,495    5,258    6,878         47.82
Sources EGAT, DMR
Country Department II
February 1989



-65-                                     ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lignite Mine Component
A. The Mae Moh Lignite Mining Operation
1.       The Mae Moh power and mine complex is located in North
Thailand in Lampang Province, approximately 65- km north of Bangkok and
12 km east of the town of Lampang. The main land use in the area is
commercial teakwood and tobacco cultivatirn; there is also some limited
subsistence agriculture. Population density in the basin is low and
the climate is tropical, with an average annual rainfall of 1,000 to
1,500 mm. The area is adequately served by paved roads and by a
railspur line, which connects the site with the national rail system
approximately 5 km to the south of Mae Moh.
2.       The deposit, contained in a tertiary basin, has been well
explored by EGAT's Geology and Exploration Department, assisted over
the past ten years by Rheinbraun Consulting and Otto Gold (FRG),
Longworth CMPS Engineers and Coleman Associates (Australia).
Exploration work was carried out in a very competent and professional
manner, meaning that reserve estimations are reliable. Delineation
drilling for detailed mine planning is continuing and well ahead of the
pit face.
3.       At an overall economic cut-off overburden ratio of 4.89 bank-
cubic meters per tonne ( bm31t) geological reserves have been
established at 1.5 billion tonne, of which, due to restrictions in pit
design, slope stability, and economic and geological factors, 614
million tonnes are mineable. Overall lignite quality is 2,400 kcallkg,
with an average ash content of 22Z and about 1.5Z sulphur.
4.       The long-term mine plan, based on these reserves, now
considers expanding the installed power generating capacity up to unit
14 (total of 2,925 MW installed), which, by the year 2005 would require
a lignite production level in the mine of about 19 million
tpa.Immediate pit expansion plans are to about 9 million tpa by 1991 to
supply units 8 and 9 (2x300 MW), now under construction an scheduled to
be commissioned in August 1989 and November 1990, respectively.
Detailed mine planning and basic engineering for mine expansion to
about 13 million tpa by 1993 for supply of units 10 and 11 ( 2x300 MW),
to be commissioned in 1992 and 1993, respectively, is presently
underway, and includes the opening of a second pit in the western part
of the deposit, starting by 1992.
S.       The mining method at Mae Moh is by truck and shovels, with in-
pit crushing for both lignite and overburden and belt conveyor haulage
to either waste dumps or coal stock yards equipped with stackers. A



- 66-                   ANE 9
Page 2 of 4
small quantity of overburden is still being hauled by EGAT's trucks to
the dump; this, however will be faced out in 1989 when all long-haul
transportation will be by conveyor only. EGAT's equipment, in line with
the rapidly increasing lignite demand, will be used for lignite mining
and only minor interburden removal, whereas almost all overburden
removal will be let to private contractors.
6.       The mining method was chosen as the optimal solution for the
Mae Moh geological conditions with relatively hard overburden, dipping
seams and tectonic faulting, and was chosen after intensive studies of
alternative methods ( bucketwheel excavators, mobile crushers at the
face, etc.). The decision of operation by letting overburden removal to
private contractors while EGAT retains control of long- and short-term
pit p!snning, pit stability, water management, environment and
reclamation and all lignite production is considered an efficient one.
It gives the private sector a considerable share of the mining
operations (contractor's share is now about 372 of operating cost and
will increase in the future), while it uses EGAT's technical expertise
in open pit mining (which is unique in Thailand) and thus ensures a
safe and technically and environmentally sound overall operation and
ensures uninterrupted fuel supply to the power plants.
7.       EGAT, as stipulated in previous Bank loans, has for the past
10 years carried out a nationwide exploration program. This has
resulted in the finding of several medium-sized lignite deposits and,
in 1987, in the discovery of an apparently major find at Sabah Yoi in
Southern Thailand. Inferred reserves are now estimated at 250 million
tonnes of good quality lignite. The envisaged three-year intensive
exploration campaign at this site will permit estimation of reserves in
the proven and indicated category, which could infer reserve estimates
several times in excess of the present estimate. Given the economic
significance of increasing overall lignite reserves for Thailand, and
EGAT's superior exploration capabilities, EGAT is expected to pursue
its exploration efforts in the future to take advantage of the
exploration expertise it has built over the years.
B. Training and Technical Assistance
8.       Over the last ten 10 years, EGAT's Lignite Mining Department
has had a very good record in implementing mine expansions and
operating open pit mines at both Mae Moh and Krabi. It also has made
very effective use of technical assistance included in the two previous
Bank-financed projects, the bulk of which came from bilateral grants.
EGAT is als- -onducting in-house training on a regular basis and has,
for this 1.   ., established a mining training center at Mae Moh.



-67 -                   ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 4
9.       Presently ongoing and envisaged te'hnical assistance and
training programs are summarized as follows:
Source of Funds      Scope of Work            Cost    Duration Status
Australian Inter-   To assist in lignite ex-
national Asstce.    pansion projects,TA and   A$
Bureau (AIDAB)*     Training                    7.0 mio  88-91  Ongoing
TDB ( USA)          Technical Design, 3rd      US$
Lignite Handling System   0.2 mio  88-89  Ongoing
TDB (USA)           Erection Supervision of   US$
Lignite Handling System   0.35      89-90  Requested
Australian Trade    Long- Term coal haulage              Under appraisal
Development Com-    study                      n/a       88-89
mission (AUSTRADE)
*Extension of A$ 7.18 million program implemented under loan 2407-TH
10.      The AIDAB program has proven very effective in the past and is
considered to be satisfactory for this project. The TDB engineering
assistance has already resulted in the preparation of technical bid
specifications for the major procurement package and EGAT has provided
in the project costs funds to finance supervision of the erection of
the third lignite handling system in case the desired continuation of
the TDB grant does not materializes
11.      It is, however, recognized by EGAT that continuing training of
its managerial, financial and technical personnel is required over and
above these TA programs, in order to transfer technology and system
knowledge. It has, therefore, included funds out of its own cash
generation sufficient for about 70 man-months for training abroad
during 1989/90, which are considered adequate for this purpose.
C. Project Scope
12.      The project scope includes a complete lignite handling system
and other mining equipment , a major water management and supply system
with associated establishment of wetlands for water quality improvement, a
resvttlement program, engineering, technical assistance and training. In
particular, the project component would consist of:
- In-pit crusher,conveyors and stacker/reclaimers to transport
lignite from the pit to the stock yard and power plants unit 8
and 9;



- 68 -                   ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 4
- Auxiliary mining equipment like graders,dozers etc., and two
70m3 water spray trucks for dust pollution control. Main
excavating (shovel) and haulage (truck) capacity does not has
to be increased since this equipment becomes available from
EGAT's present overburden operations which will be sub-
contracted, thus minimizing investment requirements;
- Civil works, as associated with the lignite handling
system,workshops and warehouses, housing, and power supply and
distribution;
- Water supply management for water diversion from the end- of-
life pit,and establishment of wetlands for water quality
improvement purposes. Although necessary at this time, it will
not only serve the expansion required for units 8 & 9 included
in the project scope, but also prior units 1 to 7, and future
power plants 10-14. It is stipulated that only 25 Z of this
investment is directly attributable to the present project
scope;
- Land purchases for resettlement, infrastructure provision and
compensation. Although necessary at this time, this program will
not only serve the mine requirements attributable to units 8&9,
as covered under the project scope, but will also include those
required for the future units 10&11. Thus it is estimated that
only about 502 of this cost is attributable to this project.
- Engineering,technical assistance and training. The ongoing
bilateral technical assistance programs are considered to be
adequate to internal project needs. However, a training
component to supplement training of EGAT's technical staff
abroad is included in the project scope.
Country Department Il
February 1989



THAILAND
PONER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAT'S DVEV5TI  PROWM FY89-90
(in o; I I ion Brht)
FYt9                       FY90                             Tota I
Forei n  Lo I     otrl     Forign  L41 I   Ttal             ferign  Local   0otal
A. 8G8P FRO0-rrS
Therml Pbger Plant Proj;ets
Kh h am Secmd Power Plant Barge (75 t)             303.2    16.7   319.8        -       -       -              303.2    16.7   319.8
Mwe fah Unit tsN (2a300 1W)                      2,348.5   601.2 2,949.7      434.8   146.3   680.6          2,782.8   747.5 3.530.3
Subtotal                                    2,651.7   617.9 3,269.6      484.8   148.3   380.6           3,088.0   764.1 3,65.1
Trauminsion ProjOct.
BW Transmission Systm (for Ibe Mhah Units 8-9)     679.7   288.7   918.4        -      82.7    82.7            679.7   321.4  1,001.1
Tranmission System Expansion (Project Nb. 7)       578.7   316.2  689.9       579.6   302.2   881.8          1,153.8   618.4 1,771.7
Second Contral-Southern Tie-Line                   161.1   100.6   261.7       51.6   1b2.5   234.1            212.7   283.1   49s.8                             C%
Subtotl                                     1,414.5   655.5 2,070.0      631.2   867.4 1,198.6          2.45.7  1,222.9 3,268.6
Nining Project
1e Mibh Ninr Ezpansion for Mae Koh Units 5-7       246.7    51.5   298.2        -       -       -              248.7    61.5   298.2
iscel Ianeue
Central Mbintenance Plant Contruction                -      88.7    8S.7        -       -       -                -      8S.7    63.7
Contingencies                                              13.1   11                    -                -             133.1   183.1
Comanication System Iiprowement                             11.4    11.4             -          -                       11.4    11.4
Power Plant and Transmission Iro,emnt                -       -       -          -       -       -                -       0.0     0.0
MitacellIneous Euipmnt                               -     189.4   189.4        -       -       -                -     139.4   189.4
Micellaneou Plant Additions                         -     189.9   189.9        -     265.3   265.8              -     455.2   455.2
Micl Isneo_m   ste Epssian                           -     139.1   199.1       84.6    88.5   178.0             84.6   227.6   312.1
Subtaal                                         -     746.7   746.7       84.6   153.8   438.4             84.6 1,100.5 1,185.O
TOTAL (A)                                   4,312.8 2,071.6 6,b34.4    1,150.1 1,067.5 2,217.6          5,462.9 3,139.1 8,601.9
0I



9. m  Ca11s2 s
Thermal Pseer Plent Project
Btg Palms Csined Cycle Blacks 84 (280O W)         722.4   844.8 1,066.?    2,185.6   727.6 2,918.2         2,90e.0 1,071.9  3,979.9
Reom Ca&!nWd CYcle Slrck 14- (3x800 1O)           729.1   289.0   968.1    4,485.9 1,885.7 5,769.6         5,165.0 1,672.7 6,7S7.7
Len K-rbu Cblined Cycle (steen turbine) (80 W1)   110.4    7.8   117.9       476.2   106.2  561.4            566.6   112.7   699.3
Bang Poekg Therml Unit a (600 N)                  650.9   140.9   791.8    1,090.2   66.3 1,65t6.S         1,741.1   707.2 2,448.8
Seng Pfenka Therm_l Unit 4 (600 101)              18.8   46.9   192.2        516.8   820.0   8S6.5           659.8   368.9 1,028.7
KCrbi Lignite Unit 4 (75 10)                      146.5   70.7   217.2       241.5    64.4   806.6           887.9  1S5.1   523.0
Wm- Pheng Ce in.d Cycle Blocks 1-2 (2u1CI lS)      27.4    25.8    52.8    1,019.8   218.8 1,288.1         1,047.2   238.7  1.28S.9
Mae Moh Unit. 10-12 (ax3OO N9)                    46.0   249.8   757.8    8,690.0  896.1 4,568.1           4,178.0 1,147.4 E,325.4
Subtotl                                     8,916.1 1,125.8 4,148.9   18,865.6 4,228.7 17,684.8       16,678.7 8,854.5 22,028.2
ydreoeloctric Project
Srinigerind Unit 5 (1801W)                          5.8    4.8    10.6       512.6    78.4   W91.0           518.4   W8.2   601.6
Koons Krung Units 142 (80 M1)                      21.7   192.7  214.4       119.8   170.9   290.7           141.5   363.5   505.0
Pak Hun Unito 1-4 (186 1M)                         15.7   89.8  S.5          14.6   146.1   160.6            S0.8   1S5.8  216.2
Shum-pol ffydro Plant Renovation (2:70  n)          -       -       -         69.6     -      69.6            69.6     -      696
subtotal                                      4.2   27.2   280.5        716.5   895.4 1,111.9            759.8   632.6  1.39
Tranamiesion Projects
EW Tr"nMision System (for MHa Noh Unite 10-11)     57.2   75.9  1S8.1        494.4   200.0   694.S           551.6   275.9   827.5
Transmiseion System Expansion (Project No. B)       -       8.5     8.5        -      26.9    26.9             -      35.4    35.4
220 kV Khon K:en S-Roi Et                         110.7    S5.1   168.8      107.8    96.5   204.8           218.5   151.6  370.1
Accelerated Trnslession Project                     0.9     8.1     9.0      468.9   204.5   678.8           469.7   222.5   682.3
230 kv The Toko-xon Keen 8                          -      60.9   60.9       205.8    60.8   265.8           205.5   121.2   326.7                             _
subtate~~~~~~~~ I                                   _- _               _                       -- __     -  -   - 
Subtotal                                     168.8   208.5   377.3    1,276.5   S88.1  1,864.7         1.445.8   796.7 2,241.9
Mining Project.
HeO Moh Mine Expansion for Units 819              137.6   550.7   688.4      328.6   887.4 1,206.0           456.2 1,438.1  1.894.3
Krabi Mone Eipanniin for Unit 4                     -      18.2    15.2        -       -       -               -      13.2   13.2
subtotal                                      137.6  s68.9   701.5      818.6   887.4  1,206.0           456.2 1.451.3 1,907.5
Miscel lnnoe
Pwer Plant Improvement                              -     100.1   100.1        -       -       -               -     t0o.1 Ioo.I
Transmission system lmprovemnt                    114.4  138.5   268.0                 -                     114.4   158.5   268.0
Subtotal                                      114.4   258.6  868.0        -       -        -             114.4   253.6   388.0
TOTAL CB)                                   8,482.1 2,86.0 5,871.2   1,9s67.8 6,099.6 22,066.8        19.449.4 8,488.6 27,938.0
Taxes and Duties (C)                           -      861.1  861.1        -   3,808.4 3,808.4              -   4,664.4 4,664.4
TOTAL SASE CST (A*8.C)                      7,795.0 o,321.7 13,116.6   17,117.3 10.970.4 28,087.7     24,912.3 16,292.1 41,204.4
OQ I
Physical Contingencios                        632.7   406.0 1,036.7    1,52S.5   782.4 2,310.9         2,161.2 1,188.4  3,349.3 6D
Price Contigencies                            252.8   171.6  424.7    1,327.6   836.8 2,164.4          1,S80. 4 1,003.6 2,389.0
TOTAL COST                                  8,680.5 5,899.5 14,580.0   19,073.4 12,589.6 82,563.0     28,653.9 18.489.1 47,143.0
Interest During Constructior.                109.1   470.9   580.0      450.5 2,761.4 8,211.9            559.6 3,232.3 3.791.9
TA NR8_                      = _r_ - _                            2 1          4
TOTAL PZRCINO REQUIRSD                      8,789.8  6,370.4 15,160.0   20,423.9 15,351.0 85,774.9    29,213.5 21,721.4 50,934.9



Pal.ls  5t1171I DEVELAPItilT PROJCACt
Me'S DWBTIUT  _UWA  f18090
(In million go doasr)
Foin  1c   Tatso pI .W   Local  oto"l             Poei    Leal T1ote I
A. O0O  PWOJ1S
Therml Pauer Plant Projects
lUimnom Second Power Plant Serve (78 1W)             12.1   0.7  12.8         -     -       -           12.1    0.7   12.8
"oe _cli lto _M (2xS00 1W)                          98.9  24.0  118.0        17.4   5.9   28.2         11.8   29.9  141.2
Subtotal                                       106.1  24.7  180.8       17.4   5.9   25.2         180.4   80.6  154.0
Trnnmission Projects
DIW Tranemision System (for Has  lh Units 84)       27.2   9.5  86.7          -     3.8    8.8          27.2   12.9   40.0
Transmission System Expansion (Project No. 7)        22.9  12.6  83.6        28.2  12.1   80.8          46.1   24.7   70.9
Second Contral-Southern Tie-Line                      8.4   4.0  10.5         2.1   7.8    9.4           8.5   11.8   19.8                                          %
-   -   -        ~~~~~~~-  -   -Z            -   -Z-                                                     B.
Subtotal                                        6t.6  26.2  82.8        25.2  22.7   47.9          81.8   48.9  lS0.7
Hi-ling Project
te MHol Mine Expansion for fMe Mah Units 8-7          9.9   2.1  11.9         -     -       -            9.9    2.1   11.9
Hi cel laneous
Central Maintenance Pleant Construction                     83   8.3                                            8.3    3.3
Contingencios                                        -      33   8.8                                            5       .3    S.3
Co_nantcation Sytem Improvemnt                      -      0.8   0.8         -     -      -            -       0.5    0.5
Power Plant and Trnem iion Imcrovemnt                _      7     7.6               -                           7 0.0    0.0E
M4iscelaI neous Ecru Ipient                           -     7.    7.-               -       --                  7.6    7.
Misccllrneous Plrnt Additions                        -      7.6   7.6         -    10.6    -            -      18.2    8.2
Miscellaneous System Expaension                      -      5.6   5.6         8.4   8.5    -            3.4    9.1   12.5
Subtotal                                         -    29.9  29.9         3.4  14.2    -             3.4   44.0   47.4
TOTAL (A)                                      172.5  82.9 255.4        46.0  42.7   71.2         218.5  12.6  344.1
Io o



D. NW cnMTIOs
Tb r_l Posr Plant Proj
bn" Pakof Coubimed Cycle plocks UM (2x88 Mo)        28.9  13.8  42.7       87.4  29.1  116.5         110.3   42.9  159.2
Ro_ng Coubi_md Cycle Blods 114 (5x80 MO)            29.2   9.6  88.7      177.4  88.8  2S0.8         20B.0   62.9  269.5
Lam Krabu Coubined Cycle (stea  turbine) (60 1)      4.4   0.3   4.7       19.0   4.2   28.8 2s.b    4.6       8    2.0
fto Pok9 Tborm  Unit 8(NO OW)26.0   5.6  81.7                 48.6  22.7   66.8          69.6   28.3   97.9
bt PokS Tlwrml Uit 8 CO                                    2.0   7.7       20.7  12.8 s   8.5         26.4   14.8   41.1
KrbI iggib PaogTeU it 4Mt C7 W                       5.9   2.6   8.7        9.    2.    122            LS      .    20.
NM m hoe Combned Cycle Blocks 1-2 (2:106 t)1.1   1.0   2.1                 40.8   8.5   49.8          41.9    9.5   51.4
noe Mob Wilto 10-12 (8300 "16)                      19.5  10.0  29.5      147.6  85.9  188.5         157.1   45.9  213.0
Subtotal                                      110.7  45.0 168.8       54.2  189.1  718.4         666.9  214.2  681.1
Mydroalectric Projects
Srniaprbnd Unit S (180 Mo                            0.2   0.2   0.4       20.5   3.1   28.6          20.7    8.8   24.1
Koo" Krung UWI to 12 (s o)                           0.9   7.7   8.6        4.0   6.8 1.6              5.7   14.S   2D.2
Pbk Ibm Wilts 1-4 (C86 M)                           0.6   1.6   2.2         0.8   5.8    8.4           1.2    7.4    8.6
bhualpol H>dro Plant Renovation (2070  o)            -     -     -2.8 -                   2.8          2.8    -      2.8
Subtotal                                        1.7   9.  11.2        28.7  1S.8   44.8         30.4   25.3  85.7
Tranmilsiot ProJects
Sw Transinieio_ System (for "ae Pbh Units 10-11)    2.8   8.0   s.8        19.8   8.0   27.8          22.1   11.0   38.1
Transmisin Sysee Expansion (Project No. 8)           -     0.8   0.8        -      1.1    1.1          0.0
280 kV IGio Koem 8-Rol eb                            4.4   2.2   6.6        4.8   8.9    8.2           8.7    6.1   14.8 
Accelerated TranmissIon Project                      -     0.8   0.3       18.8   8.2   28.9          18.8    8.5   27.8
280 kV Thu Toko-Kein Kan 8                           -     2.4   2.4        8.2   2.4   10.6           8.2    4.8   13.1
Subtotal                                        6.7   8.8  15.1        81.1  28.s   74.6         57.8   81.9   89.6
Mlining Projects
be Ymob Min* Expansion for Units 869                 5.8  22.0  27.5       12.7  35.5   48.2          18.2   87.5   75.8
Krsbi Mine Expansion for Unit 4                      -     0.5   0.5        -      -      -            -      0.5    0.5
Subtwtal                                        5.5  22.6  28.1        12.7  S5.5   48.2         18.2   68.1   76.3
Miae llaneous
Poser Plant lerovement                               -     4.0   4.0        -      -      -            -      4.0    4.0
Tranmission Sysbee Improvement                       4.6   6.1  10.7        -      -      -            4.6    F.1   10.7
Subtotal                                        4.6  10.1  14.7         -     -      -            4.6   10.1   14.7
TOTAL (8)                                     139.3  98.6 284.8       638.7 244.0  882.7        777.9  339.5 1,117.5
Taxes and Duties (C)                            -    34.4  34.4         -   152.1  182.1          -    186.6  186.6
TOTAL OAM8 COST (AB+.C)                       311.8 212.9 524.6       684.7 438.8 1.106.0        996.5  681.7 1,648.1
Physical Contingencies                         25.3  16.2  41.5        61.1  31.3   92.4         86.4   47.5  l34.0
Price Contigencie                              10.1   6.9  17.0        53.1  83.5   86.6         63.2   40.3  103.6
TOTAL COST                                    847.2 286.0 585.2       798.9 508.6 1.802.5      1,146.2  789.6 1.885.7
Interfet During Construction                    4.4  18.8  28.2       1B.0 110.6  128.5          22.4  129.3  151.7
TOTAL FD4MCD4O REUMS                          S51.6 254.8 606.4       817.0 614.0 1,481.0      1,168.5  868.9 2,037.4                                        "
Country Delpartment II



- 73                ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Cost Estimate for Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Component
(US$ million)
Item                                                Local     Foreign       Total
2 x 300 MW Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power
Blocks
Land and land rights                                3.48        -          3.48
Civil works                                        14.23        -         14.23
Structural steel                                     -         7.36        7.36
4 x 100 MW combustion turbine generators             -        80.04       80.04
2 x 120 NW steam turbine generators and
associated heat recovery boilers                   -        52.24       52.24
Plant mechanical systems                             -        19.40       19.40
Plant electrical systems                             -         12.10      12.10
Instrumentation and controls                         -         6.31        6.31
Water treatment plant                                -         0.35        0.35
Mechanical construction                            16.27       2.00       18.27
Electrical construction                             5.89       0.70        6.59
Construction supervision                            5.13        -          5.13
Engineering and administration overheads            1.00        -          1.00
Local transport                                     1.78        -          1.78
Duties and taxes                                   37.32        -         37.32
Base Cost                                       85.10     180.50      265.60
Physical contingencies                              8.50      18.00       26.50
Price contingencies                                 5.20      10.70       15.90
Total                                      98.80     209.20      308.00
230 kV Transmission System Expansion
Reinforcement of the 230 kV Bang Pakong-
Bang Phli transmission line                       2.58       3.84        6.42
Expansion of 230 kV switchyard at Bang
Pakong                                            0.44       1.56        2.00
Engineering and administration overheads            0.53        -          0.53
Local transport                                     0.05        -          0.05
Duties and taxes                                    1.30        -          1.30
Base Cost                                        4.90       5.40       10.30
Physical contingencies                              0.50       0.50        1.00
Price contingencies                                 0.30       0.40        0.70
Total                                       5.70       6.30       12.00



11
- 74 -                        FjT2f 3
Item                                                Local      Forel8n       Total
Consulting Services
Base cost                                            -         10.50       10.50
Physical contingencies                                          1.10        1.10
Price contingencies                                  -           -           -
Total                                        -         11.60      11.60
Computerized Maintenance Management System
Base cost                                           0.30         -          0.30
Physical contingencies                              0.10         _          0.10
Price contingencies                                  -     -                 -
Total                                       0.40         -         0.40
Environmental Monitoring Equipment and
Training
Air, water and noise monitoring equipments
for Bang Pakong                                    -          0.45       0.45
.Data acquisition system for Mae Moh                  -          0.03       0.03
Sampling equipment for Khanom                        -          0.01       0.01
Mobile laboratory                                    -          0.21        0.21
Training                                             -          C.10        0.10
Duties and taxes                                    0.10         -          0.10
Base Cost                                        0.10        o.8o       0.90
Physical contingencies                               -          0.10        0.10
Price contingencies                                  -           --
Total                                       0.10        0.90       1.00
Total Project Cost
Base cost                                          90.40      197.20      287.60
Physical contingencies                              9.10       19.70       28.80
Price contingencies                                 5.50       11.10       16.60
Total Project Cost                        105.00     228.00      333.00



75                               ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B. Cost Estimate for Mae Moh Llitnite Expansion Component
(USs million)
Item                                    Local            Foreign              Total
Mining Equipment
Lignite-handling system                2.00             21.30               23.30
Mining equipment                       3.00              5.00                8.00
Duties and taxes                       5.30               -                  5.30
Subtotal                           10.30             26.30              36.60
Local Works
Civil works                            3.80               -                  3.80
Resettlement                          32.60               -                 32.60
Water diversion                       33.80               -                 33.80
Subtotal                           70.20               -                70.20
Engineering and Training                 2.20              0.40                2.60
Total Base Cost                    82.70             26.70             109.40
Physical contingencies                   R.30               2.70              11.00
Price contingencies                      5.00               1.60               6.60
Total Project Cost            96.00             31.00             127.00
Country Department II
'February 1989



- 76 -
AMEZ 12
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD               Estimated disbursement  Disbursement Profile
Country
fiscal year-          Annual    Cumulative        Project  Standard
--- (USS million) ---      ------ (%) ------
1990                40.0          40.0           44         1
1991                40.0          80.0           89         6
1992                10.0          90.0          100        22
1993                                                       52
1994                                                       74
1995                                                       90
1996                                                      100
Country Department II
February 1989



ANNEX 13
- 77 -                                Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PIOJECT
EGAT's Past Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1981-87, Income Statement
(Baht million)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Energy sales (GWh)                    14,562  15,403  17,563  19,335  21,196  22,553  25,773
Increase (M)                             6.5     5.8    14.0    10.1      9.6      6.4    14.3
Average price (B/kWh)                   1.30    1.43    1.39    1.37    1.36    '.33    1.30
Operating Revenue
Sales of electricity               18,877  21,996  24,352  26,379  28,803  30,064  33,546
Other revenue                           35      38      21       54      99       56     170
Total                           18,912  22,034  24,373  26,433  28,902  30,120  33,716
Operating Expenses
Fuel/bulk power                    11,780  12,776  13,835  15,265  15,887  14,463  14,302
Operations                          2,060   2,722   3,269   3,411   3,697   4,004   4,724
Depreciation /a                     1,745   2,120   2,372   2,683   3,262   3,874   4,096
Remittance to Government                 -     190     250      532     470      600     960
Total Operating Expenses        15 585  17,808  19,726  21.891  23,316  22,941  24,082
Operating Income                 3,327   4,226   4,647   4,542  -5,586   7a179   9,634
Nonoperating Expenses
Interest charged to operatiois      1,470   1,937   1,666   2,017   3,203   3,828   4,205
Foreign exchange loss                   -        -       -      102   1,289   2,821   1,786
Previous years' adjustments           232        -       -    -774        -        -       -
Mining income (-)                       15     -56    -115    -176    -608    -548    -553
Total Nonoperating Expenses
(Net)                          1,717   1,881   1,551   1,169   3,884   6,101   5,438
Net Income                       1,610   2,345   3,096   3,373   1,702   1,078   4,196
Rate base                             35,544  42,250  47,692  56,788  70,178  79,950  86,544
Rate of return (2)                       9.4    10.0     9.7      8.0     8.0      9.0    11.1
Operating ratio (2)                       82      81      81       83      81       76      71
/a On revalued assets.



-78 -                                   ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
THAULAND
POWER SMMTUW WMVEMOPNRNT PROJECT
EGAT's Past Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1981-87. Sources and Application of Funds
(Baht million)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating iucome                       3,327   4,226   4,647   4,542   5,586   7,179   9,634
Nonoperating income                     -247       56     115     848    -681  -2,273  -1,233
Depreciation                           1,745   2,120   2,372   2,683   3,262   3,874   4,096
Other items not lnvolv{ng cash           790     774      241     657      737   3,428   1,307
Total                                5,615   7.176   7.375   8.730   8.905  12,208  13,804
Less increase/add decrease in
working capital                         -707     -47  -1,897      422      503  -1,951  -1,716
Net Internal Cash Generation         4.908   7.129   5,478   9,152   9,408  10,257  12.088
Borrowing                                8,319   9,819   9,084   8,002  10,034   6,292   2,322
Less:  Refinancing                         -       -        -  -3,822  -5,712    -859         -
Net Borrowing                         8.319   9.819   9.084   4.180   4.322   5.433   2,322
Government equity                          423   1,045   2,442      992      335     440      161
Proceeds of disposal of assets               8       26     135      52      226     304      947
Unpaid bonuses and government
remittances                              234     291      146     340    -191      287      443
Repayment of bank overdraft                  -  -1,257        -       -        -       -        -
Increase (-)/decrease in deferred
interest                                 -94    -124        8      19      257      95       92
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS              13.798  16.929  17.293  14,735  14,357  16,816  16,053
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital expenditure-power               10,281  12,228  12,435   8,823   6,831   7,222   5,261
Interest during construction               664   1,092   1,375   1,472       865     676      702
Total Capital Expenditure-Power   10.945  13.320  13,810  10.295   7.696   7,898   5.963
Irrigation, mine and development
capital expenditure                      516     503      383     689   1,285   1,525   1,446
Debt Servlce
PrLncipal                                867   1,169   1,434   5,556   7,885   4,424   4,439
Ls-as: RefLiancLng                         -       -        -  -3,822  -5,712    -859         -
Interest charged to operatlons         1,470   1,937   1,666   2,017   3,203   3,828   4,205
Total Debt Service                   24337   3J106   3.100   3.751   5A376   7.393   8,644
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS          13,798  16.929  17.293  14,735  14.357  16,816  16.053
Debt serviee coverage - tLies                2.1      2.3     1.8      2.4     1.8      1.4     1.4
Self-financLng ratlo /a (X)                   23       31      18      47       41      33       38
/a  Internal cash geveration loss debt servlee expressed as a percentage of three years'
average capital expenditure on power, LrrLgatLon, mLne and development.



ANNEX 13
_79                                    Page 3 of 3
THAILAND
P9OW3R SYSYNIS fEVRWIyNUW? PR0JEWT
EGAT's Past Financial Performance
Financtal Statements 1981-87. Balance Sheet
(Baht milllon)
1981    1982    1983    1984      1985      1986     1987
ASSETS
Fixed Assets - Power
Plant in service (revalued)       55,350  64,522  72,866  89,121  107,378  118,248  131,268
Less:  Depreciation               15,931  19,440  22,563  25,848   30,295   35,431   40,996
Net                               39,419  45,082  50,303  63,273   77,083   82,817   90,272
Work in progress                  12,164  19,380  26,619  17,181   11,269   12,033    6,779
Total Fixed Assets - Power      51,583  64.462  76.922  80.454   88,352   94.850   97.051
Irrigation, mine A development
assets                             4,306   4,882   5,241   9,324   10,352   11,108   11,464
Total Fixed Assets              55,889  69.344  82,163  89,778   98.704  105.958  108,515
Insurance fund & mine reclamation       197     428     971   1,398    1,837    2,057    3,883
Current Assets
Cash                                   78     999     944      809      974       485    2,020
Inventories                        1,296   1,626   1,763   2,044    1,734    2,051    2,308
Receivi.bles                       4,000   3,859   4,674   4,999    5,375    6,297    6,988
Total                            5.374   6,484   7.381   7,852    8.083    8.833   11.316
Deferred foreign exchange
adjustment                          1,224    -434     153 -1,364    6,524   14,573   14,964
TOTAL ASSETS                    62.684  75,822  90.668  97,664  115.148  131,421  138.678
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Paid-in capital                    5,296   6,342   8,783   7,420    7,501    7,848    7,980
Government contribution for
dams                             2,521   2,485   2,450   4,774    4,965    4,985    4,945
Retained earnings                  3,195   5,830   8,837  12,514   13,830   15,187   19,293
Revaluation reserve               17,936  20,986  23,207  22,873   25,158   27,564   29,301
Total Equity                    28,948  35.643  42.277  47,581   51,454   55,584   61,519
Insurance reserve A mine recla-
mation                                197     428     971   1,398    1,837    2,057    2,383
Long-term debt-net                  25,414  31,499  39,129  39,341   51,052   63,382   63,120
Bank overdraft                       1,257        -       -        -        -         -        -
Current Liabilities
Payables                           4,298   5,231   3,983   4,717    5,314    4,325    5,023
Current maturities                 1,199   1,396   2,443   2,622    3,606    4,495    5,078
Accrued interest                     605      735     983   1,142    1,279    1,067    1,136
Total                            6.102   7.362   7,409   8.481   10.199    9.887   11.237
Deferred interest & other liabil-
ites                                 766      890     882     863       606       511      419
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES    62.684  75.822  90.668  97.664  115,148  131.421  138.678
Debt as S of debt and equity               47      47      48       45       so        53       51
Current ratio                            0.9      0.9     1.0      0.9      0.8       0.9      1.0
Country Department II
February 1989



- 80 -                           Page I of 6
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGAT'S Financial Projections
Revenues
1.        The average price of electricity is about B 1.26 per kWh sold in
1988. No price increase will be necessary in 1989 to maintain EGAT's 25%
self-financing ratio in that year. Price increases averaging about 3.6% per
year between FY90 and FY97 will be required in order to keep the self-
financing ratio at 25%. ECAT's average electricity price annual increases,
and self-financing ratios for FY88 through FY97 are shown below:
FY88   FY89  FY90   FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
Average energy
price (B/kWh)    1.26   1.26   1.45  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.50  1.57  1.62  1.65
Price increase              -    15.0%  1.3%   -      -    2.1%  4.7%  3.2%  2.2%
Self-financing
ratio            47Z    26%    25%   25%   36%   30%   251   25%   25Z   25%
2.        Energy sales will grow at IIZ per year through 1993, and then by
about 8% p.a. on average based on projections made by the Load Forecasting
Working Group.  These projections are basically extrapolations of recent
trends checked against econometric models involving assumptions on the growth
of the gross domestic product.
Fuel Costs
3.        The fuel mix is based on ECAT's least cost generation plan.
Financial prices for these fuels are inclusive of taxes and royalties wh.ch
amount to 25% for fuel oil, B 15/ton for lignite, and 10.3% for natural gas.
The resulting price profiles are as follows:
(a) Fuel oil and diesel prices escalate from 1988 prices of B 2.99 and
B 6.17 per liter, respectively, to B 4.32 per liter and B 8.91 per
liter in 1997, increasing at approximately 4.2% per year.
(b) Li8nite prices are based on the current EGAT transfer price of
B 479/ton and are assuned to escalate at approximately 4.5% per year
over the study period.



- 81 -                         ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 6
(c) Natural gas prices escalate from the current B 66/MMBtu average
price at approximately 3% per year.
Operating Costs
4.        Generation expenses are based on current EGAT experience, with
projections for future plants based on historical costs for similar plants and
escalated with inflation rates of 3Z for FY89, 4Z for FY90, and 4% per annum
thereafter.
5.        Power purchased from Laos is priced at .78 Baht/kWh and from
Malaysia at 1.0722 Baht/kWh throughout the projection period.
6.        Transmission expenses are projected on the basis of unit costs and
additions in line length and transformer capacity in EGAT's expansion
program.  Other operation and maintenance expenses including General and
Administrative expenses, are based on current levels, inflated at the rates of
inflation listed in para. 4 above.
7.        Depreciation is based on the straight-line method on revalued fixed
assets. The average rate of depreciation is 1.332 for hydropower plants, 4%
for other generating facilities, 2.5% for transmission lines and 4X for
substations.
8.        The rate of remittance to the Government of Thailand is assumed to
be 15%, which has been agreed between EGAT and the Government for the Sixth
Five Year Development Plan period, through 1990. This is to date the highest
tax rate levied by the Ministry of Finance on EGAT s net income (based on
unrevalued depreciation).
Capital Investment
9.        Construction costs are those estimated to provide the additional
plant and equipment required to meet the demand forecast, escalated in
accordance with the latest projection of inflation rates (shown in para. 4
above). The expenditure schedule is included in the project file.
Equity
LO.       Equity contributions represent the Government of Thailand's
reimbursement for import duties on construction equipment and partial payment
with respect to the irrigation portion of multipurpose dams.
Foreign Exchange Losses
11.       Deferred foreign exchange losses represent the profits and losses
from exchange rate variations on long term debt. The projected figures are
the amount on EGAT's accounts at the end of FY87 less the incremental amounts
which are scheduled to be written off over the remaining periods of EGAT's
existing loans. The amounts shown in the income statement and balance sheet
reflect currency movements against the Baht through December 31, 1987.



- 82 -                         ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 6
Borrowings
12.       Future foreign loans have been assumed at annual interest rates
varying from 3 to 9S and for terms of up to 20 years, including from 3 to 5
years of grace. Local borrowings have been assumed at the annual interest
rate of 10, and for terms of up 13 years, including 3 years of grace. Actual
loans outstanding and their terms are listed in the Project File.
13.       Accounts receivable are projected to be approximately 2 months of
revenues in accordance with a government regulation affecting State
Enterprises.



A11TNEX 14
Table 2
THAILAND                                                                       Page  4  nf  6
rOaER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGATIS Financial Projections
Income S*atement
(Baht Million)
Forecast
Years Endfig Se4ter 30                                 1988         1989         1990 1- 991              12           1993         1994        19S          1996         ;9'-
Energy S les (0f.)                                    298          '13749      87727        41724        46104       50223        s4596        59189        63949        6e1-:
Sales Increae (S)                                      14.0S        14.81       11.8S        10.61        10.61         8.91         8.7S        8.41         8.01S          21
Average Enrgy Price (8/IGh)                            1.26         1.26        1.45         1.46         1.46         1.46         1.80        1.57         1.62           Er
Price Incree (S)                                                     0.01        15.01        1.38         0.0        OOS          2.11        4.71        38.21
Operating Re niue
En1r9  Revenue                                      8E80S       42389        54516        61084        67496        73826       8621         92631       108278       1130 7
Other Operating Revenue                               220          200         210          220          230          240         250          260          270          28C
Tot l Operating Revenue                          87118       42s9         84726        61S04        67726       73786        81871        92891       108!48       11885v
penrating Expenses                                                                                                                                                                                       W
Fuel and Purchaes. Power                            17787       20778        28666        26985        29018       33394        87719        43545        49837        54671
operation & Nbinteenace                              80          8330         6860         7444         8518         93o0       10584        1191        13436        1563^
Dapreciation                                         4233         4601        861          6002         7883         8792        10153       11507        13066        248Z
Reaittance to Covernment                              66           874        1879         2350         2672         2580        2692         S167         345S         3661
Total Operating Expnse                           28184       8168         366          42780        47589       84048        61098        70110        79792       890tf
Oprating Incoma                                   898         1006        15789        18524        2018i        19723       20773        22781        287M8       243
tD-Operating Exs
Int---t Charged to Operations (Ntt)                  4689        49S4         5523         6359         7075       SS4          9268        lOS1 3       1143S        12409
Loes on Exchange                                     222         3 S073       1919         1772         1658         1611        1SM          1269         1188          so6
mining Inceme                                        -517         -7          -651         -684         -s89         -716        -719        -1889        -2188        -226
Total Mon-Operatinp Expene                             680          7390        67e0         7847         8144         9249       10101        10238        10438        11006
tet Income                                        2664        3616         8970        10976        11991       10473        10672        126548       1317         13349
Ay-rage Rat ease - Power                              90043       92837        997W2       114316       141780      174990       2056"        288421       2E2085      29658
Rate of Return (1)                                      9.91        11.9S       15.81        16.I 6       14.25        11.31       10.11         9.8S         9 O0         8 21
Operating Rctio (1)                                      76S          741         71S          70S          70S          7           751          751          771          79"
Country Department II
February 1989



TUILAD                                                                               A'NFX 14
Table 2
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECt                                                                      Page S of 6
EGAT'S Finankcial Proiections
Funds Flow Statesent
(Baht Milllon)
Vera Ending Sept_ber 30                                1968        1909         low         1991         1992         2993         1994        193          299f        1997
Soue"e of Fonds
Intrn,I Sourcie
Ope,stino Inroew                                 S934        11006       175i9        18824        2D3          197         20ns3        22781       22-S!        24355
Add;
Depreciation                                   4233         4601        06C1         6002         7S33        a792        101o3        11507       1361f        14821
lining Ince_                                    317          637         651          564          589          716         119         1389        Cla:         2266
Total Intrnal Source                          13684        16244       21471        25109        20107       292SO        31643       3S677       .A900         41441
#nrcaah It  -Nining                                -484        -671         -849       -1161        -2459        -2366        -2459       -P822        -^-9!       -1841
A4mtA Dispos I
Oof't. Contrebution - Poser                          24           82
Dn't. Contrbution - Irrigtison
Increae    in Long-Tam  Debt                     3663         9m         2676r        27499       28249        2249         22109        30D11       2963(        26912
Furt"*r b'orroing                                   0            0        1197         .355          Wd           -31        4230         278         23b8         2979
Tot 1 Sorro ing                                    3683         97         27962        27144        2!407        22400       26339        3278Q        3201F       29691
Other rt.e   (Net)                                    0            0            0           0            0            0           0            0            (           0
Total Sources of Fvnds                        low7         25392       4004         61093        61033       4W9272       56526        66e4        68223        69491                       1
Appl,cation of Funds 
Cap,tal Ineasteent
Capital Eapenditu,e.-Power                       6231        1S273       30273        2893         27483 5      21          267T0        32744       33s6a        31534
Interest During Construction                      266          380        3212         4849        1426         3006         2778        3526         338'         3930
Total Capit 1 laa.tment-Power                 6497        13833       33433        S3742        30911       25328        29828       36269        369&2        35314
Capital Exp.ndituras-Mifnm                        569         1307        2290         1912         2639        2936         2043         2491         1778        1156
Iota  Capital loVeatment                       7066        13160       36775        36634       336O0        26464        31374        33760       S8229        36672
DObt Ser..c.
1tesrat                                          4659         4954        3322         6359        7075        8634          9260        10353       11436        12409
Principal                                        5078         65S6        6864         8693        et77         11319       13483        11737       17230        19004
Total Debt 6 rn,-                              9737        11820       12366        10S34        160S2       19673        27733        2865        2668         31413
Decreas  in Deferred Liebilit;*S                        91           90           87          70           44           19           is           0            0           0
morer,. in tbn-chto Working Capital              -398         -366        1053         1434         368          317          SbO          896         825          we
Incec-e in Cash                                   411         -992       -1197        -1120          991         799          600          400         500          COo
Incrosse i. ictal Working Cepitml                    13        -137b         686          314         1369         1116       1l1O          1298        1325         1403
total ASpIlcwtion  f Funde                    16907        23392       48904        31093       Sl033        49272        86523        6644        66223        69491
Debt 6Sr.ie. Coneraga                                   1           1'           1 6         1 6          1.7          135         1 4          I A          1.3         1 3
3 Tanra AneAego 1neotwant                             9342        19334       28863        35010        32573       3218         32933        3662e       37867        37;vl
Self.F.nanc-no Retie (3 V's  A,e   CT,I                 471          26           281         285          366          303         ON1          231         231          I31
Country Department II
February 1989



S432  YSTEMDVWI.?PRJC
BGAT'S FIIIUIC*  Proleetlons
3ALauc Sheet
T26f. &W-.e SwulAbs. 30                                                          26           2969         1990         199         199          Am%7         94           4            9929
p....l ,. S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                         5~~~~~2631374  54905      542555       19195        5555         27917        321399       3534'7      '1645      461327?
lh... 444g.9    Daftwist.m6                                              "US9        52499       Sam5         Gm9"         To70s        4515        101559       11077       133277       32192
999 169.*1*95 PIg..4                                  699~~~~~~~~~~~~~100113  ow  05704     "1:2491     19933        1913.9       301         IMP,         -785         32464
,.6 P99*c173                                                                           775         A1l"?        so           b1te6        44075       444595        LIIO         "I12        57M
1.96 P...d 44..'. Pm..         01315      113423       45950       119791       309759       335423       254645       35676'       337992       3733?~~~~~~~~~~. ..     .......   ..
Fi.od  Me'.....496                                                                         454          475          47,14       4am           4516        4475          4790         4328        4:219
4,0.s  N..4-  6'                                                            4737         5052          225         6264        10772        3563      A270 ?.       1N A.       73*96        =579
I..e, *49936o96  aft"C'99,61                                               2774         3*2          326          996          43120       4702         140          ?..4        .294         am6
994659  4446's".                                                          2lo5         996         254          450          64314       owl         11670         54274        1   1       4307ASO
Met ,o                                                                         Be6.  4     1te1         IOTA                      ASCII        4550        3Me           371k         27772       197
7.465 P..4'.4....        g                                                24931       3no          5924          179        20479        13412        11474        I19'         29775        20432
b...  9 .0W.4,. .e                                                      4614         599         SW6          Gm9          9454        i1sm         24279        2?* '0      69          25737
I.9.  7.44  Meet. - 2,.9.N.e0721012                                                       233          433         949        3457         29709        3422         3949         4944         46406
5.5.5  .4                                                                 2576        295          2305         349          4116         4415          Z124        145          0-165        720
0444                                                                        9919         291          720          410         552        2400         3000         3,           3972         4duo
9..e...bl..                                              714~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i0  7I02  699   19977       time5        12129        2426        57'         2?O 71       9
14.6*'..,..                                             ~~~~~        ~~~~~        ~~~~~      ~~~~~~~22475  244  377  334  354  3963  4455         4999         24,2         123
1.96 C.-%..  A-..534                                                                 5339         ISO44       Sa 109        50279       550          30574        23548        26.4,        2926                                                    CD
------...... -----                      -----                                 ....!-       . . .. .            ........
044.,d L.99.- 4.4.kwq.                                                       995         45m         24995        1.193       I1I5          99214        937`2        '20-3        -92,         255
7945 466d'.                                                            149560        595m       29379        3315          939         263          333602       374912       45044        46022
74,11... Lee."I                                                             no6         5052         am6          am6          SW5          SW5          6562         =606        6am           599
l.'e.64.66 C469.,b49,O*                                 ~~~~         ~~~~~        ~~~~ ~~439  456  4755  4714  439       4546         "To          439          4326         4230
9.S.,.44  b,e.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       3~~1167      2475         33755        44139       5673         472193       ?T50         90413       303734       127079
S...5.et.... 5.05526                          52464       54451        37936        45320        99509        59793        59952        50960        93149       2079--------0........3541
7.961 F4f                                                              4155         72141        84425      l915         121Pm11      29952        265217       Now65       209699       2337
46.-1.~~~~~~~~~~~e 0448 ~~~~~~~~~~74059                              77240        97162       s1596       so           14557         MA2SS       45740       79590       56739
2.996  Ceneet 99'...t..e             6545         394          9595         6977        12339        13460        13332        17220        59001       o~~~~~~~~~~ .. .......   -------    ------
..A-.g-7, 0.66  (14*L)                                                ;72          70317        Now0        1MM9          MM92        129973       1991749      4995        290136       5462
Pe.th.7 ame,e                                                                    0            0         11.97        an3         1550          970         5990         T9M         low5         33
f....42..bd,9,4.                                         39~~~~~                                ~~~          ~~~          ~~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~ 152  41  57  is  a    00
4..46. 1.'.6      14.   ..Mt37                                                      14            50          564          59            44          359          26            35
7655.  C,,,,0 (.  621.6330                                                            5Gm5         1a99          Gm75        1995          TM5        9930        43,504        3262         5
-          -~                 ~           ~            ~           ~~ ~~~- - - -I" 2i  --- ;; --- ..---
Ome. .eA.1.9  7.96' 0".f.'.                                                        39           73           64           be                                     Om59        495          411          65
I.wl"  of,  0      a4 S  of4 7.96  C..525                                         12           499                                    39                       47           4"S          4919         49



- 86 -                                 ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
POMER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Statements
EGAT - Lignite Mine Operations
A. Income Statements, FY85-97
(Baht million)
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY92    FY97
Actual ---                 Forecast
Lignite sales (MML)                        -    4.52    5.82    5.93    6.52   10.62   19.37
Transfer price (B/ton)                     -   533.2   476.3   464.1   487.2   539.4   699.1
Revenue                                2,058   2,411   2,772   2,752   3,176   5,728  13,542
Operating Expenses
Overburden removal                     912   1,052   1,150   1,349   1,594   2,872   6,210
Reclamation                             17       19      25       25      27       45       82
Others                                 262      369     360      369     426      813   2,075
Subtotal                          1,191   1,440   1,535   1,743   2,047   3,730   8,367
Head office                             98       98     115      126      140     184      297
Amount of preliminary expenses           6        3     168      185     203      271      436
Inventory adjustment                   (24)    (17)      20        -       -        -        -
Depreciation                           107      147     158       73     139      685   1,659
Interest charge                         70      130     152       67      91      340      584
Foreign exchange losses                  2       62      55       45      40       70      107
Net Operating Expenses            1,450   1,863   2,203   2,239   26M    5,280  11,450
Net Profit                          608      548     569      513     517      448   2,092



ANNEX 15
- 87 -                                   Page 2 of 2
B. Balance Sheets, FY85-97
(Baht million)
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY92    FY97
Actual ---        -  -- Forecast --             -
Assets
Property, planat & equipment
At cost                             3,470   3,626   3,892   4,088   4,489   9,249  19,211
Less Acc. Dept.                     1,176   1,417   1,780   2,088   2,352   3,828  10,404
Net                                 2,295   2,210   2,112   1,999   2,137   5,421   8,807
Under construction                      261      308      158     540   1,189   2,445          7
Development expenses                  2,833   3,606   4,160   4,513   4,786   3,673   4,458
Reclamation sinking fund                 86      114      147     173      202      325      685
Current Assets
Inventory                             x63      327     318      336      399      792   1,718
Receivables                            29       49       78      83       95      172     406
Subtotal                             292      376     396      419      494      964   2,124
Total Assets                       5,768   6,613   6,973   7.644   8,809  12,829  16,091
Liabilities and Equity
Equity                                  541      576      610     610      691      691      691
Retained earnings                     1,027   1,585   2,135   2,496   2,848   3,871   8,921
Internal funding                      1,063   1,321   1,235   1,605   1,639   1,937 (1,714)
Deferred foreign exchange
adjustment                           (344)   (862)   (917)   (873)   (845)   (671)   (201)
Subtotal                           2,288   2,619   3,063   3,838   4,334   5,829   7,697
Long-term debt                        3,144   3,685   3,625   3,384   3,935   6,097   6,528
Less current mat.                     228      253     317      277      416      726   1,140
Net                                 2,916   3,432   3,308   3,107   3,519   5,372   5,387
Reclamation sinking fund                 86      114      147     173      202      325      685
Current Liabilities
Payables                                205      151       97     182      219      442   1,003
Current portion of LTD                  228      253      317     277      416      726   1,140
Interest due                             46       44       41      67      118      136      178
Subtotal                             478     448      455      526      753   1,303   2,320
Total Liabilities and Equity    5,768   6,613   6,973   7,644   8,809  12,829  16,091



THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Power Subsector Financial Proiections
Income Statement
(Baht Million)
Forecast
Ynra Ending Septeeber 30                                                       low6        199         1990         1991        1992         1993         1994                    196i         197
Ebray Sales (Wh)                                                             27B1         m12d        34909        mm          426          46417       50447        54680       59065        S6a2
Sales Increase (S1)                                                            18.01       14.6         11.71       10.o6        10.16       86.9         8            8 4s       e6.0 1.
Average Tar,ff (81bifi)                                                        1.69        1.69         1.89        1.69         1.69        1.90        2 OJ         2.10        2.22         2.12
Propoed Tariff Inere..  (1)                                                                 0.05 Os      1.          0.01        0.05         0. 7        5 6t         4.51        1.3          0.Os
operating Revnue
Energt Rng en*                                                             42664          3          65B47         886       B0424        88180      10:234       11465       lYilC         9410       C
Otler Operating Revenue                                                       935         826         ate          8S3         #i3         th7          B70          Ns          a"            W7
           -     ---------------                                                 -           -          S~~~~------  ------
Total Operating Revenue                                                  6919         3499       6665         7342        877          67         102104       115529      12688i       115072
Operating Expens
Fuel and Purchaed Power                                                     17859       2048        25740        27064       2W97         33465       37797        43623       4991         54949
Operation A Maintenance                                                      946         9829        11284       12841        14582       15915        17687       19636       21123        24714
Depreciation                                                                 6575        7054         7790        9o06        10784       12535        10229       1r937        17876       2040
Resittence to Government                                                      924        1231         2860        2S18         S629        4584        7206         9119        10205       1226
- - -  - -  - *    - *  - - .- .   -- - -- -  - -   -    --  -- -----   ---------  ---- -----   - ---- -       
Total Operating Epenees                                                 35204        36962       47174        51778       57942        66499       76929        8831S       99819       109929
Operating Income                                                         11715       14537       19491        21644       23836        22536       25182       27214        26266        25143
Non-Operat i ng Expenase
Interest Ckarged to Operation.                                               6195        6834        7049         7916        662i         9805       10294        11110        11922       tLI2A
Othler ian-Operating Expnees (Mat)                                          1762        2527         1348        1293         1196        1040         983           26         -873        -1g
________    __ __ __ ---------  ---------  ---------          __ _ ____    _ ___. _ -  --_- --_-- -  -- - - -  -- - - -  -- -- --  ----- ___ ___
Total Non-Operating E%Penses                                             7977         9061        6897         9216        9780        10845       11267        11136        11049       15
Net Income                                                               3740         5476       11094        12628       1SS55        11693       1391S        16078        16217       l11
.s- ............... .. ._  ww                                     - --.sr   mana.0"wee ,W5===,, . ;=,=,=5_,,
Average Rate Da"                                                             118627      124469       134504      182208       181918      216033      247086       274980      304266       5ff
Rate of Return (1)                                                              9.96       11.71        14.51       14.4%        12.81       10.41        10 21        9.91        8.61         7.41
Rate of Return  efore Remittance (9)                                           10.71       12.73       1t623        16.22        14.80       12.61        15.11       13.23        12.01        10.     i 
Operating Ratio                                                                  7U1         731          712         701          711         781         752          761          791        tml
Country Department IT
February 1989



THAILAND
POWn  SYSTDH DEVELOPMENT PROJCT
Power Subsector Financial Projections
Funds Flow Statement
(Baht Million)
Forecast
Years Ending Septewber 30                                                   19S6        1989       lo0         1991        1992        1993         9 1994     1S          1996        1997
Sources of Funds
______________
Internal Soures
Operating Inoe                                                        11715       14537       19491       21644       23336       22S38       2Sl62       27214       26266       25143
Add
Depreciation                                                         6575        7054        7790        9056       10784       12836       14229       15937       17676       20040
Mining Ineoe and Non-op  Revenues                                     667         742         741         649         629         736         719        1389        213         2266
Noncash Item-4ining                                                  -484        -671        -849       -1161       -2459       -2366       -245_       -2822       -2795       -1*41
TotaI Internal Sources                                              16493       21662       27473       30688       32299       33443       37672       41718       4330        45609
Equity Contributions                                                      351         110          29          30           0           0           0           0           0           0
Borrowings                                                               6172       12207       30011       30011       276;i3      24886       24420       32306       31916       31066
Crants end Custoer Contributions                                         1174        1044        685          783         716         650         610         590         570          S&O
Asets Diepoe I/Unpaid Bonuve.eReittanc.e                                  207         211         215         209         157         203         203         203         203         203       1
Other Item (Not)                                                          8OO           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0      co
- _______,  --------_  ---------   --------   --------   -- -------            --  ---------- -  
Totas  Sources nf Funds                                             29198       35234      5se52        61421       60617       5910ff      6290S       74817       76219       77417
Applicatson of Funds
Capital Investment
CepItal Expendituar.                                                  11946       19964       36320       36524       34937       30266       33901       40672       40651       30083
Interest During Construction                                           266         580        3212        4649        3426        3006        2778        3525         3386       3am0
Total Capital Investent                                             12212      20544        41832       41373       38363       33272      36679        44197       44036       42063
Debt Service
Intoreet                                                              619S        6334        7049        7913       6a62         90S0       10284       1I11O        11922       1612
Principal                                                             s562        6O09        ai79        10628      12104        13943      15647        17696       16731       20__ 9
Toel Debt Service                                                   12187      1462         15628       I8446      206         23748       28930       28806        306__       38241
Decrese in Deferred Liabilities                                            91         90          87           70         44           19         16           0            0           0
Increase in Non-cash Working Capital                                  l76          -66        3166        1532         110         562        202S        7181         130         1814
Increase in Ca"                                                       2662          44       -1660           0        1614        1801       -1747        -367           0            0
Increae(Decressa) In Work ng Capitel                                    476          -22        1336        1532        1724        2063         278        1814        130         1814
-  - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - -  - - - - -    - - - - -    - - ---    ---- ---    ---------.   --  - - -  ------ 
Total Applicatioe of Funds                                         29198       38124       56e82       61421       60817       59102       82905       74617       76219                 to417    *
Debt Service Coverage                                                        1.6         1.          I.5        1.6         1.6          1.4         1.6         1 4         1 4         1.4         _
3   ar. Average Inveatent                                                  18726      24763       34466       4042        07669       3610        31J0049     41637       440          43664     0
Self-Financing Rstio (3 Yr, Ave ) (3)                                        285         292         261    2t 6             Si          211         263         261         26S          3



pl 011 iU*.l~ P.611300
Balance Sheet
(Baht MIillion)
Veele S.dl..g Sept***, 30                                                       1966         Iwo9        1990         192                      Ioo          sos.         IoOS         1996        I"?
Issed   ssS
PIs.1 ;ft Se,...                                                         19940       214269       2516014      274184      22713        3110842      43113?       4820(-      142030       60658
Loft: A.vimuIetod  osweistiep                                             ?075        7918201      S95N        10178       1166         1320653      15141'       ; 72530      198454      23281
64.1 Op.eati.0. Plant                                                  12863        13461       14862        17543       210927       247670       260058       310250      34557        5m5
,oi P.e'ee160                                                                         28W          80764                    lim955       11,40       5263         (248S        8778         67561
Totai loo sd ASeots Powe,                                              14425        16064       19751        26846       27027        2981061      33280        3-2745,     413588       42684
8 s.d Assets                                                               mm...lqoojselp  21  15I  1568         194W        24871        29764        3423?        S948?        43489       4640
5146 -i.q Fee                                                                267          2989        3500         369          4116        isas         5234         150          858         780
045., Aesete                                                                 2872         2868        2451         2244         2000         o    1690   19(          10     190                1090og
C..,,s.t Ass.t.
Cash                                                                      10766        1 065        900          Om0         10614       12115        10567        10000)      10000        1000
ssite.obles,                                                             705          0069        11377       12604        15912        15286        17131       19962        21726        215
ln,m,to,.i.e                                            6933~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  7115  7457     705          779         8434         9013        10103%       11103       11968
TOteI 'twr~st Asse.                                                     263         202            1761       2941I              3      5615i       57061        3096        42828        45508
0,6.5,5  LmsS an 64055689                                                   221568       1686        1880         14151        12824       1104*         9346         7031         6621        583
7.5.I Assets                                                           209438      22602        264013       505070      54618       3816          420476       467525      514171       su636
-----                                                                    -           ---------                                                                    ---
Paid-" (spiteS                                                             9977        10087       10118        10145        10145       10145        10148        10146        10146       0145
1.,iaetioo Comt.wibut,os                                                   400         545          4765         4714        4635         455          4476         CM0         4326         4258
ReSsled 6.'-.n.                                                           19536        22012       4510?         g mg75      7229        63955        9079        138,78      3203"      14390
Rqe.IaIion Urouse                                                         36536       4290         478286       585108      858          76700        6996        103753       1 10124      337134
C,vate sod Csotose, estlI bot..ou`                                         98a         1072        11862        286         28068      l32788        14345        149:03       15505        14603
7*09.  6q.4                                                            949          985        120214       34126        185410      16021        226%45       247745      278064       810O6
Loes-Term 046,
Lame-Tors, Debt                                                           991841      10072       12506        14364        19om        700164      17685        19343'0     206553       23160O
Lmess  Current, Sh.witifs                                                  Om8          6579       1062         t2104        13R08        l5269       18962        l6021        20842       2244
Lawye.. Oebs ("et)                                                     I05         910i148                  s314        146017       54517       181677       74809       168011      10244
Ps,t1.e  bor"ms                                                                0            0         252           28            0           0            0           29          01        289
Sil"kSe 8us                                                                  2876         2969        am6          3806         4110         4655        8234         689          Om6          7309
oste.-.d L,sbI.t1..                                                           828          236          151          61           87           t6            0           0            0            0
OtAor Liabilities                                                              72           74           77          7962                     as           so           92           94           6?
Accowate PejubIe                                                          65902       7454         6146         679         560          6852         895          7256         MD          6gm
Cwroat Netapitise                                                                      85 $70      1082         125104             13206   56         69612       16921        2064        25446
A.c,veed loteseeta  las LA.. Term At                                       130          150         1600         List        219?,        2414         2660         296          3169        588
045.,r Co,..et Lieb. Ijitie                                                7357        7769         605          6894         9168        "O96        10117        1062        1113         U1167
7.86 C.ne.. LUsk. I 4it                                               2382        55182        26696        son70       35470        34001       38735        39542        42868        45760;
----------------.........----- - -----  ------  .....----- -                                                                                          p.s
0145996a 6 of To" I Cap-w                                                         so           an           81          sag          465          4n5         425          449         4An           4110 
Loop.'65   0.bt as5 a   6o Total CGeOsS*                                          496          468          46          do           476          468         436          418          406          396                     PON
cv,,os'o Rtio                                                                    SI0N         1075         10on        10*%         106          1068        101          101t         1006          996
Country Department 11
Pebruary, 1989



- 91 -
TMJJL*NI                                       AMNEX 17
Faun INEErATIo MUECT                                  Pa ge I of 2
Coonarison of PoSr Generation Options
A. lased an financial coats in 1910 prices
- -Conventional *teMa plants--------   Combined
(Coal)    (Lignite) (Fuel Oil)    (Gas)        (oa)
Basis                  Ao Phra1i   Hae  hb   Bena Pak.  Bana Pak.  Sang Pak.
10-11     Unit 3     Unit 3      CC 3-4
(600 W)   (600 M)   (600 1W)   (600 NM)   (600 NW)
_---     -----       .. .. .    ........    .......
Cagital Costs (incl. IOC)
(U5 $ i lion)
Generation             615        545         402        402         345
Transmission            25         80          14         14          12
Total                  640        625         416        416         357
(USS per kW)        1.067       1,042        693         693        595
Fixed Costs
(US$ per kW p.a.)
Annualized Cap.
Costs               143        139         93          93          80
051 Costs               31         29          17         17          16
Total                  174        169         110        110          96
Plant Heat Rate
(Kcal/kgh)               2,250       2.300      2,250       2,250       2,050
Fuel Unit                 tonne      tonne        Klit      * btu       inbtu
Fuel Heating Value
('ooo Kcal/unit)         6,300       2,530      9.500         252         252
Fuel Cost
(US$ oer unit)
($    1988              55       17.8         115       2.69        2.69
in 1996                 74       19.4         ISO       2.61       2.61
(US$  errmbtu)
a  988              2.20        1.77       3.05        2.69        2.69
in 1996              2.96        1.93       3.98        2.61       2.61
fieneration Costs
(USc. per kwh)
Capacity Charge
w/ 1oad factor of
70%    2.84       2.75        1.79       1.79        1.57
50%    3.98       3.85        2.51       2.51        2.19
Eneray Charge
ln 1988            1.96       1.62       2.72        2.40       2.19
In 1996           2.64        1.76       3.55        2.33       2.12
Total Generation Costs
in 1988 wI load
factor of 70%          4.81       4.37        4.52       4.19        3.76
50%         5.94        5.47       5.23        4.91       4.38
in 1996 w/ load
factor of 70%          5.48       4.52        5.35       4.12        3.69
50%         6.62        5.62       6.06        4.84       4.32
Assumptions :
Capital ization
Factor:       20 years. 12%
014 Costs:        3% of plant cost for coal and lignite
2.5% of plant cost for oll/gas theral
2.8% of plant cost for combined cycles
1.5% of plant cost for transmission
Sources: EGAT and Oank estimates



-92-                                     Page 2  of2
TMAI' i'
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
w.u".eAmwm ut PuItR GEENERATION OPiMlft
8. Based on economic costs in ii88 prices
--------Conventional stean plants--------   Combined
(Coal)    (Lignite) (Fuel Oil)    (Gas)         (Cls)
Basis                  Ao Phr1a   Mae  h   Banq- Pak.  Bang Pak.  Bang Pak.
-----                                10-11     Unit 3      Un1t 3      CC 3-4
(600 Mw)   (600 KW)   (600 MW)   (600 MW)   (600 KW)
Ca ital Costs (1ncl. bIC)
U5t million)
Generation             492         436        322         322         276
Transmission            20          64          11         11          10
Total                  512         500        333         333         286
(USS per kM)           853        833         555         555         476
Fixed Costs
(US$ per kW p.a.)
..........
Anualized Cap.
Costs               114         112         74          74          64
ON  Costs               25          23          14         14          13
Total                  139         135         88          s8          77
Plant Heat Rate
(KcalIkWh)                2,250       2,300      2,250       2,250       2,050
Fuel Untt                 tonne       tonne        Klit      inbtu       mbtu
Fuel Heating Value
('ooo Kcal/unit)          6,300       2,530      9,500         252         252
Fuel Cost
(US$ per,unit)
S n u988                44        13.8         85        2.24        2.24
in 1996                 56        14.9        120        2.61        2.61
(USS Dner zbtu)
( nb1988              1.76        1.37       2.25        2.24        2.24
in 1996               2.24        1.48       3.18        2.61        2.61
Ganeration Costs
(USc. per kWh)
Ca acit tCharge
w/ load factor of
70%    2.27        2.20       1.43        1.43        1.25
50%    3.18        3.08       2.01        2.01        1.75
Energy Charge
in 1988            1.57       1.25        2.01        2.00        1.82
In 1996            2.00       1.35        2.84        2.33        2.12
Total Generat.on Costs
in 1988 w/ load
factor of 70%          3.84        3.46       3.45        3.43        3.08
50%         4.75        4.34        4.02       4.01        3.58
in 1996 wl load
factor of 70%          4.27        3.56       4.28        3.76        3.38
50%         5.18        4.44        4.85       4.34        3.88
Assumptions
Capitalization
Factor:       20 years, 12%
0&  Costs:        3% of plant cost for coal and lignite
2.5% of plant cost for oil/gas thermal
2.8% of plant cost for combined cycles
1.5% of plant cost for transmission



THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN ON EGAT'S POP
(US ml Il ion)
Incremant Tariff (c/kWh)
Energy
Flecl      Capital   ohm        Fuel      Total      Sales  Current Constant       Sales          Not
Year        Costa    Cot       COsts      Coats      (GWh)   Price    Price       Rowv.nue      Benefit
-   - -   -  -                   -  -    -   -    -   -       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------
198s       28.40                          28.40                                                  (26.40)
1986       44.80                          44.60                                                   (44.60)
1987       150.82                        160.82                                                 (160.82"
1988      458.65              98.90      557.46                6.04     6.04         0.00        (667.46)
1989      771.89     9.61    168.29      944.19      4,363     6.04     4.89       213.49        (730.69)
1990      870.99   26.68    280.16   1,127.80        8,841     5.80     5.41       461.62        (676.18)
199       781.87    46.86   381.18    1,178.91      12,388     6.84     6.24       86.78        (632.13)
1992       724.78   87.12   388.29   1,178.19       16,718     6.84     6.04       842.67        (336.62)
1998      719.668   85.1    486.82    1,271.83    20,837       5.84     5.04     1,060.18       (221.44)
1994      783.01   103.60   s54.1e   1,421.12    25,210    6.00         5.04     1,270.68        (150.64)
199s      813.97   118.76   625.03    1,557.76    29,803    8.28        5.04     1,502.07        (66.69)
199b     659.18   137.77    722.09    1,4S5.04      84,563     6.48     5.04     1,741.99        286.94
1997      256.00   158.41    804.00    1,218.41     89,147     6.60     5.04     1,973.01        764.60
19a8       79.84   179.86    815.08    1,074.28     44,094     6.60     6.04     2,222.84      1,148.06
1999               179.86    8a8.78    1,018.88     44,094     8.6o     5.04     2,222.84      1,206.70
2000               179.86    859.71    1,039.57     44,094     6.60     5.04     2,222.84      1,182.77
2001               179.86    866.76    1,046.62     44,094     8.60     6.04     2,222.34      1,176.72
2002               179.88   873.81    1,053.67      44,094     6.60     6.04     2,222.84      1,168.67
2008               179.86    881.37    1,061.22     44,094    6.60      5.04     2,222.84      1,161.11
2004               179.88   888.67    1,068.53      44,094     6.60     5.04     2,222.84      1,153.81
2005               179.88   896.28    1,076.08      44,094     6.60     5.04     2,222.34      1,148.28
200e                179.86    907.81    1,087.18    44,094     6.60     5.04     2,222.84      1,136.18
2007                179.86    918.89    1,098.24    44,094    6.60      5.04    2,222.84       1,124.10
2008                179.86    929.97    1,109.82    44,094     6.60     6.04     2,222.34      1,112.51
2009                179.86    941.80    1,121.86    44,094     6.60     5.04     2,222.84      1,100.68
2010               179.88    958.89    1,138.75     44,094    6.60      5.04     2,222.34      1,088.69
2011               179.86    971.02    1,150.87     44,094     6.60     5.04     2,222.84      1,071.47
2012               179.88    988.64    :,188.60    44,094    6.6c       6.04     2,222.84      1,065.84
2018                179.86    988.64    1,168.50    44,094     8.60     r.04    2,222.84       1,058.64
2014               ins.se   988.64   1,168.80       44,094     8.60    ..04      2,222.84      1,065.84
2015    (1,197.87)  179.88    988.84      (28.87)    44,094    8.60     5.04     2,222.84      2,261.21
Rats of Return:            14%
0



THAIkLD
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fuel Consuimption        Iner. Fu.' Consumption         Economic Price                      Fuel Cost
Natural   H"vy              Natural   Heavy             Natural   Heavy             Natural Heavy
Fiscal   goo    Fuel 01I  Lignite   gas    Fuel Oil  Lignite   gos    Fuel Oil Lignite    gas   Fuel Oil  Lignite   Total
Year  (mafd)   (ML)        (MT)    (mwfd)   (ML)       (MT)   (8/wbtu) (8/ML) (S/tonns) -       ----8 million--------
----------------- --
1967  a87.00   748.00    6,688
1998   485.00 1,288.00    0,419    78.00   585.00       (267)    2.18    78.4    18.78    60.84    41.93    (3.67)   98.90
1989   498.00 1,821.00    7,012   141.00   678.00        328     2.17    82.1    13.75   111.74    47.07      4.48   163.29
1990   478.00 2,026.00    8,328   121.00 1,278.00    1,887       2.21   s6.9    13.8s    97.70   109.81    22.64   230.16
1991   5s0.00 2,927.00    9,079   161.00 2,179.00    2,893       2.25    89.0    13.98   123.77   193.95    33.45   361.18
1992   502.00 8,025.00   10,617   145.00 2,277.00    8,981       2.28    92.2    14.16   120.70   209.97   65.62   388.29
1998   814.00 2,486.00   12,848   257.00 1,718.00    6,982       2.82    95.5    14.82   217.82   164.13    85.38   468.82
1994   894.00 1,847.00   18,070   887.00 1,099.00    9,884       2.85    99.0    14.52   289.57   108.78   136.28  654.s81 
1996   697.00 2,085.00   19,788   840.00 1,317.00   18,102       2.89   102.8    14.78   298.97   186.07   192.99   625.03             '0
1996 867.00 2,281.00   24,068   880.00 1,658.00   17,382         2.46   108.7    14.91   298.28   188.84   269.17   722.09
1997   721.00 1,878.00   29,079   884.00 1,125.00   22,389       2.58   115.2    15.10   388.24   129.63   338.13   804.00
1998   712.00 1,600.00   31,868   856.00   752.00   25,192       2.81   122.2    15.81   887.69    91.96   385.64   815.08
1999   712.00 1,500.00   81,888   856.00   752.00   26,182       2.89   129.E    16.64   848.06    97.40   391.83   886.78
2000   712.00 1,500.00   81,888   866.00   752.00   2S,182       2.77   187.3    15.78   859.07   108.27   397.37   859.71
2001   712.00 1,600.00   81,888   8s5.00   752.00   25,182       2.77   187.3    16.08   369.07   103.27   404.42   868.76
2002   712.00 1,600.00   81,868   866.00   752.00   25,182       2.77   187.8    16.84   859.07   103.27   411.47   878.81
2008   712.00 1,600.00   81,868   856.00   762.00   26,182       2.77   187.8    16.84   89.07   108.27   419.03  891.37
2004   712.00 1,500.00   8S,888   85.00   752.00   26,182       2.77   137.3    18.98   359.07   108.27   426.33   688.67
2005   712.00 1,600.00   81,8s6   865.00   752.00   25,182       2.77   187.8    17.28   869.07   108.27   433.89   896.28
2006   712.00 1,S00.00   31,869   865.00   752.00   25,182       2.77   187.8    17.87  389.07   108.27   444.97   907.81
2007   712.00 1,500.00   31,888   855.00   762.00   25,182       2.77   187.8    18.11   869.07   108.27   456.06   918.89
2008   712.00 1,600.00   81,888   866.00   762.00   26,182       2.77   187.8    18.67   369.07   108.27   467.63   929.97
2009   712.00 1,500.00   81,868   855.00   752.00   25,182       2.77   187.8    19.04   869.07   108.27   479.47   941.80
2010   712.00 1,600.00   81,868   856.00   762.00   25,182       2.77   187.8    19.52   859.07   103.27   491.65   953.69
2011   712.00 1,500.00   81,868   865.00   752.00   25,182       2.77   187.8    20.20   359.07   103.27   S06.88   971.02
2012   712.00 1,500.00   81,668   855.00   752.00   26,182       2.77   187.S    20.90   859.07   108.27   528.80   986.84
2018   712.00 1,500.00   81,6e8  856.00   752.00   26,182        2.77   187.8    20.90   859.07   108.27   526.30   988.84
2014   712.00 1,500.00   81,888   356.00   762.00   26,182       2.77   137.8    20.90   869.07   103.27   528.30   988.84
2015   712.00 1,600.00   81,888   865.00   752.00   26,182       2.77   187.8    20.90   369.07   103.27   626.80   988.84
'I
0
Country ])e:?artment
]Fs.bruary      I
-.                                                  , . __ _ .- 



THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN OF BANG PAKiON COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
(USI mil l ion)
Investment Costs
Generation            ---------------                 UIM    Fuel        Total       Totsl       Net
Year      (Cwh)      CC P      CC  4   T/L A SS   Total    C>Sts      Costs       COsts     Revenue   Senefit
1988         0.00       0.93      0.00     0.00      0.98     0.00       0.00       0.93        0.00      (0.93)
1989         0.00      62.02     48.80     8.69    104.02    0.00        0.00      104.02       0.00    (104.02)
1990       110.00      69.71     82.52     6.89    138.12    0.92        1.98d    141.01        5.98    (135.06)
1991    2,519.00       18.99     17.25     0.74     38.98    20.71      45.98     103.86      132.05      28.39
1992     3,679.20       2.99      2.99     0.00      5.99    29.81      68.17     103.98      186.45      91.47
1998     B8679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      89.25      90.41      178.82      78.90
1994     8,679.20       ^ %^^     0.00     0.00      0.00    80.18      70.88      100.64     176.16      75.62
1996     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    30.16      71.64      101.70     177.29      75.59
1996     ,8,79.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.18      73.68      108.69     176.90      72.20
1997     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.18      75.86      105.82     169.18      63.31
1998     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      77.91      108.07     169.13      61.06
1999     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      80.80      110.46     169.13      S8.67
2000     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      82.84      113.00     189.13      G6.1S
2001     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      82.84      113.00     169.13      S6.13
2002     8,879.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      82.84      118.00     169.18     S.18
2008     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      82.84      118.00     169.18      56.13
2004     8,879.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    30.16      82.84      118.00     189.18      58.13
2005     8,879.20      17.60     17.60     0.00     85.20    80.18      82.84      146.20     169.18      20.93
2006     8,879.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      82.84      118.00     169.18      56.13
2007     8,879.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.18      82.84      113.00     189.18     56.13
2008     8,879.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      82.84      113.00     169.18     56.13
2009     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.18      82.84      113.00     189.1R     56.13
2010     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    30.18      82.84      113.00     169.18      58.18
2011     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      82.84      118.00     169.18      66.13
2012     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      82.84      118.00     169.18     56.18
2013     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.18      82.84      118.00     169.13      56.18
2014     8,679.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.16      82.84      118.00     169.18      56.18
2015     8,879.20       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    80.18      82.84      118.00     189.18     56.18
Rate of Return  =           24X
Country Department II
!?e1lruary 1989



fHA I 1.AN'
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN OF MAE MON LIGNITE EXPANSION PROJECT (UNITS 8&9)
(US$ million)
Fiscal      Capital and OBH Costs       Electricity    Lignite    Netback Value    Value of           Total Benefit           Net Cash Flow
Year   -----------------------------  Generated   Requirements   of Lignite   Electricity  ---------------------  ------------------
Lignite    Power      Total      (6Uh)          (MT)       (USS/tonne)    Generated    Mine         Mine +       Mine      Mine +
Mine   Plants                                                             (c/kWh)   Alone    Power Plants   Alone  Power Plan
-------------              __--        -   -    -    -   -   -    -   -   -     -   -   -    -   -   -   -     -   -   -    -    -   -    -
1985      0.00    24.22       24.22                                                                                        0.00    -24.22
1986      0.00    33.52       33.52                                                                                        0.00    -33.52
1987      2.13    94.28       96.40                                                                                       -2.13    -96.40
1988     36.31   147.12    183.43                                                                                        -36.31   -183.43
1989     41.34   135.90    177.24             450           0.41          18.73         3.77      7.66           16.96   -33.68   -160.28
1990     47.36    48.55       95.90         1,812           1.65          19.61         3.85     32.30          69.74   -15.05    -26.16
1991     29.03    24.08       53.11         3,323           3.02          20.30         3.91     61.32         129.97    32.29       76.86
1992     29.27    13.55       42.82         3,625           3.30          20.99         3.97     69.18         144.07    39.91    101.25
1993     22.28    13.55       35.83         3,625           3.30          21.69         4.04     71.47         146.37    49.19    110.53
1994     38.31    13.55       51.86         3,625           3.30          22.39         4.10     73.77         148.67    35.47       96.81
1995     37.68    13.55       51.24         3,625           3.30          23.09         4.17     76.09         150.99    38.41       99.75
1996     59.67    13.55       73.22         3,625           3.30          23.27         4.18     76.67         151.57    17.00       78.35
1997     44.56    13.55       58.11         3,625           3.30          23.44         4.20     77.26         152.15    32.70       94.04
1998     46.86    13.55       60.41         3,625           3.30          23.63         4.21     77.86         152.76    31.00       92.35
1999     46.63    13.55       60.19         3,625           3.30          23.81         4.23     78.47         153.37    31.84       93.19
2000     49.52    13.55       63.07         3,625           3.30          24.00         4.25      79.09         153.99    29.57      90.92
2001     48.88    13.55       62.44         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27      79.73         154.63    30.84      92.19
2002     47.36    13.55       60.91         3,625           3.30          24.19         5.27      79.73         154.63    32.37      93.12
2003     47.89    13.55       61.44         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27      79.73         154.63    31.84      93.19
2004     44.80    13.55       58.35         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27      79.73         154.53    34.93      96.28
2005     45.62    13.55       59.17         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27      79.73         154.63    34.11      95.45
2006     45.11    13.55       58.67         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27      79.73         154.63    34.61      95.96
2007     43.95    13.55       57.50         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27      79.73         154.63    35.78      97.13
2008     44.71    13.55       58.27         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27      79.73         154.63    35.01      96.36
2009     42.90    13.55       56.45         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27      79.73         154.63    36.83      98.18
2010     39.82    13.55       53.38         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27      79.73         154.63    39.90    101.25
2011     26.78    13.55       40.33         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27      79.73         154.63    52.95    114.29
2012     38.78    13.55       52.33         3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27     79.73          154.63    40.95    102.30
2013     35.66   (21.04)    14.62           3,625           3.30          24.19         4.27     79.73          154.63    44.07    140.01
Economic Rate of Return                                                                                                           29%        13%



TRATLhA1L
POWER SYSTEM  DEVELOPT PROJECT
CALCULATION OF NETIACK VALUE OF LIGNITE
Coal-based Generation Costs                              Lignite-based Generation Costs
Fiscal     Coal       Energy ccity    Total                  Capacity  Infoirred Energy          Netback Value
Year      Price      Charge  Charge  Gen. Costs              Charge        Charge                of Lignite           Assumptions
(S/tonne)   (c/k2e)  (c/krh)   (c/k9h)              (c/knh)       (c/kWh)                 (S/tonne)                _
i987i  - 400           . 57     21 7      3.ii                2.07         1.68                      8 .44           Plant CCaital Cost (USS/kW) 1/
1988      43.86       1.57      2.17      3.74                2.07         1.67                     18.38                  Coal                             848'
1989      44.73       1.60      2.17      3.77                2.07         1.70                     18.73                  Lignite                          813
1990      46.98       1.68      2.17      3.85                2.07         1.78                     19.61
1991      48.73       1.74      2.17      3.91               2.07          1.85                     20.30            Plant Heat Ra.e (kCal/kWh)
1992      50.50       1.80      2.17      3.97               2.07          1.91                     20.99                  Coal                            2250
1993      52.27       1.87      2.17      4.04                2.07         1.97                     21.69                  Lignite                         2300
1994      54.05       1.93      2.17      4.10                2.07        2.04                      22.39
1995      55.84       1.99      2.17      4.17               2.07         2.10                      23.09            Fuel Heating Value !kCal/Kg)
1996      56.29       2.01      2.17      4.18               2.07         2.12                      23.27                  Coal                            630
1997      56.74       2.03      2.17      4.20               2.07         2.13                      23.44                  Lignite                         2530
1998      57.21       2.04      2.17      4.21               2.07         2.15                      23.63
199       57.68       2.06      2.17      4.23               2.07         2.17                      23.81            Lead Factor                             70%
20G0      58.16       2.08      2.17      4.25                2.07         2.18                     24.0O
2001      58.65       2.09      2.17      4.27                2.07        2.20                      24.19            08N Costs (% of plant cost)
2002      58.65       2.09      2.17      4.27                2.07        2.20                      24.19                  coal and lignite                 3.0
2003      58.65       2.09      2.17      4.27                2.07        2.20                      24.19                  transmission                     1.5
2004      58.65       2.09      2.17      4.27                2.07        2.20                      24.19
2005      58.65       2.09      2.17      4.27                2.07        2.20                      24.19                       (US$/kW/yr)
2006      58.65       2.09      2.17      4.27                2.07        2.20                      24.19                  coal                              25
2007      58.65       2.09      2.17      4.27                2.07        2.20                      24.19                  lignite                           23
Lignite Nine Loss Factor                3%
1/ excluding taxes and IDC
Country Department II
February 1989



- 98 -                               AMNEX 21
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents in Project Files
A. EGAT - Gen-ral
A.1 EGAT Power Development Plan (1988-2001), Report No. 10600-3106, EGAT,
August 1988.
A.2 Energy Development and Environment, EGAT.
B.   Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Component
B.1  Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Plant, Report No. 31304-00-3125,
EGAT, April 88. Environment.
B.2 Feasibility Study Report, Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Plant
Blocks 3 and 4 (2 X 300 KW), EGAT, March 1988.
B.3 Transmission System for Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Project Blocks 3
and 4 (2 X 300 MW), Report No. 10601-3101, EGAT, February 1988.
B.4 Planning considerations for 300 MW Combined Cycle Plant. Black and
Weatch International Consultancy Engineers, Final Report, November
1987.
B.5 Data for Appraisal of Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Project Thermal
Power Engineering Department, EGAT, April 1988.
C.   Mae Koh Lignite Expansion Component
C.1 Mae Moh Project Environmental and Ecological Studies and Impact
Assessment, SEATAC, July 1984.
C.2 Mae Moh Power Development Project. Environment Utilization
Assessment. Reports (2 Vols.) ESE No. 86-338-0100-2130, EGAT, PCD and
ESE, March 1987.
C.3 Preliminary Study of ecology and environment of the resettlement. The
Mae Koh Mine Development Project, Report No. 74205-04-299, EGAT,
January 1986.
C.4  Resettlement Programme of Mae Koh Mine Project, Report No.
154-30-2202, F'ebruary 1979.



ANNEX 21
- 99 -                             Page 2 of 2
C.5 Resettlement Plan: flae Moh Mine Development Project, Report No.
74205-04-2920, EGAT, February 1988 (in Thai).
C.6 Operation Report on Tha Pa Tun-No Kaem Resettiement. Mae Moh Mine
Development Stage II, January 1987 (In Thai).
C.7 Environmental Impact Mitigation Program. Mae Moh Mine Development for
Power Plan Units 8-9, Report No. 74205-04-3009, EGAT, June 1987 (In
Thai).
C.8 Mae Moh Lignite Project for Power Plan Units 8 and 9, Report No.
31304-00-3126, EGAT, April 88. Environment.
D.   Financial Reyorts
D.A Annual Report 1987, EGAT.
D.2 Lignite Mine Sector Financial Statement, 1987.
D.3 Project Loan Report, December 31, 1987.
Country Department II
February 1989



I~~~~~~~~I
O _~~~~4                               b-    o  P
*AM~~~~~~~~~
7~~~                                                                                            -
r ffi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14   .   l   .                                          -  4 
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3~U   IZ OU G  I6~A   ,UUWIId   II
I   .     IA
4JW wtl"F- &A
ovav   a   sas d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ S



2V BURMA1s{   <
oss_  ,   rcii   g                    ~~~~~~LAO PEOPLE'S.                                .
/ ' 'wE 7 ~~~~~~~DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC ->T-:.... ;  
9 9 2 1 S55MW                          ,          jA, FM -,f  '-  -
0 I?%  ,%  aVX                                                                X                       'b'_~~~~1.1i M
REGIGINONt', ,- 
<  -    C \ 0   lAT  /t   _t MplL^B^N23xS50wG2X3001- 4 \OF THAILAND
c1    0~~~~~~~ O 97 (S5 sl~~~~~~.tm                                                I4       4c2iorrw 2SrPWRSSA DVLPE kJt
s \  5  t KRAa^N | jp  , ~~~ G                             NAM PNC c =    Er F
AnXmon   2>    i9(;rn- ,41  -  W ax2         ;                                         SODkVTrssUnn6m
. o554 J ' | 1 . 7-- - - 23D iv lrd*d                                         5 Ls
dd-. Sea 5 CS $4  t  F         <  @ 4            ^                              SOo^vS.bs~~~~~~~~~~ww
I   NX  ,   A       L    ;       . % o   X               @       e                ^    s if ~~~tA
.  :  S  .rg n e '': :, 9 rX Mob Ugni~~'4.Tck.n t
I .7 ,. . , . jIWri1 oZ 
9~~~~~~~~~~~LCRCT    G10NERATINQ'  AUTHORITY>
o~~~Rhb.                                                                   OF THAILAbND)
,, <_ ,tHAt _ 5i                   2" MW   D
-t~~~~~M                                  POE SYTF DEVLOME  PROJECT 
~~<tJ  ;\ <w  17 *>-we  , -  ,o XSemueS                   /?           ^~~~~~FUTUR
Z     _          ,   Xh rQ*H rSd  \,<,    1l   \  ~~~~~~~~~~~ -i   . .                   \SI
A tie  mof                                         2]Ptq                                                       5W kVF T,- BAGO-11-UI



