Docuent of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Rqport No. 12935
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3027-TH)
APRIL 5, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Baht
US$ 1.00 = B 25 (SAR)
= B 25.0 (Current)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km - Kilometer
Kv - Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
KVA - Kilo Volt-Ampere
ckm - Circuit Kilometer
Kw - Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW - Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
GW - Gigawatt (million kilowatts)
Kwh - Kilowatt hour (1,000 watt-hours)
Gwh - Gigawatt hour (million kilowatt-hours)
ug - Microgram
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB - Asian Development Bank
ADAB - Australian Development Assistance Bureau
EGAT - Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ERR - Economic Rate of Retum
IDC - Interest During Construction
MEA - Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOF - Ministry of Finance
NREP - Normal Rural Electrification Program
OECF - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
ONEB - Office of National Environmental Board
TPA - Tonnes per Annum
PDP - Power Development Plan
PEA - Provincial Electricity Authority
PTT - Petroleum Authority of Thailand
RTG - Royal Thai Govemment
RVP - Regional Vice President
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 5, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Thailand
Power Svstem Development Project (Loan 3027-TH)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Thailand - Power System Development
Project (Loan 3027-TH)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part II
provided by the Borrower.
The project achieved its main objectives which were to: (i) help meet a growing power
demand at least cost; (ii) reduce the country's dependance on imported fuel by supporting the
development and use of local lignite and gas; and (iii) continue the strengthening of the power utility
(EGAT)'s operational performance through improved management systems and training. The main
project components were completed on time except for the steam turbines which were commissioned
one year late due to adverse weather conditions and a shortage of cement in the country. Satisfactory
programs were undertaken at the lignite plant to mitigate air and water pollution and resettle affected
people.
The introduction of time-slice (2-year) financing under this operation provided added
flexibility to EGAT in the financing of its overall investment program and allowed for fast
disbursement of Bank loan funds. It proved appropriate in this case given the maturity of the Bank's
operational and policy dialogue with the sector and of EGAT's proven project implementation and
financial track record.
Accordingly, the project's outcome is rated as satisfactory, its institutional impact as substantial
and its sustainability as likely. The performance of both the Borrower and the Bank was satisfactory.
The Project Completion Report is thorough and informative. No audit is contemplated at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3027-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLES OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .....................................................
EVALUATION   SUMMARY   ..........................................ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...................                                                                                    I
Project Identity   ............................................                                                                          1
Background   ..............................................                                                                              1
Project Objectives and  Description  ................................                                                                    1
Project Design  and Organization   .................................                                                                     2
Project Implementation   .......................................                                                                         2
Project Results   ............................................                                                                           3
Project Sustainability    ........................................                                                                       4
Environmental Aspects   .......................................                                                                          5
Resettlement ..............................................                                                                              6
Bank Performance ............                                                                                                            7
Borrower Performance   .......................................                                                                           8
Project Relationship   .........................................                                                                         8
Project Documentation  and  Data   .................................                                                                     9
Findings and  Lessons Learned    ..................................                                                                      9
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...............    11
PART  III - STATISTICAL  INFORMATION   ................................                                                                                  23
Related  Bank  Loan  ..........................................                                                                          23
Project Timetable    ..........................................                                                                          23
Loan  Disbursement   .........................................                                                                           24
Project Implementation   .......................................                                                                         24
Project Cost and  Finacing    .....................................                                                                      25
Project Results   ............................................                                                                           28
Financial Impact  ........................................                                                                       28
Economic Analysis   ......................................                                                                       29
Status of Covenants   .........................................                                                                          31
Use of Bank  Resources   .......................................                                                                         32
Staff Inputs   ...........................................                                                                       32
Missions .............................................                                                                           33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanoe of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                                 J



Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
ANNEXES
1.  Implementation Schedule, Blocks 3 and 4 ...........................           34
2.  Bang Pakong Air Quality Monitoring Results ........................           35
3.  Project Cost Estimate ...........       ..............................        37
4.  Financial Performance, 1988-1991 .................................            39
5.  Fmancial Statements 1988-1991 - Sources & Application of Funds .... ....    40
6.  Fmancial Statements 1988-1992 - Balance Sheet ......................          41
7.  Lignite Mine Operations - Income Statements FY88-91 .....       ...........   42
8.  Lignite Mine Operations - Balance Sheet FY88-91 ....................          43
9.  Data for Economic Evaluation of EGAT PDP .......................              44
10. Rate of Return on EGArs PDP .45
11. Rate of Return of Bang Pakong Combined-Cycle Power Project .46
12. Calculation on Netback Value of Lignite .47
13. Rate of Return of Mae Moh Lignite Expansion Projects Units 8-9 .48
14. Actual Investment Cost of Project .49



-i-
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3027-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power System Development Project
in Thailand for which Loan 3027-TH in the amount of US $90.0 million was approved on March 21,
1989. The loan was closed on March 31, 1992, six months later than the originally scheduled closing
date of September 30, 1991. It was fully disbursed with the last disbursement of US$0.47 million
equivalent in March 1992.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division, Asia Country
Department I, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and
the Borrower, the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR was started in March 1992 when the Borrower was requested to
provide statistical data for Part III. The PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence in the Project Files, and a comprehensive
data compilation provided by EGAT.






-_j-
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3207-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Objectives:
1.         The main objectives of the project were to: (a) help meet the growth in power demand
expected over the medium term at least cost; (b) reduce Thailand's dependence on imported fuel by
supporting the development and use of domestic lignite and natural gas for power generation; and (c)
strengthen EGAT's operational performance through the introduction of a computerized maintenance
management system for thermal and hydro generating units, the acquisition of environmental monitoring
equipment, and the provision of specialized training for its environmental division (para 3.1).
Implementation Experience:
2.         EGAT's implementation effort was staffed with its own competent teams, assisted by foreign
consultants where needed. Except for eleven-month and twelve-month delays in commissioning the two
steam turbines belonging to Bang Pakong combined cycle blocks 3 and 4, the project was completed on
time in the face of a tight implementation schedule (para 5.1).
3.         A part of the delay in commissioning of the steam turbines was due to adverse weather
conditions at site and delays in delivery of equipment and material. A major portion of the delay in
construction was due to the acute shortage of cement in Thailand resulting from a construction boom.
The RTG had to resort to granting extensions to contractor peformance schedules to alleviate the situation
(para 5.2).
4.         The Mae Moh mining expansion operations were well planned and efficiently executed.
Some of the credit for the excellent implementation performance should be given to the foreign mining
experts who have guided EGAT's mining endeavors from the beginning of lignite production. The
practice of contracting out overburden and other mining operations continues to be a success. EGAT
concentrates on turning over to the private sector its technical expertise in pit mining thus promoting a
safe, technically and environmentally sound mining operation (para 5.3).
Results:
5.         The project achieved its main objective of increasing the Bang Pakong power generating
capacity and thus the total power availability in the country. Between FY88 and FY91, energy generation
registered an increase of 54% while lignite production registered an impressive 88% increase Because
of delays in commissioning of the Bang Pakong steam turbines, the full flow of the project benefits
commenced about twelve months after the target date. However, the 4x100 MW combustion turbine
generators were ready as scheduled and this incremental power was available on time. In the case of the
combined cycle blocks, a cost overrun of 30% has resulted on account of the very tight international
market situation for gas turbines prevailing at the time of project implementation (para 6.1).



-iii-
6.          EGAT's financial and economic performance during FY87 to FY91 was satisfactory and
compared favorably with the appraisal forecasts. EGAT's net income increased by 54%, from Baht 3.6
billion in FY88 to Baht 5.5 billion in FY91. During the same period, the net profit from the Lignite
Mine Sector increased by 85%, from Baht 0.8 billion to Baht 1.4 billion. All financial covenants were
complied with, except the covenant on return on investment on revalued assets for FY91, which was
marginally less than 8%, primarily due to the increase in the fuel cost in the wake of the Gulf War. The
situation has since been remedied by applying the automatic fuel cost adjustments provided in EGAT's
tariff structure. The re-evaluated economic rates of return for the combined cycle and the Mae Moh
components, respectively, were 24.5 % and > 150 %, while the corresponding SAR values were 25 % and
29% (paras 6.2-6.5).
Project Sustainability:
7.          Benefits from the project should be sustainable into the foreseeable future given the fact
that: (a) EGAT has developed a proper preventive and corrective maintenance system, and has
demonstrated technical and administrative capability to maintain and operate its facilities; (b) PTT has
confirmed the availability of natural gas supply for the full 25 year lifetime of the combined cycle blocks
at Bang Pakong, the transmission system has been adequately reinforced, and the capacity of the Mae
Moh Lignite Mine has been augmented to meet the fuel needs of the installed capacity; (c) an agreement
has been reached on power tariffs which will not only ensure adequate return on capital investment, but
also generate funds from internal resources to finance 25 to 30% of EGAT's power development
program; (d) great emphasis is being placed on the job-performance-based training aimed at developing
staff; and (e) EGAT has undertaken a study to evaluate operating efficiency, which is a first step towards
reshaping its operations in preparation for its commercialization and privatization (para 7.1).
Findings and Lessons Learned:
8.         Implementation of project components proceeded smoothly and was achieved on schedule.
However, there was a delay in the completion of the Bang Pakong steam turbine generator units due
mainly to conditions which could not have been forseen at the time of project preparation. The combined
effects of adverse weather conditions, delays in equipment delivery and supplies, and the cement shortage
that occurred in the country during project implementation resulted in delays in project completion. To
the extent that a lesson could be learned, the completion delay underscores the need for more detailed
materials supply planning to ensure that the implementation schedule is not adversely affected. The very
tight international market situation for gas turbines resulted in a 30% underestimation in the cost of the
combined cycle blocks. (para 14.1).
9.         The main lessons to be drawn are: (a) Greater market intelligence is needed to predict more
realistic cost figures; (b) The concept of time-slice lending has proven to be a sound policy providing the
borrower flexibility; (c) the successful project implementation in the lignite mining sector has resulted
from substantial involvement of the private sector in mine operations; and (d) a combination of staff
training and professional assistance is a valuable asset in successful implementation (paras 14.1-14.5).



THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3027-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identification
Project Name:      Power System Development Project
Loan No:           3027-TH
RVP Unit:          East Asia and Pacific
Country:           Thailand
Sector:            Energy
Subsector:         Electric Power
2.    Background
2.1        The Bank has been involved in financing EGAT's power generation, transmission and lignite
mining investments in the past largely on a project-to-project basis. At the request of the Royal Thai
Government (RTG), the Bank agreed to modify the concept of financing specific project investments to
financing a two year (FY89-90) time-slice of EGAT's development plan. The rationale of the RTG's
request was its concern over the magnitude of public sector indebtedness, particularly in view of EGAT's
investment program which required US$ 2.0 billion during the above period; and the RTG's efforts to
minimize up-front borrowing commitments by public enterprises. A time-slice approach to Bank
financing was also intended to accelerate disbursements, provide added flexibility in the use of Bank
funds, and facilitate the RTG's efforts to identify co-financing opportunities for each specific investment
project so as to minimize the borrowing costs.
2.2        Time-slice financing of EGAT investments was justified as: (a) the Bank had reviewed and
appraised EGAT's Power Development Program (PDP); (b) EGAT had demonstrated capabilities to
implement large investment programs; and (c) the Bank had reached general agreement with the RTG on
sector policies, particularly on power tariff.
3.   Project Obiectives and Description
3.1        The main objectives of the project were to: (a) help meet the growth in power demand
expected over the medium term at least cost; (b) reduce Thailand's dependence on imported fuel by
supporting the development and use of domestic lignite and natural gas for power generation; and (c)
strengthen EGAT's operational performance through the introduction of a computerized maintenance
management system for thermal and hydro generating units, the acquisition of environmental monitoring
equipment, and the provision of specialized training for its environmental division.
3.2        The loan financed a 2-year (FY1989-90) time-slice of EGAT's investment program during
Thailand's Sixth Five Year Plan Period (FY1987-91). It was permissible to use the loan proceeds to
cover the cost or part thereof, of any component of EGAT's investment program during the 1989-90
period, provided the project components were technically sound and economically justified and had been
approved by the RTG. At appraisal, the following two major components of the 2-year time-slice were



-2-
selected by EGAT for financing: (a) construction of the combined cycle power blocks 3 and 4, rated 300
MW each at the existing Bang Pakong Thermal Station site, including expansion of the 230 KV
sub-station at Bang Pakong, and reinforcement of the transmission line from Bang Pakong to Bang Phli;
and (b) expansion of Mae Moh Lignite Mine to meet the requirement of power units 8 and 9.
Subsequently, however, EGAT decided to apply the loan proceeds entirely to the Bang Pakong
component.
4.   Proiect Desien and Organization
4.1        The project was well conceived, designed and organized and project preparation was
thorough. The project components and responsibilities for implementing them were clearly defined in
the project documents and understood by all concerned.
4.2        The existing Bang Pakong site was the least cost location among several feasible alternatives
for the construction of additional thermal units in the Bangkok area. Before firming the site, hydraulic
studies were performed by EGAT at the Asian Institute of Technology which confirmed that there would
be no pronounced disturbance of tidal flow or water re-circulation with rising temperature at this location.
The nominal block rating of 300 MW was selected for the Combined Cycle Plant primarily because of
the availability of proven 100 MW nominal rated turbines from several manufacturers so as not to restrict
competition. The combined cycle plants were designed to achieve efficiency which compared favorably
with the efficiencies of modern large conventional units with ratings of 500 MW and above.
Confirmation was obtained from the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) about the availability of
natural gas for the full 25 year lifetime of the proposed combined cycle blocks. The combustion turbines
were specified for burning gas or distillate oil and the capacity of oil tank farms at site was augmented
with the provision for automatic switching from gas to oil in the event of a gas supply failure. To
evacuate additional power from Bang Pakong, the existing Bang Pakong to Bang Phili transmission line
was reinforced. This, apart from being the least cost option, also eliminated right-of-way problems. The
project components were designed to keep the potential impact on environment from the standpoint of
atmospheric emissions, thermal discharge and noise within acceptable limits (complying with World Bank
and RTG standards).
4.3        To meet the fuel needs of the entire installed generating capacity, the capacity of the Mae
Moh Lignite Mine was augmented from 5.6 million tons per annum (TPA) to 9.5 million TPA. The
mining method chosen at Mae Moh is by truck and shovels with in-pit crushing of both lignite and
overburden, followed by belt conveyor to either waste dumps or coal stock yards. It was the optimum
solution considering Mae Moh geological conditions, with the relatively hard overburden, dipping scams
and tectonic faulting, and was finalized after intensive studies of alternative methods.
5.   Project Implementation
5.1        EGAT's implementation effort was staffed with its own competent teams, assisted by foreign
consultants where needed. Except for eleven-month and twelve-month delays in commissioning the two
steam turbines belonging to Bang Pakong combined cycle blocks 3 and 4, the project was completed on
time in the face of a tight implementation schedule.  Annex 1 details the actual implementation
performance as compared to original plans for the combined cycle and Mae Moe mining components,
respectively.



-3-
5.2        A part of the delay in commissioning of the steam turbines was due to adverse weather
conditions at site and delays in delivery of equipment and material. A major portion of the delay in
construction was due to the acute shortage of cement in Thailand resulting from a construction boom.
The RTG had to resort to granting extensions to contractor peformance schedules to alleviate the
situation.
5.3        The Mae Moh mining expansion operations were well planned and efficiently executed.
Some of the credit for the excellent implementation performance should be given to the foreign mining
experts who have guided EGAT's mining endeavors from the beginning of lignite production. The
practice of contracting out overburden and other mining operations (introduced under the Second Mae
Moh Project, Loan 2407-TH) continues to be a success. EGAT concentrates on turning over to the
private sector its technical expertise in pit mining thus promoting a safe, technically and environmentally
sound mining operation.
6.   Project Results
6.1        The project achieved its main objective of increasing the Bang Pakong power generating
capacity and thus the total power availability in the country. Between FY88 and FY91, energy generation
registered an increase of 54% while lignite production registered an impressive 88% increase (FY88: 5.86
million tons; FY91: 11.01 million tons). Because of delays in conmmissioning of the Bang Pakong steam
turbines, the full flow of the project benefits commenced about twelve months after the target date.
However, the 4xlOO MW combustion turbine generators were ready as scheduled and this incremental
power was available on time. In the case of the combined cycle blocks, a cost overrun of 30% has
resulted on account of the very tight international market situation for gas turbines prevailing at the time
of project implementation.
6.2        EGAT's financial performance during FY87 to FY91 was satisfactory and compared
favorably with the appraisal forecasts. EGAT's net income increased by 54%, from Baht 3.6 billion in
FY88 to Baht 5.5 billion in FY91. During the same period, the net profit from the Lignite Mine Sector
increased by 85%, from Baht 0. 8 billion to Baht 1.4 billion. All financial covenants were complied with,
except the covenant on return on investment on revalued assets for FY91, which was marginally less than
8%, primarily due to the increase in the fuel cost in the wake of the Gulf War. The situation has since
been remedied by applying the automatic fuel cost adjustments provided in EGAT's tariff structure.
6.3        Prior to 1991, EGAT has complied with the tariff covenant because a rate adjustment to
reflect fuel cost variation existed in the tariff structure. This adjustment, however, has not been
automatic, was subject to RTG review, and at times delayed. Following the study comnissioned by the
National Energy Policy Office, a new tariff structure came into effect in December 1991 that included
an automatic adjustment in the tariff (with effect from October 1991) to account for changes in fuel
prices, land and property taxes, demand side management costs and the VAT.
6.4        EGAT's bulk supply tariffs to PEA and MEA and the retail tariffs to the consumers were
fixed to ensure that they: (a) covered the full production cost and included a further margin for debt
servicing and replacement of fixed assets; (b) were adequate to meet the financial covenants for EGAT
and for the power sub-sector; (c) accomplished the required cross-funding between MEA and PEA; and
(d) provided for automatic fuel cost adjustments.



-4-
6.5        The economic rate of return (ERR) calculated in the SAR and re-evaluated in this PCR are
tabulated below. The basis of the calculation and the variance between the SAR and PCR are explained
in Part III (paras. 7.1 - 7.5).
Economic Rate of Return
(%)
SAR             PCR
EGAT's Power Development Program                        14.0              15.8
Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power
Project                                                25.0              24.5
Mae Moh Lignite Mine Extension only                     29.0           > 150.0
Mae Moh Combined Mine and Power Extension               13.0              23.2
7.   Proiect Sustainability
7.1        Benefits from the project should be sustainable into the foreseeable future for the following
reasons:
(a)   EGAT has developed a proper preventive and corrective maintenance system -- a key factor
contributing to reliability and efficiency for any power system -- of its power sources as
well as the transmission network, using advanced technological equipment and skills; and
has amply demonstrated that it has the technical and administrative capability of a very high
order to continue to maintain and operate its facilities. EGAT's mine operations have also
been vigorously developed using the state-of-the-art technology and equipment, which has
enabled it to raise lignite productivity within a short time to meet the rapidly expanding
need;
(b)   PTT has confirmed the availability of natural gas for the full 25 year lifetime of the
combined cycle blocks at Bang Pakong; the transmission system has been adequately
reinforced to take the additional load; and the capacity of the Mae Moh Lignite Mine has
been augmented from 5.6 MTPA to 9.5 MTPA to meet the fuel needs of the installed
capacity;
(c)   An agreement has been reached between the Bank and the RTG on power tariffs which will
not only ensure adequate return on capital investment, but also generate funds from internal
resources to finance 25 to 30% of EGAT's power development program for a sustainable
future;
(d)   A great emphasis is being placed on the job-performance-based-training aimed at developing
the staffs knowledge, skills and experience; and
(e)   EGAT has undertaken a study to evaluate its operating efficiency in comparison with power
utilities of other countries and identify areas for improvement. This study is a first step
towards reshaping of its operations in preparation for its commercialization and subsequent
privatization.



-5-
8.   Environmental Aspects
8.1        Environmental aspects received increased emphasis from  EGAT  and the RTG.
Environmental and strategic plans were clearly stressed in EGAT's Corporate Plan for development of
its mine and power systems; and environmental measures have been taken into account to achieve
sustainable development. Both major components of the project, namely, the combined cycle blocks at
Bang Pakong and Mae Moh Lignite Mine expansion, provide satisfactory environmental safeguards.
Ecological and environmental programs were formulated at every stage of the project to preserve and
maintain environmental balance. The major environmental activities concerning the project included
mitigation and monitoring programs for Bang Pakong Power Plant and Mae Moh Lignite Mine, and an
Environmental Impact Examination for power transmission projects. EGAT also proceeded during this
period with mine reclamation, resettlement and compensation of displaced persons for the Mae Moh
Expansion Project.
Bang Pakong Power Plant
8.2        Environmental monitoring of air and water quality and thermal diffusion is being regularly
conducted with the aim of detecting impacts from the Bang Pakong Power Plant construction and
operation upon ambient air quality, water quality of Bang Pakong river and the dispersion pattern of
warm water discharged from the cooling system into the Bang Pakong river (Details of monitoring air
and water quality and thermal diffusion undertaken by EGAT is given in Annex 2).
Mae Moh Lignite Expansion Comnonent
8.3        EGAT has produced Environmental Impact Assessment and Resettlement reports dealing
with the Mae Moh expansion component. Mae Moh lignite has a comparatively high sulphur content of
about 1.5-3%. S02 ground level concentrations were continuously monitored at many stations. The
results showed that their concentration were below the maximum.permissible levels. In October 1992,
however, unprecedented weather conditions led to high ambient concentrations of SO2 in nearby villages
causing adverse impacts on the health of the villagers and vegetation. Several foreign and local agencies
have investigated the matter and the National Environmental Board of Thailand has set up an Air Quality
Sub-Committee to look into the recommendations made by the foreign agencies. As a long-term measure,
EGAT has decided to retrofit wet Flue Gas Desulfurisers on four units at Mae Moh and has
commissioned a Mae Moh Clean Air Study that would form the basis for its decision to retrofit SO2
control equipment on four other units. The RTG has directed EGAT to provide Flue Gas Desulfurisers
on all its future lignite and coal fired units.
8.4        Water quality in the Mae Moh basin impacted both by the power plants and by mine sump
discharges was constantly monitored, and it was found that both required mitigation in order to arrest
degradation. Accordingly, action was initiated for recycling the waste water at the mine where sump
water is utilized to the maximum extent for dust suppression. Further, in order to control the quality on
runoffs from waste dumps into the natural drainage system, a system of wetland areas is being
implemented together with re-vegetation provided in the mine development program. EGAT has
established a re-vegetation fund for this. The cost of re-vegetation of overburden dumps is met from this
fund and aims at ensuring land reclamation during the mine's lifetime and thereafter. Inspite of efforts
made by EGAT, there has been little improvement in the quality of water with regard to conductivity,
total dissolved solids, sulfate and hardness in the Mae Moh reservoir. EGAT is aware of this
unsatisfactory progress in water quality improvement and has prepared a time-bound program of



-6-
implementation and expects improvements in water quality. The whole issue of water quality is being
pursued by the Bank under the Third Power System Development Project (Loan 3423-TH).
9.   Resettlement
9.1        The expansion of the Mae Moh lignite mine affected residents of the whole village of Moo
1 and parts of Moo 3 and 8, in the Mae Moh district, Lampang province. The program involved the
resettling of the villagers to new areas provided by EGAT. On February 23, 1988, committees were
constituted to carry out necessary and appropriate actions on lands and properties compensation
assessment, and on resettlement. The committees were headed by the Governor of Lampang province
and made up of representatives of government agencies.
Compensation
9.2        The compensation principles were based on the following:
(a)   Land. Where ownership is evidenced by a title deed, compensation was made at the rate
set up in accordance with the Capital Asset Fixing Account under the Land Right and Legal
Act Registration of January 1988. Where title is evidenced by Sor Kor 1, compensation
was made according to areas actually exploited at the lowest rate in accordance with the
above Act. And where there are other or no evidence of title, compensation was made for
land possessed and actually exploited before 1986.
(b)   Residences and Buildings. Compensation was made for structures constructed on the project
site before the date of announcement of the properties survey of May 10, 1988 and on the
basis of the highest compensation rate applied by government agencies.
(c)  Tlees. Compensation was made for trees that have grown in the area of the project site
before the date of announcement for the properties survey and on the same basis as
compensation for residences and buildings.
Resettlement Programs
9.3        The Resettlement Committee resolved to make use of the lands of 7,500 Rai at Ban Ta
Patun-Nakhaem village, Moo 7, in Mae Moh District, Lampang Province as resettlement area. The area
was divided as follows: (a) 1,000 rai allocated for 400 households (2,000 people) who lived in the
mining area and then relocated into the resettlement area; (b) 5,500 rai for new relocated people; and (c)
1,000 rai for government and public centers and other facilities.
9.4        Three alternatives were provided to the affected people: (a) a residence and farm plot in
the area of 1 Rai 3 Ngan (2,800 sq. m) in the same land plot in the resettlement area; (b) a commercial
area of 8 x 20 m in the resettlement area and additional compensation of Baht 46,200; and (c) additional
compensation of Baht 120,000 but with no provision for any land plot. EGAT provided assistance and
advice to the qualified affected people in their selection of resettlement alternatives.
9.5        Development of the 5,500 rai area for newly relocated people started in September 1988 and
was completed after four years. The activity involved the following: forest clearing, land adjustment
and allotment of land plots and commercial areas; and construction of the following: 67.8 km of asphalt



-7-
roads, 62.6 km of electrical systems, 200 cu.m/hour water supply system with a three water tank
capacity, 7 x 12 m water pumping plant, and three water sources for agricultural supply.
9.6        The following government and public buildings were also constructed by EGAT in the
resettlement area: a district office and housing for government employees, a regional police station and
housing for police, hospitals and houses for employees, a public health office, a forestry development
office, an agricultural office, land office, primary schools, Moh Luang Suksa School and housing for
teachers, Moh Luang and Tung Kluay Photaram Temples, and other public buildings.
9.7        Besides compensation for land and properties and provision of necessary facilities, EGAT
in association with governmental agencies also provided employment opportunities to the affected people.
An Occupation Promotion and Development Center was established with the aim of training, developing,
supporting and demonstrating agricultural and marketing promotion techniques. To serve this purpose,
several buildings were erected including a training and administrative hall, multipurpose exhibition hall,
an industrial and handicraft training plant, a green house, an agricultural products store, a milk-cow
feeding plant, a storehouse, three units of government housing for its employees, and a weir.
9.8        EGAT  also collaborated with the Department of Cooperatives in the establishment of
agricultural cooperatives. To this end, the Mae Moh Agricultural Development Cooperatives, Ltd. was
organized and registered on August 28, 1991 with 230 members. The creation of the Cooperative was
funded by EGAT at a total cost of Baht 18 million, as follows: (a) Baht 55,000 for expenditures, and
cost of materials and inventories of Cooperative officials; (b) Baht 2.9 million for the cost of construction
of office, storage and other inventories; and (c) Baht 15 million for seed capital to cooperative members.
9.9        EGAT  set up a demonstration land plot of 1 Rai 3 Ngan showing the residence area
adjacent to the individual farm plots, farming animals and growing plants. Grassland for cattle projects
was provided in an area about 1,050 rai with the technical support of the Animal Food Research Center
of Lampang. An investigation, analysis and improvement of the soil condition for growing crops were
also undertaken by EGAT with the assistance of the Land Development Station of Lampang.
Progress of the Comnensation and Resettlement Programs
9.10       At the end of October 1993, EGAT has made substantial progress with about 98.9% of the
program completed. Compensation to 6,151 affected residents and 6,796 farm plots amounting to Baht
470.2 million have been awarded. The compensation program has therefore been 99.9% completed.
9.11       Progress of the resettlement program, particularly that pertaining to the reallocation of land
and construction of infrastructure is 100% complete. Remaining work is needed for the relocation and
occupational promotion activities. Progress of EGAT relocation program is 97.2% complete with all
qualified households (1,796 families) opting to reside in the resettled area (1,483 families) and the rest
(313 families) seeking financial compensation instead of land plots.
10.  Bank Performance
10.1       The Bank has performed well throughout the project cycle. EGAT has been borrowing from
the Bank since 1957 and in the last several years, EGAT completed several Bank financed projects for
power generation and lignite mine expansion. Through its participation in a 2-year time-slice of EGAT's
investment program, the Bank, apart from providing the much needed external finance towards the large



-8-
sectoral investment program, was able to make positive institutional and project related contributions.
By providing regular reviews of EGAT's PDP, the Bank ensured that optimum decisions were made both
in regard to the PDP's composition and overall magnitude; as well as in areas of demand management
and capacity reserves. Bank's involvement in both the petroleum and power sub-sectors resulted in
improved inter-sectoral coordination. Two separate program components pertaining to maintenance
management and environmental monitoring were critical to the future strengthening of EGAT's overall
operational performance. Their implementation was monitored closely in the course of supervision. The
Bank also assisted the RTG in monitoring the continued orderly development of the lignite mining sector
and provided vital inputs in addressing crucial long term environmental concerns. Over all, the Bank's
presence in the power sector helped EGAT develop into a technically competent and efficient power
utility.
10.2       In view of the Bank's long association with an experienced Borrower, project preparation
and appraisal were carried out in a cordial manner with minimal areas of disagreement. Three
supervision missions were fielded during the implementation period. These missions, along with
quarterly reports submitted by EGAT and a continuous exchange of views and information, were found
to be adequate for effective supervision of the project.
11.  Borrower Performance
11.1       EGAT is a well-run organization, capable of managing substantial growth in investment,
and it has developed the sound organization structure required for its operational needs. The credit for
the successful execution of this project is due, in most part, to the skill and commitment of EGAT's
Directorate of Thermal Power Development and Directorate of Mine Development, both in their Bangkok
Headquarters and at the project sites. The experience gained in carrying out the earlier Bank financed
projects also contributed very largely to this relatively good performance. EGAT's intense efforts in
developing the country's power and transmission systems, coupled with the promotion of energy
conservation and efficient use of electricity have led to adequate and reliable electricity service which
substantially contributes to the smooth development of the Thai economy. In EGAT's operations, the
demand side management programs and environmental measures have come to play an important role in
generating the most cost effective investment for a sustainable energy future.
11.2       EGAT was given a tight schedule for implementing the project. It nevertheless completed
the 4x100 MW turbines at Bang Pakong on schedule. The delay in the implementation of the 2x100 MW
steam turbines was due to causes beyond EGAT's control. In fact, EGAT has generally kept tight
schedules on the construction program so as to augment power supply for the rapidly rising demand.
EGAT has effectively employed local and expatriate consultants to assist with design, engineering and
construction supervision of various components of the project. Emphasis was also placed on the job-
performance-based-training aimed at developing staff, skills and experience. The project demonstrated
that the combination of staff training and professional assistance can be a valuable asset for successful
implementation.
12.  Project Relationship
12.1       The relationship between EGAT and the Bank has been and continues to be cordial and
mutually beneficial. In the course of the Bank's extensive loan operations in the Thailand electric power
sector, Bank staff have established an excellent rapport with EGAT and RTG officials concerned with
the sector. The atmosphere of mutual respect developed by long association of the Bank, the Borrower



-9-
and the RTG has made it possible to amicably resolve various issues which arise throughout the lending
operations. It was against this background that the Bank readily agreed to modify, at the RTG's request,
,he originai concept of financing specific projects to financing a time-slice of EGAT's PDP during
FY89-90.
12.2       EGAT confirmed that the recommendations and the suggestions from the Bank during
implementation of the project were helpful; and neither the Bank nor the Borrower had any adverse
conmments regarding their relationship throughout the project cycle.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1       The Staff Appraisal Report was comprehensive and well prepared. It gave a thorough
account of the institutional and sectoral background of the project and its objectives. The legal documents
provided the necessary legal framework for project implementation and no difficulty was experienced in
effecting the eligible disbursements within the intent of the Loan Agreement.   No problem was
encountered in project implementation. In addition, EGAT's computerized MIS was instructional in its
ability to provide essential information on all aspects of technical and financial management whenever
it was requested or required. Information provided by EGAT at the request of the Bank, for the power
generation facilities at Bang Pakong, and for Mae Moh lignite mines expansion, provided most of the
essential data for Part III of the PCR.
14.  Findings and Lessons Learned
14.1       Implementation of the components of the project -- the 4xl00 MW Bang Pakong combustion
turbine generator units and the Mae Moh Lignite Mine Expansion -- proceeded smoothly and was
achieved on schedule. However, there was a delay in the completion of the 2xlOO MW Bang Pakong
steam turbine generator units due mainly to conditions which could not have been forseen at the time of
project preparation. The combined effects of adverse weather conditions, delays in equipment delivery
and supplies, and the cement shortage that occurred in the country during project implementation resulted
in delays in project completion. To the extent that a lesson could be learned, the completion delay
underscores the need for more detailed materials supply planning to ensure that the implementation
schedule is not adversely affected. The very tight international market situation for gas turbines resulted
in a 30% underestimation in the cost of the combined cycle blocks. Greater market intelligence is needed
to predict more realistic cost figures.
14.2       The concept of time-slice lending which allows the use of Bank loan proceeds for any
component of an appraised and approved program, has proven to be a sound policy. Such an approach
provides the borrower flexibility in the scope of the project.
14.3       In the lignite mining sector, the successful project implementation  has resulted from
substantial involvement of the private sector in mine operations. The decision to award an increasing
quantity of work of overburden removal to private contractors, while EGAT retained control of long and
short term pit planning, pit stability, water management, environment and reclamation, as well as all
aspects of lignite production, has proved an efficient one. While it gives the private sector considerable
participation in the mining operations, the project utilizes EGAT's technical expertise in open pit mining
thus ensuring a safe, and technically and environmentally sound mine development. Simultaneously, it
increases equipment availability and consequential reduction in EGAT's future requirements for
replacement shovels, trucks, bulldozers, etc.



-10-
14.4       The project illustrates that a combination of staff training and professional assistance is a
valuable asset in successful implementation. EGAT's sustained operational achievements rely significantly
on its people. EGAT makes strategic plans in accordance with its corporate plan, to recruit, develop and
retain the right caliber of human resources, and lays great emphasis on the job-performance-based-training
aimed at developing staff knowledge, skill and experience. This has enabled EGAT to keep tight
schedules on its construction programs and ensure power supply to meet rapidly rising demand.
14.5       While EGAT has developed into an efficient utility, there is scope for further improvement
in its operations through fine tuning and adopting more commercialized approaches towards management.
Commecialization of EGAT followed by privatization are foreseen as major challenges for EGAT in the
future and the Bank could provide assistance in achieving these objectives.



- 11 -
W'ER .':     5 £VIELOPHEMYT -?OJECT
JAN '%;C 0. 7 -7- T.
rROJECT "'^1LE7..vN' REP_ORT
'ART '
Pr^.2ect Backfrotina
1.1 In 1987. :?suitea from the econoaic recovery of the country and
the growth of industrial sectors. Thaiiana has attributed a raDid arovtk
in eiectricity consumotiOn. Then. .he estimatea power demand. during the
lear of  1388-2001  reoresent an averace annual  ncrease anout 480 Yv.
an5L the ±laC  ot cower occurr:nq  in 1390-1993. Thus. .he-'urcent projects
;ere s'lt into EGAT'- P,wer w,eveiooment Plan. sne of them was Bani  Pakone
'omnined Cvcie Power !Kant Pro.iecr.. 3loctis J i 4.
I.2 Bang  ,akonu  'mbinea Cycle Power Plant  Blocks 3 '. 4 planned to
::onstruct in the same area of the existing Bang Pakong Power Plant which
the installed caacilty about 1820 (V. The pover plant blocks 3 & 4 shall
each be rated at 307 MW., consist of 2 combustion turbine generators and
a common steam  t.urbine  7enerator  and use the natural gas from tulf of
Thailand  as  a  main  fuel.   L.  is  expected that the construction of
comoustion  furbine  jenerators  tor blocks         L h   and  steam turbine
generators for blocKs  3 L 4  will be completed in June 1990.  September
1990. June 1991 ana August 1991 respecLively.
1.3 Finacial  'or this project came from various sources of fund such
as  the  International  Bank  for Reconstruction and Development 'IUtD).
the Export-Import Bank of Japan 'Exim  Bank  of Japan,. EGAT revenue and
commercial banks. For !BRD'S Loan. it was financed in two seDarate lonsa
i.e Loan Nos.  027-TH ana 3138-TH.   'he Loan No.3027-TH.  at a total of
LSD 90.0 million. u;as agreed on larch 31. 1389 covering the installation
of Bang Pakona Combined Cvcle Power Plant Blocks 3 L 4 and. Mae Hoh Hine
Expansion Project for Mae .oh Power Plant lnits 8 L 9. Stare [.



- 12 -
Z. Project Resuit
.  The  project  Icaieved   -s  objecr.;e  ro increase anou. 614 SV
generating  f-apacitv  ;.Or.  EGAT's  power sysreu. eventhough the overail
compietion  of Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Plant. 3locks 3 LZ 4 were
11.'Z  months  behind  the  schedule.  Actually,  by the most efficiency
effort.  :he   our  zomousrion turbine generators with total capacity of
416 KW. Were completed during July-October 1990  Which were on schedule.
Only  :he  two  steam  rurbine generators delayed because of uncontroled
cause, that maae the compietion of Blocks 3 L 4 finish in May and August
1992  respectively.  -he major cause was the Government's  policy  wbich
granted the total 200 days extension to the civil local contractors due
to  the  probles of  lick  of cement  in Thailand during  1989-1990.  In
generaily, with the most efficiency and strong effort. the output of the
project  '-as  satisfactorv  and did not  cause any effect  to the EGAT's
pover system.
2.2 For the Mae Moh Mine Expansion Project for power plant units 8 L
9, the project  implesentation was performed  successfully as scheduled.
The saior and auxiliary  equipaent  was put into operation as scheduled,
while other mine activities concerned were physically completed Ls
planned.
Z.3 The  disbursement  for mine equipment could not be made from Loan
Nos.  3027-TH,  due  to  the  delayed  in  procurement  procedures.  All
expenditures of Mae Moh Mine Expansion Project were transferred to Loan
No.  3138-TH  which  financed  by  IBRD,  while the Bang Pakong Combined
Cycle Power Plant Project Blocks 3 L, 4 has fullly disbursed of the loan.
Hovever,  the  transferred  with draval  of the loan.,  did not bring an
effect to the mine operations since the major and auxiliary equipaeat
were put in to operation as planned.



- 13 -
'Dv BY  ;e economic  anaiysis ,  The caicuiation  of  E5AT's  Power
DeveioDuent  Plan wnicn is baseao  on 1992 price levei shows the economic
interna±  rate  of  return  'EIRR)  of 15.8% compared with 14% appeared
in SAR  The  sensitivity  studv  inich assumed  5% reduction in sales of
electricity  :s  also  perforrea  to  compare  with the test in SAR  The
sensitivity  study  snows  'he 13.4% rate of return compared with 12% in
SAI
2.5 The economic  .nternai  rate of return  'EIRR) of the Bang Pa&koag
Combined  Cycle  Power  Plant  is  also  calculated  based  on  the same
assumptions  as used for EGAT's PDP.  The capital cost of the project is
also included t;ith the cost of associated transmission systes. The re-
evaluated  EIRK  ,f  the  project  is  29.5%  compared  with 24% in SAR
Sensitivity  tests  are  also  carried out for the purpose of comparison
Wlth  Lae  resuits  in SAR  The resuits of the base case and sensitivity
tests are tabulated as below
RATE OF RETURN OF BANG PAKONG COMBINED CYCLE
BLOCKS 3-4
Rate of Return (%)
SAR         PCR
1. Base case                                             24         29.5
2. Capital andi operating knon-fuel) costs               20         27.3
increased by 10%
3. Natural gas priced at fuel-oil equivalent             20         29.1
after 10 years
4. 2. and 3.                                             16         26.9



- 14 -
an.Ks  -erf )rmance
_ecause   !         e   an s   -OODeratlon   . enLinv us a r ime-Slice
.etfoa : Financinc. _7AT  ouia borrow tr.e amounts exDectoa wihout. any
iifficu t.   .n  aeoet   -?IIin    LroDiem  sna Dala less ror the commitment.
.narges. -oreover rne canK nas been eccoerative in procurement oroceaiure
Ia disbursements .:or czntracts, iin3near hv rnrh Inn  u<O27--   n  ?i
QHa  :GAT aDpreciatea t.:s COODeraLlon.
4. Borrower Performance ana Pro.ect RelationsniD
EGAT's Performance
This is the first '>me-Slice Aethoa of Financing given to EGAT by
the Bank. ZGAT sometimes 6as confusea with the Bank's proceaure.
Due to  some  :isunaerstanaina in Droceaure for aisbursement  from
L/C  For  .he   ^ntras  .,aLt tfinancea  c'; t.o ioans. _GAT was unaoie to
use up tLe tirst ..an a.na nave ro reauest :'cr extencing the ciosing aate.
EGAT hopes tL.a  .,. the future EGAT couid manage to have each loan
signed  at the aDprooniatea Lime and couid fully withdraw from the first
loan before asicing for aisbursements from the second loan.
5. Co-financiers Performance
Co-f inanciers
The  Export-Import  Bank  of  Japan  is the co-financier for Bang
Bakong Combinea Cycle Power Plant BlocKs 3 L 4 by providinq us the  loan
for 85% of the total Contract Price of Janpanese Yen's Portion equivalent.
to Japanese Yen 9.753.891,232.
The  Export-Import  Bank of Japan is  very cooperative. They also
allowed us to reimnurse for the amount paid before loan Agreement becaze
effective which enable us to utilize the loan as expected.



- 15 -
SUMMARY SHEET FOR PRoJECT REVIEW
AND COMPLETION REPORT
ProjecL Title    Power System Development Project tBans Pakong Combined
Cycle Blocks 3 L 4;
ExecuLing and Implementing Agency    ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF
THAILAND                                     Ori
Loan Agency    I NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBUD)
Investment Cost (USD million)
Funding Sources
Original Planned             Actual
IBRD 3027-TR                         90.0                   90.0
IBRD 3138-TH                         94.0                   94.0
EZIM JAPAN                           81.77                  81.77
ECAT L GOVERNMENT*                  105.0                  127.65
TDP GRANT                             0.35                   0.35
Total                         371.1Z                 393.77
Project Co* encesent                      Project Completion
Block      Planned            Actual          Original           Actual           4kb
March 1989       March 1989        June 1991         8 May 1992
April 1959       April 1989       August 1991    20 August 1992



- 16 -
.OVERALL :.',`M0AR'f -ROJECT FERFORNANCE%
rro.iecr. P!rnose. *oa  ana AzcomDlisnmenr.
UAT'S ourpose is Lo exoand the existint  BFng Pakone tower Plant b7
,onstrucana rhe  5ang Pakonf combinea CYcie Power Planc.  Block 3 4 4 with
tOta1  .^IDaCltV  aOoUL 614 4W.  to 1rooecr  rho  oroblem  of lick ot pover
demana  ;hich   ;ill  occur  during  1990-1993.   The goai to complete  4
comDusLion turDines  Ja  1290  was  accomplished  on schedule.  For steam
turbine   zeneracors.    h hey   were   schedule   to   complete  in  1991.
the  accomplishmenL ~n this portion was  approxinately 1 year bebind the
schedule.
2. Financinv Soending
Because of Thailana annuai limited debt ceiling, the Bank agreed
to accommoaate a rime-slice lethoa of Financing tor EGAT's Power System
DeveiopmenL  Froject;    an   o. .027-TH. available at USD 90 million in
larch  !989  'nile  the  rest.  of  USD 94 million under Loan No. 3138-TI
available in January 1990.
As this Project Completion Report is made after Loan No. 3027-TH
has been used up, therefore only Loan 3027-TH will be reported hereunder:
The retroactive disbursement of only USD 2,200.000 has been used
out   of  USD  6,000.000  as  stipulated  in  the  loan  Agreement.  The
disbursements of this Loan 30Z7-TH have been made only for parts of Bang
PakonE   "ombinea.  cycle  Pover  Plant  Blocks  3  and  1.  and  230  KV
Transmission System Expansion. The Mine Equipment contracts which were
awarded  in  Novemoer  1989  and  thereafter,  together with Accelerated
Transmission Project and the balance of Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power
Plant  Block 3 and 4 as well as 230 KV Transmission System Expansion are
financed by Loan No. 3138-TH and EGAT's own fund. No disbursement for
environment  was made since the procurement could not be made within the
loan closing date.
The  loan closing date of September 30, 1991 has been extended to
flarch  31,  1992 for the payments through letters of credit committed by
IBRD.



- 17 -
Lesson Learnea
EGAT  zontracsea  3uL  ;te suppiy  and erection vort as veil as the
civil .orx  to  private coapanies,  either  in  locai or foriegu.  aay
contracts have oeen execuced. t.hen EGAT has iearned about the method for
the contract administration such as the advantage of contracting,
7arious problems and soiution.
Especially,  the  staff  at site  have learned to cooperate  with
the consultant in a role of inspector to proceed the project in the most
efficient way.
4. Conclusion
The project achieved its objective and increased the total generating
capacity of Bang Pakong Power Plant which operated as a base load plast.,
at  the ievel  of 2423 V.  This  achievemenc caused EGAT's  power systes
aore  reliable.  -GAT. ..ith regard to the privatization's policy, has got
advantage  in  contracting  out  the  work  to  private  sectors  such as
anagement cost and man-power reduction. Furthermore, the vork vas  built
up and created the growth in economics in the area around the project
site.
Financing  spending  under  this loan has been vell managed.  though
the disbursesent were made after the loan closing date of september 30.
1991. The Time-Slice method is the proper way of financing for the
countries that are controlled by debt ceiling.
It can be seen from the re-evaluation that the econosic rate of
return of -EGAT's PDP and Bang Pakong Combined Cycle cosponents were still
in the same range as studies in SAR and econosically justified a
conclude in the appraisal stage



- 18 -
9. EVALUATION AND A:SESSMENT nF t&-FORMANCE. OF THE BORROWER
'ND THE HANK AND EFFECT.VENESS CF THJEIR RELATIONSHIP
Evaluation and Assessment
Analysis             Inaaeauate Adeouatel not   tinelylGood Excellent
timely
1  Project DesiLn and
lDlementation
- Project activities                                            X
conmensurate  iith
inputs,
- Project outpue                                                X
commensurate with
activities
-Design of the project                                          X
logical. impact-
oriented
-Timeliness of project                                          X
implementation
-Compliance of project                            X
implementation with
plan
-Colla.boration between                                         X
institution involved
in the preject
implementation



-19-
Evaluation 3nd Assessent.
AnalYsis             Inadequate Adequatel not   tinely Good Exoelleat
tingly -        -
2. Staff Inputs
- Sufficient EGAT staff                  X                      %
involved
-Sufficient IBRD staff                   X                      X
involved
-Collaboration between
Project staff and
staff of IBR.D
-Timeliness of
availability of IBRD
assistance
3. Consultancv Service
- Sufficient consultant                  X                      X
input
-Adequacy of job                         X                      X
description performed
-Consultant technically                                         S
qualified for task
-Quality and quantity                                           S
of York of consultant
-Collaboration between                                          X
Project staff and
consultant



-20--                                     -   ,h.
Evaluation and Assessment
Analysis             ilnadequatelAdecuate  not   ti3eiv GoodlExcelle
tingly
F inanCing          
- Availability of loan                                             X
at schedule             !
- Timeliness of loan                                X
disbursei to the
- Flexibility of loan                                              X
given to the project.
S. .'aterials and EauiDnent
- laterials requirement                    Y
planned
- Quality of project                                               X
materials and
equipsent
- Availability of                                           X
project aaterials and
equipment acquired
- rimeliness of delivery                            X
of proiect materials
and equipaent
- Tiaeliness of use of                                      X
project materials and
equipment



- 21 -
Evaluation ana Assessment
Analysis             Inadequate Adequatel not  Itimeiy Good Excelle
| I ~tinglyII
6. Project Relationship
- Collaborative
relationship between
the IBRD and EGAT
- Collaborative
relationship between
EGAT and. the assianed
- CooDeration in                                                X
tecnnical aspect
resolution solving
7. Project Environment
- Policy support from                    X                      X
the Government
- Implementational                       X                      X
support and assistance
from IERD and the
assigned consultants
- Co-ordination with                                            %
related government
programs
- Integration in                                                %
economic/social policy



*~~                     ~  ~~ @  i; .* 
-22-
Eva±uatioR ana  Assessment
Analysis             InaequaLe AdequaLe  not   tiiseiy Good Excelle
tinely
S. Project Outouts          |
- Ti$eliness of outputs                          X
produced                          I
- Availability of and                                   x                -_   '   -
accessibility to the
outputs produced
- Project objectives                                           x
achieved as compared
to the outputs
- Commensurativeness of
planned project target
vith outputs produced
9. Project Sustainability
Adequacy of technical                 X
and administrative
capubility to continue
maintaining the
project.
Government's continued                x
power epansion and
development policies
Beneficiaries
receptiveness to the
project
* ,



-23-
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3027-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART HI - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loan:
1.1       Loan 3027-TH financed a two year time-slice of EGAT's investment program and was
directly related to further Bank lending in the energy sector.
Loan No.                Loan 3138-TH
Loan Title              Second Power System Development Project
Year of Appraisal:       1989
Purpose:                To continue the current project's assistance in helping EGAT
deal with the high rate of growth in power demand.
Status:                 Being implemented as scheduled.
Comments:               A Third Power System Development Project was approved on
January 8, 1992.
2.     Proiect Time Table:
Item                    Date Planned         Date Actual
First Presented to the Bank                             December 1987
Preparation                                             June 1989
Appraisal Mission                  August 1988          April 1988
Negotiations                       October 1988         January 1989
Board Approval                     November 1988        March 1989
Loan Signature                     January 1989         March 1989
Loan Closing                       September 1991       September 1991
Project completion                 July 1991            July 1992



-24-
3.      Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IBRD                      Actual                   Appraisal               Actual as % of
Fiscal Year              Disbursement                 Estimate                  Appraisal
1989
June 1989                           16.30                       -                          -
1990
September 1989                      32.45                      10.0                      326
December 1989                      55.33                       20.0                      277
March 1990                         69.08                       30.0                      227
June 1990                           89.04                      40.0                      210
1991
September 1990                     86.99                       50.0                       174
December 1990                      87.61                      60.0                       146
March 1991                         88.39                       70.0                      126
June 1991                           88.80                      80.0                      111
1992
September 1991                     89.14                       82.5                      108
December 1991                      89.45                      85.0                       105
March 1992                         89.52                      87.5                       102
June 1992                          90.00                      90.0                       100
Closing Date:              03/31/92                  9/30/91
(at appraisal)            (actual)
The last disbursement was made in March 1992.
4.       Project Implementation
4.1          Annex  1 compares  the  scheduled  project activities with the  actual accomplishments.
Implementation performance was satisfactory except for the delays in installing the two 100 MW steam
turbine generator sets for Bang Pakong combined cycle blocks 3 and 4.



-25-
5.      Project Costs and Financing
5.1         The table below compares the SAR and final project cost of a two year time-slice (FY 1989-
1990) of EGAT's Power Development Program.
(US$ Million)
SAR                                    Actuals
Locta        Foreien        Total        Local       Foreign       Total
EGAT's Investment Program
FY (1989-90)
Generation
Thermal                        224.7         790.4        1035.1       222.5        758.8        981.3
Hydro                           25.3          30.4         55.7           0.3        26.0         26.3
Sub-Total                    270.0          820.8       1090.8        222.8       784.8        1007.6
Transmission                     80.8          139.6        220.4         86.2       163.0         249.2
Lignite Mining                   60.1           28.1         88.2         15.7        29.8          45.5
Miscellaneous                    54.2            8.0         62.1        119.1        86.7         205.8
Taxes and Duties                186.6            -          186.6          -            -            -
Total Base Cost              651.7          996.5       1648.1        443.8       1064.3       1508.1
Contingencies
Physical                        47.5          86.4         134.0          -           -             -
Price                           40.3          63.2         103.5          -           -
Total Cost                   739.6         1146.2       1885.7                                    _
Interest Dunng                                 22.4         151.7         23.9        34.4          58.3
Construction                    129.3
Total Financing              868.9         1168.5       2037.4        467.7       1098.7       1566.4



-26-
5.2         The following table compares the SAR and actual project costs for Bang Pakong Combine
Cycle Component and miscellaneous items.
SAR Estimates                            Final Cost
Local              Foreign         Total        Local       Foreign     Total
2x300 MW Combined Cycle
Power Blocks:
Base Cost                          85.10        180.50        265.60       108.30        298.05    406.35
Physical contingencies              8.50         18.00         26.50            -             -         -
Price contingencies                 5.20         10.70         15.90            -             -         -
TOTAL                           98.80        209.20        308.00        108.00       298.05    406.35
230 KV Transmission Plan
Extension:
Base cost                           4.90          5.40         10.30        19.29          6.75    26.04
Physical contingencies              0.50          0.50          1.00            -             -        -
Price contingencies                 0.30          0.40          0.70            -             -        -
TOTAL                            5.70          6.30          12.00        19.29         6.75     26.04
Consultine Services:
Base cost                              -         10.50         10.50         0.02          0.02     0.04
Physical contingencies                 -             -             -            -             -         -
Price contingencies                    -          1.10          1.10            -             -        -
TOTAL                               -          11.60         11.60        0.02          0.02      0.04
Computerized Maintenance
Management System:
Base cost                           0.30             -          0.30         0.20             -     0.20
Physical contingencies              0.10             -          0.10                   -               -
Price contingencies                                  -                    -            -               -
TOTAL                            0.40             -          0.40         0.20             -      0.20
Environment Monitoring
Equipment and Training:
Base cost                           0.10          0.80          0.90         0.04          0.52     0.56
Physical contingencies                 -          0.10          0.10            -             -        -
Price contingencies                    -             -             -            -             -        -
TOTAL                            0.10          0.90           1.00        0.04          0.52      0.56
Total Proiect Cost:
Base cost                          90.40        197.20        287.60       127.85        305.34   433.19
Physical contingencies              9.10         19.70         28.80            -             -        -
Price contingencies                 5.50         11.10         16.60            -             -        -
TOTAL                          105.00        228.00        333.00        127.85       305.34   433.19
Note: The itemized details are presented in Annex 3.



-27-
5.3         The following table presents the SAR and actual project costs for the Mae Moh Lignite
Expansion Component:
(US$ Million)
SAR                                Actuals
Local     Foreien      Total        Local       Foreion      Total
Minine EauiDment:
Lignite-handling                                           23.30         5.35        30.53       35.83
system                               2.00      21.30
Mining equipment                     3.00       5.00        8.00         2.68         3.12        5.80
Duties & taxes                      5.30        -           5.30         8.03         -           8.03
Sub-total                        10.30      26.30        36.60        16.06       33.65       49.71
Social Works:
Civil Works                          3.80       -           3.80         5.23         -           5.23
Resettlement & Land                 32.60       -          32.60        32.30         -          32.30
Water diversion                    33.80        -          33.80        42.72         -          42.72
Sub-total                        70.20        -          70.20       80.25         -          80.25
Eneineering & Trainine                2.20        0.40        2.60         0.84         0.33        1.17
Total Base Cost                  82.70      26.70       109.40       97.14        33.98      131.12
Physical contingencies                8.30        2.70       11.00
Price contingencies                   5.00        1.60        6.60
Interest during construction           -          -           -            1.86         -           1.86
TOTAL                            96.00      31.00       127.00       9.           33.98      132.98
5.4         The following table presents the financing for EGAT's Power Development Program:
(USS Million)
SAR                               Actuals
Local     Foreigm     LoW       9    Loc      Eoreien    Total   9G
World Bank:                               -        200        200      9        -         -   225.4   14
Loans Outstanding                       110           -       110      -        -         -   135.4    -
3207-TH                                  90           -        90      -        -         -    90.0     -
Other Official Sources                    -         75         75      4        -         -   184.7   12
Export Credits                            -        519        519     26        -         -   432.2   28
Commercial Borrowing                    317        374        691     34        -         -   101.6    6
International cash generation           552           -       552     27        -         -   622.5   40
TOTAL                             1168         896      2037    100        -         -  1566.4  100
* Includes ADB, OECF, MOF & EGAT Bonds.



-28-
6.        Project Results
A. FINANCIAL IMPACT
6.1             EGAT's   financial performance  comparing  actual results with  appraisal forecasts  for the
period FY88 to FY91 is presented in Annex 6,7 and 8 and is summnarized in the following Table:
1988                     1989                      1990                      1991
Actual        SAR         Acgila        SAR        AcUtua         SAR         Acz.          SAR
Energy Sales (GWH)                       29494       29386         33611       33749         39369       37727         44773        41724
Avenge Reveame (B/KWH)                    1.27         1.26         1.26         1.26         1.26         1.45         1.24         1.46
Operating Reveme                         37474       37118         42649       42589         50410       54726         MM6          61304
Opetin Expeme                            28097       28184         31966       31583         38677       38966         47258        47280
Operating   e                             9377        8934         10653        11006        11733        15760         9957        18524
Net Inmae                                 3565        2564         5583         3616         6606         8970          5470        10977
Averap Rate Baw                          93642       90034        101266       92837        114381       99782        113487       114316
Long-term Debt (Net)                     61903       67507        62141        70376        74205        89663        105710       104968
Prhar Rti
Rate of Rel  (%)                         10.01         9.90        10.51        11.90  .     10.26        15.80         7.46        16.20
Debt-wervce coverae                       1.45         1.40         1.47         1.40         2.12         1.60         2.20         1.60
Operating ratio(%)                          75          76           75           74           77           71            82           70
curret rtio                               0.96         1.01         1.13         0.89         0.90         0.83         0.97         0.84
Debt as f%of  TotCapitalization            45           51           40           49           41           52           43            52
SeIf-Ftmiing Ratio 3 yer avernge         47.90        47.oD        57.90        28.00        44.80        25.00        31.30        26.00
6.2            Data relating to Lignite Mine Sector is given in Annex 7 and 8 and is summarized in the
following table:
LIGNITE MINE DIRECTORATE
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(Baht Million)
FY  1988                  FY  1989                  FY  1991
Actual        SAR          Actual        SAR          Actual       SAR
Lignite Sales (MMt)                                               5.59          5.93          6.16        6.52         11.33         9.0
Transfer Price (Baht/t)                                            464          464         497.90      487.2
Total Revenue                                                    2691          2752           3184       3176           5369       4700
Generating Expenses                                              1491          1743           1690       2047           3419       3118
Interest                                                           153            67           153          91           203         410
Other Expenses                                                     152          356            243         383          1201         477
Net Incomne                                                       751           513            928         517          1391         478
Ratios
Return on Assets /a                                               11.2           7.4          13.4          /b          20.5         4.6
Debt as % of Total Capitalization                                   47            52            46          /_             52         44
/a Average net revalued assets in operation.
/b No figures are available in SAR.
6.3    The financial performance of EGAT during FY88-91 compares favorably with project
appraisal forecasts and was within the covenanted parameters. The electricity sales, projected



-29-
at appraisal to increase by 42%, registered an actual increase of 52%; and except for FY91, the
rate of return on revalued assets was more than 10% (substantially exceeding the figure of 8%
generally expected from this sector). For FY91, the rate of return dipped marginally to less than
8 % primarily due to an increase in the fuel cost in the wake of the Gulf War. To achieve a 14%
increase in electricity sales in FY91 over FY90, the fuel cost increased by over 26%. The cost
of fuel per unit of electricity generated increased from Baht 0.55/Kwh in FY90 to Baht 0.62/Kwh
in FY91 -- an increase of 13 % -- without a corresponding increase in the unit sale price of
electricity. Until September 1991, EGAT's tariff schedule contained a fuel cost variation charge
clause but adjustments under this were not automatic, were subject to RTG review, and at times
delayed. From October 1, 1991, the RTG has allowed EGAT to automatically change the tariff
rates corresponding to changes in prices of fuel and uncontrollable factors.
6.4       As stipulated in the financial covenants, for each of its fiscal years 1988 to 1991
EGAT produced sufficient funds from its internal resources to meet more than 25 % of its annual
average capital expenditure incurred for that fiscal year, the previous fiscal year and the next
following fiscal year. Its debt service coverage during these years was more than 1.45 times, and
in each of these years the total outstanding debt of EGAT was less than 1.5 times its capital and
surplus (including revaluation reserves). As EGAT needs to make a very large investment, and
its financial health is sound, the Bank has given a relaxation of SFR covenants down to not less
than 20 percent during 1991-93 with the condition that ROR shall not fall below 8%.
6.5    EGAT's financial performance should continue to be satisfactory over the foreseeable
future, particularly in view of the fact that the RTG has already permitted EGAT to introduce in
its tariff schedule a formula for automatic adjustment mechanism for variations in fuel and other
uncontrollable costs. It will, however, be necessary for EGAT to increase its tariff by about
25% in FY95, 10% in FY96 and 5% per annum thereafter up to 2001 so that the target of a
minimum self-financing ratio of 25 % could be maintained. This will also enable EGAT to earn
a rate of return of more than 8 % on revalued assets. The present basic tariff structure of EGAT
is effective up to 1994. In the power development program of EGAT for 1992-2006 (finalized
in September, 1992), the basic tariff is proposed to be increased adequately from FY95 onwards
to achieve these targets.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
EGAT's Power Development Plan (PDP)
7.1       The project forms a part of EGAT's least cost expansion plan. To reconfirm the
economic viability of this plan, an adjusted Internal Financial Rate of Return is re-evaluated as
an approximation of the Economic Rate of Retum (ERR), on the basis of the incremental cost
and benefit streams associated with the 1988-97 time slice of EGAT's overall investment
program.
7.2       The methodology used in re-evaluating the rate of return is similar to that used in the
SAR. Capital costs are the investment costs of power plants and transmission system expansions
which will be completed by 2000. Fuel prices are based on actual values for 1988-92 and
projected values from 1993 onwards. Economic costs of natural gas are based on estimates by
the Petroleum Authority of Thailand considering contract terms for the purchase of gas. The
economic price of lignite is based on the transfer price calculated on present estimates of



-30-
reserves. Economic prices of other types of fuel, such as heavy oil and imported coal, are based
on international prices. Details of fuel consumption, economic prices of different types of fuel,
and the total fuel costs are given in Annex 9. Operation and maintenance costs are based on
statistical records of these costs for existing plants. Transmission costs are based on unit costs
and the projected lengths of transmission lines and capacities of transformers. Estimates for
administrative and general expenses are based on the actual costs in the first year and escalated
at 3 % per annum in real terms. Power purchase from Laos is at a cost of 0.9413 Baht/Kwh, and
from Malaysia at a cost of 1.53 Baht/Kwh, throughout the projection.
7.3       On the benefit side, EGAT's energy sales are projected to increase at an average rate
of 9% p.a. from FY92 to FY2001, in line with the Working Group Load Forecast adopted by
the RTG in September 1992. For 1988-91, energy sales are valued at the actual EGAT's
average selling price. For 1992-94, energy sales are based on the 1991 tariff structure. From
1995 onwards, the projected selling price is based on realizing a self financing ratio of 25 % on
three year average investments. All prices are in 1992 price levels. On the above bases, the re-
evaluated economic rate of return (ERR) is 15.82% which compares favorably with the SAR
value of 14%. The higher ERR reflects much greater than forecast energy sales and a more
efficient operation of the system. Details of the calculations are in Annex 10.
Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Component
7.4       The ERR of the Bang Pakong Combined Cycle Power Plant is re-evaluated on a
similar basis as the SAR with the same set of assumptions (as for the PDP) for the economic cost
of natural gas and the electricity tariff. The investment stream of the project includes the cost of
the associated transmission system. The other important parameters used in the re-evaluation are:
Plant Factor: 82%; Efficiency: 45%; Generation Loss: 2%; and Transmission Loss: 1 %. The
operation and maintenance cost is based on actual figures for the years 1990 to 1992 and is
assumed at 2.8% of the investment cost from 1993 onwards. The re-evaluated ERR of the
project is 24.5% which is slightly lower than the figure of 25% in the SAR. The results of the
analysis are at Annex 11.
Mae Moh Mine Expansion Component
7.5       The re-evaluation of the ERR for the Mae Moh Mine expansion compornent is carried
out on a substitution basis as used in the SAR. The analysis considers two variants: first, by
assessing the economic rate of return on the combined investment in lignite mining and power
generation for Units 8 and 9; second, by considering the investment in mining only. In the
former, the cost of power plants and the lignite mine development costs have been combined and
the benefits measured in terms of electricity sales. In the latter, the benefits represent the net
back value of lignite calculated by the same methodology as in the SAR. The detailed calculation
of net back value of lignite is given at Annex 12. The re-evaluated ERR considering the mine
and power plant is 23% compared to an SAR value of 13%. The difference is largely due to a
higher plant factor and a higher plant efficiency for lignite fired units (based on EGAT current
experience), and a higher tariff for valuation of electiricity benefit. The significantly higher net
back value of lignite compared to the SAR figure (due to a much higher capital cost of coal plants



-31-
compared to lignite plants) has resulted in a very high ERR for the mine operation alone. Details
of the calculations are at Annex 13.
8.           Status of Covenants
Section                            Covenant Description                                 Status &
Proposed
Action
1. Adult
5.01 (b)    (a) Have accounts and financial statements audited each financial year.  Compliance
5.01 (b)    (b) Furnish certified copies of financial statements to the Bank six months  Compliance
after end of each fiscal year.
5.01 (b)    (c) Employ qualified auditors.                                          Accounts are audited
by Coopers and
Lybrand and by the
office of the Auditor
General.
2. Self-Financine Ratio (SFR)
5.03 (b)    (a) Not less than 25%                                                   Compliance (48%
for FY88; 58% for
FY89; 45% for
FY90; 31% for
FY91; and 27% for
FY92.)
5.03 (b)    (b) Review and inform the Bank whether EGAT will meet the               Compliance
covenanted SFR for the current fiscal year and the next following fiscal year.
3. Tariff
5.03 (a)    (a) Maintain a provision for fuel adjustments in the tariff schedule.   Compliance.
Provision for this was
introduced in the
tariff structures of
EGAT with effect
from October 1991.
4. Debt Service
5.04(a)     (a) Shall not incur debt greater than 1.5 times capital surplus.        Compliance. In each
Financial year FY88
to FY91, EGAT's
outstanding debt was
less than 1.5 times its
capital and surplus
(including revaluation
reserves).
5.04 (a)    (b)  Shall not incur short and medium term debt exceeding 15% of all debt.    Compliance.



-32-
Section                             Covenant Descriion                                     Stu &
Prooose Acdon
5. Insurance
4.03        (a)  Make appropriate provisions for insurance.                            Compliance. Status
of sinking fund was
reviewed by Royal
Insurance and found
adequate.
6. Lisnite Deortment
3.03        (a) Continue lignite exploration and submit related annual report to the Bank.  Compliance.
5.02 (a)    (b)  Operate lignite department as a separate profit center, with separate  Compliance.
accounts and financial statements.
5.02 (b)    (c) Continue to set lignite transfer price in accordance with Bank-agreed  Compliance.
methodology.
5.05 (a)    (d)  Maintain lignite department debt/equity ratio of no more than 60:40 and    Compliance. The
debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times.                              debt/equity ratio was
47:53 in FY88; 45:55
in FY89; 47:53 in
FY90; 52:48 in
FY91; and 42:58 in
FY92. Debt service
coverage was also
more than 1.3 times
as covenanted during
the period.
7. Subproiect ADurova
3.01        (a)  Submit to the Bank for approval an evaluation of all                 Compliance. All
subprojects to be financed under the loan.                                components have
been identified and
approved by the
Bank.
9.       Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Ipt
(Staff Weeks)
Tak               FY85    FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   mY91   FY92   FY93         TOal
Projc PrWea                    .0              .5    1.6    .8                                       3.0
PfojeAp -                                              7.8    3.0                                   10.8
LoIn Negodon                                                  21.4                                   21.4
LA  Prccukt                    .7      .3      .3    18.7   .9                                      20.9
Projec CMetti- Raept                                                                 .6    15.4     16.0
Proje &*iW9                                                   4.3   10.9    1.8    2.3              19.3
.7      .3     .8    28.0   30.4   10.9    1.8    2.9    15.4        91.3



-33-
B. Missions
Month/Year   No. of Persons  Days in Field   Specialization /a  Performance Rating Lk Type of Problem
05/89            1              5               E                   I                None
07/89            2              4             E. F                  I                None
03/90            2              4             E, F                  1                None
/a E = Engineer, F = Financial Analyst
/b I = No or minor problems



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3207-TH)
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
EGAT - COMBINED CYCLE BLOCKS 3 and 4
Schedule                    Actual
Bang Pakong Combined
Cycle Block 3
Combustion Turbine
Generator Unit 1                May 1990                   July 1990
Combustion Turbine
Generator Unit 2                June 1990                 August 1990
Steam Turbine
Generator                       June 1991                   May 1992
Bang Pakong Combined
Cycle Block 4
Combustion Turbine
Generator Unit 1               August 1990                 Sept. 1990
Combustion Turbine
Generator Unit 2                Sept. 1990                 Sept. 1990
Steam Turbine
Generator                      August 1991                August 1992



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3207-TH)
Bane Pakong Air Ouality Monitoring Results. 1991
Monitoring                           January       April         August
Sites              Parameters
Max. 24 hr. Concentration (ug/m3)
1. Old Petrolized Plant    SO2                       0             0          <25
NOx                    30           46            15
TSP                  252            79            50
2. Worker Housing            S2                      2             6            0
NOx                   20            19            12
TSP                  401           184           129
3. Public Relation           SO2                     0             0            0
NOx                   22            37           129
TSP                  267           124           100
ONEB Ambient Air Quality Standard:
SO2 in 24 hr. - 300 ug/m3
NOZ in 1 hr. - 320 ug/m3
TSP in 24 hr. - 330 ug/m3



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Bang Pakonz Thermal Power Plant
Air Ouality Monitoring
I.          Measurement  of  S02,  No,,  and  total  suspended  particulates
concentration in the ambient air are made three times annually from three
sampling stations. The location of sampling stations have been adjusted from
time to time. As of 1991, the three sampling stations are located at the public
relations building, worker housing and the existing petrolized plant. Monitoring
results indicate that the concentration of SO2, NO,, and suspended particulates
are well below allowable limits (See table on page 1).
Water Ouality Monitoring
II.         Regular monitoring has been done to detect the changes in the
physical and chemical characteristics of the Bang Pakong river, which is the
water resource for power plant cooling system as well as the receiving water body
for the discharged cooling water and treated waste water.   A total of six
sampling points were established along the course of the river within the area
of influence of the power plant. Monitoring is done twice a year (wet and dry
season) and parameters sampled follow NEB guidelines.
III.        Based on the data analysis, water quality at the  Bang Pakong river
within the range of influence of the power plant is of acceptable quality for
natural surface water with salinity influenced from the sea water reaching as far
as the central district of Chachoengsao (approx. 50 km from the river mouth).
Physical and chemical properties vary reasonably with seasonal and tidal effects
but within the criteria acceptable for aquatic life. However, the historical
trend indicates that water quality of the lower Bang Pakong river deteriorates
considerably due to the rapid growth of agricultural and industrial activities
along the river upstream. Impacts contributed by the construction and operation
of the Bang Pakong Power Plant are small since effluent discharged from the power
plant has been processed through a complete waste water treatment system in
compliance with the effluent standards of the Ministry of Industries. Dissolved
oxygen and salinity levels of 5% were measured at six sampling stations along the
Bang Pakong river.
Thermal Diffusion
IV.         Measurement of temperature distribution of the warm water discharged
from the cooling system of the Bang Pakong thermal and combined cycle power plant
is performed twice annually. Isotherms are developed to depict the pattern of
thermal diffusion and area coverage in the Bang Pakong river. A general trend
has been that the temperature of discharged cooling water decreases about 2-5°C
within a 150 meter radius from the outfall and isotherm of 1°C warmer than the
ambient water temperature covers the river area in the range of 100-144,900 m.
Monitoring results lead to the conclusion that the thermal diffusion pattern for
warm water dissipation and area coverage is significantly affected by the tidal
effect and wind speed.



AM=E 3
Page 1 of 2
Th&ILAW
POWER Sx11   DCvCLoFrC8T PSDJ3CT (ILoA  3207-TH)
A. Cost Estimate for Bm- Pskmaz Combined Cycle Cn Daat
(In US million)
Itm_                                                         SAR                                       A ICTUAL
Local        Foreign         Total         Local         Foreign         Total
2 x  300 MW Bank Pakons Combined Cycle Pomer Blocks
Land and land rights                                                                3.48          _              3.48          0.84            -              0.84
Civil works                                                                        14.23          -             14.23         42.44            0.28          42.72
Structural steel                                                                    -             7.36           7.36
4 x 100 MW combustion turbine generators                                            -            30.04          80.04          0.45          132.70         133.15
2 x 120 MW stem turbine generators and
associated beat recovery boilers                                                  -            52.24         52.24           2.37          102.45        104.a2
Plant mechanical syst.m                                                             -            19.40          19.40
Plant electrical systess                                                            -            12.10          12.10
Instrumentation and controls                                                        -             6.31           6.31
Water treatmant plant                                                               -             0.35           0.35
Mechanical construction                                                            16.27          2.00          18.27         22.66           29.40          52.06
Electrical construction                                                             5.89          0.70           6.59
Construction supervision                                                            5.13          -              5.13
Engineering and administration overhcada                                            1.00           _             1.00          5.33           10.24          15.57
Local transport                                                                     1.78          _              1.78          0.46                           0.46
Duties and taxes                                                                   37.32          _             37.32         33.14                          33.14
Miscelloanous  quipment                                                                                                        0.61            1.23           1.84
Interast during construction                                                                                                                  21.75         21.75
Base Cost                                                                           37 32        180 502660                   108.30          298.0          406 35
Physical contingencies                                                              8.50         18.00         26.50
Price contingencies                                                                 5.20         10.70         1S 90
Total                                                                        98 80         209.20        308 00
230 kV Transmission System Expansion
Reinforcament of the 230 kV Bang Pakong-
Bang Pbli transmiscion line                                                        2.58          3.84           6.42         16.24            0.33          16.57
Expansion of 230 kV switchyard at Bang Pakong                                       0.44          1.56           2.00          1.25            5.53          6.78
Engineering and administration ovarheada                                            0.53          -             0.53                           0.11          0.11
Local transport                                                                     0.05 O                       0.05
Duties and taxes                                                                    1.30          -              1.30          1.80                           1.80
Interest during construction                                                                                                                   0.78          0.78
sCost                                                                            4 90           5.40         10 30          19.29                         2675  Z 6.04
* sica3l contingencies                                                           0.50           6.50          1.00
* co contingencies                                                                 0.30           6.40          0.70
Total                                                                         5 70           6.30         12 H0



A=3
Page 2 of 2
Item                                                        SAR                                        ACTUAL
Local        Foreign         Total         Local         Foreign         Total
Consulting Services
Base cost                                                                           _            10.50          10.50          0.02            0.02          0.04
Physical contingencies                                                                            1.10           1.10                           _ 
Price contingencies                                                                 _             _
Total                                                                         :             11.60         11.60          0L               .020
C50 utorized Maintenance Manamsownt S_ste.
B s. Cost                                                                           0 30          -             0.30           0.20                          0.20
Physical contingencies                                                              0.10          _             0.10
Price contingencies                                                                 _             _
Total                                                                          040           _A!                      0                                 02& 03
Environmental MInitorina Eauipmnt end Training
Air. wat-r and noise monitoring equipments for Bang Pakong                          _             0.45           0.45          0.04            0.52           0.56
Data acquisition system for Mae Mbh                                                               6 0.03         0.03
Sampling equipoent for Khanoo                                                       -             0.01           0.01
Mobile Leboratory                                                                   -             0.21           0.21
Duties and tazes                                                                    0.10          -              0.10
base Cost                                                                       0.10          L.ao         0o. 0L04                       0.52           056
Physical contingencies                                                              _             0.10           0.10
Price contingencies                                                                 _             _              _D
Total                                                                         01              .90         1Li!
Total Proiect Cost
Base cost                                                                          90.40        197.20        287. 60        127.65          305.34        433.19
Pbysical contingencies                                                              9.10         19.70         26.04           -               -             -
Price contingencies                                                                 5.50         11.10          16. 60
Total Proiect Cost                                                          105.00         226.00        333.oe         127.8          305334         U33.19



ANNEX 4
TEAILAND
KUM SYST  DEVEU. NT PJECT (LOAM 3207-TH)
EGAT'S PAST FINANPIEL FPERMAPE - FDAMCIAL STATEMEUTS 1988-1991
(in Baht .ilion)
1988                        1989                        1990                          1991
Actual         SAR          Actual         SAR          Actual          SAR           Actual          SAR
Energy Sales (GWh)                                            29.494        29,386         33,611        33,749        39,369         37,727         44,773        41,724
Increase (1)                                                   14.44         14.00          13.96         14.18         17.13          11.80          13.73         10.60
Average price (B/KWh)                                            1.27          1.26          1.26          1.26          1.26           1.45           1.24           1.46
OPERATBIG REVENUE
Sales of Electricity                                          37,124        36,898         42,114        42,389        49,296         54,516         56,184        61.084
Others                                                            350           220           535           200         1,114            210          1.031           220
TOTAL OERATING REVENUE                                        37 474        37,118         42,649        42.589        50.410         54,726         57,215        61.304
OPERATING EPEINSES
Fuel/Bulk Power Purchase                                       17,510        17,787        19,544        20,778        24,138         25,666         30,499        26,985
Operations                                                      4,773        5,508          5,545         5,330         6,434          6.360          7,525         7,444
Depreciation on Re-valued Assets                               4,753         4,233          5,343         4,601         6,247                         7.478         6,002
Remittances to Government                                       1.061           656         1,564           874         1,858          1.879          1,756         2,350      )
TOTAL t AXING EXPENSES                                        28.097        28,184         31.996        31.583        38.677         38,966         47.258         42,780
OPERATDfG INCO                                                  9,377        8.934         10.653        11.006        11,733         15.760          9,957        18,524
Interest charged to operations                                 4,621         4.659          4.321         4,954         4.340          5,522          4,288         6,359
Foreign exchange loss                                           1,942        2,228          1,677         3,073         1,670          1,919          1,590         1.772
Mining Income (-)                                                -751          -517           -92          -637          -883           -651         -1,391           -584
TOTAL WM-OPERATNG EXNS   (net)                                 5.812         6,370          5.070         7,390         5,127          6.790          4.487         7,547
NET D0HC                                                       3,565         2.564          5_583         3,616         6.606          8.970          5,470        10.976
Rate base                                                      93,642       90,043        101,266        92,837       114.381         99,782        133,487       114.316
Rate of return (X)                                              10.01           9.9         10.51          11.9         10.26           15.8           7.46          16.2
Operating ratio (X)                                                75            76            75            74            77             71             82             70



ANNEX 5
THAILnAD
POW= SYSTEM DEVELOPMefT PRoJEeT (LOGA 3207-TH)
EG*T'S PAST FIANCIAL PERFoRWANEZ  - FINAEIAL STATEMET  1988-1991 - SOURES AND APPLICATI(M OF FUNDS
Sources                                        1988                          1989                           1990                           1991
Actual          SAR           Actual          SAR           Actual           SAR           Actual            SAR
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
Operating income                                                    9,377          8,934         10,653         11,006         11,733          15,759           9,957         18,524
Non-operating incnme                                                  751            517            928            637            883             651           1,391            584
Depreciation                                                        4,753          4.233          5,343          4.601          6,247           5,061           7,478          6,002
Other itma not involving cash                                         992           -484         -1.123           -671          1,146            -549           2,612         -1,161
TOTAL                                                              15.873         13.200        15 801          15.573        20,009          20.922          21.438          23.949
Borrowings (not)                                                    3,767          3,683          6,481          9.737         16,661          27,982         20,443          27,144
Governoent equity                                                     114             24            195             82            152                             125
Disposal of assets                                                    224                           675                            91                             236
Unpaid bonus & Government remittances                                 140                           749                           501                             687
TOTAL SOuRCES OF FUYDS                                            20.118          16,907        23 901         25.392          37.414          48,904          42.929         51.093
APPLICATION
Capital expenditure:
a) Power                                                            7,688          6,497        11,805         13.853         27,566          33,485          31,990          33,742
b) Irrigation, mine & development expenditure                       1,264            569          1,032          1,307          1,111           2,290           1.522          1,912
Total capital expenditure                                           8,952          7,066         12,837         15,160        28,677           35,775          33,512         35,654
DEBT SERVICE
Principal (not)                                                     5,694          5,078         5,414           6,566          5,634           6,864           5,725          6,695
Interest                                                           4,621          4,659          4.321          4,954          4,340            5,522           4,288          6,359
Increaxe (-)/Decrease in deferred interest                            -89             91            -83             90            -61              87              -8             70
Increase/Decrease (-) in working capital                              941             13         1,412         -1,378         -1,174              656            -588            314
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                                        20.,119         16,907        23901          25.392         37.416           486904          42.929         51.092
Debt service coverage (tims)                                         1.45           1.40           1.47           1.40           2.12            1.60            2.20           1.60
Self-financing ratio                                               47.93           47.00         57.87          28.00           44.81           25.00           31.35          26.00



meem.m**   .smmm.. ~eseoem...   ...m....   oe.m...o  esem....  000.m...   gee......
wo           £0ro                       o UUfro               t ill      Iro        ue0                                         - o
wo            WO           tro        iwo         *o          we         iro         Ig   I1"
IS           SI          t1t          MI          UZ         L1K         1     1"1                        lqaqW
_  .   _         _          _      ~      ~      ~      ~     P 
twi          "61          $Ml         is1f        awl        Mai         LF1e9                                                  _-
*U.I0   1    LUSt         3813N       11i1 1   SItl gm6                1 £l 6811                                           sJ.
_lt          ISV           503!        Utl        SKI        6fl1        £8l        E!                                         _     _
mm           mlw t 0 l    gm          an          Ms f   It"                E       kw01
NM           Kill          US         55    f                 11ftf      ISI        86
lal          omt          on          OWL         Kw          toc        tw       _ ___
K"ml          611          am363      IllUI       1IOt1       mmti       fit"       OWL _
ewD         NM c  au                 NMs bff                 Ilt _,s
K&N0         a ll          am3gm  USD1111111 131                         Lot it 6  3 5  0
lous          me          gm                      FW a   no              m             O§WA
111111                                 me8611 KS  ani        8631        a"!!       "a61                                     IwO
551~~ 11* SK           19          p         us         gg
mu =          r           -           55                     -    me   is                                                      aqW
ImirMuwi VA,iv um
mm1           Now85        3UI        _IlltM    3_11I       WILI        "lot       NUMI                                   ILVRWJDAL
msit        &d0l         #ml         0ig        11410S       1LIt       &5I        £658!                      _       _pe  *- eeW 
aw           661          U11l          Ul1      fft        owl         3tl        1UI                                             1-1
"001         am      U       "        am          nu         UK  __iL 
sit          Ka           5IUt        l9 C        M          869         6161       6t
owl            m           oWl          ml        ot         pull        clt         ulMo
gm             1.             IIU     Kwl          t         Pt 9        l    l         t         * t *IVgoVW&
,161         awl          semi        6=1         ,tl        pstlt      tins IVW tl                                         _
_1l          £8651         6180       SEP3        38865      55W1        U!!        USl -IC
_686!        £881         6!   I        N!I COt 4ltl     8111!m11                 l    t
MSii81j19                             8801        1!         8tl 3 I I "I  £1.8l !n    55! I&S
-TV - 
1   IU l         Sl                 tla       SUllZtl                 11t                                            |
m~~~~~~~~3NuavU  1                                  3UDV  m mvCmSnvU
9 X31'R                          ~



- 42 -
AMI 7
THAILAND
POWER  SYSTE  DZVELOBT PSJECT (LOAN 3207-TN)
PIRNAE= STA!DUNTU
EYM  - LIGBITZ HMN  OPERAF ICfl
A. IOH STA!ZZM TSU FBSS-91
FT 1986               Fl 1989               FT 1990               FTy 1991
Actual      BAR       Actual       SAR      Actual       SAR      Actual       SAR
Lignite sales (MMT)               5.8        5.93       6.39       6.52       5.89                  11.58
transfer price (B/ton)         464.1      464.1       497.9      487.2      442.7                 463.6
Revenue                     2691       2752       3184        3176       3936                  5369
Generetinx Expense.
Overburden remaval             1036       1349       1214       1594       1891                  2585
Reclamation                      22         25         25         27         36                     61
Others                          433        369        451        426        542                    770
Subtotal                      1491       1743        1690       2047       2469                  3419
Bead Office                    114         126        119        140        152                   135
Amount of Preliminary
expenses                       14        185          83       203          16                    15
Inventory adjustment            26                     24                                            2
Depreciation                    153         73        153        139        178                   203
rnterest charge                144         67         170         91        171                   155
Foreign exchange losses          50         45         65         40         67                     50
Net Oneratina Expenses        1940       2239        2256       2660       3053                  3978
Not Profit                     751         513        928        516        883                  1391



- 43 -
PM  3S1T3 DmIOU! PJZT (LOAM 3207-U)
FrZIAL STA3
U!- L115-OUf
U.  3AL      gm=, 15-l9
(at iniIe)
FT 1.988             FY 1909                FT 1990               FTY 1991
Actual      SAR      Actual       SAR      Actual       3*1       Actual  T *1
Assets
Property, plant L equip.
At cost                      3722       4086        3852       4485       4143                  4225
Less Acc. Dept.              1029       2086       2068       2352        2325                  2579
Not                         1692       1999       1784       2137       11                   1646
Under construction            142        540        345        1189        599                  1473
Developsent expenses         4623       4513       4645        4786       4067                  3305
Reclm ation sinking fund    178           173       213         202        264                   350
Deferred expenses              26           -         16          0         16                     16
Current Assets
Inventory                     291        336         311        399        305                   350
Receivables                     74         83         49         95        205                     63
Subtotal                        365        419        360        494        510                    413
Total Assh t                  7232        7644       7363       6809       7274                  7204
Liabilitiea & Eauity
Equity                        617         610        574        691        727                    738
Retained earnings                -      2496           -       2848          _
Internal funding             3713       1605       3641        1639       3448                  2941
Deferred foreign
exchange adjustment         817        873        706        845         603                   683
Subtotal                      3512       3838        3609       4334       3372                  2996
Long-term debt               3345       3384        3226       3935       3401                  3557
Less current mat.             278        277         232        416        354                   34f
fg                            3067        3107       2994       3519       3047                  3211
Reclamation sinking fund        178        173        213        202        264                    350
Current Liabilities
Paysbles                      160         182       278         219        197                   263
Current portion of LTD        278        277         232        416        354                   346
Interest due                   37         67          36        118         40                    37
Subtotal                        475        526        547        753        591                    647
Sotcl Liabilities &           7232        7644       7363       6809       7274                  7204
. ....t_



THAAND                                                          Am&9
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPA Nfl PROJECr
Data fir Ecmmic Evalai   of EGAT PDP
Yew    Nlbww ammo~   C_ Noy  Diee  Lignite   Nelil Gm G9dCF  H_W   Dioel  Linite Nlurdi ae (HSUM He"n Diell U
a Ln    O0   1               Off   Nwn         ONa   Lan   ON1   ONl                                               Oil    OiN
s_ar    K     ehu  (ML)                  Shae          K b   (ML)  ()                       Krebu  H     HL .   *1
1937    3363        21.8   664.6    1 .3    .                                            0.7  _     U.0   2.1   3.4   14.2
1 4332              22.6   754.4    0.6   6.3   102.0         0.3    90.3  -0.7    0.0 60.7         24.7   2.3   3.6  13.0  2227.3   231.3  -2.4   -70   252
16      467.4       20.6  1045.8   3A    6.4   132.1         -1.2   391.2    23     0.6 60.7        23.3   2.3   3.5  14.0  2914.3    2.        7.9   222.3  40373
low     443.3       24.0  2318.2  114.3   8.0   104.0         3.1  16S.6  113.0    s.1  6o.7        24.6  2.7   4.   13.2  2424.3  4186.6  6S6.S  1066.0  3o2.
1901    820.5 333 27.3  2027.6   72.0   11.6    136.2 33A   5.5  2273.1  71.7    5.8 80.6 23.7  26.6  3.5   5.6  13.6   4401   3046.6  30.2  2074.5 16012.2
10o2    "O.4 51.  82.6  230W.3   14.6   12.3   214.1 51.0 10.3  2244.2   13.3    6.5 6.1 43.4  33.0   32    4.2   14.0   56.3  7136.6   55.8  2348.1 164263
193    644.0 660  32.6  4060.8  15.1   12.6   200.3 568.  10.0  3400.2  13.3    6.7 63.6 43.6  36.3  3.3   4.3   14.1  6016.6 11070.2  50.7  2454.1  1040A
1904    670.0 6o6 32.0  4304.5            12.2   343.7 60.0 10.2  3040.    -1.s    6.4  66.2 45.6  30.4  3.3   4.5   14.2  D00.0 12117.7  -6.0  2361A  23042.2
1011     2 02.0 6o.0 32.0  566.0   Go    13.0   200.7 60.0  102  4054.4   e4.7    7.1 67.6 46.4  42.2   3.4   4.6   14.3  S355  16706.4  206.   25463 23096.Y
1096    67n.0 60.0 32.0  6171.6  1303   15.4   342.7 60.0 10.2  5517.0  133.5    9.6 67.7 46.6  46.3   3.6   4.8   14.4  96712 10O6    6o.   3541.  3309.
"97    671.0 60.0 32.0  7650.7  213.0   16.6   335.7 60.0 10.2  O63.1  211.7   10.7 71.3 40.0  48.   3A.6   4.0   14.6  100062 24348.3 1043.6  4132.0 39624A
Iw9     671.0 60.6 32.0  7660.7  213.0  16.6   336.7 60.0 1012  60.1  211.7    10.7 713 40.0  48.8  3.6   4.    14.6  10W062 24343.3 1043.6  4132.0 30124A
199    671.0 60.6 32.0  7560.7  213.0   16.6   336.7 60.0 1012  60.1  211.7   10.7 713 40.0  48.8  3.6   4.0  14.6  100062 24343.3  1043.6  4132.0 362430
2000    671.0 60.0 32.0  7660.7  2130   16.6   336.7 60.0 1012  6.1  211.7   10.7 712 40.0  48.   3.5   4.0  14.6  100061 24348.3  1043.6  4132.0 30643
200     671.0 60.0 32.0  7660.7  213.0   16.6   336.7 60.0 10.2  601  211.7   10.7 71.3 40.0  48.6   3.5   4.0  14.5  100052 24S43.3 1043.6  4132.  3624*
2005    671.0  0.  32.0  7560.7  213.0   16.6   336.7 60.o  1012  6361   211.7   10.7 71.3 40.0  4.3   3.6   4.0   14.6  100062 24343.3 1043.6  4132.0 39243
2004    671.0 60.0 32.0  7560.7  213.0   10.    336.7 60.0 1012  6.1   211.7   10.7 71.s  40.0  48.8  3.5   4.0  14.6  100012 243433 1043.0  4132.0  6243
2096    671.0 60.0 32.0  7560.7  2130   16.o   335.7 60.o  1012  63.1  211.7   10.7 713 40.0  43.8   3.6   42   14.6  100052 24343.3 1043.3  4132.0 3964
2000    671.0 60.0 32.0  7560.7  2133   16.6   338.7 6D.0  102  6806.1  211.7   10.7 713 40.0  43.8  3.6    43    14.6  100052 24343.3 1043.6  4132.  3106143
207    671.0 60.O  A2.0  7660.7  213.0   16.6   336.7 60.0 10.2  30s.1  211.7   10.7 713 49.0  4.3  3.6    4.   14.6  100062 24343.3 10433  4132.  396243
2006    671.0 60.0 32.0  7660.7  2130   16.6   336.7 60.0 10.2  6806.1  211.7   10.7 713 40.0  48.8  3.0   4.0   14.6  100052 24348.3 104S3  4132.0 36243
2000    671.0 60.0 32.0  7660.7  213O   16S.    336.7 60.0 1012  6S8.1  211.7   10.7 71.3 40.0  48.8  3.6   4.0   14.5  100062 24343.3 1043.6  4132A  39624
20o    671.0 60.0 32.0  7660.7  2133   16.6    336.7 60.0 101  680.1  211.7   10.7 713 40.0  48.8   35    4.0  14.6  100052 24343.3 1043.6  4132.0 36243
20,11    6713 6.03 3S2.0  7550.7  2133   16.6   J36.7 60.0 10o2  69.1  211.7   10.7 713s 40.0  43.8  3.6    42   14.5  100062 24343.3 1043.6  4132.0 3354.
2012    67130 60.0 32.0  756.7  2133   163    335.7 60.0 101  6306.   211.7   10.7 71.3 40.0  4338  3.5   439  14.5  1000512 24343.3 11043.6  4132.  366343
2012    e71A  MA o   o      7Me.7  21ao   10S      MY 0 O.O 10.2   WWI  211.7   10.7 71J 40.0  48 -        SA.   4n   14.5  10D00612 24a4&  104ao  41SLO  UN
"DEAl ooesew   ie ut 10pd.eleI
&arw: EBAT



Aowx 10
- 45 -
THILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN ON EGAT'S POWER DEVELOPMENT PLAN
(US.$ Million)
Fiscal           Cost Stream                        Benefit Stream    A_     i,tomade 1
Year  Capital   O&M       Fuel     Tobl -icrema2a Avenge Sellng Price   Sale   XdJugmm
Cost    Cost       Coat     coo      Enrgy      (c/kWh)     Revenue   oA    .      MM
Sales  Current  onstantIpcto 
_______ _______   _______(GWh)  Price  rPriceVA 
1983
1984
1985     26.7                         26.7                                               (26.7)
1986     48.0                         48.0                                               (48.0)
1987    160.0                        160.0                                              (160.0)
1988    195.5               96.5    292.0  3,648.7   4.87    5.93      216.4             (75.6)
1989    440.1     9.8      155.3    605.2  7,766.4   4.85    5.69      441.3            (10.3)
1990    940.3    24.8      329.0   1,294.0  13,524.0  5.06    5.63     761.3            (S32.3)
1991   1,198.5    57.1     577.4   1,833.1  18,928.4  4.83    5.07     959.1            (874.0)
1992    988.0    72.1      593.3   1,653.4 24,950.2   4.70    4.70    1,172.4           (431.1)
1993   1,157.6    91.0     750.0   1,998.5 30,488.2   4.73    4.50   1,372.9   110.4   (515.2)
1994   1,349.8    113.9    920.9   2,384.5 36,291.2   4.77    4.32    1,569.0   150.7   (664.3)
1995   1,183.5    132.2   1,080.6   2,396.3  42,684.2   6.00    5.18   2,212.9          (183.4)
1996    532.7    157.2   1,271.6   1,961.5 49,368.2   6.37    5.24   2,585.5             624.0
1997    339.7   233.2   1,520.2   2,093.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8             953.7
1998    337.7   235.9   1,520.2   2,093.8 55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8              953.0
1999    185.6   235.9   1,520.2   1,941.7 55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8            1,105.1
2000     62.1    235.9   1,520.2   1,818.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,223.7
2001             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,290.7
2002             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,290.7
2003             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,290.7
2004             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,290.7
2005             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,290.7
2006             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,290.7
2007             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,WO.7
2008             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,290.7
2009             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,2.7
2010             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,290.7
2011             235.9   1,520.2   1,756.1  55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          1,290.7
2012  (2,265.9)   235.9   1,520.2   (509.8) 55,791.2   6.97    5.46   3,046.8          3,556.6
Tota  6,879.9  4,430.1  30,097.0  41,407.0    -                      60,040.3   261.1  18,394.5
P.V.
2 10   8,320.8  1,820.5  13,221.0  23,362.3                          26,308.0   224.9   3,170.7
Economic Internal Rate of Return =     15.82%
Noto  ad Automatic adjuamit mechanm of prums uriff ucturs Is allowed for the adjuman on the impac of VAT.
b/ All costs am baed on 1992 price level.
c/ Preem value is caculated with 1992 ban year.
d USD 1.0 - 26.0 THB.
Source: EGAT



-46 -
THAIIAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
RATE OF RETURN OF BANG PAKONG COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
(US.$ Million)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _      .1      aI   _  _   _    _b/  
Fical   Investment Costs  O&M   Fuel   Total  Energy   Enorgy  Average  Total   i A b
Year  Power Trans. Total  Cost  Cost   Cost  enerution   Sale   SeHing Revenue
Plant System                                (GWh)  (GWh)   Pnce
Blocks                                                        (c/kWh)
#3-4          _ _ __         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _             _ _ _
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988     1.7          1.7                     1.7                                       (1.7)
1989    57.8   4.9   62.7                    62.7                                      (62.7)
1990   239.4  21.3  260.7    0.8    12.1    73.6      326    316.4    5.63      17.8  (5.8)
1991    71.3         71.3    4.5    67.3   143.1    2,236  2,168.8    5.07    109.9   (333)
1992    13.6         13.6    7.8    80.2   101.6    3,070  2,977.9    4.70    139.9    383
1993                         11.1    62.0    73.2    3,345   3,244.7    4.50    146.1    72.9
1994                         11.1    83.2    94.3    4,300   4,171.0    4.32    1803    860
1995                        11.1    84.8    96.0    4,300   4,171.0    5.18    216.2   120.3
1996                        11.1    85.0    96.1    4,300   4,171.0    5.24    218.4   122.3
1997                        11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300  4,171.0    5.46    227.3   127.1
1998                        11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300  4,171.0    6.01    250.7   150.1
1999                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300  4,171.0    6.88    237.2   136S
2000                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300  4,171.0    7.27    303.2   225
2001                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300  4,171.0    7.73    322.4   221.3
2002                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300   4,171.0    7.73    322.4   221.8
2003                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300  4,171.0    7.73    322.4   221.3
2004                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300  4,171.0    7.73    322.4   221.3
2005                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300   4,171.0    7.73    322.4   221.1
2006                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300  4,171.0    7.73    322.4   221.3
2007                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300  4,171.0    7.73    322.4   221.3
2008                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300   4,171.0    7.73    322.4   221.1
2009                         11.1    89.5   100.6    4,300  4,171.0    7.73    322.4   221.3
2010         (10.3) (10.3)  11.1    89.5    90.3    4,300  4,171.0    7.73    322.4   232.1
P.V.
10    461.2  30.5  491.7  105.1   866.0  1,462.8 1                  _         2,371.9   909.2
Economic Rate of Retun =       %
Note.: a/ O&M and fud co of fiscal year 1990 to 1992 are bsd oac ul record of powr plants.  Deembe 9.1993
b/ Assumed matim sevice low of 2% and transmsi losa of 1%.
cl All coat ar b_don 1992 price level
d/ Premt value is calulated with 1992 ba year.
e/ USD 1.0 - 26.0 THB.
Source: EGAT



- 47 -
Amx 2
THAILAND
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCULATION OF NETBACK VALUE Of LIGNITE
Fiscal     Coal-Based Genertion Costs   ignito-Eauot Genertion Costs
Yoar   Coal  Energy  Capacity Total   Capacity  Infored   Noi*ick
Price   Charge   Charge  Gen.   Charge  Energy   V4,w
(USDiTo) (c/kWh)  (c/kWh) Cost  (c/kWh)  Charge  of
(c/kWh)          (c/kWh) (
aL
1987                                                              Plant Cintal Cost (USD/lkcW
1988                                                               - Coal               112S.0
1989   52.58    1.80     1.89   3.68      1.49     2.19    27.32  - Lignite              888.0
1990   53.05    1.81     1.89   3.70      1.49     2.21    27.52 Pbnt Heat Rate (kal/kWh)
1991   53.52    1.83     1.89   3.72      1.49     2.23    27.72  - Coal                2274.0
1992   54.00    1.85     1.89   3.73      1.49     2.24    27.92  - Lignite             2410.0
1993   54.48     1.86    1.89   3.75      1.49     2.26    28.13 Hoatin Valuo&1kE)
1994   54.96    1.88     1.89   3.76      1.49     2.28    28.33  - Coal                6653.0
1995   55.45     1.90    1.89   3.78      1.49     2.29    28.54  - Lignite             3000.0
1996   55.95    1.91     1.89   3.80      1.49     2.31    28.75
1997   56.45    1.93     1.89   3.82      1.49     2.33    28.97 IEd Factor                75%
1998   56.95    1.95     1.89   3.83      1.49     2.34    29.18
1999   57.46    1.96     1.89   3.85      1.49     2.36    29.39 O&M Cost (X of Plant Cost)
2000   57.98    1.98     1.89   3.87      1.49     2.38    29.62  - Coal and Lignite       3.0
2001   58.50    2.00     1.89   3.89      1.49      2.40    29.84  - Transmision Systm    1.5
2002   59.02    2.02     1.89   3.90      1.49      2.41    30.06
2003   59.55    2.04     1.89   3.92      1.49      2.43    30.28 Lismite Mine Loss Factor    3 %
2004   60.09    2.05     1.89   3.94      1.49     2.45    30.51
2005   60.63    2.07     1.89   3.96      1.49      2.47    30.74
2006   61.17    2.09      1.89   3.98     1.49      2.49    30.97
Note: a/ Excluding taxes and IDC .
b/ All costs are based on 1992 price level.
c/ Present value is calculated with 1992 base year.
Source: EGAT



- 48 -
mx 13
TNRAD
POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
RATE OP RETURN OF MAE MOH UGNITE EXPANSION PROlECl UNITS 89
(USD MilLion)
Fiscal     C       and O&M Cost       Electricity  Lignite   Tranfer   Value         Total Benefit         Not Cas Flow
Year  Lignite    Power       Toal   Gmorated Rquirem         Price       of       Mine      Mine an      Mine      Min and
Mine      Plants              (OWh)   (MTon)          of    Electricity   Alone      Power    Almo          Power
&                                      Lipite  Generated                  Plant                  Plat
_ ____ Trans.Sys.                                   (USD/Tra)  (c/kWh)                       a/
1914
19t5                 1.00       1.00                                                                                   (1.00)
19U                  10.03     10.03                                                                                  (10.03)
19t7                74.36      74.86                                                                                  (74.16)
191        1.93    229A1      231.34                                                                        (1.93)    C231.34)
1919       6.01     195.20    201.21       525       0.42      27.32      5.69      11.36       27.48       5.35     (173.73)
1990      30.41     30.34      60.75      3,300      2.71      27.52      5.63      74.49       170.90     44.0       110.15
1991      66.26     51.53     117.79      4,321      3.67      27.72      5.07     101.78       201.42     35.52       U3.63
1992      25.43      15.16     41.30      4,353      3.56      27.92      4.70      99.27       18.16     73.33       14.86
1993      44.98      15.86     60.85      4,381      3.58      28.13      4.50     100.64       181.49     55.66       120.6S
1994      42.06      15.56     57.92      4.205      3.43      28.33      4.32      97.29       167.25     55.23       109.33
1995      38.22      15.56     54.08      4,205      3.43      28.54      5.18      98.01       200.57     59.79       146.49
1996      36.57      15.56     52.43      4,205      3.43      28.75      5.24      98.74       202.60     62.17       150.17
1997      41.69      15.56     57.55      4,205      3.43      28.97      5.46      99.47      211.27      57.73      153.71
1998      43.52      15.56     59.38      4,205      3.43      29.18      6.01     100.20       232.56     56.6       173.17
1999      31.82      15.36     47.68      4,205      3.43      29.39      6.88     100.94      266.35      69.13      215.67
2000      37.12      15.86     52.98      4,205      3.43      29.62       7.27     101.70      281.20     64.5       228.22
2001      48.46      15.36     64.32      4,205      3.43      29.84       7.73    102.46       299.07     54.00      234.74
2002      41.33      15.86     57.19      4,205      3.43      30.06       7.73     103.22      299.07     61.90      241.U
2003      40.23      15.36     56.09      4.205      3.43      30.28       7.73    104.00       299.07     63.77      242.97
2004      38.03      15.36     53.90      4,205      3.43      30.51       7.73     104.79      299.07     66.75      245.17
2005      39.13      15.56     54.99      4,205      3.43      30.74       7.73     105.57      299.07     66.44      244.07
2006      39.56      15.86     55.73      4,205      3.43      30.97       7.73     106.36      299.07     66.50      243.34
2007      33.83      15.56     49.69      4,205      3.43      30.97       7.73     106.36      299.07     7253       249.37
200       30.35      15.t6     46.22      4,205      3.43      30.97       7.73    106.36       299.07     76.01      252.85
2009      28.53      15.86     44.39      4,205      3.43      30.97       7.73     106.36      299.07     77.34      254.f
2010      28.71      15.86     44.57      4,205      3.43      30.97       7.73     106.36      299.07     77.65      254.49
2011      26.88      15.86     42.74      4.205      3.43      30.97       7.73     106.36      299.07     79.48      256.32
2012      25.42      15.86     41.28      4.205      3.43      30.97       7.73     106.36      299.07     80.95      2S7.78
315       23.95      15.86     39.82      4,205       3.43     30.97       7.73     106.36      299.07     8241       259.25
Economic Rate of Return                                                                                 i
JNj"j a/ Asumed tatce service ton of S % and nramissicatu of 3 9.                                             Deoer    14,1993
b/ AU coct ae based an 1992 pri.m levl.
c/ Premz value i clcuad with 1992 baa year.
Source: EGAT



- 49 -
Annex 14
ACTUAL INVESTMENT COST OF PROJECT
(Based on Economic Cost Without Taxes and IDC.)
Bana Pakona Combined Cycle Blocks 3-4
Unit: USD Million
Fiscal       Current Price           1992 Price Level        Index
Year    F.C.    L.C.   Total     F.C.    L.C.   Total   F.C.       L.C.
1988     0.02    1.38    1.40     0.02    1.68    1.70   1.163    1.217
1989    37.48   10.40   47.88    45.58   12.19   57.77   1.216    1.172
1990   174.56   46.12  220.68   188.11   51.32  239.42   1.078    1.113
1991    54.06   14.61   68.67    56.01   15.34   71.35   1.036    1.050
1992    10.72    2.91   13.63    10.72    2.91   13.63   1.000    1.000
Total   276.84   75.42  352.26   300.43 1 83.44  383.87    _
Transmission System for Bana Pakona Combined Cycle Blocks 3-4
Unit: USD Million
Fiscal       Current Price           1992 Price Levei         InreX
Year    F.C.    L.C.   Total     F.C.    LC.    Total   F.C.       LC.
1988                     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   1.163    1.217
1989     1.05    3.09    4.14     1.28    3.62    4.90   1.216    1.172
1990     4.92   14.40   19.32     5.30   16.02   21.32   1.078    1.113
1991                     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   1.036    1.050
1992                     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   1.000    1.000
Total    5.97   17.49   23.46     6.58   19.64   26.22    _         _
Mae Moh Mine Expansion for Units #8-9
Unit: USD Million
Fiscal       Current Price           1992 Price Level         Index
Year    F.C.    L.C.    Total    F.C.    L.C.    Total    F.C.     LC.
1988             1.58    1.58     0.00    1.93    1.93   1.163    1.217
1989             5.13    5.13     0.00    6.01    6.01   1.216    1.172
1990     7.28   20.28   27.56     7.84   22.57   30.41   1.078    1.113
1991    21.37   42.02   63.39    22.14   44.12   66.26   1.036    1.050
1992     5.33   20.11   25.43     5.33   20.11   25.43   1.000    1.000
Total    33.98   89.12  123.10    35.31   94.73  130.04    _
Source: EGAT



- 49 -
Annex 14
ACTUAL INVESTMENT COST OF PROJECT
(Based on Economic Cost Without Taxes and IDC.)
Bana Pakona Combined Cycle Blocks 3-4
Unit: USD Million
Fiscal       Current Price           1992 Price Level         Index
Year    F.C.    L.C.    Total    F.C.    L.C.    Total    F.C.     L.C.
1988     0.02    1.38    1.40      0.02    1.68    1.70   1.163    1.217
1989    37.48   10.40   47.88    45.58   12.19   57.77   1.216      1.172
1990   174.56   46.12  220.68    188.11   51.32  239.42   1.078    1.113
1991    54.06   14.61   68.67    56.01   15.34   71.35   1.036    1.050
1992    10.72    2.91   13.63    10.72    2.91   13.63   1.000      1.000
Total   276.84   75.42  352.26    300.43   83.44  383.87             _
Transmission System for Bana Pakono Combined Cycle Blocks 3-4
_Unit: USD Million
Fiscal       Current Price           1992 Price Level         Index
Year    F.C.    L.C.   Total     F.C.    LC.    Total   F.C.       LC.
1988                     0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   1.163    1.217
1989     1.05    3.09    4.14      1.28    3.62    4.90   1.216    1.172
1990     4.92   14.40   19.32      5.30   16.02   21.32   1.078    1.113
1991                     0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   1.036    1.050
1992                     0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   1.000    1.000
Total    5.97   17.49   23.46      6.58   19.64   26.22    _        _
Mae Moh Mine ExDansion for Units #8-9
Unit: USD Millon
Fiscal       Current Price           1992 Price Level          Index
Year    F.C.    L.C.    Total    F.C.    L.C.    Total    F.C.     LC.
1988             1.58    1.58      0.00    1.93    1.93   1.163    1.217
1989             5.13    5.13      0.00    6.01    6.01   1.216    1.172
1990     7.28   20.28   27.56      7.84   22.57   30.41   1.078    1.113
1991    21.37   42.02   63.39    22.14   44.12   66.26   1.036    1.050
1992     5.33   20.11   25.43      5.33   20.11   25.43   1.000    1.000
Total    33.98   89.12  123.10    35.31   94.73  130.04    _ - 
Source: EGAT



