Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3027 TH
                (Power System Development Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF THAILAND
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated March 31, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3027 TH
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 31,  1989, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND
(the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Guarantor  and  the  Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand (the Borrower),  having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of  the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement, have  requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to ninety million
dollars ($90,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations  of  the  Borrower in respect of such
loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
Page  2
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  General  Conditions and in Section
1.02 of the Loan  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
the  Guarantor  hereby   unconditionally  guarantees,  as  primary
obligor and not as surety merely,  the due and punctual payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium,  if  any,  on  the  prepayment  of  the  Loan and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions  of  Section  2.01  of  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
specifically undertakes,  whenever  there  is  reasonable cause to
believe  that  the  funds  available   to  the  Borrower  will  be
inadequate to meet  the  estimated  expenditures  required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide  the  Borrower or cause the Borrower
to be  provided  with  such  funds  as  are  needed  to  meet such
expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Guarantor shall  from  time  to  time  take  all such measures
(including, without  limitation,  adjustment  of  the structure or
levels of electricity tariffs of  the utilities in the Guarantor's
Electricity Sector) as shall be  required  to produce for the said
Sector as a whole for each fiscal year funds from internal sources
equivalent to not  less  than  25%  of  the  annual average of the
Electricity Sector's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to
be incurred, for that fiscal  year,  the previous fiscal year, and
the next following fiscal year.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, the
Guarantor  shall,  on  the  basis  of  forecasts  prepared  by the
utilities  and  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  the
utilities would meet the  requirements  set forth in paragraph (a)
in respect of such  year  and  the  next following fiscal year and
shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  copy  of  such  review  upon its
completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows  that the Sector would not meet
the requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a) for the fiscal years
covered by such  review,  the  Guarantor  shall  promptly take all
necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
Page  3
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  The sum  of  net  operating  income;  net non-
                    operating income,  all  depreciation and other
                    non-cash operating charges;  and any reduction
                    in working capital other than cash; and
               (B)  The   sum   of   debt   service  requirements;
                    dividends   and   all   remittances   to   the
                    Government excluding  those  taxes or payments
                    in lieu of taxes  which  are deducted from net
                    operating income; other  cash distributions of
                    surplus;  increase  in  working  capital other
                    than cash and  other  cash outflows other than
                    capital   expenditures;   and   major  repairs
                    expenditures,   not    charged   against   net
                    operating income.
         (ii)  The term  "net  operating  income"  means the gross
               revenues from all sources related to the utilities'
               electricity  operations   less   all   expenses  of
               electricity  operations,  including   cost  of  all
               fuels,     administrative     expenses,    adequate
               maintenance and taxes  or  any  payments in lieu of
               taxes, and provision for depreciation. Interest and
               other charges  on  debt  are  not  considered to be
               operating expenses for  the purposes of determining
               net operating income.
        (iii)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to electricity operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
         (iv)  The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities  at  the  end of each
               fiscal year.
          (v)  The term "current assets  excluding cash" means all
               assets other than cash  which could in the ordinary
               course of business  be  converted  into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,  inventories  and  pre-paid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next fiscal year.
         (vi)  The   term   "current    liabilities"   means   all
               liabilities which will  become  due  and payable or
               could under circumstances  then  existing be called
               for  payment   within   twelve   months,  including
               accounts payable,  customer  advances, debt service
               requirements, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
               and dividends.
        (vii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
       (viii)  The   term   "capital   expenditures"   means   all
               expenditures incurred on  account  of fixed assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to operations.
Page  4
         (ix)  The term "electricity operations" shall exclude all
               mining activities of the utilities in the Sector.
     (e)  For the purposes  of  this  Section, the Guarantor shall
provide to the Bank  the  annual consolidated financial statements
for the Electricity Sector,  not  later  than six months after the
close of each fiscal year.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Ministry of Finance
          Bangkok, 10400
          Thailand
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               MINANCE                          82823 FISPOLO TH
               Bangkok
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                     KINGDOM OF THAILAND
                     By /s/ Vitthya Vejjajiva
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  5
