Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19237-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3526-IND)
June 3, 1999
Financial Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
November 1992     $1 = 2000
November 1993     $1 = 2075
November 1994     $1 = 2176
November 1995    $1 = 2283
November 1996     $1 = 2325
November 1997     $1 = 3300
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
BBD      -  Bank Bumi Daya
BDN      -  Bank Dagang Negara
BEII    -  Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia
BI       -  Bank Indonesia
BIS      -  Bank for International Settlements
BNI      -  Bank Negara Indonesia
BRI      -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BTOR   -  Back To Office Report
CAR      -  Capital Adequacy Ratio
FSDP    -  Financial Sector Development Project
GOI    -  Government of Indonesia
IAS         Intemationally Accepted Standards of Accounting Principles
ICR      -  Implementation Completion Report
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
REI      -  Ratio of operating Expenses to operating Income
ROA      -  Return On Assets
ROE      -  Return on Equity
SAR     -  Staff Appraisal Report
SBCSC  -  State Bank Credit Supervision Committee
SCB(s)  -  State Commercial Bark(s)
SECAL  -  Sector Adjustment Loan
TA       -  Technical Assistance
TM       -  Task Manager
Vice President                     Jean-Michel Severino (EAPVP)
Sector Manager                     Jacques Loubert (EASFS)
Country Director                   Dennis deTray (EACIF)
Task Manager                       Giovanni Ferri (EASFS)
Interim Task Manager               Christopher Naab (Consultant)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE                               .........................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .........................................................ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives and Description ..................................................l1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives and Implementation Record .................4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................................8
D. Project Sustainability ....................................................9
E. Bank Performance ..................................................                                   10
F. Borrower Performance ..................................................                               17
G. Assessment of Outcome ..................................................                              17
H. Future Operations ..................................................                                  18
I. Key Lessons Learned ...................................................                               19
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..................................................                       21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...................................................                    22
Table 3: Project Timetable ..................................................                            24
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ........... 24
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................... 24
Table 6A: Project Costs (b) ..................................................                           25
Table 6B: Project Financing ...................................................                          26
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................                   27
Table 8: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................ 28
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................................                   28
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions ...................................................                   28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3526-IND)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial Sector
Development Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 3526-IND in the amount of US$307
million equivalent was approved on November 12, 1992, signed on 23 January, 1993, and
declared effective on April 8, 1993.
2.    The original Closing Date was March 31, 1996, later extended to March 31, 1998.
Cancellation of partial loan proceeds in respect of BBD (US$39.8 million) occurred in
May 1996. Final disbursements were made on April 17, 1997, bringing cumulative total
disbursements to US$226 million and the balance of the Loan (US$41.2 million) was
cancelled on 12 November, 1997.
3.    At the time of its approval in 1992, the FSDP was considered by many to be an
innovative means of addressing perceived problems in the financial sector and, indeed,
might serve as a model to be replicated elsewhere. As the ICR will demonstrate, far from
being a usable model, the project was badly flawed.
4.    An initial draft of the ICR was prepared by Giovanni Ferri, Principal Financial
Economist in the Financial Sector Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Region, with the
assistance of Joseph Del Mar Pemia, Principal Financial Specialist in the Finance &
Private Sector Development Unit of the South Asia Region. This draft was revised and
finalized by Christopher Naab, Consultant, on the basis of comments and inputs by
several of the Bank managers and staff involved in the Project's design and
implementation'. It was reviewed by Mark Baird, Country Director (EACIF), Jacques
Loubert, Sector Manager (EASFS), and Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Program Coordinator
(EACIQ).
5.    The ICR is entirely based on materials in the project's files and on discussion with
Bank staff involved in the project. There was no mission to Indonesia for discussions
with the Government. However, the ICR was submitted to the Borrower for comments in
May 1999. No comments were received.
I  These included Mmes. Marianne Haug, Lily Chu, Esen Ulgenerk and Sit Ramaswami and Messrs. Nicholas Hope, Peter Scherer, Surinder
Malik, Carlos Escudero, Richard Roulier, Lloyd Kenward, Michael Edwards, Khalid Siraj and Thomas Walton. No comments were received
from other line managers responsible for the Project



- ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3526-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    At US$307 million, the Financial Sector Development Project (FSDP) loan was
the largest operation by the IBRD in support of the financial sector of the Republic of
Indonesia. The preliminary work started in April 1989, when the Initial Executive
Project Summary was drafted. The loan was approved in November 1992, signed in
January 1993, and declared effective in April 1993. The project failed to meet its
objectives, the Government (GOI) requested partial cancellation of a portion in May 1996
(US$39.8 million) and the undisbursed balance remaining (US$41.2 million) was
cancelled in November 1997.
Lessons Learned
2.    Several lessons appear from this review of the FSDP stemming from flaws in the
project's design and in the way the Bank supervised its implementation:
(i)   the project was overly ambitious in its goals and unrealistic;
(ii)  as a quick disbursing loan, it was a poor tool to effect institutional
development;
(iii)  by establishing the free-limit to coincide with the maximum sub-loan,
necessary Bank approvals were minimized and effective supervision
impeded;
(iv)  political commitment from the borrower is crucial;
(v)   by not requiring an independent audit by an internationally recognized
audit firm, there was no baseline against which to measure progress;
(vi)  complex financial sector projects, particularly with institutional
development goals, require qualified professionals with hands-on
experience both to design and to monitor them.



- 111-
Project Objectives
3.     The FSDP aimed to strengthen some of the major players of the Indonesian
banking sector: the five State Commercial Banks (SCBs2), which, until the late 1980s,
carried out the bulk of commercial banking in Indonesia. The project also intended to
assist in the development of an efficient, stable and sound financial sector by
strengthening the prudential banking regulations and improving the supervisory skills of
the central Bank, Bank Indonesia (BI). The capital base of the SCBs had been
progressively weakened by a number of factors: relatively poor performance; payment of
45 percent of the SCBs' after-tax profits to the Government of Indonesia (GOI); and the
impossibility of raising equity capital on the market due to existing GOI restrictions on
their activities. Partly for these reasons and the GOI's financial liberalization program of
the 1980s and early 1990s, the SCBs had lost a sizable share of the banking market. As
early as 1989 and certainly by the beginning of 1991, when Bank Indonesia (BI) and the
GOI decided to enforce the BIS capital asset ratio (CAR), it was clear that the SCBs
would need to be re-capitalized in order to meet the new CAR.
4.     The primary objective of the FSDP was to assist the GOI in changing past
practices in the financial system in which many of the benefits of state banking lending
were accruing to a few influential business groups3. It was the Bank's intent that the
FSDP would at least diminish the existing privileged relationship between the SCBs and
a relatively small number of industrial group borrowers, and, thereby, lead to a significant
improvement in the efficiency of resource allocation in Indonesia and the promotion of
competition in the real sector. In pursuit of this goal, the project comprised three (3)
components: (i) a line of credit to each of the SCBs for onlending purposes; (ii)
recapitalization of the five SCBs; and, (iii) technical assistance to the Bank Indonesia.
5.     The FSDP was structured in such a way that the bulk (US$300 million) would be
onlent by GOI to the SCBs in the form of a credit line for the provision of sub-loans to
private enterprises to carry out investment projects. In order to partially re-capitalize the
SCBs, the GOI would then periodically convert this debt into equity. With the exception
of the first tranche of US$100 million, which was disbursed upon Effectiveness,
disbursement of the tranches of the credit line to any SCB (and the subsequent conversion
of debt into equity) were to take place only after: a) an independent audit of each SCB's
loan portfolio, and b) compliance of each SCB with an agreed Plan of Action4 directed to
2   Bank Bumi Daya (BBD), Bank Dagang Negara (BDN), Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (BEII), Bank Negara
Indonesia (BNI), and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI).
3   SAR, paragraph 3.2.
4   The form and content of the Plans of Action were discussed and agreed upon at loan negotiations. They were
based on the deficiencies identified in Bl's asset quality reviews for each SCB and included "timebound
programs for improving the quality of earning assets, compliance with legal lending limits for individual and
group exposures, and other measures for the improvement in the financial position and overall efficiency" of the
SCBs. Compliance with the annual targets set out in these Plans of Action was a precondition for disbursements
to each SCB and to the periodic conversion of debt to equity.



- iv-
increase the quality of the portfolio and adhere to legal lending limits. The remaining
costs of the recapitalization of the SCBs were to have been met through the application of
estimated additional retained eamings available to the banks (GOI would no longer
demand payment of 45% of the SCBs' after-tax profits), the increased loss provisioning
envisioned, and the conversion of existing and future long-term official debt consisting of
the completed and ongoing financial intermediary lending operations financed by bi- and
multilateral agencies (the Bank, the ADB, the Export-Import Bank of Japan and the
Nordic Investment Bank).
6.    The credit line was accompanied by technical assistance to BI designed to
continue initiatives which had commenced during project preparation (under PPFs
totaling US$1 million) to improve existing systems and/or design new ones for bank
supervision and credit information, and to train BI staff to implement effectively these
systems. A precondition for success was the continued strong backing for the project by
GOI.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.   It became'necessary to amend the FSDP agreement quite soon after approval, due
to the other bi- and multilateral agencies' failure to agree to the plan for the debt/equity
conversion. Also, it had become apparent as early as December 1992 that the SCBs were
in worse condition than had been assumed at the time of loan negotiations. Because of
budgetary constraints, the GOI felt unable to compensate for the resulting shortfall in Tier
I capital by increasing its capital injections over the planned horizon as required by the
Loan Agreement. In the amended Loan, at GOI's request, the Bank also agreed to
reallocate US$1.5 million from the line of credit component to provide TA to the State
Bank Credit Supervision Committee (SBCSC), a new agency created by GOI in mid-
1993 to review and advise on the issue of the collections of classified5 debt at the SCBs.
8.    Neither the initial nor subsequent examinations of SCBs' portfolio were
performed by an independent internationally recognized agency. In accordance with the
loan agreement, these functions (examination and review of compliance with Plans of
Actions) were instead entrusted to BI. It was assumed that the technical assistance
component would increase BI's abilities to do this but the TA failed to adequately
strengthen BI's bank supervision, improve its credit information systems and increase
staff skills within the time allocated.
9.    Only two of the five SCBs (BNI and BEII) remained in compliance with their
Plans of Actions by the end of 1995 and were allowed to "graduate" from the project,
xeceiving virtually the entire amounts allocated for them under the Loan. BDN and BRI
received only partial disbursement of the credit line pertaining to them, due to the tighter-
standards applied to sub-loan approval late in the project. In 1996, when it was
s  Substandard, doubtful or loss.



- v.-
recognized that the last bank (BBD), would not come up with an acceptable Plan of
Actions, the bank, which had been eligible for the first tranche only, was dropped from
the FSDP6. Only $226 million of the original US$307 million was disbursed. The
remaining $81 million was canceled.
10.   Despite these difficulties, the FSDP was rated at least partially satisfactory until
November 1995. Thereafter, the rating was revised to unsatisfactory as questions of
viability emerged for all the SCBs, even the two (BNI and BEII) which had "graduated"
from the project.
12.    The SCBs' appraisal of the sub-loans (and the sub-loans' performance) was, by
and large, substandard and a thorough review undertaken during the mid-1996
supervision of the project, found that many were of poor quality, and had been even
before submission to the IBRD for disbursement approval. Worries also emerged at this
time regarding the environmental impact of some of the projects financed by the sub-
loans in the FSDP, raising concerns about the compliance with accepted environmental
standards.
13.   In short, the FSDP did not prove effective in attaining its objectives. Prudential
banking regulations were strengthened only in theory, since their enforcement was not
strengthened at the same time. The strengthening of BI's bank supervision, and the
improvement of credit information  systems and  staff skills were unsatisfactory.
Competitiveness and efficiency of the SCBs did not improve significantly. And, it does
not appear that the relationship between the SCBs and a relatively small number of
industrial group borrowers was de-linked in any major way.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.   The FSDP is a case of ambitious objectives coupled with weak (or unenforceable)
conditions7, poor implementation and, at least initially, unsatisfactory supervision by the
Bank. The recent economic crisis confirms how important it would have been to improve
the efficiency of resource allocation in Indonesia. Nevertheless, it is difficult to envisage
how such an objective could be attained through the FSDP without real political
commitment at the highest levels. The Bank counted on the continued support of the
GOI's economic team and failed to recognize the extent of the risks involved to the
project if that support were to diminish. With full Government commitment and
implementation of the plan8 to increase private sector ownership of the SCBs, it might
have been possible (although unlikely within the given time frame) to achieve the
i  The Amended Loan provided for each of the five SCBs to receive up to US$59,700,000. In fact, the Bank
approved US$ 58.65 million in sub-loans ior BNI and US$ 57.68 million in sub-loans for BEII. The other'
disbursements (by bank) were: BDN - $ 45.51 million; BRI - $ 39.88 million; and BBD - $ 19.89 million.
7   Basically, the conditionality rested on the adequacy of the SCB's Plans of Actions. However, since the base
information on which these were founded was doubtful, the conditions were weak.
8   SAR, paragraph 1.50.



- vi-
project's goals. Without these, it is difficult to see how the FSDP could expand the
autonomy of SCBs' management or, more generally, strengthen the corporate governance
of the SCBs.
15.   The decision to use a credit line instead of a SECAL made it harder to impose
what conditionality there was. Indeed, the incentives were perverse. SCBs were
motivated to lend in order to obtain capital injections they were not contributing to
generate. This provided no stimulus for the SCBs to intensify screening and monitoring
of borrowers. Further, the supervision department of BI was relatively weak and needed
strengthening through the TA component. Assigning the task of examining the SCBs'
performance to BI rather than to an internationally recognized firm was unfortunate. It
would seem unrealistic to hold BI completely safe from domestic interested pressures.
16.   A further weakness can be found in the Bank's management of the FSDP.
Considering the conditions attached to the Loan, much of the burden for the good
performance of the FSDP was placed on supervision. Supervision of the FSDP, however,
was imperfect. The initial TM is replaced soon after the loan approval and insufficient
resources (budget and skills) were allocated to effectively monitor a complicated project's
implementation. Finally, while the BI's choice to use a group of individuals rather than a
firm as TA providers might partly explain the relative failure of the TA component, the
turnover of the TMs may also have led to a lack of continuity in the directions from Bank
management, lessening the effectiveness of the inputs involved.
17.   Contrary to what had been presumed, the three other bi- and multilateral agencies
involved did not agree to the plan for the debt/equity conversion. This would seem to
indicate an unsatisfactory coordination between the IBRD and these agencies, despite
claims that relations between them and the RSI were quite close. Certainly, it was a
prime factor leading to the early amendment of the FSDP in December 1993.
18.   Finally, the timeliness of self-correcting actions undertaken by the Bank, was
deficient. As early as the October 1993 supervision mission (prior to the signature of the
Amending Loan documents), there were concerns expressed about: (i) the effectiveness
of the TA component; (ii) the fact that serious problems were almost immediately
apparent at least one of the SCBs (BBD); and (iii) indications of non-compliance with the
agreed Plan of Actions in a second (BRI). Nonetheless, a full admission of the state of
poor performance of the FSDP did not occur until mid-1996, almost four years into the
project and possibly a long time since the first signals of unsatisfactory trends should
have been detected. Yet, even after the state of the project was fully realized, it took
nearly two more years to close the FSDP.



INDONESIA
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3526-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    Through the FSDP, the Bank's aim was to strengthen Indonesia's financial sector
by assisting with the reform and upgrade of the five State Commercial Banks: Bank Bumi
Daya (BBD), Bank Dagang Negara (BDN), Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (BEll), Bank
Negara Indonesia (BNI), and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Traditionally representing
the bulk of commercial banking in Indonesia, the SCBs had lost a sizable share of the
market following the financial liberalization of the 1980s and early 1990s. Between the
end of 1982 and November 1991 the market share of the SCBs had declined from 75 to
45 percent of total assets of the Indonesian system of commercial banks. In the face of
growing competition from private banks, the SCBs were characterized by relatively poor
economic performance when proper deductions for the heavy burden of non-performing
loans were applied. In addition, the payment of 45 percent of after-tax profits to the GOI
had limited the SCBs' ability to maintain adequate capitalization. Nor was it possible for
SCBs to raise capital on the market, given the fact that they were not incorporated as
stock companies'. It was apparent that they needed heavy recapitalization in order to
comply with the BIS Capital Asset Ratios (CAR) which Bank Indonesia and the GOI
required under the revised prudential regulations issued in February 1991. Within the
Bank, intervention to re-capitalize the SCBs was seen as a unique opportunity to correct
some of the important distortions in the allocation of credit in the country, thereby
increasing the efficiency and soundness of the financial system in Indonesia2. It was also
seen as a necessary precursor to the eventual privatization (at least in part) of the SCBs.
2.    The primary objective of the FSDP was "to assist the GOI in changing past
practices in the financial system regarding credit allocation that have handicapped
competitive forces not only in the financial sector, but also in the real sector." The
underlying motive of this objective was to cut the existing privileged relationship
between the SCBs and a relatively small number of "politically connected" borrowers,
thereby leading to a significant improvement in the efficiency of resource allocation in
As agreed during loan negotiations, the five participating SCBs were reformulated as limited liability companies
on July 31, 1992.
2   The Implementation Completion Report on the Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 3040-IND) demonstrates
that, when the FSDP came into effect, the IBRD had just experienced the highly unsatisfactory repayment rates
on the part of sub-loans in that project channeled through four of the SCBs. The event provided a record of the
poor credit allocation at SCBs. The high level of non-performing loans at BAPTNDO was also a matter of
concern.



- 2 -
Indonesia and promoting competition in the real sector.' In order to achieve this goal, it
was the intent of the FSDP to assist GOI in: i) strengthening prudential banking
regulations; ii) enforcing prudential regulations by strengthening BI's bank supervision,
and  improving  credit information  systems  and  staff skills;   iii) promoting  the
competitiveness and efficiency of the SCBs by subjecting them to the same rules as the
private sector.4
3.      To achieve the above objectives, the project consisted of an investment credit
component and a technical assistance (TA) component. The investment credit component
(US$300 million) accounted for almost 98 percent of the Bank loan. Although the loan
was made to the GOI, it was managed as a line of credit to the SCBs for the provision of
sub-loans to private enterprises for the carrying out of investment projects. In order to re-
capitalize the SCBs, the GOI would then convert this debt into equity. Disbursement of
the tranches of the credit line to any participating SCB and the subsequent conversion of
debt into equity would, however, take place only after meeting two preliminary steps.
First, an independent audit of SCBs' loans should assess the quality of the portfolio in
terms of its performance, using internationally accepted principles on asset classification
and loan loss provisioning, the BIS guidelines on minimum capital requirements, and
other prudential regulations of BI, e.g., legal lending limits. Second, based on the
independent examination of the status of each of the participating banks, a Plan of
Actions would be identified for each SCB specifying time-bound programs for improving
the quality of assets, bringing the SCBs into compliance with the legal lending limits for
individual and group exposures, improving the security of collateral, updating financial
information on borrowers, improving credit policies and lending procedures, and
identifying other measures for improvements in the SCBs' efficiency. This was a crucial
aspect of the project since, for each of the SCBs, compliance with the Plan of Actions
and, by inference steady improvement, would be a precondition for disbursement and for
3   It is useful to draw some excerpts from the SAR:
a) the FSDP "...supports the GOI's objective of enhancing the efficiency of resource allocation in the
banking sector which requires changing the past practices in credit allocation that have handicapped competitive
forces not only in the financial sector itself, but in the real sector as well (p. iii)";
b) the FSDP "... should, by de-linking the relationship that now exists between the SCBs and a relatively
srall number of borrowers, lead to a significant improvement in the efficiency of resource allocation in
Indonesia ... The changes in the incentives faced by SCBs' management should curb economic concentration
(by subjecting conglomerates to constraints imposed by the legal lending limits and by holding management
responsible for performance) and should also promote competition in the real sector (p. 22)";
c) "...existing weaknesses have resulted in unequal access to credit and thus de facto limited competition in
the real sector of the economy, with many of the benefits of deregulation accruing to a few influential business
groups (p. 30)";
d) "All five SCBs were found to be in violation of legal lending limits. Some SCBs had allowed-
concentration of exposures to a small number of influential business groups to develop beyond prudential limits,
without adequate collateral and/or proper scrutiny of the borrowers and their projects (pp. 46-7)."
4    The Initial Executive Project Summary (IEPS) drafted in early 1990, the project had two additional objectives: a)
deepening the money market; b) further development of the capital market. These objectives were then dropped
from the FSDP, largely because other donors were discussing ways to address them with GOI.



- 3 -
conversion of debt into equity.5 Furthermore, a major burden for the recapitalization of
the SCBs was to be borne by the GOI via waiving the usual appropriation of 45 percent
of the SCBs' after-tax profits, and the debt/equity conversion by the GOI under the FSDP
would be accompanied by similar equity conversions on other lending operations
financed by bi- and multilateral agencies (i.e., ADB, Export-Import Bank of Japan and
the Nordic Investment Bank).
4.     Despite its relatively small monetary size in relation to the overall loan, the
technical assistance component (US$7 million) was considered a crucial segment of the
FSDP6. It was designed to provide assistance to BI and had two specific aims: i) to
improve existing systems and/or design new ones for bank supervision and credit
information, and ii) to train BI staff to implement effectively these systems. These aims
were to be achieved through the provision of 344 months of consultants' inputs on three
broad fronts:
(a)    a resident team  of banking  specialists to  cover priority  areas  of
supervision. The team was to be composed of experts with extensive
banking supervision backgrounds, experience in on-site examinations, off-
site surveillance, the financial analysis of banks and techniques of
supervising problem banks;
(b)    training courses and seminars (in Indonesia) to train BI bank supervision
staff to be organized and presented by the consultants with the cooperation
of such foreign agencies as the Bank of England and the US Federal
Reserve Board; and
(c)    secondment of BI staff, for both  classroom  training  and  practical
attachments, to major foreign banking supervision agencies.
5.     The FSDP significantly differed from  most previous financial sector loans to
Indonesia.   Typically, such previous loans were predominantly  aimed  at directly
providing a better access for small firms to credit (like the Small and Medium Sized
Enterprise Project; Loan No. 3041-IND, or the Industrial Restructuring Project; Loan No.
3040-IND) or for firns in general to export credit (like the two earlier export
development projects; Loans 3041-IND and 2979-IND). FSDP, on the other hand,
addressed the needs for the general strengthening (including recapitalization) of the major
players in the Indonesian banking market (the five SCBs). The IBRD, as expressed in the
SAR, deemed that supporting the SCBs would be a promising strategy in as much as this
could lead to the imposition of conditions to disentangle these banks from the
concentration of their lending to a few "politically connected" borrowers. In this respect,
5 The Plans of Action included "... time-bound programs for improving the quality of earning assets, compliance-
with legal lending limits for individual and group exposures, and other measures for improvements in the
financial position and overall efficiency ... Adoption of these agreed Plans of Action by the SCBs' respective
Boards of Directors would be a condition for loan effectiveness (SAR, p. 47)".
6   One of the senior Bank managers in the Region at the time stated, "From the view point of longer-term
improvement in the financial system, the technical assistance to BI was the most important part of the loan."



-4 -
the FSDP was a departure from previous interventions in the sector in another way. As
the Department Director wrote in Jume 1992, "the proposed loan is at variance with
previous Bank lending practices in Indonesia by introducing, for the first time,
conditionality for phased disbursements."
6.    While the project's ambitious objective addressed the important need for reform
in the allocation of financial resources in Indonesia, the design of the project was
grounded on what, in hindsight, appears to have been weak foundations. In particular, the
FSDP gave BI the delicate task of performing the independent evaluations of the SCBs'
portfolios and of their ongoing compliance with the Plans of Action. Yet it was agreed
that considerable additional technical assistance (the TA component) was required to
strengthen the capacity of BI to enforce banking regulation and provide adequate
supervision to the SCBs. But this TA was only to be carried out over the life of the
project. Furthermore, the FSDP was based upon the presumption of a strong political
commitment to SCB reform by GOI, which, it was thought, would continue to firmly
back the project during implementation. It was assumed that such commitment would
guarantee that autonomy and market incentives would be provided to SCBs' management
even in the absence of a full-fledged privatization. However, sufficient conditions were
not built into the FSDP to ensure the project's effectiveness should such political
commitment be waning. Indeed, it is unlikely that any such conditionality could have
been designed or, if it were, been acceptable to the Indonesians.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
Strengthening BI's supervision, credit information systems and staff skills
7.    The TA component. FSDP assigned BI the crucial role of conducting both the
initial independent audit of the SCBs' loans as well as evaluating the compliance of each
SCB with its own Plan of Action for improving the quality of assets, particularly via the
enforcement of the legal lending limits for individual and group exposure. At the same
time, however, it was recognized that BI needed technical assistance in order to make its
supervision more effective. In particular, it was deemed necessary to improve BI's credit
information systems and staff skills. Yet, in spite of the limited success of previous TA
programs to BI, the risk that BI might be reluctant to fully accept or participate in the TA
program was underestimated. In this regard, the Bank had identified problems in the
delivery of TA to BI and the performance of consultants during the preparatory phase of
the project. The Bank's efforts to address these issues at the time were unsuccessful.
This could, indeed, have lessened BI's responsiveness to the TA under the project.
According to the available records and to reports by Bank staff and consultants involved,
.31 assumed a passive attitude toward the TA component. As early as October 1993, the
Task Manager noted that the TA being provided might well be unsustainable. The
experts in the technical assistance team. were often provided office space in locations
remote from the department that should have received the assistance and interactions
between the members of the team and BI officials were limited, occasionally leading to
tensions and misunderstandings. BI did not seem to feel ownership of the program. This



-5 -
may have been one reason why BI showed no enthusiasm for the TA team being involved
in reshaping its operational guidelines and procedures, as if the TA were a condition in
the FSDP that should be tolerated but did not deserve full commitment'. As a result,
although there was some improvement in information systems and in the development of
the early warning systems, BI did not avail itself of the two manuals developed under the
TA respectively for supervision training and for EDP auditing or of much of the advice
provided by the TA consultants. Thus, the strengthening achieved under the TA was
limited and, overall, this constituted a major weakness in light of the major role FSDP
assigned to BI.
8.     Another issue which may well have had a bearing on the effectiveness of the TA
provided was the structure of the TA team. There are indications that, as originally
conceived during preparation, the TA would have been carried out by a team provided by
a reputable firm. However, this management plan was not acceptable to BI, which
insisted on employing individual, short term experts. Therefore, while one of the
consultants was designated as having "coordinating" functions, there was little cohesion
in the team.
Promoting the competitiveness and efficiency of the SCBs
9.     A General Assessment.  Promoting the competitiveness and efficiency of the
SCBs by subjecting them to the same rules as the private sector was one of the aims of
the FSDP. There was a general agreement (on the part of the Bank's management and
staff) that a significant improvement in the efficiency of the SCBs could derive from the
application of market strictures.  One step in making the SCBs more reactive to
competitive stimuli, it was decided, was the transformation of the legal status of SCBs
into limited liability companies (PERSEROs). Passage of legislation to this effect would
also represent a necessary pre-condition for the SCBs to be able to subsequently sell
shares to the public, although, according to the law, the GOI's share in each SCB's capital
could not decrease below 51 percent. It was believed that making the participating banks
PERSEROs , and subjecting them to more market discipline, would provide the
management of the SCBs with the right incentives to seek efficiency and profitability.
An examination of the income statements between 1993 and 1996 indicates
improvements in SCBs' performance in some cases but these were modest, particularly
when reviewed in light of the two most widely used indicators: the return on assets
(ROA) and the ratio of operating expenses to operating income (REI5). Moreover, in
view of the findings of supervision missions which questioned the SCBs' methods for the
BI 's perception (and reception) of the TA could also have been colored by the poor behavior of the initial
"coordinator". This person, seconded by the Bank to BI, had been an experienced bank regulator prior to joining
the Bank. While in Jakarta, his personal conduct caused his removal and may have further soured BI on TA.
8   ROA is a common measure of profitability. REI provides instead a rough measure of efficiency: the more the
bank is efficient, the higher the operating income it will be able to generate out of a given amount of operating
expenses (i.e. the lower the REI).



- 6 -
treatment of classified loans, The SCBs' reported profits for that period are somewhat
suspect.
10.    Compliance with the Plans of Action. Only two of the five SCBs (BNI and BEII)
appeared to substantially comply with their Plans of Actions -specifying targets for
meeting legal lending limits, capital adequacy and classified asset ratios- by December
31, 1994, on the original project schedule. Though not fully respecting the parameters in
the Plan of Actions (expanding its assets slightly beyond the agreed limit, having a capital
adequacy ratio just below the target and a classified asset ratio slightly above the target),
BNI was the soundest among the SCBs, with a classified asset ratio at one third of the
others' or below. BRI came relatively close to compliance with its Plan of Actions, but
BDN performed less well and BBD was the worst (Table A). Although the classified
asset ratio appears to have improved substantially at most of these banks according to the
reviews carried out by BI, doubts were cast on such improvement by the Bank's
supervision missions and especially by the supervision mission carried out in August
19969.
Table A                Compliance with Agreed Plans of Actions
(as reported by BI)
Bank         Date                  Growth of Risk       Capital       Classified   Lending Limit
Weighted Assets     Adequacy      Asset Ratio     Violations
Ratio
BNI            Dec 94      Plan            10.67%            9.43%          4.33%          None
Reported        13.01%            9.21%          5.03%          None
BEII           Dec 94      Plan            17.49%            11.95%         16.65%         None
Reported        12.22%            12.47%         14.90%         None
BRI            Mar 95    Plan              10.80%            6.73%          13.86%       1 violation
Reported         7.03%            9.30%          16.10%         None
BDN            Mar 95    Plan               0.00%            9.59%          16.92%         None
Reported        - 1.19%           13.04%         18.39%         None
BBD            Mar 95    Plan               0.00%            9.97%         20.20%          None
Reported         1.55%            10.19%        33.00%        8 violations
11.    These doubts centered on the reliability of BI's reviews and its application of BIS
and internationally accepted accounting principles (IAS) in performing them. As early as
October 1994, the TM expressed concerns about the real state of the capitalization of
some of the SCBs (BRI, BDN and BEII) should true BIS standards be applied. In mid-
9   This BTOR for the 1996 mission states: "Although the preliminary action plan reviews and other statistics from
the SCBs indicate that classified loans are improving, the review of sub-loans indicated that this did not
necessarily reflect improved collection of bad loans. Instead, all five of the participating SCBs have in recent
years renegotiated and restructured many loans without significant improvement in the borrower's operational
capacity or ultimate ability to repay the debt." (p. 2).



- 7 -
1995, the supervision mission noted that BDN's "performance is so impressive that one is
forced to ask the question whether the reduction is real or has been achieved through
'window  dressing"0."   Several questions were raised concerning BI's review  of
compliance with the Plans of Actions of the only two banks remaining active in the
project (BDN and BRI) in March 1996". These included how BI was carrying out its
reviews, the extent of coverage of each bank's portfolio and whether BI was applying true
LAS.
12.   The Plans of Actions were the most important facet of the Bank's conditionality.
Indeed, the Project Agreements reflected this fact in the requirement that BI would
"supervise the implementation by each Participating Bank of its Plan of Actions..." and
would "promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens.. .the
carrying out by each Participating Bank of its Plan of Actions...." Similarly, each of the
SCBs was required to "carry out its Plan of Actions, including implementing the remedial
measures that BI may require it to take for such purposes...." This conditionality was
based on the assumptions that: (i) BI had (or would have) sufficient internationally
acceptable prudential regulations in place; (ii) BI was in a position to impose compliance
with such regulations on the SCBs; and, (iii) that BI's staff was (or would be) competent
to carry out the supervision required to verify the SCBs compliance with the agreed Plans
of Actions. By implication, it also assumed that the Bank would require appropriate IAS
to be applied. It is not clear that any of these assumptions were well grounded. Indeed,
as one respondent put it, "(a) the numbers were flawed, (b) therefore, we had no reliable
base-line of information, and (c) there was no reliable tracking of performance." Thus,
the project's use of the Plans of Actions as a basis for monitoring the improvement of the
SCBs, was seriously deficient.
13.   Performance of the Sub-loans. According to several of the senior staff who were
involved in the project's design and processing, supervision of the sub-loan portfolio was
not an objective under the FSDP because the sub-loans were perceived, as one respondent
put it, "really a vehicle for channeling funds for the recapitalization of the SCBs."I2
When a critical review of the quality of the sub-loans was undertaken in August 1996, the
performance of a sample of sub-loans financed through the FSDP was weak. At each of
the five SCBs, 25 percent or more of the sample of banks' sub-loans was classified by the
SCBs themselves as substandard, doubtful or loss. World Bank staff felt even this figure
was too low as the process of classifying the sub-loans appeared to be too lenient and the
resulting perception of improvement in classified loans could even be damaging to the
performance of SCBs. In fact, this tendency was not the result of improved collection of
bad loans but rather of the fact that many loans were restructured in a way that actually
10  During this mission, the TM, in discussions with MOF, raised the possibility of requiring all of the SCBs to
provide cash flow statements and projections. There does not appear to have been any follow up action on this
suggestion.
l  BNI and BEII had, by then, graduated and BBD was in the process of withdrawing.
12  Several of the respondents made similar oral or written statements, indicating that this view was prevalent.



- 8 -
weakened the banks' profitability and/or cash flow. In particular, SCBs extended
concessionary rates on restructured loans and this was a major cause for the decline in
these banks' net interest margin. It was also found that the quality of many of the sub-
loans was already poor at the time of submission to the World Bank for financing under
the FSDP. For instance, some sub-loans were to borrowers or for projects that were
substandard at the time of submission; other sub-loans were for projects which should
have been on the negative list (of activities that could not be financed under the FSDP) or
had environmental problems; other sub-loans were made in violation of what the FSDP
prescribed (e.g. making working capital loans whereas loans should have been only for
investment; loans with a sub-borrower contribution below the prescribed 30 percent).
Cutting privileged relationships between SCBs and politically connected borrowers
14.   The August 1996 Supervisory Mission found that the management of large and
corporate/group relationships at SCBs was unsatisfactory. Although the BTOR made no
specific assessment of the situation in terms of respect of the legal lending limits, it
reported clear-cut indications that management of these loans was still poor.  In
particular, an account profitability analysis was lacking on large and corporate/group
relationships and actions to deal with problem  loans were inadequate.  First, the
qualitative judgment of the borrower's underlying repayment capability was a minimal
factor in classifying a loan, and loans were classified only after the borrower had used the
available credit limits. Second, the majority of the classified loans were renegotiated
with the borrower at favorable conditions: i) the loans were restructured such that
repayment was renegotiated and extended at lower interest rates; ii) interest due was
converted into a loan at concessional interest rate; iii) grace periods were extended
further; iv) debt/equity swaps were used to offset the loss of the interest stream; v)
additional lending was provided to refinance the existing overdue amounts. According to
the above report, SCBs were still "... very reluctant to impose financial discipline on
their large and influential corporate borrowers (Attachment 5, p. 3)" either because they
were unwilling or because they were unable to do so. Thus, the project's stated goal of
delinking the relationship which existed between the SCBs and a relatively small group
of industrial group borrowers"3 appears to have achieved minimal, if any, success.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.   In spite of its lengthy preparatory process, it was quickly realized (in January
1993, before the Loan was signed) that the FSDP agreement would require substantial
amendment in order to deal with fuirther deterioration of the SCB's positions and other
issues. Contrary to what had been assumed, the other bi- and multilateral agencies
involved did not accede to the plan for the debt/equity conversion, leaving a financing
13 SAR, paragraph 3.45.



- 9 -
gap of almost one trillion Rupiah."4 Because of budgetary constraints, the GOI felt unable
to compensate for the shortfall by increasing its capital injections over the planned time
horizon and it was agreed to extend the deadline by which SCBs were to meet the Capital
Adequacy Ratio from December 1994 to December 1995.
16.   Soon after the loan became effective (April 1993), the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
established a new State Bank Credit Supervision Committee (SBCSC) that was not
envisaged in the preparatory work for the FSDP. Its creation was an indication of the
MOF's commitment to address the problem of bad debts at SCBs'5. In particular,
SBCSC was to advise SCBs on measures to improve their collections of existing bad
debts and it was thought that the SBCSC could be particularly important for the recovery
of non-performing loans by politically powerful defaulters, on whom SCBs' managers
would have little leverage. In spite of MOF's good intentions, the subsequent experience
under the project (see above) proves that the initiative was not particularly successful.
Although, at GOI's request, the Bank agreed to include fumding (US$1.5 million) for TA
to the SCBs to aid the work of the SBCSC and drafted terms of reference, the BTO from
the April 1994 supervision mission noted that the MOF felt that additional TA at that
point might disrupt the Indonesian teams working in the banks. Indeed, the supervision
mission in November 1994 noted that the MOF had seemed to "lose interest" in the TA.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   The sustainability of the project must be rated low. The primary objective was to
"assist the GOI in changing past practices in the financial system  regarding credit
allocation that have handicapped competitive forces not only in the financial sector, but
also in the real sector." This was to have been achieved, in part, through promoting the
competitiveness of the SCBs by subjecting them to the same rules as the private sector.
The objective was substantially unmet by the project. The limited progress which was
realized was mostly limited to BNI and BRI. For these two banks, it appears that the
improvement attained in terms of improved profitability and efficiency has been
sustainable to some extent. A signal of this is the following. In January 1996 Moody's
assigned all five SCBs the same rating (Bal) for long term deposits. After the emergence
of the economic crisis in the fall of 1997, those ratings were repeatedly downgraded but
the downgrading has so far stopped at Caa3 (8 notches down) for BNI and BRI and has
gone as far as Ca (9 notches down) for the other three SCBs.
18.   With regard to the other two objectives (strengthening prudential banking
regulations and enforcing prudential regulations by strengthening BI's bank supervision,
and improving credit information systems and staff skills), there was also little
14  As December 31, 1991 non-IBRD official multi/bilateral lending operations channeled to SCBs through GOI
amounted respectively to 165.47 billion Rp for ADB, to 734.90 billion Rp for Export-Import Bank of Japan and
to 69.54 billion Rp for the Nordic Investment Bank.
15  While the MOF's commitment was real, there is a good possibility that the SBCSC was seen by BI to be an
intrusion on its supervisory territory.



- 10-
achievement. The limited progress that was made in terms of improving information
systems and the early warning systems at BI might be sustainable (if adequately
supported) and could provide a basis on which to build further. However, the objectives
dealing with improved overall supervision of the SCBs and capacity building at BI were
not achieved on the scale envisaged and, thus cannot be considered sustainable.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
19.   Preparation and Appraisal. As noted above, the gestation period for FSDP was
quite long. The Initial Executive Project Summary was drafted in April 1989, four years
before the loan became effective. The preparatory work required various missions to
Indonesia. Between the Preparation Mission (5/27-6/13 1990) and the Preappraisal
Mission (10/14-11/11 990) two of the original objectives of the project -- deepening the
money market and further development of the capital market -- were relinquished since
the GOI was to address them via other partnerships"6. With the involvement of two credit
experts under TOR designed by the World Bank (and employed by BI under a Project
Preparation Facility [PPF] agreed during preparation), the reviews of the SCBs' loan
portfolio were performed between February and September 1991 in the expectation that
the loan would be approved by end 1991. However, since the appraisal process took
longer than expected, a new assessment of SCBs' loan quality was done on the situation
as of March 1992, but this time the assessment took the form of an asset quality review
performed internally by each SCB.  While the lack of involvement of external
independent parties at this stage proved to be a major, perhaps critical, weakness in the
design of the project was its use of government auditors rather than internationally
recognized independent firms. The result was that, while a baseline review of the SCBs'
actual state was carried out, its results are questionable because there was no involvement
by external auditors.
20.   At the time of project processing (1989 - 1992), the close relationship between
Indonesia and the Bank was a successful collaboration, which had served to reduce
overall poverty and assist with Indonesia's rapid development. In retrospect, it may have
been this very relationship (and the desire of the Bank to maintain it) which led the Bank
to use the project as designed as a means to address perceived problems in the banking
sector. An important question is why the Bank thought that the SCBs could effectively
work out billions of worth of non-performing loans in a relatively short span of time.
Another question is why the Bank, whose purpose was to assist GOI in strengthening and
re-capitalizing the SCBs, (which many considered inefficient and possibly corrupt) would
adopt the idea of using the sub-loans as an important component in the financing of the
SCBs' re-capitalization (i.e., lending to create equity). The answer to the former lies in
the reliance that the Bank put in the commitment of senior officials at the Ministry of
Finance. While there is evidence that this commitment was real, there is less to-
substantiate the support of BI. The response to the latter is that, by creating a two-step
16 With the IMF, USAID and the ADB.



- 11 -
process for lending as a means of channeling funds for the recapitalization of the SCBs,
the Bank was able to give the impression that the project would provide more stringent
control over the use of the funds onlent than it was really intended to. The decision to set
the free-limit and maximum sub-loan size at US$3 million, and thereby not reviewing the
credit worthiness of proposed borrowers, was a tacit admission that the loan would be
treated in much the same way as a SECAL. Despite this, the use of conditionality,
ineffective as it turned out to be, was considered to be a bold step forward in the Bank's
relations with GOI in the sector and the project's design was thought to be the most
appropriate method of addressing the identified shortcomings in Indonesia's financial
sector at the moment. Indeed, the project design was held to be extremely innovative,
perhaps a model that would be frequently replicated.
21.   Another important area in which the project design was flawed was ensuring
appropriate environmental management of the sub-loans to be made by the SCBs. As a
result, during implementation, insufficient regard was paid to safeguarding the
environment. The Bank accepted without verification written statements by the SCBs
certifying that prospective subprojects would comply with GOI environmental
regulations. SCBs were required to monitor subproject implementation for adherence to
environmental standards, despite their lack of capacity for such monitoring. The project's
negative list did not address environmental concerns and the high free-limit discouraged
Bank review of loan applications and related environmental documents. Given the
existing concerns within the Bank on environmental issues in Indonesia, the failure to
enforce the environmental safeguards that would normally have been applied in a loan of
this type was a serious fault.
22.   With regard to the TA component of the project, despite some issues which were
raised concerning the effectiveness of the existing TA being provided to BI, the decision
was taken to continue with the model of individual consultants reporting to BI through a
Technical Assistance Coordinator. There is mention of the possibility of using a firm to
provide the TA and manage the consultants in the files but, either because of the
perceived extra costs or other reasons, this was rejected. The files do not indicate
whether, in designing the TA component, the question of whether BI (or GOI) really
wanted TA or, if they did, what kind, was ever really investigated. An alternative method
of addressing the TA needs, one that was not chosen, would have been to offer the
technical assistance directly to the SCBs in order to upgrade their credit management
systems. This course may have been rejected by the project's designers on the basis that
the SCBs had, over recent years, received millions of dollars in TA provided by
international firms to little effect. However, this impression does not seem to have been
shared by the SCBs themselves. In interviews with the participating banks during the
mid-1996 supervision, they cited prior assistance in these areas as being useful, but they
indicated that they felt that, while the project had provided new capital, it had not assisted.
them in strengthening their basic banking skills or procedures.
23.   Supervision - Overall. The original Task Manager (and principal designer) of the
project was replaced soon after approval of the FSDP, despite the existence of



- 12 -
Department instructions to the effect that TMs were to remain with projects for a
minimum of 18 months following approval. In the early years of project implementation,
while due attention was paid to the SCB's compliance with their Plans of Action (as
reported by BI), the Bank's screening and monitoring of sub-loans was loose. This might
well have resulted from the fact that the staff perceived the FSDP to be a fast disbursing
loan demanding little supervision of the sub-loans and from the fact that a relatively high
free limit (US$3 million) was chosen below which sub-loans did not need review prior to
approval by the World Bank. Indeed, as noted above, by establishing the free limit at the
same level as the maximum allowable sub-loan under the project (US$3 million), the
Loan Agreement effectively signaled that the staff need not supervise this component
closely. Even if proper supervision of the sub-loans had been encouraged, the staff and
budget requirements needed to have done so effectively, while not substantial (one
informned staff estimated an additional 4 - 6 staff weeks per annum) may not have been
available'".
24.    Another factor which may have affected the project's supervision was the
reorganization of managing responsibilities within the Region during this period. The
management of the project was moved from the Industry and Energy Division (EA3IE) to
the Country Operations Division (EA3CO) in FY95 and then to the Policy and
Operations Division (EA3IP) in FY96. Project files were in disarray: e.g., among 160
subproject files 40 files were missing and among the remaining 120, only 10 to 20 of
them were fully complete. Line management of the supervision effort appears to have
been lax. Although prompted by the Department's Operations Advisor to review the
project's ratings in June 1995 (EM 6/12/95), the managing Division (EAICO) still
judged the overall project performance as satisfactory. It was not until November 1995
that the project's unsatisfactory overall progress was noted on the Form 590, due to the
poor performance of at least two of the five SCBs and the relative ineffectiveness of the
TA component. At this point the incumbent TM left the Division and an interim TM
oversaw the project for several crucial months. It was not until mid-1996 that a new TM
was appointed and, with the support of a strong supervision team (including new
expertise relating to the financial sector'8), carried out a thorough review of the project's
activities and progress in August 1996. This mission (noted above) confirmed the
project's rating as unsatisfactory and noted that the project management was deficient.
The mission went so far as to conclude that the possible cancellation of the loan should
be discussed with GOI.  World Bank monitoring was thenceforward tightened (by
17  See Table 10 of the Statistical Annexes. An average of 19.1 staffweeks per year were devoted to supervision of
the project between FY93 and FY 96. In FY97, this figure jumped to 54.3 staffweeks.
Is  The mission included staff experts on bank supervision, commercial banking, treasury operations the financial
sector and environmental issues. The fact that, prior to August 1996, the supervision missions had been of.
limited participation (the TM and one or two others from RSI), raises questions about the Bank's awareness to
carefully assess what skills (or mixture of skills) are required to prepare and supervise a project of this nature.
Some questions which could have been usefully asked early in the project's development were what skills would
be required to assess: (a) the soundness of the SCBs' policies and procedures; (b) whether the SCBs were making
commercially reasonable credit decisions; (c) the adequacy of the SCBs' risk assessment and recording systems;
and, (d) the adequacy of supervision and audit of the SCBs performance.



- 13 -
allocating the resources required for in-depth supervision) but probably too late to rectify
the situation.
25.   The overall scope of the FSDP was complicated and quite large (the Bank's loan
of US$307 million represented only about 8 percent of the estimated total project costs of
US$3.7 billion) and it would have been better to assign greater responsibility for ongoing
supervision to the Resident Mission staff. While the RSI staff was active in the project's
preparation and through the processing of the Amending Loan (December 1993), the
management of the project was clearly held in Washington during its implementation.
However, while RSI staff were involved throughout in the ongoing discussions about the
project, better coordination between the RSI and the Headquarters might have led to
earlier identification of the poor performance of the project. RSI did review the SCBs
compliance with their Plans of Actions as part of their macro-economic work but its
participation seems to have focused on the important issues of policy dialogue and
RSUIGOI relations and the means to maintain them. The RSI staff followed the financial
sector closely as evidenced by the frequent reports prepared and sent to the Bank, but less
effort appears to have been expended on whether the SCBs compliance with their Plans
of Actions was meaningful and, according to the files, the involvement of RSI personnel
in supervising the sub-loans was only sporadic and limited to the times when a FSDP
mission was visiting from the Headquarters.
26.   Supervision - TA component. Despite early concerns about the effectiveness of
the TA, it proved impossible to rectify its shortcomings. Communications between the
consultants and the Bank indicated that BI was not using the consultants effectively.
Repeated Bank requests for training plans from BI appear to have gone unanswered. The
requirement for annual audits of the TA component was ignored by BI'9. The limited
success of the TA component, which was designed to foster BI's supervisory capabilities,
was, in the end, a complicating factor for the success of the FSDP as a whole. To the
extent that WB's supervision was not aggressive on the sub-loans financed with the
FSDP or, possibly, on the Action Plans themselves, the project was placing a high
responsibility on the supervision exerted by BI and a high level of reliance on BI's ability
to impose its prudential regulations on the SCBs. However, it was acknowledged that the
enforcement of supervision by BI had to be strengthened and that should have happened
through the TA component, which was largely ineffective.
27.   In February 1994, the TM reviewed the performance of the consultants at BI and
noted that at least one third of them were not particularly effective and, following the
October 1994 supervision mission, the Bank was concerned enough about the TA being
provided under the project to undertake an independent evaluation of the component. A
consultant was employed by the Bank to carry out a thorough review to evaluate the
effectiveness of the TA, evaluate BI's banking supervision and examination functions;-
and recommend areas where future TA efforts should be directed. The consultant visited
19  When this issue was addressed by the Bank to BI, it claimed that a waiver for such audits had been granted;
however, no evidence of such a waiver exists.



- 14 -
Jakarta in January 1995. His report was finalized in February 1995 and sent to the GOI in
March. While the report highlighted BI's present dissatisfaction (as of January 1995)
with the incumbent Coordinator (whose contract was not renewed in March 1995), and
provided a good review of BI's functions and some useful recommendations, it did not
review or evaluate the effectiveness oifpast TA (i.e., from the project's start) but only that
which was ongoing. By this point in the project, it may well have been understood that
BI was unwilling to continue with the TA. However, the Bank pushed for and BI
(apparently reluctantly) agreed to the appointment of a new Coordinator in January 1996,
but, by then, the TA component was largely finished20. In the end, BI spent US$3.5
million of the $5.7 million available for consultant costs, none of the $300,000 for
overseas training and none of the US$1.5 million for TA in support of the SBCSC.
28.    Bank Management. Given the history of the project, it is reasonable to ascribe
many of its shortcomings to the Bank's management both in preparation and supervision.
It is clear that the Management was fully cognizant of the project from the beginning and
was involved in reviewing and approving its purposes and design. The resulting
attention, whether in the form of general concerns about the strength of the financial
sector in Indonesia or more focused on the FSDP as one of the Bank's instruments to
assist GOI in this area, indicates the level of interest in addressing issues which were
perceived as very important for the Indonesian economy as a whole. Despite strong
pressure from GOI, the Bank refused to include BAPINDO in the project due to serious
questions about its management and non-performing loans. The Country Director, as
early as 1992 and thereafter, continually reminded the Government of the need to build
capacity in BI and to improve collections on non-performing loans. The Regional Vice
President gave similar advice to GOL The state of the financial sector was a focus of
concern at Consultative Group Meetings (1993, 1994, 1995), in the Management's
discussions with the Indonesians at the Annual Meetings throughout, and the subject of
ongoing sector work by the Bank, including the 1996 Financial Sector Study (Report No.
15735-IND). President Preston spoke specifically of the need for the Indonesians to
continue to strengthen the sector during his meetings with President Soeharto and others
in Jakarta in March 1994. President Wolfensohn also discussed the continuing need for
improved management of the financial sector when he met with President Soeharto in
New York in October 1995, and againr, with the Minister of Finance and the Governor of
BI, during the 1996 Annual Meetings and later. When the seriousness of the project's
problems finally struck home in late 1996, the Departnent requested the Bank's Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) to review  the FSDP21. The above demonstrates an ongoing
20  By the time of the mid-1996 supervision mission, it was clear that BI was not receptive to more TA. The
mission noted that the Coordinator (who was a high level bank supervisor and fit exactly the profile which the BI
had said it wanted) had "been effectively marginalized" and he left after the completion of his one year contract.
21  QAG did carry out a review of the project as an input into the QAG review of The Quality of Supervision of the
50 largest Projects at Risk (March 1997). The worksheet prepared for the review noted problems with the early
supervision, and TA as well as the attention which the Bank paid to assigning the appropriate skills necessary to
properly design and implement the project in its early years. He noted, however, that this situation improved in
mid-1996. The review also questioned the rationale for the free-limit and maximum loan limits being identical.



- 15 -
awareness of the importance of the issues involved and the Bank Management's concern
that they be addressed.
29.   This laudable commitment was, however, counter-balanced by inappropriate
signals to staff and delayed responses to staff recommendations for remedial action.
During the lengthy gestation period of the FSDP, it became increasingly obvious that the
strength of the SCBs' portfolios was far weaker than had been supposed (and reported by
BI). Given this information, it would have been reasonable to re-appraise the proposed
project. However, in the Bank's internal culture (perhaps exacerbated by the post 1987
reorganization climate), there was a great deal of pressure on staff to minimize leakages
of resources by abandoning projects which had reached an advanced stage of processing.
Furthermore, there are indications that the Management was aware of the risk that the
recapitalization of the five SCBs might not be possible (or, at the least, feasible),
especially given the stated refusal of the Japanese to allow the conversion of its debt to
Tier I capital22. This decision increased the risk of not achieving the project's objectives
substantially, although officially such risk was still considered "moderate." Management
agreed to the two-step design even though it was clear that there was no intention of
reviewing the quality of the proposed sub-loans. Indeed, the resources required for
adequate supervision of some 200 sub-loans would have been difficult to justify.
30.   Perhaps the most crucial failure of Management was in ensuring that the existing
conditionality was, at least, enforced. The bulk of the project rested on the SCBs Plans of
Actions and there is good reason to question whether these were realistic. The Bank,
knowing BI's limitations, was too ready to accept its assessment of the SCBs'
compliance, accepting BI's figures even though they were not considered to be fully IAS,
despite the Bank's formal insistence on IAS. The Bank felt strongly enough about the
need to improve management in the SCBs to include a requirement that each SCB
prepare and implement criteria for providing annual bonuses to its directors, but failed to
enforce this condition. BI was required to provide annual audit reports on the use of the
funds committed to the TA component but none was received. The supervising staff has
been criticized for some of the above but the cause can be laid at Management's door.
Management declined to insist on external audits carried out by internationally reputed
firms despite Bank staff s concerns about the capacity and probity of the Indonesian
agencies responsible. And, perhaps most importantly, Regional management was
concerned that the special relationship with Indonesia continue and there was a
perception that being too forceful could damage this relationship and, by implication,
Indonesia's development.
31.   The treatment of Bank  Bumi Daya  (BBD) exemplifies Management's
shortcomings in dealing with issues under the project. On the basis of information
received from BI and staff observations, BBD was considered strong enough during the.
negotiations for the Loan Amendment in mid-1993 to be freed from the growth limitation
22  The Japanese ED informed the Region on November 9, 1992 (3 days prior to the Board presentation) that
JEXIM would only consider conversion of its outstanding debt to the SCBs as Tier II capital.



- 16 -
on its risk-weighted assets required under the original Loan. At that time, it was also
agreed that BBD would achieve a CAR of 8% by the originally planned date of
December 31, 1994. However, during the supervision mission in October 1993, the Bank
found BBD to be out of compliance with its Plan of Actions and "could not, therefore,
agree to the treatment of BBD's Subsidiary Loan and Outstanding Funds as Tier I capital;
similarly, BBD had not met the conditions for disbursement for its second tranche of sub-
loans." A revised Plan of Actions was submitted by BBD in February 1994 but was not
acceptable to the Bank because one of BBD's group borrowers (with "strong political
connections") would have remained above BI's legal lending limit even after the
projected completion of the FSDP. By the time of the October 1994 mission, the
problem with that particular BBD borrower appeared to be headed toward resolution.
However, the mission noted BBD's seriously deteriorating assets and raised the
likelihood that BBD would not achieve the March 31, 1995, targets set out in its draft
Plan of Actions. The mission BTOR (December 6, 1994) recommended that, if no
remedial action was taken by BBD before March 31, 1995, "the Bank should consider
canceling BBD from the project." In April 1995, it was noted that "there has been no
improvement at all in the bank's (BBD's) performance, nor is there expectation of
improvement in the near term." Wlhile this finding resulted in an internal Bank review
(May 1995) of the options available, including cancellation or allowing MOF to withdraw
BBD from the project, no decision was reached at that time. The October 1995 mission,
noting BBD's further deterioration, recommended (December 7, 1995) that the MOF be
allowed to withdraw the bank but "should be given a definite time limit after which we
should initiate proceedings to cancel BBD from the project." At this point, Management
agreed that stronger action was required and it was decided that a draft of a suspension
telex should be provided to GOI in order for GOI to prepare itself for the possible
situation23. Such a draft telex was provided to the MOF on December 27, 1995.
Notwithstanding the threat to send the telex officially "in the near future," discussions
continued with the MOF well into March 1996 on how BBD was to be removed, despite
the apparent concerns of at least one Regional manager about the performance not only of
BBD but also of the other two SCBs remaining in the project (BDN and BRI) and the
appropriateness of the Bank's relative inaction on the matter24. Finally, the MOF sent a
letter (April 30, 1996) to the Bank requesting the cancellation of BBD allocated funds
under the project.
32.    The history of the Bank's actions (or inaction) vis-a-vis BBD (and its delay in
canceling the remainder of the Loan as recommended by the 1996 supervision mission)
raises questions concerning the adequacy of Management's role in the project. While
23  Earlier in December, the Government, having been apprised of the Bank's intentions, requested that a draft of the
proposed telex be circulated to GOI's economic team "as a way of getting the members' attention."
24  In early March, the Regional Vice President met with the Country Director, the Chief of Country Operations and
others to discuss the possibility of the Bank acting to cancel the BBD component of the FSDP. Apparently,
despite concerns expressed about the dangers of inaction, the Vice President concluded that it would be counter-
productive in view of the upcoming (May 1996) visit to Jakarta by Mr. Wolfensohn and himself and, possibly,
the perceived need to maintain the Bank's credibility with the Indonesians.



- 17-
there was clear, and frequently expressed, concern about the health of Indonesia's
financial sector, Management, by not acting more decisively or quickly, was sending the
wrong messages to staff (who were asking for action), to the Government, and to those
outside the Bank who were reasonably watching for signs of instability in the SCBs from
the Bank.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   Considering the relative weakness of conditionality based on Plans of Actions,
(themselves based on questionable premises), the GOI took the limited requested actions
it was supposed to take in their regard. However, it should have been clear from the
outset that GOI might be unable to meet the commitments it was making to the Bank
regarding real change for the sector25. During the project, BI could have increased the
chances of success for the project if it had assumed a proactive role in assessing the
compliance of SCBs with the Plans of Action, rather than limiting itself to formal
reviewing. In retrospect, it would appear that BI and the Bank were too eager to accept
the information provided by some of the SCBs, information which tended to over-
emphasize the good and underrate the bad aspects of the SCBs portfolios and turned out
to be less than accurate in many cases. Finally, the failure of BI to provide annual audits
of the TA component and of GOI to institute a bonus scheme for bank directors (as
required under the Loan) should be noted.
34.   In 1993, when BBD failed to come into compliance with its (then) Plan of Actions
(missing its classified assets/total earning assets by almost 3%), the Governnent took
immediate action to replace its President Director. However, a more important action in
terms of the FSDP was the Indonesian President's decision, in the Spring of 1993, to
replace the Minister of Finance and the Governor of BI (two important sponsors of the
project), the Managing Directors of BI and the President Directors of the SCBs. Along
with other changes in his Cabinet, this decision had the effect of eroding the composition
of the economic team and placing persons in charge of the project's implementation who
had no real knowledge of the loan and its objectives. If real political commitment of GOI
had been there prior to that time, this indicated at least a diminution in that commitment.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   In short, project results were unsatisfactory for various reasons. The FSDP did
not prove effective in attaining its objectives. Prudential banking regulations were
strengthened only in theory, since their enforcement was not strengthened at the same
25  Well before the loan negotiations in 1992, GOI had agreed with the Bank that managerial changes at the SCBs
would be required and agreed to replace the incumbent managements at the banks. When this had not been done
by the time of loan negotiations, a renewed commitment was made, which the Bank accepted. This, too, was not
met. Instead, various management reshuffles took place in which key managers were moved from one bank to
another.



- 18-
time. The strengthening of BI's bank supervision, and the improvement of credit
information systems and staff skills did not occur.
36.   Competitiveness and efficiency of the SCBs did not improve significantly. The
supervision report of June 1997 commented that "minimal progress" had been made on
this component. The Report, noting that BNI and BEII had graduated, went on, to say
that "....concerns exist about the skill levels in credit analysis, credit monitoring, business
planning, strategy, or other key areas for all 5 SCBs. They also do not behave as if they
have hard budget constraints (as evidenced by the continued lending to borrowers with
poor credit histories), indicating that they are not being subjected to market forces. The
measurements of institutional improvement to be accomplished in the SCBs were not
well designed.  The SCBs aggressively restructured loans to try to meet specific
indicators, even if such restructuring did not improve or even weakened the underlying
financial health of the institutions."
37.   Finally, the curbing of economic concentration which the FSDP was to foster
through the delinking the relationships between the SCBs and a relatively small number
of industrial group borrowers did not occur, thus failing to lead to a significant
improvement in the efficiency of resource allocation in Indonesia and to promote
competition in the real sector, as later events proved.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.   As indicated in the latest CAS and reinforced by the Project Appraisal for the
Banking Reform Assistance Project (Loan 42550-IND), the financial sector in Indonesia
still needs a major overhaul. Failure to address the misallocation of financial resources
may, in fact, have been the single most significant cause of the deep financial, economic
and political crisis now affecting the country. It is unquestionable that one among the
main conditions for Indonesia to resume sustained growth is to establish financial
discipline by restoring stability to the financial system, and by creating a sound banking
system. Given the continuing importance of SCBs within the Indonesian banking
system26, whichever strategy is chosen to restore stability to the banking system, it will
have to deal with SCBs. However, if the SCBs are to be salvaged from the current crisis,
their inefficient links with well-placed borrowers will have to be cut, their corporate
governance will have to be strengthened and their responsiveness to competitive market
stimuli will have to be ensured.
26 The crisis has induced a flight to quality by depositors towards those banks that were deemed less likely to be let
go bankrupt. This is the reason why the share of deposits of SCBs has notably increased from 30 percent in the
surmmer of 1997 to 44 percent in April 1998.



- 19 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.   As noted above, the FSDP was a case of an over-ambitious objective coupled with
probably unenforceable conditions, poor implementation and, at least initially,
unsatisfactory supervision. The recent Country Assistance Note on Indonesia prepared
by the Operations Evaluation Department (February 1999) points out that the Bank's
reliance on its special relationship with GOI and its unwillingness to damage that
relationship had some serious drawbacks. The Bank's decision to go ahead with the
FSDP stems partly from that fact. Part also can be ascribed to the Bank's internal culture,
in which TMs and managers are perceived to be penalized for raising uncomfortable
questions about the continuing viability of operations.
40.   The FSDP was originally viewed by the designers as innovative and perhaps
worthy of replication in other countries. Increasingly, however, it has come to be
recognized as a failed project. In migrating from a "model project" to one now widely
perceived as "unsatisfactory", the FSDP offers a tremendous opportunity to glean
valuable lessons. The lessons it offers can be divided into fundamental flaws in the
design and deficiencies in implementation. Future projects in which these flaws and
deficiencies potentially exist should carry a heavy burden of proof that the risks can be
mitigated.
FUNDAMENTAL DESIGN FLAWS
i. Selectivity of goals and realism of design. The project was overly ambitious
in its goals and unrealistic in expecting that the banks to be recapitalized would
improve without   technical assistance and without more aggressive
restructuring requirements.
ii. Quick disbursing adjustment loans versus lines of credit. The FSDP was
first envisioned as an adjustment operation. As a quick disbursing loan, it was a
poor tool to effect institutional development. Although changed to a "line of
credit," the mindsets of designers and supervisors were slow to adjust and were
impeded by other design factors.
iii. Maximum sub-loan versus a free-limit. By establishing the free-limit to
coincide with the maximum sub-loan, necessary Bank approvals were
minimized and effective supervision impeded. Thus, an implicit message was
sent, at least to the early supervision teams, that this was a quick-disbursing
loan and would not require or justify significant supervision efforts.
iv. Political commitment. Repeatedly during the design of the project, there were
indications that the authorities lacked the political will to move forward with
state-bank privatization; to contribute to adequate capital levels; to examine the
banks and impose adequate controls on them; or to draw on adequate and well
coordinated technical assistance.



- 20 -
v. Quality baseline data.   By not requiring an audit by an independent,
internationally recognized audit firm, there was neither a baseline against
which to measure progress -- nor reliable data to substantiate improvements or
deterioration.
DEFICIENCIES IN IMPLEMENTATION
i. Adequacy of skill-sets and budgets for preparation and supervision.
Complex financial sector projects, particularly with institutional development
goals, require qualified professionals with hands-on experience both to design
and to monitor them.
ii. Task-manager turnover.  Turnover of the project's task managers at key
points served to weaken the effectiveness of supervision by the World Bank.
Management and staff must be prepared to make a commitment to (and provide
incentives to assure) continuity.
OTHER LESSONS
41.    Perverse incentives and signals to staff. There is also an important general
lesson. The Bank's internal culture is perceived to reward staff and management for
Board products (projects, CEMs, etc.) -- and appears to assign little value to effective
supervision.  Management should alter this perception by recognizing and rewarding
staff and mid-level managers who contribute to the quality of the Bank's work through
uncompromising review of its products - both those being prepared and those under
supervision.



-21 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                X
Sector policies                                                       X
Financial objectives                                                  X
Institutional development                                             X
Physical objectives                                                                     X
Poverty reduction                                                                       X
Gender issues                                                                           X
Other social objectives                                                                 x
Environmental objectives                                                                X
Public sector management                                              X
Private sector development                                            X
B. Project Sustainability                  Likely              Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance27                  Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                                          X
Preparation assistance                                                                  X
Appraisal                                                                               X
Supervision                                                                             X
D. Borrower Performance28               Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                                              X
Implementation                                                                           X
Covenant compliance                                                                     X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome         Highly          Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
x
27   The ratings given are based on today's assessment of the inadequate measures taken during the preparation and
implementation of the project. At the time, the project was considered to be in line with or ahead of bank
standards.
28   The unsatisfactory ratings during Appraisal and implementation are based largely on BI's performance in
examining the SCBs, making use of the TA provided and failing to meet its audit requirements.



- 22 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
LoanlCredit Title                              Purpose                   Year of
Approval        Status
Preceding operations
Ln 2430-IND Small Enterprise               to support a national program to develop   1984       Completed
Development HI                              small scale enterprises (SSEs) and provide:
(a) credit to finance fixed asset investment
(KIK) and working capital (KKMP) needs of
SSEs ($192.3m); (b) technical assistance
designed to strengthen management of the
program by Bl and the lending capabilities of
handling banks, particularly BRI, the most
active user of KIK/KMKP funds ($11.8m);
and (c) a capitalized front end fee ($.5m).
Ln 2702-IND                                 to support Indonesia's efforts to increase non-   1986  Completed
Export Development                          oil exports by increasing the availability of
long-term   credit  for   export-oriented
investments, by strengthening the policy and
institutional framework needed for export
development, and by assisting individual
export firms with technical assistance and
training.
Ln 2800-IND  Kupedes/Rural Banking   to (a) support Bank Rakyat Indonesia's (BRI)  1987          Completed
efforts to develop the Unit Desa (sub-branch)
system into a financially viable network that
is able to provide credit on a non-subsidized
basis to all creditworthy small borrowers, to
mobilize savings, and to provide other
banking services; (b) encourage BRI to
improve its resource mobilization efforts so
that it could eventually fund KUPEDES
loans out of deposits it raises (KUPEDES is a
srmall credit program operated by BRI
through the Unit Desa system); (c) reduce
BRI's reliance on Bank Indonesia (BI)
liquidity credits for the KUPEDES program;
and (d) improve the overall institutional
capability of BRI as well as for the
KUPEDES program.
Ln 2979-IND  Export Development II   to ensure continuity of, and to promote   1988              Completed
further, activities supported by the first
Export Development Project (EDP I - Loan
2702-lND).  Specifically, to (a) increase
productive capacity in the export-oriented
manufacturing sector by strengthening the
ability of the financial system to provide term
loans for projects contributing to non-oil
export development; and (b) support the
effective implementation of the ongoing
policy and institution initiatives under the TA
component of EDP 1.
Ln 3040-EID  Industrial                     to further enterprise adjustment required as a   1989  Completed
Restructuring Project                       result of economic reform  by providing
technical and financial support for the
enterprise restructuring projects in three sub-
sectors by providing enterprises in the
engineering, pulp and paper, and textile
industries access to technical assistance
through three technical support groups and
through three research and development
institutes, as well as financial assistance
through twelve financial institutions.



-23 -
Loan/Credit Title                              Purpose                  Year of
Approval        Status
Ln 3249-IND  2nd Bri/Kupedes Small   to support Bank Rakyat Indonesia's (BRI)   1990             Completed
efforts to develop the Unit Desa (sub-branch)
system into a financially viable network that
is able to provide credit on a non-subsidized
basis to all creditworthy small borrowers
Following operations
Ln    4194-IND           Bepeka    Audit to assist BEPEKA  to better asses the   1997               To be
Modemization                                accountability of public finances through the         completed
enhancement of its financial and performance
audit capabilities. Specifically, to (a) support
BEPEKA's efforts to remove existing audit
scope limitations and other regulatory
constraints and carry out full-fledged
financial and performance audits; (b)
promote user demand for such audits; (c)
reduce internal supply constraints by
upgrading technical and managerial skills;
(d) build up the audit management
information system; and (e) institutionalize
international best practices.
Ln 42550-IND Banking Reform Asst.  to assist the Indonesian Government in   1997                    To be
improving  the   structure,  resilience,
soundness and efficiency of the banking              completed
system.



- 24 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                Date planned             Date actual
Identification                                          4/89                    4/89
Preappraisal                                            10/90                   10/90
Appraisal                                                1/91                   1/91
Negotiations                                            4/92                    6/92
Board presentation                                      6/92                    11/92
Signing                                                 7/92                    1/93
Effectiveness                                           8/92                    4/93
Project completion                                      9/95                    11/97
Loan closing                                            3/96                    3/98
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
i                                 FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate                 18.4       104.4    214.9    276.3    300.9    307.0
Actual                             99.6       137.0    196.9    219.0    226.0    226.0
Actual as % of adjusted estimate  541         131       92        79        75        74
Date of final disbursement     April 17,1997
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I.  Key  Implementation  Indicator  in           Estimated                   Actual
SAR/President's Report
Credit Component
1. No. of Participating FIs                         5                          5
2. No. of Sub-loans                                N.A.                       143
3. Average Sub-loan                                N.A.                     1,549,441
TA Component
1. Topical Studies                                 N.A.
2. Training Participants                           N.A.                       N.A.
3. Technical Service Groups                        N.A.                   14 consultants
service delivery
II. Modified Indicators (if applicable)            N.A.                       N.A.
III. Other Indicators (if applicable)              N.A.                       N.A.
N.A. - Not Available



- 25 -
TABLE 6A: PROJECT COSTS (b)
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate              Actual/latest estimate
Item                   Local      Foreign   Total       Local      Foreign   Total
Costs      Costs                Costs      Costs
Recapitalization of the SBCs c/         2,665.5     903.0    3,568.5
_________ _ __ _ d_ (d/e)  (d/e)   (d/e)                         _           l_ l
Capacity Building Technical Assistance
to     B I__                               _ _  _ _  _ _ ___                           _ _ _  _ _   _ _
Bank supervision specialists             0.25       5.68      5.93   N.A.        2.68      _          l
Credit information specialist            0.10       1.02       1.12   N.A.      0.84
BI stafftraining                         0.15       0.30      0.45   N.A.        0
Subtotal                            0.5        7.0        7.5               3.52
Total Project Cost                     2,666.0      910.0    3,576.0                 l__ _ _
b/ Costs are exclusive of duties and taxes, which are insignificant.
c/ For the period March 31, 1992 to December 31, 1994.
d/ Exclusive of $300 million equivalent in local currency expenditures representing 50 percent of the total estimated cost of
individual subproject investments in the private sector that would be financed with Bank loan proceeds of $300 million
under the project's recapitalization component.
e/ The difference of Rp 521 billion from the total Rp 6,616 billion shown in Table 3.3 above results from (i) the additional
Tier 11 capital of Rp 412 billion required to bring BBD and BDN into compliance with Bl's existing prudential regulation
regarding minimum 7 and 8 percent CAR as of March 31 and December 31, 1993, respectively (paras. 3.12 and 3.25), and
(ii) the additional Rp 109 billion being provided to BEII under the project above the minimum amount of capital actually
acquired.
NOTE: It has not been possible to accurately assess the final Project Costs.



- 26 -
TABLE 6B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Source                    Appraisal estimate                    Actual/late estimate
_________________             Local      Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign       Total
Recapitalization of the SBs  2,665.5/a     903.0      3,568.5/a
IBRD                      _                300.0       300.0             _         _                 ll
GOI - New  Cash Equity        755.0           -        755.0
Infusions
Conversion into equity of
subordinated debt                                                                                    l
(i) As of March 31, 1992     879.5                    879.5                                         l
(of which: IBRD)         (394.6)         -        (394.6)                     _       _   _  _
(ii) Apr. 1, 92-Dec. 31,94               603.0        603.0                                         l
(of which: IBRD)            -        (276.0)     (276.0)
Retained Earnings (SCBs)       449.5                    449.5   ___  _  _ l
Reserves for Loan Losses       117.5                    117.5                                        l
Subordinated (KLBI) Debt      464.0           -        464.0                                         l
Capacity Building Technical      0.5         7.0          7.5
Assistance to BI b/                                                                                  l
IBRD                             -           7.0          7.0                                        l
GOI                              0.5          -           0.5                                        l
Total Financing    2,666.0        910.0      3,576.0
(a)                      (a)
a! Exclusive of $300 mrillion equivalent in local currency financing representing 50 percent of the total estimated cost of
individual subproject investments in the private sector, comprising $180 million in equity provided by subproject sponsors
and $120 rmillion in credit provided by the SCBs from their own financial resources.
b/ Includes refinancing of the PPF No. P-162 in the amount of $1.0 rnillion.
NOTE: It has not been possible to accurately assess the final Project Costs.



TABLE 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement            Section          Covenant       Present                            Description of covenant                            Comments
0               t~~~ype       Status     __ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _
BIPA           Schedule                    5             C        BI to fumish a proposed program
Poi__ect
2.06(c)                     4             C        Bl's liquidity credits to be included as Tier 11 capital of participating banks (PBS).
l___________  2.07                         10            C         Fumish reports/regulations & status of financing plans.
i__________  2.08                          12            C         BI to issue prudential banking regulation.                           _
l__________  3.01                           I           NC         BI to have the records and accounts of TA.                                Never Done.
Loan           Schedl Para3 (b) (111)      10            C        Disbursement conditions for Bank Bumi Daya in conpliance.           _
Schedl Para3 (B) (1         10            C        DisbuTsement conditions for BankDegang Negara in compliance.          __       -
r__________  Schedll Para3 (B) (V)         10            C         Disbursemnent conditions for BankExpor Impor Indonesia in compliance.
Schedl Para3 (B) V)         1        -0   C        Disbursement conditions for Bank Negara Indonesia in co nhliance.
Schedl Para3 (B) (VII)      10            C        Disbursement conditions for Bank Rakyat Indonesia in compliance.
3.01 (B)                    10            C        Financial agreement between borrower and Bl.
3.01 (B) (V)                10            C        Bl's liquidity credits to be included as Tier 11. Capital of participating banks on
l                                                  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~elevant dates.
3.01 (C)                    10            C        Subsidiarv agreements between borrower andPBs
3.02                        4             C        Tier I capital contributions by borrower on relevant dates.
3.09                        5            NC        PBS to adopt performance criteria by 12/31193.
3.10                        4             C        Borrower to reinvest dividends for 92 as paid-in cap. by 3/31/94.     _        -_
5.01                       10            C         Effectiveness conditions.                                            __
PBPA Project   2.02 (1)                    10           NC        BNI, BBD and BANKEXIM each to achieve a minimum 8% capital adequacy by  BNI and BEII in
Dec. 31, 1994.                                                        comnpliance, BBD not
__________________________________________________ in compliance.
2.02 (f(A)(B)               10           C        BNI,BBDandBANKEXIMeachtotakeappropriate action.  __inomliace
__B_A__Pro     2.02 (In)                   10           NC        BDN and BRI each to achieve a min. 8% capital adequacy by Dec. 31,1996.  _     -    =
PBPA Proiect   2.02 (al) (A) (B)           10            C        BDN and BRI each to take appropriate actions.
2.09                        4             C        BDN & BBD to limit growth of risk weighted assets not to exceed level of March  -
___________                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31   1-992.
2.10                        4             C        BANIEXIM & BNI to limit growth of risk weighted assets not to exceed 15%       -
I ____________                         __________                  per annum  of level of 3/31/92.
2.11                        4             C        BRI to limit growth of risk weighted assets for small and medium enterprises not to  -
exceed 15% per annum of level of 3/31/92.
2.12                        5             C        BRI to fumish reorganization plan to Bank by 6/8/97.
2.13                        10            C        Amendrnents to subsidiary loan agreements.
__________   3.01 (B)               I             C         Each bank to have its records.                                     _
3.01 (C)                    1             C        For all expend. rnade on the basis ofSOEs, each bank to maintain separate records.
PBPA Project   3.03                        12            C        Each bank to retain and convert into paid-in capital. At least 80% of its after Tax
profits of its fiscal years, for BMI, BEII and BBD, 93 and 94, and for BRI and
-______________  ___BDN  93/94/95/96.
Covenant Class:
1. Accountlaudits                                                             9. Monitoring, review, and reporting
2. Financial performance/review generation from beneficiaries                 10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. Flow and utilization of project funds                                      11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resources allocation
4. Counterpart funding                                                        12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral/policy/regulatory/institutional action
5. Management aspects of the project executing agency                         13. Other
6. Environmental covenants                                                    Status:
7. Involuntary resettlement                                                   C   Covenant complied with
8. Indigenous people                                                          CD  Complied with after delay
CP Complied with partially
Note: The table reflects the fact that, with the exception of the requirement to provide annual audits of the TA Component, GOI was largely "in compliance" with the loan's conditionality.



- 28 -
TABLE 8: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY          1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998   1999                  Total
Preappraisal     10.6    25.8    30.5                                                                               66.9
Appraisal                          24.8    30.8                                                                     55.6
Negotiations                                 17.6    21.3                                                           38.9
SuperVision                                           17.2    15.4    26.4    17.5    54.3    36.5                  167.3
Completion                                                                                           3.5     5.0      3.5
Total         10.6    25.8      55.3    48.4    38.5        15.4    26.4    17.5    54.3    40.0          5.0   337.2
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
_______   _____________        Performance rating
Specialized
Stage of project cycle    Month/   No. of    Days     staff skills  Implementation   Development        Type of
year    persons  in field  represented /a    status /b       objectives      problems /c
Preidentification
Identification/Preparation  6/90      5        17
Preappraisal               10.90      5         17
Appraisal                  2/91       6        20                    .
Negotiation                6/92
Postappraisal              5/91       4        20                                           _ _
Postappraisal              2/92       4        23
Postappraisal              1/93       6         10
Board approval            11/92
Signing                    1/93                                      .
Effective                  4/93
Pre-Supervision                       3         10      EC/FA/LC                          _
Supervision 1             10/93       2         7         EC/FA             2               2
Supervision 2              2/94       1        na          FA               2               2
Supervision 3             10/94       3         14        EC/FA             2               2
Supervision 4              4/95       3        na         EC/FA             2               2
Supervision 5             10/95       3         17       00/EC/FA           3               3
**  Project has been rated as unsatisfactory because of the difficulties in meeting project objective
particularly in reducing bad debt, being faced by two PBs (BRI and BBD). The potential non-compliance b
BRI and BBD would have an impact on their competitiveness and overall resource allocation efficiency.
Special Supervision (BBD)   1/96         2         7        EC/FA         3     l_3_l
Supervision 6               8/96         6         11        /d           3     l_3_l_.
Supervision 7               12/96        4         11        /e           3     l          3  l
Supervision 8               7/97         3         3          /f          3     l_3_l
Completion                                                                      l             l
/a DO: Disbursement Officer; EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation Officer; RA:
Research Analyst; RS: Resettlement Specialist; TE: Transport Economist; TS: Transport Specialist.
'7b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory
/c Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.
/d. The mnission included experts in finance, economics, commercial banking, treasury operations, environmental issues and banking
supervision.
le. The mission was comprised of a bank supervisor, a conmmercial banker and a financial sector specialist and a financial economist.
/f. This mission was made up of a conmmercial banker, a financial sector specialist and a financial economist. It was preceded by a
mission to review environmental aspects of the sub-loans.



