                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                          ReportNo: 34253-YU




                             PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                      PROPOSEDCREDIT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR6.6 MILLION
                              (US$lO.O MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                             TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO

                                              FORA

        MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLE TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                          May 14,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
SouthEast EuropeCountryUnit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                         (Exchange Rate Effective April 30,2007


Currency Unit                                   = Euro
 1                                              = US$1.36
US$1                                            =  0.73
SDR EXCHANGERATE                                = 1.52493

FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIC            Average Incremental Cost o f Water
BPC            Break Pressure Chamber
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA           Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CQS            Consultants Qualifications
DEG            Deutsche Investitions- undEntwicklungsgesellschaftmbH (German Investment and
               Development Agency), Cologne
EAR            European Agency for Reconstruction
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB            European InvestmentBank
ERR            Economic Rate o f Return
FA             FinancingAgreement
FBS            FixedBudget Selection
FRR            Financial Rate of Return
GEF            Global Environmental Facility
GIS            Geographic Information System
G o M          Government o f Montenegro
GTZ            German Association for Technical Assistance
IBRD           InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            InternationalCompetitive Bidding
I C Z M        Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IDA            InternationalDevelopment Association
IFAC           InternationalFederation o fAccountants
IFC            InternationalFinance Corporation
IF1            InternationalFinancingInstitution
IFRs           InterimFinancial Statements
I M C          Inter-Ministerial Committee
ISA            International Standards o f Auditing
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCS     '      Least Cost Selection
LDP            Letter of Development Policy
LTMC           Long Term Marginal Cost
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation

                                                                              FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


    MEIP                 Montenegro EnvironmentalInfrastructure Project
     MESTAP              Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas Project
     Morsko Dobro        Coastal Zone Management Agency
     MOF                 MinistryofFinance
     MoTEP               MinistryofTourism andEnvironmentalProtection
     MOU                 Memorandum o f Understanding
     MSTDP               Montenegro Sustainable Tourism Development Project
     NGOs                Non-GovernmentalOrganizations
     O&M                 Operation and Maintenance
     PCE                 Public Communal Enterprises
     PCU                 Project CoordinationUnit
     PDO                 Project Development Objective
     PEW                 Regional Water Supply Company
     PFS                 Project Financial Statements
     PSIA                Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
     QCBS                Quality and Cost Based Selection
     RAP                 Resettlement Action Plan
     RWSS                Regional Water Supply Scheme
     SA                  Social Assessment
     SA1                 State Audit institution
     SBDs                Standard BiddingDocuments
     SEA                 Strategic EnvironmentalAssessment
     SIL                 Sector Investment Loan
     SOE                 Statements of Expenditures
     SSD                 Strategy o f Sustainable Development
    UNDP                 UnitedNations Development Programme
    USAID                United States Agency for International Development
     WURP                Water UtilityReformPlan
    WSPF                 Water Sector Policy Framework




                     Vice President:                   Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                     Country Director:                 Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
                     Sector Manager:                   Sumter Lee Travers, ECSSD
                     Task Team Leader:                 Andreas Rohde, ECSSD




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                     REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO
      MONTENEGROSUSTAINABLETOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                        CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                Page

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................  5
 A.1     Country and sector issues................................................................................................                5
 A.2    Rationale for Bank involvement.....................................................................................                       8
 A.3    Higherlevel objectives to which the project contributes................................................                                   9

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        .................................................................................................    9
 B.l    Lending instrument.........................................................................................................               9
 B.2    Program objective andphases.......................................................................................
                       . .                                                                                                                       10
 B.3    Project development objective and key indicators........................................................                                 10
 B.4    Project components .......................................................................................................               11
 B.5    Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design......................................................                                  12
 B.6    Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection........................................................                                 12

C. IMPLEMENTATION                  ........................................................................................................      14
 C.l    Partnershiparrangements..............................................................................................                    14
 C.2    Institutional and implementation arrangements............................................................                                14
 C.3    Monitoring and evaluation o foutcomeshesults............................................................                                 16
 C.4    Sustainability.................................................................................................................
              . . .                                                                                                                              16
 C.5    Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...........................................................                             17
 C.6    Loadcredit conditions andcovenants...........................................................................                            19

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                        .................................................................................................      21
 D.1    Economic and financial analyses..................................................................................                        21
 D.2    Technical.......................................................................................................................         23
 D.3    Fiduciary .......................................................................................................................        24
 D.4    Social.............................................................................................................................      25
 D.5    Environment..................................................................................................................            26
 D.6    Safeguard policies.........................................................................................................              28
 D.7    Policy Exceptions and Readiness..................................................................................                        29

Annex 1: CountryandSector or ProgramBackground                                       .........................................................   30

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                       .................37
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                        ........................................................................        38

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription            ......................................................................................         42

Annex 5: ProjectCosts...............................................................................................................          44

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                 .................................................................................         46

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                               .....................................   49

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements               ......................................................................................         56

Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis                   .............................................................................        61

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues         ............................................................................................          72

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision                        .....................................................................       78

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                 .....:...........................................................................        80

Annex 13 ResettlementPolicyFramework                   ...............................................................................        81

Annex 14: Statementof LoansandCredits                   ..............................................................................        90

Annex 15: Countryat a Glance       .................................................................................................          91

Annex 16: Maps:IBRDNo 34373R
                          .                 .........................................................................................         93

                                     MONTENEGRO

         SUSTAINABLE TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MONTENEGRO)

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                              EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA

                                         ECSSD

Date: May 14,2007                             Team Leader: Andreas Rohde
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos      Sectors: Water supply (80%); General water,
Sector Managermirector: Sumter Lee Travers    sanitation and flood protection sector (20%)
                                              Themes: Access to urban services and housing
                                              (P);Biodiversity (S);Pollution management and
                                              environmental health (S)
Project ID: PO93461                           Environmental screeningcategory: Full
                                              Assessment
LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan

[ 3 Loan    [XI Credit  [ ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

For LoandCredits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 10.00
Proposedterms: 20 years maturitywith 10years graceperiod




Total:                                          8.50              32.60              41.10

Borrower:
Republic o fMontenegro
MinistryofFinance
Stanka Dragojevica 2
81000Podgorica
Republic of Montenegro
Responsible Agencies:
CrnogorskoPrimorje (PEW)
TRG Sunca4
85310, Budva
Montenegro
Tel: 381(86)402 139
monteaaua@,ca.vu
            -




                                            1

MinistryofTourism andEnvironmentalProtection
Rimskitrg 46, Kancelarija br. 8
Tel.: 381(81)482 329
Fax: 381(81)234 168

Municipality o fUlcinj
Bulevard GjergiKastrioti Skenderben
81360 Opsti Ulcinj
Fax: +382 85 412 116




Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PAD A.3                                                                          [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project require any exceptions from Bankpolicies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                          [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approvedby Bank management?                                          [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                          [XIYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                          [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The proposed Project Development Objective (PDO) is to assist Montenegro inbetter designing
and implementingan integratedcoastal zone management approach to reduce coastal
degradation and inthe same time foster environmentally sound tourism development through: (i)
enhancing environmental protection, spatial development, institutional capacity and governance
ofthe coastal zone, and (ii) initiatingpriority investments, such as the first phase o f the regional
water supply system for the coastal areas, to foster development o fhigh-quality tourism.

Project description[one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
The project has three components summarized below:

Component 1:IntegratedCoastal Zone Management Policy and Institutional Capacity Building
Component: This component will finance improvements inland-use planningand protectionto
guard against uncontrolled construction and development. Inparticular it will finance:

a) Consultancy services to carry out a Background Study on the Bojana BunaDelta which i s
needed before declaring it a protected area, and which will also help to develop an environmental



                                                  2

management planfor the Delta, andto establish the Bojana-Buna Delta Management Unit to
manage the protected area to be established under the project.

b) Consultancy services to translate the Coastal Zone Spatial Planinto detailed UrbanPlans for
the Municipality o fUlcinj,

c) Environmental monitoring o fthe Bojana Buna Delta.

d) Monitoringo fillegal constructiodland use activities inthe Bojana BunaDelta.

e) Provision of an Information Center and Office Buildingfor the Bojana Buna Delta
Management Unit.

f) Institutional Strengthening for the RegionalWater Supply Company (PEW) andthe Ministry
o f Tourism and Environment. As part o f the institutional strengthening, this component will
finance public awareness and dissemination activities (i) environmental protection measures
                                                          for
inthe BojanaBunaDeltaand(ii) water demand management onthe coast, whichwill, among
                                    for
others, comprise the development andimplementation o f a public awareness, communication
and consultation campaignwhich includes the promotion o f support groups.

Component 2: Coastal EnvironmentalInfrastructure Component: This component will finance
investments for the Continental and Southern part o f the Regional Water Supply Scheme to
provide water from Lake Skadar to the Municipality o f Bar. Extensiono fwater supply to the
other cities under the Southern Branch (to Ulcinj and the tourist areas o f Valdanos and Velika
Plaza) i s expected to be done under the subsequent project MSTDP2.

Component 3:Project Management andMonitoring Component: This component will finance
consultant services, training, equipment and incremental costs for project management,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
- Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
-- Projects
   InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
           on InternationalWaterways (OPBP/GP 7.50)
- NaturalHabitats (OPBP 4.04)

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Board presentation:

None.

Loadcredit effectiveness:

- Inorder for the Financing Agreement to become effective, the PEW SubsidiaryAgreement will
needto be executed.



                                                 3

- OperationalManual adopted byPEW.

- The Project CoordinationUnithasbeenestablished and adequately staffed and funded, ina
mannersatisfactory to the Association.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:

- The Recipient and the Project Implementing Entities shall carry out the Project inaccordance
  with the EnvironmentalManagement Planand the Resettlement PolicyFramework, andshall
  not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision o f the Environmental
  Management Plan or the Resettlement Policy Framework without prior approval o f the
  Association.

   -   The Recipient Project Implementing Entities shall carry out the Project in accordance
       with the Program and the Memorandum o f Understanding, and shall not amend the
       Memorandum o f Understanding or the Program so as to materially and adversely affect
       the execution o fthe Project.
   -   The Recipient shall maintain the PCU and the Inter-Ministerial Committee in a manner
       satisfactory to the Association.




                                              4

A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE

A.l      Country and sector issues

1.     Country Background: The Republic o f Montenegro is located on the southeastern coast
o f the Adriatic Sea. It has a total area o f about 13,938 sq. km and a population o f about 631,000
people (2004 census). The Republic o f Montenegro gained independence on June 3, 2006.
Montenegro's continental and Mediterranean climate, and its natural beauty and resources
provide significant potential for development of the tourism industry, particularly along the
Adriatic coast. The independent World Travel and Tourism Council have repeatedly ranked
Montenegro as the top-growing tourism destination in the world. Montenegro's tourism sector
however faces a number of issues moving forward, that will need to be addressed in order to
achieve its full economic potential andto make it sustainable.

2.     Key Issues: Coastal Montenegro faces a critical mixture o f economic opportunity and
environmental pressure that must be carehlly managed if national growth targets are to be
achieved and the environmental beauty i s to be preserved. The coastal zone has long been
known for its beauty, with the Bojana-Buna Delta exemplifying this. The delta -- with its 13
kilometers o f almost unobstructed beach, the dunes and the hinterland with its mixture o f
wetlands, forests and pastures -- provides living space for many endangered birds. Dolphins can
be observed swimming up the river and sea turtles can be observed in the area. The delta and
other coastal areas attracted large numbers o f tourists before the war, an industry now reviving
but also creatingpressures on local resources that needcarefulhandling.

3.     Tourism now contributes about 15 percent o f GDP, accounts for 15 percent o f
employment, and is Montenegro's second largest source o f foreign exchange. The World Travel
and Tourism Council sees opportunities for the country to increase the contribution o f tourism to
21 percent o f GDP by 2014, but only ifnatural resources andthe industryitselfare managed ina
way that attracts higher value-added tourism. A comparative study undertaken by Bearing Point
shows that Montenegro is potentially an attractive destination for higher value-added tourism,
but lacks sufficient highquality bed capacity',

4.     To address this challenge, Montenegro's Government has embarked on a plan to rapidly
develop the tourism potential of the country, particularly in its coastal areas, where about 95
percent o f the country's tourism is concentrated. Two main instruments frame this plan: (i)                 the
Tourism Masterplanfor Montenegro adopted in 2001, and (ii) Coastal Zone Act, adopted in
                                                                         the
1992. The Tourism Masterplan for Montenegro sets up an integrated regional approach to
reorganizing and developing the tourism industry. The Masterplan explicitly protects sensitive
environmental areas, with, for example, density limits and the requirement for building setbacks
on the inlandside o fthe Bojana-Buna Delta dunes to protect the beach area from development in
line with the 1992 Coastal Zone Act regulations. The Coastal Zone Act is the guiding legislation
for Montenegrin coastal areas.         That legislation established the Coastal Zone Management
Agency (Morsko Dobro) that is in charge o f managing the beach areas, supporting planning
' Internationaltour operators need a package o f 500 to 1,500 high quality beds to start their operation. This is
something Montenegro cannot offer currently.



                                                      5

activities e.g., for wastewater treatment, monitoring water quality, and financing coastal
infrastructure. Morsko Dobro has 26 permanent staff members in one central and two local
offices and an annual budget o f approximately 6 million for the above mentioned activities.
The Government i s currently upgrading the Tourism Masterplan with support from DEG
(Deutsche    Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschafi mbH [German Investment and
Development Agency]).

5.     Despite these two instruments and Morsko Dobro's work, significant shortcomings remain
in the coastal zone legal framework, institutional setup, and local and central government
enforcement. The Coastal Zone Act focuses on a too narrow strip o f land and lacks important
environmental criteria. This reflects the gaps on the national level o f coastal zone management
policy, strategy and program. While the Coastal Zone Act provides the norms from a Republic
perspective, enforcement capabilities are found primarily at the local level. There, updated urban
master plans, cadastres, and integrated municipal management plans are often lacking. Another
shortcoming is the general lack o f adequate capacity to protect and manage natural areas o f high
ecological value, a shortcoming most visible in the Bojana-Buna Delta.           There is also an
inadequate protection status (limitedto the coastal strip) and no unit is incharge o f managing the
entire area, which i s under the immediatethreat o f inadequately controlled development.

6.     Government Strategy:        The Government o f Montenegro (GoM) is currently moving
ahead with a reform agenda which aims to protect the coastal zone, and at the same time
develops highquality tourism to achieve much needed economic growth. The main elements o f
this reform agenda are:

        e       Coastal Zone Spatial Plan: The Coastal Zone Spatial Plan which was recently
                prepared and adopted by the Government (but still needs to be approved by the
                Parliament) through a public consultation process i s a comprehensive planning
                tool which covers the entire coastal area o f Montenegro, and will form the basis
                for environmentally sound coastal zone development. The sustainable tourism
                development strategy defined in the Tourism Masterplan i s integrated into the
                Coastal Zone Spatial Plan, and upon its adoption, it will became legally binding.
                The Government has committed itself inthe Letter o f Development Policy to the
                environmental protection of the coast, including the adoption o f the Coastal Zone
                Spatial Plan.

                Greenfield Developments: To address the main obstacle for higher value-added
                tourism development (shortage o f high quality bed capacity), the Government i s
                determined to support Greenfield developments o f high quality tourist resorts by
                internationally reputable developers.     A prerequisite for this was that the
                environmental standards, surpassing the standards used inEUcountries bordering
                the Mediterranean and described inthe Tourism Masterplan, were integrated into
                the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan, and, with the approval o f the Coastal Zone Spatial
                Plan by the Parliament, will become legally binding. The GoM started with
                identifying reputable developers for the Greenfield developments. To further
                ensure environmental protection aspects inthis procurement process, the Ministry
                o f Tourism and Environmental Protection (MoTEP) has completed the "Guide to
                Investments and Developments inthe Hospitality Industryo f Montenegro", which


                                                6

                contains the same high environmental standards as foreseen in the Coastal Zone
                Spatial Plan. This Handbook will make the environmental standards mandatory
                for every developer. The Handbook includes a section with clear procedures to
                instruct investors to minimize and where possible avoid environmental impacts.
                Despite these initiatives, there are significant gaps in the legal and institutional
                framework for coastal zone management and also in implementation and
                enforcement o f key elements. The Coastal Zone Act lacks specific environmental
                provisions and focuses only on a narrow beach and near-shore marine area,
                neglecting adjacent terrestrial areas which are essential parts o f the ecosystem and
                also very vulnerable to development pressures.         Ideally, a single integrated
                management plan should be developed for both coastal and connected inland
                areas, and a multi-stakeholder but cohesive institutional structure put in place to
                guide implementation o f that plan. A regional master plan for the Ulcinj region
                has been prepared. Together with the EIA for that master plan, this provides a
                potential model both in terms o f coverage and in terms o f the participatory and
                inclusive process through which they were prepared.         However, the Regional
                master plan does not have legal standing, and the institutional structure for
                implementing it remains undefined.

        0       Strategy of Sustainable Development (SSD): The Government has embarked on
                the preparation o f a nationwide Strategy o f Sustainable Development. Existing
                policies and strategies will be reviewed and integrated into the SSD, such as the
                Coastal Zone Spatial Plan, and new policies such as an energy strategy, will be
                developed.

        0       Water Utility Reform Plan (WURP):            The Government has initiated the
                development o f a WURP with support from USAID and the Italian Ministry o f
                Environment and Territory to guide the legislative and regulatory transformation
                process to improve the performance o f the water supply and sewerage services
                sector inMontenegro. The preparation o f the WURP started inAugust 2006 and
                will be completed and delivered for Government approval inlate 2007. A Water
                Sector Policy Framework has been defined and presented in the stakeholder
                workshop held in Podgorica in December 2006 to serve as a foundation for the
                WLTRP. Another workshop took place inApril 2007.

7.     Implementation of the Government's Strategy: The GoM has the key strategies, for
coastal zone management and environmentally sound tourism development already in place;
however, it is facing significant problems to implement these strategies.

8.      Capacity to Protect Environmentally Important Areas: The Coastal Zone Spatial Plan
foresees the establishment o f protected areas. However, besides the four National Parks, few
other areas are under protection. In addition, in the few areas that have been proposed for
protection, no effective environmental management is in place. A prominent example i s the
Bojana-Buna Delta. As mentioned above, this area has an extremely highbiodiversity and is one
o f the prime spots for tourism development, because ofthe wide sandy and unobstructedbeaches
and an unspoiled hinterland. A window o f opportunity now exists to protect this area and at the
same time develop environmentally sound, higher value-added tourism. Should this opportunity



                                                  7

be missed, destruction o f the environment and low quality tourism development is likely.
However, the GoM and the Municipality o f Ulcinj, in which the Bojana-Buna Delta i s located,
lack the means to establish the protected area, nor to translate the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan into
detailed urban plans (which are required to protect the area), in order to control illegal
construction in the area. Currently, there i s no unit to manage the area in an environmentally
sound manner.

9.     Concernsfrom Greenfield Developers: As mentioned above, the G o M i s inthe process o f
identifying reputable developers for high quality tourist resorts, but is facing some major
obstacles. One is the concern o f developers that the environmental beauty o f Montenegro's
coastline will not be wasted, protected areas will be established and well managed, and proper
urbanplanningand development will limit sprawl. Another main concern o f developers is the
lack o f infrastructure needed for Greenfield developments, particularly the future water supply
needs o f these Greenfield developments. Already at the current low level o f tourism, hotels
experience water shortages which have forced them to pay highpenalties to international tourist
operators (reimbursement is up to 40 percent o f the entire cost o f a tour package according to the
Frankfurter List).    International Developers explicitly stated that they would not invest in
Montenegro ifthe long term water supply needs are not adequately addressed. Another concern
regardingthe infrastructure raised by international developers is the adequacy o f the wastewater
infrastructure to address current and growing future needs. Currently, wastewater, insome areas
such as Ulcinj, is often not adequately treated, which increases the pollution on some beaches.


A.2      Rationale for Bank involvement

10.    The Bank has for a longtime supported sustainable tourism development on Montenegro's
coast. Under the Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure Project the Bank supported, among
others, the construction o f Montenegro's first sanitary landfill, which serves three coastal
municipalities. Ina follow-up project, the Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas
Project, the Bank extended the lifetime o f above mentioned landfill, and will finance a second
sanitary landfill for the southern part o f Montenegro's coast.          The main bottleneck for
sustainable tourism development is insufficient water supply for the coast, and the most
important longer term threat is the acceleration o f environmental degradation at the coast. Both
will be addressed under the proposed MSTDP 1and the follow-up project, the intendedMSTDP
2, and based on past experience, the Bank is well positioned to assist the Government in
addressing these issues.

11. The Central and LocalGovernments recognize that they have several tools to shape coastal
development. Regulatory interventions work best when complemented by physical investments
that increase the attractiveness o f the Government's desiredpattern o f private investment. These
investments can range from improvements to nature trails to such infrastructure services as
water, wastewater, and transportation. In the proposed project, the Government has requested
Bank assistance in some o f these interventions.        The Government seeks support for the
institutional capacity to implement policy; for improving the policy itself; and for financing
public infrastructure needed to implement coastal zone development plans.




                                                 8

12. While Montenegro has other development partners, the Bank is well positioned to assist
the GoM to implement a comprehensive project that addresses the multi-sectoral planning and
management priorities and challenges o f the coastal zone. Such a comprehensive approach will
contribute to an effective implementation o f priority measures, will promote close cooperation
between line ministries and responsible authorities on the local and national level, and will help
avoid overlapping efforts. This would complement the work o f USAID, GTZ, KfW and other
donors at the coast and could potentially leverage additional donor activities in the sector
(possibly IFC, EBRD and EIB). These other donors are all working on specific aspects
instrumental for coastal zone management such as urbanplanning incoastal cities (GTZ), coastal
tourism development (DEG), Greenfielddevelopment and coastal water supply (EBRD), coastal
wastewater (USAID), and coastal water utilities (KfW). The Bank will assist the Government in
better coordinating these efforts and filling some critical gaps so that these efforts produce
tangible results for Montenegro.


A.3    Higher level objectivesto whichthe projectcontributes

13.   The Republic o f Montenegro became the newest member o f the World Bank Group on
January 18,2007 after gaining independence from the former Serbia and Montenegro on June 3,
2006. The project concept was developed before independence, and the proposedproject, which
was included in the CAS for then Serbia and Montenegro for FY05-07, supports all three CAS
goals by: creating a more sustainable, more efficient public sector (Goal 1); providing enabling
conditions for growth o f the private tourism industry (Goal 2); and access to public services
(Goal 3). The project will also be part o f the first CAS for Montenegro. The CAS will be
presented together with the project for Board consideration on June 12,2007.

14.   The project will also help to operationalize the Government's strategy to protect the
coastal zone and at the same time develop high quality tourism through the recently prepared
Coastal Zone Spatial Plan. It will also provide much needed improvements inthe environmental
protection o f the coast that will contribute to attracting Greenfield developments to enhance
highervalue addedtourism development inMontenegro.


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

B.l    Lendinginstrument

15.   The project will use the instrument of a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) to be implemented
over four years. The total project cost including taxes and duties will be U S D 41.1 million. The
Project will be financed by an IDA credit of USD 10.0 million, and will be co-financed by the
Government o f Montenegro (USD 25.1 million)2, and the Public Water Supply, Wastewater
Drainage and Treatment, and Solid Waste Disposal company PEW (USD 6.0 million).



* TheGOM's contribution is composed ofa 55% contribution ofthe total project cost net oftaxes, which amounts to
US$20.0million, plus a contribution equal to the estimated taxes and duties ofUS$ 5.1 million.


                                                        9

B.2     Program objective and phases

16.    The long-term objective the Bankwants to support is to maintain the environmental beauty
and biodiversity o f Montenegro's coast and, at the same time, foster sustainable tourism
development as a main contributor to economic growth. However, Montenegro does not have
sufficient fiscal space - from its own domestic resources as well as through borrowing - to
completely finance the large and complex infrastructure investments that are needed for
sustainable tourism development, especially the regional water supply scheme which is needed
to provide water from Lake Skadar to the coast. Therefore the proposed project is limiting its
focus to the southern part o f the coast in recognition o f Montenegro's fiscal constraints. This
means that investments will be limited to those that benefit the southern part o f the coast. The
southern part has the highest tourism potential and the most environmental significance.
However, other parts o f the coast will benefit from policy support and institutional strengthening.
Further consideration will be given to the issue o f fiscal space as more information becomes
available on Montenegro's public investment program during the preparation o f a follow-up
project, the Montenegro Sustainable Tourism Development Project (MSTDP)2, which i s
included in the draft CAS and which would allow the Bank to respond to needs for additional
tourism related infrastructure in the future, and strengthen further the environmental protection
o f the coast, provided sufficient fiscal space for this type o f revenue generating investment
becomes available. To emphasize that the proposed project i s considered to be a first phase o f
the Bank's support to Montenegro's sustainable tourism development, the Government has set
out a program o f objectives, policies, and measures to be supported by the proposed project in a
Letter o fDevelopment Policy (LDP), available inthe list o fproject files (Annex 12).


B.3     Project development objective and key indicators

17.    The proposed Project Development Objective (PDO) i s to assist Montenegro in better
designing and implementing an integrated coastal zone management approach to reduce coastal
degradation and at the same time foster environmentally sound tourism development through: (i)
enhancing environmental protection, spatial development, institutional capacity and governance
o f the coastal zone, and (ii)initiating priority investments, such as the first phase o f the regional
water supply system for the coastal areas, to foster development o fhigh-quality tourism.

18.     Key indicators for achievement o f the Project development objective are the following:


        0       Protected area status is granted to the Bojana-Buna Delta and a unit for managing
                the area is established andmaintained.
        0       Illegal construction in the area o f the Bojana-Buna Delta where detailed urban
                plans were conducted is halted duringproject implementation.
        0       Lack o f sufficient water supply is not a constraint anymore for tourism
                development inthe area o fBar.




                                                   10

B.4    Projectcomponents

19.   The project has three components summarized below:

20.   Component 1: Integrated Coastal Zone Management Policy and Institutional
Capacity Building Component: This component will finance improvements in land-use
planning and protection to guard against uncontrolled construction and development.             In
particular it will finance:

                Consultancy services to carry out a Background Study on the Bojana Buna Delta
                which is needed before declaring it a protected area, and which will also help to
                develop an environmental management plan for the Delta, and to establish the
                Bojana-Buna Delta Management Unit to manage the protected area to be
                established under the project;

                Consultancy services to translate the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan into detailed
                UrbanPlans for the Municipality o fUlcinj.

                Environmental monitoring o fthe Bojana BunaDelta;

                Monitoringo f land use and constructionactivities inthe Bojana Buna Delta;

                Provision o f an Information Center and Office Building for the Bojana Buna
                Delta Management Unit; and

                Institutional Strengthening for the Regional Water Supply Company (PEW) and
                the Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental Protection. As part o fthe institutional
                strengthening, this component will finance public awareness, communication and
                dissemination activities (i)for environmental protection measures in the Bojana
                Buna Delta, including consultation about and design o f future eco-infrastructure;
                and (ii) water demand management on the coast, which will, among others,
                         for
                comprise the development and implementation o f a public awareness,
                communication and consultation campaign which includes the promotion o f
                support groups.

21.    Component 2: Coastal EnvironmentalInfrastructure Component: This component
will finance investments for the continental and southern part o f the Regional Water Supply
Scheme to provide water from Lake Skadar to the Municipality o f Bar. Extension o f water
supply to the other cities under the Southern Branch (to Ulcinj andthe tourist areas o f Valdanos
andVelikaPlaza) is expected to be done under the subsequent project MSTDP2.

22. Component 3: Project Management and Monitoring Component: This component
will finance consultant services, training, equipment and incremental costs for project
management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation.




                                                 11

 B.5 Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign

 23. The key issues that have been identified from a review o f other projects and initiatives for
 coastal zone management and environmentally sound tourism development have been included
 inthe project as follows:

 24. Intensive public awareness, consultation and communication: The project design
 stresses the importance o f intensive public awareness, consultation and communication for
 implementing the project, especially for the environmental protection o f the Bojana-Buna
 Delta. The target groups are the permanentpopulation as well as the tourists visiting the project
 area. Annex 4 provides more details about the foreseen public communication and consultation
 strategy, which includes the creation o f a public support group for the protection o f the Bojana-
 Buna Delta.

 25. Consensus building among different stakeholders is a key to success: Coastal Zone
 Management as well as Sustainable Tourism Development involves a broad array o f
 stakeholders from very different sectors. Throughout project design intensive consultations
 have been carried out and during project implementation adequate opportunities for active
 involvement o f stakeholders and civil society are integratedinthe project design.

 26. Capacity building interventions, if not coupled with investments, do not lead to
 results: Support for policy reform and institutional changes work best when complementedby
 physical investment which brings tangible benefits and catalyzes ownership o f national and
 regional governments, as well as civil society groups. This ownership is instrumental when
 implementing challenging reforms like the environmental protection o fthe Bojana-Buna Delta.

27.   Co-ordinationand partnershipwith donors is essential: A large number o f donors are
engaged in assisting the Government in different aspects o f Coastal Zone Management and
Sustainable Tourism Development. Working inpartnership with other donors is instrumental in
ensuring that activities are compatible and complementary in order to maximize results. A
Government-led process coordinating donor's activities commenced during project preparation
and a mechanism is in place (the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Sustainable Tourism
Development and Coastal Zone Management) to continue and further intensify this process.

28.   Projects must be integratedwithin nationaland local Governmentinstitutions: The
Project is well integrated inexisting national and local Government institutions, andhas foreseen
several mechanisms to strengthen and further integrate the work o f these institutions towards
sustainable tourism development andintegrated coastal zone management.


B.6    Alternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection

29.   Reduce complexity of approach: The team considered focusing on fewer interventions
to support sustainable tourism development and coastal zone management. However, only a
comprehensive approach that fills the gaps in policy reform, institutional strengthening,
environmental protection and infrastructure needs will bring sustainable tourism growth.



                                                12

Focusing on only one area o f support would not be sufficient for preparing the basic market
conditions that would convince reputable developer to enter the market. In addition, if this
opportunity is missed, the door would be open to undesirable tourism development and
environmental degradation at the coast, which would be difficult or impossible to repair.

 30. Not to include the protection of the Bojana-Buna Delta in the Project: Considering
 the demand different interest groups have in using the Bojana-Buna Delta, it is clearly a
 challenge to include the environmental protection o f the Bojana-Buna Delta as an objective in
 the project design.   However, it was felt that the Bank should take this risk because: (i)   the
 Bojana-Buna Delta i s one o fthe most important areas o fbiodiversity at the Adriatic coast andi s
 under an immediate threat o f significant environmental degradation; (ii) environmental
                                                                               the
 degradation o f the delta would not only mean a substantial loss o f globally important
 biodiversity, but also would significantly undermine sustainable highvalue tourism growth in
 the area; (iii) central Government, the Municipality o f Ulcinj, and some key private sector
               the
 actors have realized that environmental protection i s key for the economic development o f the
 area and are highly committed towards the goal to protect the area; and (iv) the Bank i s well
 positioned based on its international experience to work together with these stakeholders and
 with the international donor community towards the environmentalprotection o fthe delta.

 31. A project focused solely on the development of the Regional Water Supply System:
 The team worked initially on a project focused on the development o f the regional water supply
 scheme alone, a lumpy investment that would have significant long-term benefits and has been
part o f the GoM's strategy for some years. The team proposed instead a more comprehensive
project, around the concept o f coastal zone management and environmental protection, while
 scaling down the investments in improving water supply to the priority elements o f the scheme
that are needed to guarantee the water supply to the southern municipalities, within the
 available fiscal space for the country. Completely eliminating any improvement inwater supply
would be undesirable as tourism growth will not materializewithout secured water supply at the
coast. On the other hand tourism growth will also not materialize if the environmental beauty
o f Montenegro will not be maintained and the beaches will not be free o f wastewater.
Therefore the project includes high priority measures needed to protect the biodiversity o f the
Bojana-Buna Delta. Additional measures needed for sustainable tourism development, which
could not be included in the project due to the fiscal constrains Montenegro is under, will be
covered by the follow-up project, MSTDP 2, which is scheduled to follow MSDTP 1 with a
time gap o f less than a year. MSTDP 2 will include the extension o f the regional water supply
system from Bar to Ulcinj and Velika Plaza, improvements to wastewater treatment and
disposal, and additional environmental protection measures. MSTDP 2 is included in the CAS
for fiscal year 2008, and in the unexpected event that the Bank would not co-finance the
MSTDP 2, the Government has committed itselfinthe Letter o f Development Policy, either by
itself or together with PEW and/or other Donors, to finance the completion o f the water supply
scheme from Bar to Ulcinj and Velika Plaza, the necessary upgrading o f environmental sound
wastewater disposal facilities and the environmental protection o f the Bojana Buna Delta. This
combination o f infrastructure development and environmental protection will assist the country
inimplementing its long-term plans for the environmental protection and management of the
coastal areas, and hence enable future tourism development ina sustainable way.




                                               13

C. IMPLEMENTATION

C.1     Partnershiparrangements

32.    During project preparation, at the recommendation o f the Bank, the Government has
moved from bilateral to multilateral coordination between donors, national and local
stakeholders, by convening the first joint donodstakeholder meeting on Sustainable Tourism
Development in March 2006. This donor/stakeholder meeting was a first step in coordinating
activities and programs, promoting the development o f an integrated and coherent donor
approach to sustainable tourism development inMontenegro, and to share lessons learned. The
Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental Protection is committed to developing additional
capacity and strengthening existing mechanisms for donor coordination. A representative from
the Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental Protection will be in charge o f donor coordination,
for convening donor meetings regularly and for communication and coordination between these
meetings.

33.    The Bank team participated in all the donor meetings on sustainable tourism development,   .
and also inseveral donor meetings on water supply and sanitation, which i s o f utmost importance
for the development o f coastal tourism in Montenegro.             In addition to many bilateral
consultations with donors and NGOs, representatives from other donors (DEG and EBRD)
participated in the Bank's preparation missions. The EBRD and other donors together with a
private investor, are planningto finance parallel activities that will complement the MSTDP1. In
particular the EBRDproposes to finance together with the private investor, the Northern Branch
o f the Regional Water Supply Scheme that would eventually take water from the Continental
Branch partly financed by the Bank, to the northern coastal municipalities o f Budva, Kotor, Tivat
and HerzegNovi.


C.2     Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

34.     The project will be implemented over four years, with a closing date o f September 30,
2011. The Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental Protection (MoTEP), on behalf o f the GoM
will have the overall responsibility for Project coordination and implementation. The MoTEP
has assigned a Project Coordinator from inside the structure o f the Ministry who is heading the
Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC, see paragraph 36) and who will be in charge o f overall
project management and coordination. The Project Coordinator will also be part o f the Project
Coordination Unit in the MoTEP which will be in charge o f implementing projects with IFIs.
This unit is currently being established and is receiving Technical Assistance financed by the
European Agency for Reconstruction(EAR).

35.     Fiduciary Responsibilities:Procurement and Financial Management o f the Project will
be carried out by PEW. The Republic o f Montenegro created PEW, a hlly G o M owned
company to, among other things, improve water supply and wastewater services in the coastal
region and in the municipality o f Cetinje. As a GoM owned company, PEW reports directly to
the Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental Protection.            PEW has shown an excellent



                                               14

performance when working on fiduciary aspects o f implementing Bank financed projects such as
the ongoing Montenegro - Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas Project (MESTAP). PEW
as a regional company for water supply and sanitation is well suitedto implement this project in
which most o f the investment will be for the regional water supply scheme. As with the
MESTAP model, beneficiaries o f the procured works, goods and services will participate in
tender preparation and evaluation.

36.      The Bank gained very positive experience with an inter-ministerial unit composed o f
high-level decision makers (DeputyMinister level) in other projects, to solve sectoral and cross-
sectoral issues during project preparation and implementation. This is o f special importance in
the area o f coastal zone management and sustainable tourism development, which involves many
cross-sectoral issues.    The GoM has therefore created an Inter-Ministerial Committee for
Sustainable Tourism Development and Coastal Zone Management (IMC).                     The I M C is
composed o f Deputy-Minister level staff from various line Ministries and is headed by the
Project Coordinator from the MoTEP. Morsko Dobro, the Coastal Zone Management Agency,
will also participate in the meetings of the IMC and, in addition, concerned municipalities will
participate inthese meetings whenever needed.

37.    On-lending Arrangements:            The share o f the Project costs which the GoM will
contribute to the Project will be passed on as a grant. Credit funds will be passed on to MoTEP
via budget transfer, and to the Municipality o f Ulcinj and PEW under the same modified IDA
terms as received, with a 10-year grace period, a final maturity o f 20 years, a service charge o f
0.75 percent, a commitment fee o f 0.50 percent, and any waiver o f fees and charges the Bank
might provide to the GoM. The MOF will on-lend the credit to PEW, as a revenue earning
entity, with modifications o ftwo terms: (1) the interests will be capitalized and added back to the
loan untilthe first year o f operation o f the regional water supply scheme, and (2) the grace period
for the repayment o f the principal will extend until 2017. The reason is to match the capacity o f
the credit repayment with the anticipated revenue stream o fthe PEW.

38.    The following legal agreements will define the flow o f hnds and the roles and
responsibilities o fthe respective parties:

(a)      the FinancingAgreement, between IDA and the Government ofMontenegro;

(b)      two SubsidiaryAgreements, between the appropriate GoM Ministry and the Municipality
         o fUlcinj andPEW; and

(c)     two Project Agreements betweenthe Bank andthe Municipality o f Ulcinj andthe PEW.

39.    Under the above Subsidiary Agreements, the GoM will be providing sub-credits to these
entities. These entities will be accepting the responsibility to repay the credit and to implement
the Project. PEW will be performing the function o f an implementing agency for the GoM and
the Municipality o f Ulcinj in terms o f Project implementation, including procurement, financial
management, reporting and other operational functions.          These Subsidiary Agreements will
define the following:




                                                   15

        e       The obligation o f the G o M to on-lend part o f the credit proceeds it receives from
                IDA to the Municipality o f Ulcinj and PEW, and to contribute its share o f the
                Project costs.

        e       The responsibilities and functions o f PEW, as an implementing agency on behalf
                o fthe Municipality o fUlcinj and the GoM, such as: procurement, monitoring, and
                reporting to the GoM and the Municipality o f Ulcinj.


40.    The two Subsidiary Agreements between the Bank and the Municipality o f Ulcinj and the
PEWwill define the following:

        e       The responsibilities o f PEW, as the final beneficiary o f the Project, such as: to
                operate and maintain the Project financed assets, comply with Environmental
                Assessment     and   financial  performance/financial management           indicators,
                implement the Environmental Management Plans, and implement the results o f
                the proposals developed under the provided Technical Assistance.


        e       The responsibilities o f the Municipality o f Ulcinj, as the final beneficiary o f the
                project to adopt and enforce the detailed urban plans developed under the Project.


41.   In order for the Financing Agreement to become effective, at least the Sub-credit and
Project Agreement with PEW will need to be executed.


C.3     Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

42.   Monitoring and evaluation of the Project will be camed out by PEW on behalf o f the
MoTEP. PEW will be responsible for preparing quarterly and annual Project Management
Reports, which will be submitted to the Inter Ministerial Committee and the Bank. These reports
will integrate financial and procurement information as well as reporting about physical outputs
and achievements inregards to the project indicators.

43.   A Social Assessment (SA) and Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) were
conducted during project preparation which helped to establish a baseline for the project
indicators. Based on the SA andPSL4,'a participatory qualitative and quantitative framework for
monitoring and evaluation will be developed after consultation with key stakeholders
(beneficiaries and affected people). The framework will identify expected social development
indicators, establish benchmarks, and design systems and mechanisms for measuring progress
andresults related to project's development objective.


C.4     Sustainability

44.   The strategies the GoM has already in place (Tourism Masterplan, Coastal Zone Spatial
Plan) as well as the ongoing development o f other strategies (such as the Strategy for Sustainable



                                                 16

Development) demonstrate the Government's commitment to the Project development objective,
which is a good indicator for sustainability. In addition the Government has expressed its long
term commitment to the Project development objective by issuing a Letter of Development
Policy which is included inthe list o fproject files o f Annex 12.

45.   The sustainability o fthe Project will mainly depend on achieving sustainable protection of
the Bojana-Buna Delta, and on a sustainable and sufficient water supply for the coast. These are
three key issues for sustainable tourism development and the project design addresses these
factors as follows:


        0   The Bojana-Buna Delta will receive a permanent protection status and a management
            unit to protect the area. This is foreseen under the project. Inaddition the intended
            MSTDP2 will assist in developing the management plan which defines specific
            protection and monitoring measures, and will also develop a long term finance
            mechanism for the protected area.

        0   An Inter-Ministerial Committee is inplace and committed to working across sectors
            to overcome any obstacle that might arise inimproving coastal zone management and
            sustainable tourism development.

        0   The water supply scheme was designed to achieve low operation costs and adequate
            service provision to the coastal tourism industry, as well as local residents. The low
            operational costs would be directly related to the highquality o f the raw water supply
            from the Bolje Sestre source, which would require minimal treatment. Measures will
            be taken to maintain this water quality through implementation of a Watershed
            ProtectionPlanto be implemented by PEW. A study for protection o fthe source (not
            only the catchment area but also the surrounding area, in particular the carstic
            hinterland that feeds the source) is to be commissionedby PEW. The Study will look
            at all possible pollution threads and define protection measures in each o f three
            legally defined protection zones around the source. The study will be financed by
            PEW and will be executed in parallel with the finalization of the main design (in
            springo f2007).

       0    The TA provided under the project through which PEW can assist the local water
            utilities to set up a tariff structure with hotel tariffs and peak summer tariffs, so that
            the tourism industry and not the permanent resident will have to bear the cost for the
            peak water supply needs in summer. This will be done in compliance with the cost
            recoverypolicy o fthe Government which is stipulatedinthe draft Water Supply Law,
            chapter VII, Article 66 & 67.


C.5    Criticalrisks and possible controversial aspects

46.   The following critical risks and possible controversial aspects o f the Project and the
respective mitigation measures were identified:




                                                   17

                                   RiskRating                   Mitigation Measures
                                      High       The Bank team anticipates a highrisk of opposition
                                                 by local commercial interests to the planned
                                                 protection o f the Bojana-Buna Delta. The risk will
                                                 be mitigated by intensive public consultations that
                                                 have been carried out duringproject preparation. It
                                                 will also be mitigated by the level o f ownership
                                                 catalyzed by the investment program under the
                                                 Project at the level o f the Republic and at the local
                                                 level in Ulcinj, because o f the importance o f the
                                                 program for the national economy, and because of
                                                 the importance o f the detailed urban plans to be
                                                 financed under the project, and the importance of
                                                 envisaged funding under the intended MSTDP 2
                                                 for wastewater treatment and adequate water
                                                 supply for tourism development in Ulcinj.         The
                                                 creation o f a local support group will further
                                                 mitigate the risk o f opposition.
Increase inillegal construction     Substantial  It was feared that once the plan to protect the
before the Bojana-Buna Delta                     Bojana-Buna Delta becomes public,            negative
                                                 interventions might temporarily increase to take
                                                 advantage o f the unprotected status before such
                                                 protection comes into effect.      The Government
                                                 together with the Municipality o f Ulcinj and
                                                 Morsko Dobro has developed a mitigation strategy
                                                 to minimize the risk which i s outlined in the
                                                 Memorandum o f Understanding presented in
                                                 Annex 14. In addition the Resettlement Policy
                                                 Framework states clearly that illegal constructions
                                                 established after the cut-off date (Dec. 14, 2006),
                                                 are not eligible for compensation in case o f
                                                 demolishing or/and resettlement.

Greenfield developments not          Modest      The MoTEP has made mandatory high standards
observing the highenvironmental                  for tourism investments, as described in the Coastal
                                                 Zone Spatial Plan and the Guide to Investments and
                                                 Development in the Hospitality          Industry o f
                                                 Montenegro. The MoTEP i s receiving TA from the
                                                 German Investment and Development Agency
                                                 (DEG) which        includes   the  procurement     o f
                                                 Greenfield Developers and the DEG pays a lot o f
                                                 attention that these high environmental standards
                                                 are getting implemented.
The major corruption risk for this               There are only two large contracts for the water
project i s related to the                       supply system and both are subject to the Bank's
procurement and supervision o f                  prior review. PEW has an untainted track record in
the large construction contracts.                procurement o f Bank financed projects for many
                                                 years. In addition, the following measures will be
                                                 taken:
                                                         Increasing        transparency       through


                                               18

               Risk                RiskRating                   Mitigation Measures
                                                          publication o f the procurement plan and
                                                          information about contract opportunities
                                                          and awards on PEW'Swebpage; and
                                                          Supervision    missions   carried out      by
                                                          international recruited Bank staff every six
                                                          months.
Cost-recovery for bulk water         Modest      Non-payment for water by the tourism industry
 from the regonal water supply                   seems very unlikely because o f their dependence
 scheme cannot be achieved.                      on the water and the relatively small costs for them.
                                                 However, there is a perceived risk that the
                                                 municipal water utilities will not be able to pay for
                                                 bulk water received from PEW.            This risk is
                                                 mitigated by a KfW-financed TA and investment
                                                 program in the municipal water utilities which has
                                                 already improved the financial viability and
                                                 operational efficiency o f these utilities. Another
                                                 risk mitigation measure i s the introduction o f a
                                                 tariff structure in accordance with the "put a cause
                                                 to expense" principle. The cause for the regional
                                                 water supply scheme i s the tourism industry and
                                                 not the permanent residents who could be supplied
                                                 from local sources and who would not need the
                                                regional scheme would there not be the demand for
                                                 water from the tourism industry. In addition the
                                                 G o M intends to enforce its cost recovery policy
                                                 (Economic Policy of Montenegro, Dec. 2004)
                                                 through the draft Water Supply Law, Chapter VII,
                                                 Article 66 & 67 onto the water utilities.

Failureo f the second project, the   Modest      The materializing o f the MSTDP 2 i s instrumental
MSTDP 2, materializing.                          for the financial and economic viability o f the
                                                regional water supply scheme, and i s also important
                                                to develop further the environmental protection
                                                measures included in MSTDP 1. The risk that the
                                                 second project i s not materializing i s mitigating by
                                                the Government's commitment, expressed in the
                                                Letter o f Development Policy, to realize the
                                                MSTDP 2, either with the World Bank, or with
                                                other donors, or on their own.

Overallrisk rating                  Substantial




C.6     Loadcredit conditions and covenants

47.    The implementing entity will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the
Bank. The project financial statements and the Designated Account will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank.


                                               19

Entity financial statements will also be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The annual audited project and entity financial statements and audit report will be provided to
the Bankwithin six months o f the end o f each fiscal year.

48.   The audits will be conducted inaccordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA)
as issuedby the IFAC and on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

49.   For Effectiveness:

        0     Inorder for the Financing Agreement to become effective, the PEW Subsidiary
              Agreement has to be executed.
        0     OperationalManual adopted by PEW.
        0     The Project Coordination Unit has been established and adequately staffed and
               funded, ina manner satisfactory to the Association.

50.   Disbursement Conditions

        0     No disbursement will take place for expenditures under the components o f the
              Project to be carried out by Ulcinj, until the Ulcinj Subsidiary Agreement has
              been executed.
        0     No disbursement will take place for the construction o f an information center and
               office building for the Bojana Buna Delta Management Unit until an
               environmental assessment for Part 1 (e) o f the Project, satisfactory to the
              Association, has been conducted by independent environmental assessment
               experts not affiliated with the Project and which shall have been retained by the
              Recipient under terms o f reference acceptable to the Association; and (ii)     an
               environmental management plan for Part 1 (e) o f the Project, satisfactory to the
              Association, has been prepared       by environmental experts acceptable to the
              Association, to eliminate, offset, or reduce to acceptable levels any adverse
               environmental and social aspects, including the actions needed to implement the
              mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the
               implementationand operation o f said Part 1(e).

51.   Project Covenants
              The Recipient shall maintain the PCU and the Inter-Ministerial Committee in a
              manner satisfactory to the Association.


        0     The Recipient Project Implementing Entities shall carry out the Project in
              accordance with the Environmental Management Plan and the Resettlement
              Policy Framework, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any
              provision o f the Environmental Management Plan or the Resettlement Policy
              Framework without prior approval o fthe Association.


        0     The Recipient Project Implementing Entities shall carry out the Project in
              accordance with the Program and the Memorandum o f Understanding, and shall




                                               20

                not amend the Memorandum o f Understandingor the Program so as to materially
                and adversely affect the execution o f the Project.

52.     FinancialCovenants

        0       PEW will maintain a financial management system, including accounts and
                records sufficient to monitor sources and uses o f funds            for project
                implementation.


        0       Un-audited Interim Financial Statements (IFRs) will be submitted to the Bank no
                later than45 days after end o f each quarter.


        0       The project financial statements and PEW'S financial statements will be audited
                annually by independent auditors and under terms o f reference acceptable to the
                Bank, and a report submitted to the Bank no later than six months after end o f
                such year audited.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

D.l     Economic and financial analyses

Economic analysis

53.     Details o f the analysis are given in Annex 9. The project represents the first-phase
investments and enabling environment interventions that are required for Montenegro to realize
sustained growth o f tourism.     The project's economic costs include the costs o f physical
investments, improvements in policy and institutional strengthening, and operations and
maintenance o f the new and rehabilitated infrastructure under the project. Taxes andduties were
excluded in estimating economic costs. The incremental water sales revenues due to tourism
growth are the principal quantifiable benefit. This revenue stream i s calculated by multiplying
the projected bulk water sales that will cover municipalities' water deficit during the tourist
season by the average incremental cost o f water (AIC) which is an approximation o f the long-
term marginal cost (LTMC) o f service to consumers. The AIC is estimated at 1.1Euro per cu.m.
The economic costs include the capital costs net o f taxes, duties and subsidies and projected
O&M costs. The difference between the incrementalwater sales revenues due to tourism growth
and projected capital investments and O&M costs is then discounted at the rate o f 12%. The
NPVo fthese cash flows stands at Euro4 millionor USD 5 million. The ERRequals 13%.

Financial anaijwis

54.    The analysis evaluates the Financial Rate o f Return (FRR) for the investments o f the
construction o f a new regional water supply system that will be financed by an IDA Credit under
this project (MSTDPl), and later IBRD and EBRD loans during the period o f 2007-2010.       The
FRR is estimated based on the stream of the investments, and O&M costs and revenues for a
period o f 40 years for the regional water supply system. The FRR (see Annex 9) indicates a rate



                                                 21

o f return o f 3.2 percent, which i s relatively low but the financial statements projections show a
stable positive cash flow, and therefore the investments are financially justified. The analysis
and forecast i s based on the most likely scenario (Scenario A), that is the RWSS will cover the
peak demand o f all six coastal vodovods inthe summer plus supply all year round incases where
the supply cost from the regional system is lower than from local sources. The revenues o f
around Euro 4.4 million in2011are expected to increase gradually to Euro 12.6 million in 2035
while the total operating costs are estimated to increase less than the revenues, because the
increased costs o f producing more water in particular after 2015 results in lower total costs per
unit o f water production. The bulk water tariffs for the PEW Company are based on the utility
cost recovery approach. Following this approach the revenue stream is estimated to cover the
full costs to ensure that the PEW Company will meet its cash commitments (which includes
payment o f cash O&M expenses and repayment o f debt used to finance capital expenditures for
the regional water supply system) and also will cover the depreciation costs and will generate a
profit margin to build up cash inanticipation for future capital expenses (i.e. replacement costs).

55.    The sensitivity analysis has beencarried out for the key variables -bulk water supply and
revenues and capital financing.      The financial risks analysis comprises: (i) failure o f the
                                                                                    the
coastal water utilities and large resorts to purchase the anticipated volume o f bulk water supply
or to pay less than 100% o f the invoiced bulk water supply; and (ii)     the failure o f PEW and the
Government to provide the financing contribution timely and adequately. The first risk has been
addressed through a more conservative demand forecast compare to the base scenario and a
lower forecast o f the collection rate as would normally be anticipatedbased on the willingness to
pay and affordability analysis. The financial risk o f a delayed contribution to the project by
PEW and the Government should be mitigated by the PEW's timely forecast and request for
counterpart funds and the recent development o f Government revenues and also by a
conservative forecast o f these revenues (only 51 % o f PEW's own forecast were taken into
account).

Affordability

56.     The Social Assessment (SA) and Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) study
results indicate that on average the share o f drinking water costs in monthly household budget
were 3.3 percent inwinter and 4.1 percent inthe summer in2004. InBar this indicator was 3.8
percent (winter) and 4.8 percent (summer). In the summer, tourism increases consumption,
which leads to water scarcity and higher water prices. Because o f tourism, the south o f
Montenegro has the highest living standards inthe country. However, pockets o f poverty persist
as not every household benefits from tourism-related revenue increases in the summer. Poor
households not engaged in tourism face higher water charge without revenue increases.
According to the study, the socially accepted tariff increase should be accompanied with
improved collection and service provision. Further social impact analysis is needed to forecast
the impact o f the new investments on the future tariffs. As the tourism industry causes higher
water costs in summer, the industry will bear the financial cost o f the regional bulk water supply
through the introduction o f peak tourism-related tariffs. However, a moderate increase in the
domestic water and wastewater tariffs i s foreseen, but its impact          on household budget is
expected to remain below 5 percent, comparable to future increases inhousehold income.




                                                   22

D.2     Technical

57.     Overall project design: The Projects builds on international andregional best practice
for sustainable tourism development, coastal zone management and urbanplanning. The policy
development and implementation activities as well as the institutional capacity buildingactivities
were identified as highpriority areas o f support by the GoM and the participating Municipalities.
These activities are outlined below:

        (i)Strategic PolicySupport:

        a      Technical assistance to carry out a Background Study on the Bojana Buna Delta
               to help develop an environmental management plan for the Delta and establish the
               Bojana-Buna Delta Management Unit to manage the protected area established
               under the project;

        a      Technical assistanceto translate the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan into detailed Urban
               Plans for the Municipality o fUlcinj; and


        a      Support     for   Environmental     Monitoring    and   Monitoring     o f   illegal
               constructiodland use activities inthe Bojana BunaDelta.

        (ii)InstitutionalStrengtheningactivities include (a) Strengthening the management,
        monitoring and enforcement capacity in PEW to construct, operate .and maintain the
        Regional Water Supply Scheme; and (b) Strengthening the Ministry o f Tourism and
        Environmental Protection to oversee the implementation o f environmentally sound
        tourism development inMontenegro.

        (iii)PublicAwarenessandDisseminationactivitiesinclude:

        a      the establishment o f a Bojana-Buna Deltainformation center, and
        a      a public awareness campaignfor the protection o f the Bojana-Buna Delta.

58.     Regional Water Supply System: The coastal municipalities experience a shortfall in
water supply during the peak summer season due to high system losses (because o f the lack o f
maintenance o f the distribution system over the past 15 years) and limited local sources due to
the geology (karst) and hydrology. The losses significantly impact hture tourism development.
Current deficits in water supply are estimated at over 900 Us. This i s estimated to decrease to
600 l/s inthe next 5 to 10years as system losses are reduced and demand management measures
(such as increased tariffs, increased collection and metering) become effective (under programs
supported byKfWand other donors). Nevertheless, the deficit will increase beyond this shortfall
to over 1,300 l/s by 2028 as demand increases due to increased tourism.            In addition to
improving the management o f the municipal utilities (VIKs) and reducing losses, increasing
water supply is essential to meetingexisting and long-term needs andsupporting tourism growth.
Twelve alternative sources o f increased supply have been considered inthe feasibility study and
compared based on technical, financial and other criteria.




                                                23

59.     The most feasible long-term solution is to construct a regional water supply scheme for
the coast with bulk water from Skadar Lake, the inland freshwater lake.             This solution is
supported by a feasibility study commissioned by the GoM, and the feasibility study completed
for this project.    The regional scheme has three components: (i)the Continental Branch,
comprising transmission to the coast; (ii)  the Southern Branch, to transmit water to Bar and
Ulcinj; and (iii)the Northern Branch to transmit water to Budva, Tivat, Kotor and Herceg Novi.
This project would finance the transmission to the coast (first phase o f investments required) and
the southern branch up to Bar. The intended MSTDP 2 would finance the remainingpart o f the
southern branch to Ulcinj andVelika Plaza.

60.     Construction o f the Regional Water Supply Scheme under this project (MSTDP1) will
involve the constructiodinstallation of: (i)the Continental Branch comprising: the Water
Production Facility Bolije Sestre; the Gravity pipeline from the WPF Bolije Sestre to the
Pumping Station (PS) Relijici; the Pumping Station Relijici; the pipeline from Relijici to
Reservoir Djurmani; and the Reservoir Djurmani; and (ii)the southern branch up to Bar,
comprising: the Gravity pipeline from Reservoir Djumani to PS Belveder, with Break Pressure
Chamber (BPC) Cafk; the Pumping Station Belveder; the Pressure Pipeline from PS Belveder to
BPC Bratica; the BPC Bratica; and Construction o f the Gravity Pipeline from BPC Bratica to
Bar. The total estimated cost o ftheseworks is about US$ 35 million.

D.3     Fiduciary

61.     The project will be implemented by PEW, which i s a public enterprise. The entity i s already in
charge o f implementation o f an ongoing World Bank financed project (Montenegro
Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas) and there are no overdue audits under that project.


62.     The financial management arrangements o f the project are acceptable to the Bank. The
overall financial management risk for the project i s substantial before mitigation measures, and
with adequate mitigation measures agreed, the financial management residual risk is rated
moderate.

63.     The annual audited project and entity financial statements will be provided to the Bank
within six months o f the end of each fiscal  year and also six months after the closing o f the
project. Annual entity and project financial statements will be audited by a private auditor
acceptable to the Bank.

64.     The PEW will produce a full set o f interim un-audited financial reports (IFRs) for each
calendar quarter throughout the life o f the project. The reporting will be based on separate
accounting software used for cash based project accounting. Excel spreadsheets in an agreed
form of IFRs will be prepared based on the information extracted from the software in case if
software does not generate IFRs in the agreed format automatically. The project will use
transaction based disbursement. The staff in charge o f project coordination and implementation
has prior experience in working on the Bank's project. Satisfactory internal control procedures
for the project are inplace.




                                                24

65.     The Designated Account for administering the project hnds will be opened in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank.

66.     The CFAA in2002 noted that citizens perceived there to be a highlevel o f corruption by
public officials, misuse o f public fimds and incidence o f financial crime in Montenegro.
Significant efforts have been invested to accomplish positive developments in this respect,
including establishing a Directorate for Anti-corruption Initiative, developing key laws and
regulations that would strengthen the financial architecture and the legal framework in
Montenegro, all o f which ought to improve governance and reduce opportunities for corruption.
Nevertheless, the 2006 PER noted that Montenegro-specific data on governance and corruption
are scant, and the 2007 Fiduciary Review identified a significant unfinished agenda and
remaining challenges. Some o f those were described inthe GRECO report for Montenegro from
2006 and included as such in the Government's Anti-Corruption Action Plan that was finalized
inAugust 2006. Those recommendations include studies inorder to gain a clearer insight into
the scale o f corruption in the country, revising Public Procurement Law and strengthening the
capacity o f the Directorate for Anti-Corruption Initiative. On the project level measures to be
taken in order to mitigate the risk o f corruption include using separate financial management
system for the project on the basis o f the ongoing MESTAP project. This includes a system o f
internal controls and separate accounting software. Application o f controls and procedures in
practice will be verified during Bank supervision missions. Further measures include the use o f
a private audit firm for auditing the project and supervision missions by the Bank's Financial
Management Specialist.

D.4     Social

67.     Key stakeholders from identified project cities participated extensively in project
preparation through focus group discussions and key informant interviews that were conducted
for the Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA). All key stakeholders will be involved in
implementation through participatory monitoring and evaluation (M&E) that will be undertaken
frequently in combination with project impact assessments. The qualitatively focused M&E will
build on benchmarkhaseline indicators that were set by the PSIA. The social study found that
consumers would be willing to pay if water quality and hours-per-day o f supplies were
improved. System improvements were also seen to benefit tourism and non-tourism-related
domestic, private, and public consumers in the short- and long-term. Additionally, the study
showed that there are currently conflicting demands on and abuse o f water supply that arise from
illegal connections, and that the project would need to address a number o f behavioral issues
such as the use o f drinking water for gardening, cleaning streets, large farming;business,and at
hotels. These issues are currently addressed under the financial support KfW provides to the
coastal water utilities.

68.     Possible risks o f adverse social impacts that would need further consideration during
project implementation include: increasing the tariff without providing visible improvements for
consumers; the continued perception o f water as a free public good; nonpayment; an increase in
illegal connections; continued dissatisfaction with water quality; commercial and technical
losses; continual water shortages in summer; incomplete network coverage; and lack o f citizen




                                                25

participation in local governance issues. The risk o f not addressing resettlement issues properly
i s mitigatedby the adoption o f a Resettlement Policy Framework (see annex 13),

69.      For historical reasons, the public is still uninterested in participating and voicing their
opinion about water supply issues. Extensive awareness campaigns could assist in this regard.
Frequently undertaken social impact assessments, explicit clear checks and balances and social
accountability mechanisms, combined with participatory M&E will help to identify possible
social risks that might arise duringthe project's life cycle.


D.5      Environment

70.      The environmental issues o f this project fall under three main headings: impacts at the
water offtake site; impacts along the water pipeline route; and impacts o f increased water supply
for tourism development at and near the coast. While Phase 1 o f the MSTDP will only take the
water pipeline as far as Bar, the intention is to extend it to Ulcinj in Phase 2. Therefore, the
project must be considered as a whole for purposes of environmental review.

71.     The proposed source lies within the Lake Skadar National Park (the Bolje sestre spring is
within the Malo blato, a separate water basin which is connected to Lake Skadar, similar to a
gulf). Lake Skadar is both a National Park and a protected wetland under the Ramsar
Convention. The Environmental Assessment (EA) examined potential impacts o f the water
offtake and associated infrastructure, and concluded that the impacts on Lake Skadar and its
biodiversity will be negligible, causing a decrease inlake level o f less than 2 mm, compared with
seasonal fluctuations o f 5 to 10meters above sea level, but averaging about 6.76 meter above sea
level. While a substantial proportion o f the flow o f the Bolje Sestre spring will be captured, the
ecological impact is expected to be minimal even at the extraction site because there are no
vulnerable or threatened species present and the water temperatures and levels o f Malo Blato are
more dependent on Lake Skadar than on this spring.        As part o f the process to obtain a permit
for the water extraction, PEW will undertake a study o f the catchment and surrounding area,
including the carstic formations which feed the spring. The study will be camed out inparallel
with the main design work and will identify pollution threats andprotection measures needed to
mitigate these threats ineach o fthree legally definedprotectionzones around the spring.

72.     The water pipelineroute will mainly follow existing roads and tunnels. The section o fthe
pipeline passing beneath Lake Skadar poses little risk as it will contain minimally treated fresh
water taken from the same hydrological system that feeds the lake.

73.     Tourism development can be a mixedblessing from an environmental standpoint, and it is
essential to identify and protect sensitive ecological areas from inappropriate or excessive
development and use. Of particular concern is the Bojana-Buna delta in the vicinity o f Ulcinj.
The Bojana Buna delta is one o f the most important sites for bird and nature conservation along
the Adriatic coast.    It represents an important habitat and an essential link in the migration
corridor for fish, water birds, sea turtles and water-bound mammals from the Adriatic Sea to
.Lake Skadar and the hinterland, and for coastal species. It is also a major refuge and stopover
for migrating birds along the Central European Flyway. Ada Bojana inparticular i s an important



                                                 26

ecological site showing all the different successional phases o f a natural estuary, as well as
numerous ponds and wetlands in the interior which draw their water supply from the Bojana-
Buna River. The delta area is already under significant development pressure, particularly
unplanned and uncontrolled construction and increasing problems o f inappropriate disposal o f
wastewater and solid waste.

74.     Currently none o f the coast o f Montenegro has formal protection status, except for the
Velika Plaza beach at Ulcinj, which was established as a natural monument in 1968.               The
Spatial Plan o f the Republic o f Montenegro and the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan both identify a
number o f several sites along the southern coast and adjacent hinterland as areas that should be
protected for their natural andor cultural values, including the Solila Tivat salt pans and
Soliostko Polje, the hinterland o f Velika Plaza, Donj Stoj, the seashore complex island KatiCi,
Donkova at Petrovac, and the Island Stari Ulcinj complex. However, no action has yet been
taken to implement these recommendations. The Coastal Zone Act o f 1992 established the
Coastal Development Agency (Morsko Dobro) as the management body for the coastal zone,
responsible for protection, restoration and development o f coastal and marine resources, but the
Act covers only a narrow strip o f beach and also contains no direct provisions for nature and
environmental protection. In the absence o f both formal protected status and detailed urban
plans, this will place these aesthetically, environmentally and economically critical areas at an
even greater risk. For this reason, it i s proposed that a protected area be established covering the
most biologically significant and vulnerable parts o f the Bojana-Buna Delta.         Phase 1 o f the
MSTDP will help to mitigate the risks o f inappropriate tourism development in several ways. It
will lay the groundwork for creation o f the proposed protected area by supporting required
background studies and capacity buildingto help put inplace a Management Unit and develop a
management plan for the Delta, and initiating environmental monitoring and measures to curtail
new constructioninenvironmentally sensitive areas inthe interimuntilan effective Management
Unit is inplace. Itwill also support the translation ofthe Coastal Zone SpatialPlaninto detailed
urban plans for the most important areas o f the Municipality o f Ulcinj, as an essential step
towards rationalizing infrastructure development and construction o f residences and tourism
facilities.




                                                 27

D.6       Safeguardpolicies

  SafeguardPoliciesTriggeredby the Project                                        Yes                  N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP4.01)                                         [XI                  [ I
  Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                    [XI                  [ I
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       [ I                  [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                         [I                   [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                            [XI                  [ I
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                           [ I                  [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                            [ I                  [XI
  Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                     [ I                  [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)'                                       [ I                  [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                             [XI                  [I

75.       EnvironmentalAssessment (EA): The MSTDP Phase 1 falls under EA Category B.
However, a fbll EA was prepared for the Regional Water Supply Scheme covering both Phase 1
and 2 (the currently proposed MSTDP 1 and intended MSTDP 2). The project has been
processed in accordance with Bank procedures for Category A for Environmental Assessment
(EA), based on its original design entailing a broader scope which included, among other things,
wastewater management sub-components. As these investments are no longer included in the
MSTDP1, the EA Category was revised to B. A full EnvironmentalImpact Assessment has been
carried out for the entire Regional Water Supply Scheme (continental and coastal parts).

76.     The location o f the small Nature Information Center buildingfor the Management Unit of
the protected area still needs to be identified duringproject implementation. No land acquisition
is anticipated for this building, although a Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared for the
project, which addresses land acquisition as well. The Financing Agreement includes a
disbursement condition that a Category B Environmental Assessment and Environmental
Management Plan satisfactory to the Bank need to be carried out before disbursement for the
Nature Information Center and office buildingcan be done.

77.       Cultural Property: As part o f the EA process, potential impacts on physical cultural
resources were addressed. Although there is no evidence o f physical cultural resources or
objects at the foreseen construction sites, like all projects involving infrastructure investments,
the possibility o f chance finds (defined          as physical cultural resources encountered unexpectedly
during project implementation), cannot be ruled out. The remote possibility o f chance finds
alone, does not trigger the OP 4.1 1. However mitigation measures on how to deal with chance
finds should they occur will be included inall construction contracts.

78.      Involuntary Resettlement: Although no physical resettlement is expected, acquisition
o f landi s likely. To be prepared for landacquisition required for some infrastructure investment,
a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was preparedby the GoM satisfactory to the Bank. In
order to ensure that new illegal settlers are not encouraged to encroach on the land, the RPF

* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thejnal determinationof theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                            28

includes a cut o f f date, after which compensation for involuntary resettlement will not be
provided.

79.     International Waters: The construction o f the Regional Water Supply Scheme triggers
OP 7.50. The GoM sent a notification letter to all ripariancountries on October 31, 2006, and
received no comments.

80.     NaturalHabitats (World Bank OP/BP 4.04): The Natural Habitats Operational Policy
is triggered because the water offtake site lies within Lake Skadar National Park, which is also a
Ramsar site.     In addition, the Bojana-Buna delta, which will be affected more indirectly,
includes important natural habitats and ecologically sensitive areas.    However, as described
above, the direct negative impacts are expected to be negligible to minor and will be mitigated
through good construction practices, and the project will have a positive impact by supporting a
variety o f measures to improve protection and sustainable management o f the Bojana-Buna
Delta.

D.7     Policy Exceptions and Readiness

81.     The project does not require any exception from Bank policies. The Project meets the
Regional criteria for readiness for implementation.




                                                 29

                    Annex 1:Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
      REPUBLIC OFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGROSUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


A. Country Background: The Republic o f Montenegro is located on the South eastern coast
o f the Adriatic Sea. It i s bordered by Serbia and Kosovo to the east, Albania to the south and
Bosnia and Herzegovina to the north. The country has a total area o f about 13,938 sq. km.
Montenegro is naturally endowed with natural resources conducive to agriculture and tourism.
Its climate i s generally continental, but Mediterranean along the coast. The terrain is vaned,
consisting o f mountainous regions with thick forests, central plains, and a high shoreline at the
southwestern Adriatic coast. In the 1960s, tourism in Montenegro began its initial growth,
largely attracting visitors from Eastern Europe.      War and sanctions in the early 1990s hit
Montenegro hard, and recovery only really began after the end o f the Kosovo crisis in 1999 and
the adoption o f the deutschmark (DM) in November 1999, which largely disconnected
Montenegro's economy from Serbia and the Serbian dinar. Over the last few years, Montenegro
has created a business-friendly investment climate. The Euro replaced the DM on March 31,
2002. Inflation in2005 was only 1.8%. Tourism and tourism investments, particularly along the
Adriatic coast present significant potential for economic growth. The independent World Travel
and Tourism Council has repeatedly ranked Montenegro as the top-growing tourism destination
inthe world.

Tourism

According to the Tourism Master Plan, which lays out the GoM strategy in the tourism sector,
Montenegro's position in tourism i s weak: the country lacks financial resources and a
commercial product which could be attractive to the international market. The number o f
overnight stays has declined from 11 million in the 1980s to 6 million in 2006. All the foreign
markets have broken away; remaining demand i s mainly confined to tourists from Serbia and
Montenegro for the short midsummer period and the cheapest accommodation facilities. The
GoM is well aware that Montenegro's environmental beauty, as one o f the essential pillars for
sustainable tourism development, needs to be guarded against the threat o f inadequate tourism
development. To achieve this goal, the Government has developed strategies like the Tourism
Masterplan andthe Coastal Zone Spatial Plan, however, the implementation capacity inregardto
these strategies is weak at the national and local level. In addition, the poor state o f public
infrastructure (water     supply, wastewater,     solid waste management,       electricity,  and
telecommunications) i s widely regarded as one of the primary constraints to future tourism
growth.    The Master Plan views the development of adequate public infrastructure as
indispensable for the further growth in tourism, and the ability o f Montenegro to attract foreign
direct investmentinto the tourism sector. The Government has addressed the need for each city
to update their master plans followed by development strategies. In addition, regional master
plans and developments strategies are needed for the regions. Boka and Velika Plaza have
already their regional master plansdeveloped since 2001.

However, after almost ten years of steep decline during the 1990s, tourism has shown a strong
recovery over the past five years, despite the above mentioned constrains. The World Travel and


                                                 30

Tourism Council has estimated that the tourism industry represents 15 percent o f Montenegro's
total GDP and accounts for 22,670 jobs, representing 15 percent o f employment. Tourism is
widely regarded as Montenegro's main prospect for export-oriented economic growth in the
coming years, based on a strategy aimed at greatly raising foreign visitors. A study camed out
by Bearing Point about investment opportunities for foreign investors in Montenegro's tourist
sector underlined that Montenegro i s highly competitive as a tourist destination. It ranked as the
first among the countries included inthe study innatural attractiveness for investment intourism.
The same study identified the lack of high quality hotel capacity as one o f the most important
competition gaps.      To fillthis gap upgrading of existing hotel capacity and Greenfield
development are needed at a larger scale. Foreign travel agencies need at least a package o f high
quality hotel accommodation inthe order o f 500 to 1,500 beds, before it i s worth while for them
to expand their business to the Montenegrin market. If   the goals projectedinthe Tourism Master
Plan are reached, Montenegro could have the fastest growing tourism economy in the world by
2014 according to the World Travel and Tourism Council.

To enhance growth in the tourism sector, the Government would need to ensure higher
investments in public infrastructure.     At two percent o f GDP, Montenegro's domestically
financed capital expenditure is much below the level for other countries in the region. In 2004,
capital investment in infrastructure accounted for only about 0.4 percent o f GDP. More capital
investment in roads, water systems, and environmental protection and waste management i s
needed for sustainable tourism development-the      mainpotential source o f growth.

B. Coastal Zone Management

Recognizing both the economic and environmental significance o f the coast and the growing
development pressure it faces, the Government has placed a high priority on developing and
implementing a strategy for sustainable development of the coastal zone. The main instruments
for implementing this strategy are the Coastal Zone Act (1992), the Coastal Zone Management
Agency (Morsko Dobro), the Tourism Master Plan for Montenegro (adopted in 2001; currently
being updated), the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan and the Integrated Coastal Zone Management
(ICZM) Strategy.

The Tourism Masterplan for Montenegro provides an overall framework, setting up an integrated
regional approach to reorganizing and developing the tourism industry. It calls for protection o f
sensitive environmental areas, for example through setting density limits and setback
requirements for buildings on the inland side of the Bojana-Buna delta dunes, in line with
regulations under the Coastal Zone Act.         It also outlines an approach for "Greenfield"
development which emphasizes creating the conditions to attract reputable investors and guide
and assist them to undertake environmentally responsible development. For example, for the
proposed development o f Velika Plaza (possibly the largest remaining undeveloped sandy beach
along the Adriatic coast), the Government has prepared a Regional Master Plan for Sustainable
Tourism Development inUlcinj and arranged with support from DEG(Germany) to carry out an
EA o f this regional master plan. The EA identified sensitive sites to be protected andprovided
specific guidelines for appropriate development o f other areas. The Government i s in the
process o f seeking interested investors based on these plans and guidelines.




                                                31

The Coastal Zone Spatial Plan was recently prepared by the Government through a public
consultation process.    It is a comprehensive planning tool covering the entire coastline o f
Montenegro. Once adopted by Parliament, it will have the same legal standing as urban and
municipal plans, and i s meant to form the basis for environmentally sound coastal zone
development. The strategy for sustainable tourism development which is outlined inthe Tourism
Masterplan is integrated into the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan, so that once the Plan is approved its
provisions will become legally binding. The I C Z M Strategy i s under preparation with support
from GTZ. Preparation of the Strategy began with a diagnostic study which divided the coast
into seven zones, each with its own natural characteristics, development goals and issues. It is
intended to identify specific and concrete measures for environmentally and economically
sustainable development o fcoastal and marine resources.

Despite these initiatives, there are significant gaps in the legal and institutional framework for
coastal zone management and also in implementation and enforcement o f key elements. The
Coastal Zone Act lacks specific environmental provisions and focuses only on a narrow beach
and near-shore marine area, neglecting adjacent terrestrial areas which are essential parts o f the
ecosystem and also very vulnerable to development pressures. Ideally, a single integrated
management plan should be developed for both coastal and connected inland areas, and a multi-
stakeholder but cohesive institutional structure put inplace to guide implementation o f that plan.
The abovementioned regional master plan for Ulcinj, together with the EIA for that master plan,
provides a potential model both in terms o f coverage and in terms o f the participatory and
inclusive process through which they were prepared. However, the regional master plan does not
have legal standing, and the institutional structure for implementing it remains undefined.
Another gap i s that the Coastal Zone Act provides overall norms at a central level, but
responsibility for implementation and enforcement are at the local level and depend upon
updated urban master plans, cadastres and similar instruments which are often lacking.
Implementation capacity i s also weak, particularly in relation to nature protection and
management.

C. Environment

The Montenegrin Constitution of 1992 refers to Montenegro as an ecological state, confirms the
rights o f Montenegrins to a healthy environment, and that it i s the duty o f both citizens and
Government to protect the environment.          This was followed by a study on Development
Directions o f Montenegro as an Ecological State (1992) and a Sustainable Development Strategy
(under review).

The Environment Law o f Montenegro (1996) is a general law which prescribes only basic
legislative measures as a platform for developing detailed regulations and guidelines for specific
areas and objectives. The Environmental Impact Assessment Act (1997) and the accompanying
Guidance on EL4 Content (1997) set out obligations and procedures for EL4 for any activities
that can affect the environment. New legislation for Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA)
will take effect in January 2008, mandating SEA for physical plans, sectoral programs and
similar initiatives with cross-cutting, additive or cumulative effects.      A capacity building
program for preparing and using SEA has been preparedand is under review by MoTEP. At the
same time, the Bank and others (e.g. UNDP) are supporting SEA capacity buildingby supporting



                                                32

pilot SEASfor important and timely instruments such as the National Spatial Plan and the energy
sector development strategy.

Environmental assessment is integrated into existing consensual procedures for projects in
Montenegro. The Environment Law confirms the rights o f the general public to participate in
environmental decision-making, and the EIA Law explicitly mentions public participation.
However, the law does not make public consultation obligatory.                                   The responsible Ministry
decides when public consultation i s desirable, and results emerging from such consultation are
not binding.         Decision-making for granting ecological permits i s exercised solely by the
responsible central Ministry. This i s now the Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental Protection
(MoTEP), which was formed recently under a government reorganization in which the previous
Ministry o f Environmental Protection and Physical Planning was dissolved, and its
Environmental Protection division merged with the Ministry o f Tourism while its Physical
Planningdivisibn moved into the Ministry for Economic Development. A new Environmental
Protection Agency i s in the process o f being established, which will serve as the executive arm
o f the MOTEP for implementation o f environmental assessment, monitoring and enforcement,
leaving the Ministry itselfto focus on policy.

Aside from EIA and SEA and Coastal Zone Act, Strategy and Plan and Tourism Master Plan and
regulations discussed above, other key legislation relating to environmental management
includes the Law on Nature Protection (1989), the Law on Air Protection (1980), the Water Law
(1995, but presently inthe process o f approval o f a revised Water Law harmonized with the EU
Water Framework Directive). Complimenting these laws and regulations are a variety o f non-
legal instruments such as the "Blue Flag" certification program o f the Foundation for
Environmental Education in Europe, which was launched in 1987 (European Year o f the
Environment). The Blue Flag program uses the water quality criteria o f the EEC Bathing Water
Directive to certify bathing beaches and marinas as safe and appropriate for swimming, boating
and water sports. In2006 over 3200 beaches around the world were awarded the Blue Flag,
including 15 inMontenegro. The value o f the Blue Flag and similar programs i s that it provides
positive economic incentives for environmental protection and management by mobilizing
consumer preferences.

D. Water SupplyandSanitation

Current Status

Institutions ' Responsibilities. InMontenegro the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water
Management and the Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Protection have the oversight
function o f the water resource management, water supply and sanitation sector, and environment
protection; and the responsibility for sector policy and reform. There is no agency that regulates
water utilities in the country. Water and wastewater services are decentralized to the municipal
level.3 The functions and competencies of the local self-government units and o f the water


 Currently about 52% o f all 21 water utilities inMontenegro provide water and sewerage services, and 48% of them provide also
general communal services, apart from water and sewerage. In the coastal region only the communal company o f Ulcinj
provides water and sanitation services, and is also responsible for green parks, cemeteries, and city cleaning.



                                                                 33

utilities and their services are regulated by a number o f laws.4 A new Law for Water Supply
Services is being prepared with assistance funded by USAID, and is expected to be discussed in
the Parliament this year.

Municipal Publiclv-owned and Water and Sewerane Utilities. InMontenegro there are 21 water
and sewage utilities o f which six operate in the coastal area. The water and sewage utilities in
Montenegro are public utilities founded by their respective municipalities to provide water
supply and wastewater services to the population inthe service area. They are called "Vodovod i
Kanalizacija" (VIK). Seven o f these utilities provide other services, such as solid waste
collection and disposal, maintenance o f the green parks, funeral services. These are called
Public Communal Enterprises (PCE). Inthe coastal area there is only one PCE that operates in
Ulcinj, while the other five provide water supply and sewerage services only. The Law on
Utility Services, Article 13 stipulates that           "  the activities o f administration and management o f
the assets for drinking water collection are operated exclusively by the public enterprises". This
Law defines utility services (including water and wastewater) as activities o f the public
enterprises under the local self-government unit. The current legislation specifies that the local
self-government unit decides on general terms for the use, preservation and maintenance o f the
utility assets, determines the manner and conditions for the organization of the activities o f the
utility, and supervises and controls the utility. The utility is responsible for the management,
operation and maintenance o f water supply and sewage infrastructure. Ownership o f the assets
remains with the municipality. The enterprise is financially and legally independent, however, it
has to operate on a cost-covering basis. The municipality, though the owner o f the enterprise,
has no obligations to cover any losses o f the enterprise through a municipal operating subsidy.
But, it has the obligations to finance capital investments for new facilities and system expansion.
Each o f the utilities has a board comprising three representatives from the municipality and two
from the utility. The Management Board appoints the management with the approval o f the
municipal assembly, takes decicions on the business development o f the utility and on new
tariffs.

Tariffs: The combined weighted tariffs o fwater and sewerage inthe coastal water utilities range
from 0.60 to 1.12 Euro/m3. These tariffs are above the average level o f the middle income
countries US$0.35/m3. The main challenge in this field for the coastal water utilities i s the
establishment o f peak tariffs for the tourist related businesses that would lead to higher revenues
andto a better distribution o fthe additional investments and operational costs between residents
andthe tourist relatedbusinesses.

Demand Mananement: Demandmanagement is relatively adequate inwater utilities. More than
90 percent o f the customers have meters and the billing is based on the water utilities' metered
consumption. The legal system allows to take to the court default customers and those that are
illegally connected to the system, and there are cases that water utilities, although not regularly,
sue customers and won the case. One o f the challenges in this field for the water utilities is to
install production and flow meters and also to be able to calibrate regularly or replace customer
meters on time. Donors, such as K f W andUSAID are assisting coastal water utilities to address
these issues through technical assistance and financial aid. The ,other challenge is the reduction

                                  ~    ~~




  `The Law on UtilityServices", dated in 1995; "Public Companies Law", dated February 19, 1991;"Public Service Law", dated
April 6, 1995, "The Law on Waters", dated August 8, 1998, and "The Law on Local Self-Government".


                                                            34

o f illegal connections which are assumed to cause significant commercial losses. KfW continues
to support demand management activities o f the coastal Municipalities, mainly through the
support o f a joint service company founded by the coastal water utilities, called VODACOM.
The coastal water utilities continue to under-perform with respect to non-revenue water and
inefficient staffing (6- 13 employeesll000 connections).         The coastal water utilities receive
technical assistance in improving their performance and can access concessional finance from
KfW, and from a consortium of local banks that has been established for this purpose.
According to VODACOM, the coastal utilities' collection o f tariffs in the last years is
progressing steadily.

Performance of the coastal utilities. The coastal water utilities have relatively adequate
organizational structures, but are not yet exposed to European standards o f management and
operation and do not seem to have proper capacity in capital and project planning, in operation
and maintenance management, in setting tariffs based on an acceptable methodology, cost
planning, and customer service. Due to assistance from donors, such as KFW and USAID
through investments and TA, the coastal utilities are enhancing management and operational
capacities and improving services to the customers. VODACOM has started with the installation
o f billing and collection software in Budva and will continue with this in the other utilities.
Also, VODACOM has provided a useful tool to utilities for financial analysis and projection of
tariffs. In 2006 VODACOM assisted coastal water utilities to prepare a new standard business
plan. VODACOM intendsto introduce cost center accounting in2007 inthe coastal utilities, so
that the utilities will start maintaining the expenses for water and wastewater services separately.
Under USAID assistance, the Budva utility i s installing a new GIS software system and the
Ulcinj utilityhas already installed a GIS andbilling and collection system. The Budvautility has
installed flow meters at the source and is usingthe leak detection equipment granted by USAID
to detect andrepair leakages andreduce illegal connections.

Sector ReformChallenges

Water Utilitv Reform Plan (WURP): The Government has initiated the development o f a WURP
with support from USAID and the Italian Ministry o f Environment and Territory to guide the
legislative and regulatory transformation process for improving the performance o f water supply
andsewerage utilities inMontenegro. The preparationo fthe WURP started inAugust 2006 and
i s scheduled to be completed and delivered for Government Approval in 2007. A Water Sector
Policy Framework (WSPF) has been defined and presented in the stakeholder workshop held in
Podgorica in December 2006 to serve as a foundation o f the WLTRP. Another workshop is
scheduled for April 2007. The objectives o f the WSPF are stated inthe Policy Statement, which
are: (1) promotion o f system regionalization that can deliver improved operational and capital
efficiency; (2) bringing utilities into hll company status within the existing legal framework
with good corporate governance and accountability for their performance; (3) full cost recovery
tariffs subject to tariff structure to protect the economically vulnerable; (4) the establishment o f a
regulatory framework, and regulatory functions; (5) the central government shall continue
financing for capital investments inthe water sector, while the implementation o f a cost recovery
policy and more effective incentives for performance improvements should lead to reverse the
financing pattern inthe future, i.e. increase the ability o f water utilities to contribute to their own
capital financing needs.



                                                    35

The discussion on the proposed W S P F i s ongoing in the Government, and this year it is
expected that a Government team evaluates and prioritizes preferred policy options and
approaches ineach reform area. Inthe end the plan will outline the specific actions, policies and
resources that the government will undertake to reform the sector.

The Bank is supporting the Government o f Montenegro's vision o f the reform and is assisting it
through the proposed project in building the bulk water supply system and introducing higher
standards for operation and management in the regional water supply company.                  More
specifically, the project intends to establish a computerized accounting, andbilling and collection
systems, an adequate organization o f the company, and a bulk water tariff based on the cost-
coverage principle. Inaddition, the project will assist PEW inadvising the local water utilities in
establishing the peak water supply tariffs in the local water utilities that would allow for higher
revenues and also better distribution o f the additional costs between residents and tourist related
businesses.




                                                  36

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
     REPUBLIC OFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGROSUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Bank-financedProjects

Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure Project (MEIP): Closed 09/30/2004; OED's rating:
Satisfactory.    The Development Objective o f this project was to improve environmental
conditions inthe coastal region o f Montenegro and to improve the quality o f water supply in the
Zeta Valley (an areanear the republic's capital, Podgorica).

Montenegro - Environmentally Sensitive Tourists Areas Proiect (MESTAP) (PO79116): Active;
PDO Moderately Unsatisfactory; IP - Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Development Objective
o f this project i s to create ecological and commercially sustainable solid waste collection and
disposal services in Montenegro's coastal municipalities, needed to maintain a clean,
environmentally attractive area.


Projectsof Other Donors

KfW - Coastal Water Utilities Support Proiect - finances      TA and investments for the local
coastal water and wastewater utilities. Ongoing.

USAID -Water andWastewater Project - finances mainlywastewater infrastructure at the coast.
Completed 2005

USAID- Water Utility Sector Reform Plan-TA started in2006

EAR - TA support to Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry o f Environment and Urban
Planning- Ongoing




                                                37

                              Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
       REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                        DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

ResultsFramework
PDO                                      ProjectOutcomeIndicators               Use       of Project Outcome
                                                                                Information

To assist Montenegro in better           Protected area status is granted to    To monitor impact and effectiveness
designing    and implementing       an   the Bojana-Buna Delta and a unit for   o f project components and activities.
integrated coastal zone management       managing the area is established and
approach      to    reduce      coastal  maintained.
degradation and in the same time                                                At mid-term to determine whether
foster     environmentally      sound                                           the project needs to be adjusted or
tourism development through: (i)Illegal construction in the area o f the        restructured.
enhancing environmental protection,      Bojana-Buna Delta where detailed
spatial   development,    institutional  urban plans were conducted is halted   Duringyear three and four outcomes
capacity and governance o f the          during project implementation.         will feed results and lessons learned
coastal zone,    and (ii)initiating                                             into relevant policies and decisions
priority investments, such as the first  Lack o f sufficient water supply is    to be made by local and central
phase o f the regional water supply not a constraint anymore for tourism        governments.
system for the coastal areas, to foster  development inthe area o f Bar.
development        o f    high-quality
tourism.

IntermediateOutcomes                     Intermediate             Outcome Use                of       Intermediate
                                         Indicators                             OutcomeMonitoring.
ComponentOne:                            ComponentOne:                         ComponentOne:

Coastal    Zone    Spatial   Plan    i s Detailed    Urban    Plans   in the    To determine improvements in the
translated into detailed Urban Plans     Municipality o f Ulcinj finalized,     environmental     protection o f the
in the     foreseen   areas   o f  the   enforced and implemented.              Bojana-Buna Delta.
Municipality o f Ulcinj.

Bojana     Buna    Protected    Areas    Background study carried out to        To determine       improvements     in
established.                             determine environmental protection     environmental protection and water
                                         status.                               supply andwastewater services.

Illegal construction in Bojana Buna      Monitoring o f illegal construction is To assess awareness and support for
Delta where detailed urban plans         on-going.                              environmental protection.
were carried out, is halted.

Public     well    informed      about   Public awareness and dissemination
environmental protection issues and      activities completed successfully.
supportive.

ComponentTwo:                            ComponentTwo:                         ComponentTwo:

Regional water supply scheme up to       Bar is supplied with water from the    To determine design & performance
Bar    supplies  all needed water        regional scheme ina way that allows    s f civil works contracts.
priorities.                              for supplying water services to the
                                         end users in Bar for 24 hours per      To determine if main obstacle for
                                         dav.                                   :ourism development in Bar (lack of



                                                          38

                                                                        sufficient water supply) has been
                                                                        overcome.
ComponentThree:                   ComponentThree:                       Component Three:

Project well managedand           Project funds disbursed according to  To monitor implementation progress
implemented.                      plan, project status reports received and quality of project implementa-
                                  by the Bank in a timely manner are    tion.
                                  o f adequate quality,    satisfactory
                                  financial and procurement records,
                                  and timely audits.




Social Development Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation Framework:

Based on the upstream PSIA, a participatory qualitative and quantitative framework for
monitoring and evaluation will be developed after consultation with key stakeholders
(beneficiaries and affected people). The framework will identify expected social development
indicators, establish benchmarks, and design systems and mechanisms for measuring progress
and results related to social development objectives. Specifically, the framework will include: 1)
a set o f monitoring indicators to track the progress achieved, such as a tariff increase; tariff
schemes to mitigate negative impacts to poor groups; improved access to water and wastewater,
and increased employment in tourism-related areas; 2) establishment o f transparent evaluation
procedures; 3) an estimation of resource and budget requirements; 4) expected outputs, schedule,
and reporting; and 5) establishment o f a multidisciplinary team, including local partners, with
appropriately crafted Terms of Reference. M&E activities could be conducted by means o f
collaboration between the project team's social development experts and a local research
institute, familiar with conducting PSIAs. Local capacity building and strengthening are
necessary through systematic training and workshops, as well as ongoing M&E supervision
through the project implementers, PCU and PEW. The costs would be covered through the
M&E project component.




                                                  39

5
rn    5
      m     5
            m     5
                  m   5m  5 m 5 m

      C     S          E    E   S
i2                          2   g
\o    \o    \o              W
                            "   6
                               \o


      &
      6     w'
            6               !
W                           W   w'




                                   0
                                   d




      e,   f2
      B     d
            N
            V

  s  v)    5
           v)


    2      E
           2
    W      W
    B
    x

    W      W




M
B
r
3




           4
           z

                               Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
      &PUBLIC       OF MONTENEGRO: MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLE TOURISM
                                   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

The proposed project (MSTDPl) will be composed o f three main components:


    0   Component 1: Integrated Coastal Zone Management Policy and Institutional Capacity
        Building
        Component 2: Coastal Environmental Infrastructure
        Component 3: Project Management.

The project area covers a fairly wide area stretching from Lake Skadar to the coastal area o f
Montenegro.       A feasibility study was prepared detailing a long-list of potential policy
interventions and investments and associated costs. The Government has selected from this long-
list priority policy interventions and investments to be financed out o f the project. The MSTDP
was designed on the basis o f this list o f priority interventions, which included the Regional Water
Supply Scheme, wastewater treatment and disposal at the coast, and environmental management
aspects. Inorder to be able to access available IDA f h d s in FY 07, the original MSTDP design
was revised to divide the project into two parts: (a) the MSTDP 1 (the proposed project) -
primarily comprising the Regional Water Supply Scheme providing water from Lake Skadar up to
Bar, and priority measures for the environmental protection o f the coastal area; and (b) the
proposed MSTDP 2, to be financed from the GEF grant, IBRD, and the Government in fiscal year
2008, primarily comprising the second phase o f the Regional Water Supply Scheme from Bar to
Velika Plaza and wastewater and environmental protection measures. The project components
and investments for the MSTDPl have been prioritized by the potential impact on fostering
environmentally sound tourism development. The total project cost i s US$41.08 million.


Component 1: Integrated Coastal Zone Management Policy and Institutional Capacity
Building-EstimatedCost 2.10 million.

This component will comprise the following activities:

1.1     Strategic Policy Support

        Consultancy services to carry out a Background Study on the Bojana Buna Delta which is
        needed before declaring it a protected area, and which will also help to develop an
        environmental management plan for the Delta, and to establish the Bojana-Buna Delta
        Management Unit to manage the protected area to be established under the project;

        Consultancy services to translate the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan into detailed Urban Plans
        for the Municipality o fUlcinj; and

        Environmental monitoring o f the Bojana Buna Delta, and Monitoring o f land use and
        construction activities inthe BojanaBunaDelta.        ,




                                                  42

1.2     Institutional Strengthening

Institutional Strengthening activities include (a) Strengthening the management, monitoring and
enforcement capacity in PEW to construct, operate and maintain the Regional Water Supply
Scheme; (b) Strengthening the Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental Protection to oversee the
implementation o f environmentally sound tourism development in Montenegro; and (c) Technical
assistance through PEW to the water utilities o f Bar and Ulcinj to strengthenoverall management
o fwater andwastewater services.

1.3     Public Awareness and Dissemination

In order to improve acceptance and active participation of the public in the protection of the
Bojana-Buna Delta the project includes the development and implementation o f a public
awareness, communication and consultation campaign which includes the promotion o f support
groups, consultation about and design o f future eco-infrastructure, and establishment o f a Bojana-
Buna Delta information center and office. The target groups are the permanent population, as well
as the tourists visiting the project area.

Component2: CoastalEnvironmentalInfrastructure

2.1     Regional Water Supply Scheme (Continental and Southern Branch up to Bar)

This component will comprise construction o f the Continental and the Southern Branches o f the
Regional Water Supply Scheme up to Bar. The Regional scheme has three components: (i)            the
Continental Branch for transmission o f water from Lake Skadar to the coast; (ii)     the Southern
Branch (transmission o f water to Bar and Ulcinj); and (iii)  the Northern Branch (transmission to
Budva, Tivat, Kotor and Herceg Novi). This project would finance the Continental andpart o f the
Southern Branches up to Bar. It will specifically finance: Construction o f the Regional Water
Supply Scheme under this project involving the constructiodinstallation of: (i)      a Continental
Branch comprising: the Water Production Facility Bolije Sestre; the Gravity pipeline from the
Water Production Facility Bolje Sestre to the Pumping Station Relijici; the Pumping Station
Relijici; the pipeline from Relijici to Reservoir Djurmani; and the Reservoir Djurmani; and (ii)  a
Southern Branch comprising: the Gravity pipeline from Reservoir Djumani to Pumping Station
Belveder, with Break Pressure Chamber Cafk; the Pumping Station Belveder; the Pressure
Pipeline from Pumping Station Belveder to Break Pressure Chamber Bratica; the Break Pressure
Chamber Bratica; and Construction o f the Gravity Pipeline from Break Pressure Chamber Bratica
to Bar.

Component3: ProjectManagement
This component will support any project management costs incurred by the MoTEP and PEW
such as hiring additional consultants (for audits, social M&E etc.), office equipment, travel costs,
incremental operating costs, etc.




                                               43

                                              Annex 5: Project Costs
       REPUBLIC OFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGROSUSTAINABLE TOURISM
                                          DEVELOPMENTPROJECT

 Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                         Local               Foreign                Total
                                                                 US$ million        US$ million         US$ million
  1.IntegratedCoastalZone Management Policy
  and Institutional Capacity Building                                0.8                  1.3                  2.1
     1.1 StrategicPolicy Support                                     0.5                  -
                                                                                          0.9                  -
                                                                                                               1.4
     1.1.1 Background Study for the Bojana-Buna
 Delta                                                               0.0                  0.0                  0.1
     1.1.2 Monitoring of IllegalConstructionAJse
 Activities inthe Bojana-Buna Delta                                  0.2                  0.3                  0.5
     1.1.3 EnvironmentalMonitoringofthe Bojana
 BunaDelta                                                           0.0                  0.0                  0.1
     1.1.4 InformationCenter & Office Building
  for the Bojana- BunaDelta                                          0.2                  0.3                  0.5
     1.1.5 Detailed UrbanPlan for Ulcinj                             0.1                  0.2                  0.3
         1.2    Institutional Strengthening                          0.4                  0.4                  -
                                                                                                               0.8
       1.2.1 Ministry of Tourism & Environment                       0.1                  0.1                  0.2
       1.2.2 PEW                                                     0.2                  0.2                  0.4
       1.2.3 BojanBuna ManagementUnit                                0.1                  0.1                  0.2
  2. Coastal Environmental Infrastructure                            6.6                 28.2                 34.8
        2.1 Regional Water Supply System
  (Continental and SouthernBranch)up to Bar.                         6.6                 28.2                 34.8
 3. Project Management and Monitoring                                0.3                  0.3                 0.5

 Total Baseline Cost                                                 7.7                 29.7                 37.4
 Physical Contingencies                                              0.3                  1.5                 1.8
 Price Contingencies                                                 0.3                  1.3                 1.6
 Total Proiect Costs 1)                                              8.4                 32.7                 41.1
                                                                                                               ~~

 Interest duringconstruction (IDC) included

I               Total Financing Required                             8.4                 32.7                 41.1




'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$5.1 million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$35.8 million.
Therefore the project cost sharing ratio is 87.6% net of taxes.




                                                         44

The following project components are proposed (all costs are indicative only):




3. Proiect Management and Monitoring                       0.5        0.1              0.4

Total Cost                                                41.1     I  10.0   I6.0   I  25.1


The Government's contribution is composed o f a 55 percent contribution o f the total project cost
net o f taxes, which amounts to US20.0 million, plus a contribution equal to the estimated taxes
andtaxes o fUS$5.1 million.

PEW'Scontribution equals only about 50 percent o fthe assumedrevenue (Euro 11.9 million) from
the existing surcharge o f one percent on all investments at the coast, which i s earmarked for
investment for regional water supply, wastewater and solid waste infrastructure, over a four year
period (2007 to 2010).




                                            45

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements

    , REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


ProjectImplementationPeriod: The project will be implemented over four years, with a closing
date o f September 30,201 1.

InstitutionalResponsibilities

Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Protection:                  The Ministry o f Tourism and
Environmental Protection (MoTEP), on behalf o f the GoM will have the overall responsibility for
Project coordination and implementation. The MoTEP has assigned a Project Coordinator from
inside the structure o f the Ministry who is heading the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC, see
paragraph on I M C below) and who will be in charge o f overall project management and
coordination. The Project Coordinator will also be part o f the Project Coordination Unit in the
MoTEP which will be in charge of implementing projects with IFIs. This unit is currently being
established and is receiving Technical Assistance financed by the European Agency for
Reconstruction (EAR).

PublicEnterprisefor Water Supply, Wastewater Drainageand Treatment, and Solid Waste
Disposal (PEW): Procurement and Financial Management o f the Project will be carried out by
PEW (as it has been done successfully under the ongoing Montenegro - Environmentally
Sensitive Tourist Areas Project (MESTAP)).       The Republic o f Montenegro created PEW, a fully
GoM owned company, to improve water supply and sanitation services inthe coastal region and in
the municipality o f Cetinje. As a GoM owned company, PEW reports directly to the Ministry o f
Tourism and Environmental Protection. PEW has an excellent track record for implementing Bank
financed projects. PEW as a regional company for water supply and sanitation is well suited to
implement this project inwhich most of the investment will be go to wastewater and water supply
schemes. As carried out successfully under MESTAP, beneficiaries o f the procured works, goods
and services will participateintender preparationand evaluation.

Inter-Ministerial Committee: The Bank gained very positive experience with an inter-
ministerial unit composed o f high-level decision makers (Deputy Minister level) in similar
projects, to solve sectoral and cross-sectoral issues duringproject preparation and implementation.
This is o f special importance in the area o f coastal zone management and sustainable tourism
development, which involves many cross-sectoral issues. The GoM has therefore created an Inter-
Ministerial Committee for Sustainable Tourism Development and Coastal Zone Management
(IMC). The I M C is composed of Deputy-Ministerlevel staff from various line Ministries and is
headed by the Project Coordinator from the MoTEP.              Morsko Dobro, the Coastal Zone
Management Agency, will also participate inthe meetings o f the IMC and, in addition, concerned
municipalities will participate inthese meetings whenever needed.

On-lendingArrangements

The share o f the Project costs which the G o M will contribute to the Project will be passed on as a
grant. Credit funds will be passed on to MoTEP via budget transfer, and to the Municipality o f
Ulcinj and PEW under the same modified IDA terms as received, with a 10-year grace period, a
                                                46

final maturity o f 20 years, a service charge o f 0.75 percent, and a commitment fee o f 0.50 percent.
The MoF will on-lend the credit to PEW, as a revenue earning entity, with modifications o f two
terms: (1) the interests will be capitalized and added back to the loan until the first year of
operation o f the regional water supply scheme, and (2) the 10 year grace period for the repayment
o fthe principal will extend until2017. The reason is to match the capacity o fthe credit repayment
with the anticipated revenue stream o fthe PEW.

The following legal agreements will define the flow o f funds and the respective parties' roles and
responsibilities:

(a)     the FinancingAgreement, betweenIDA and the Government o fMontenegro;

(b)     two Subsidiary Agreements, between the appropriate GoM Ministry and the Municipality
        o fUlcinj and PEW; and                  9


(c)     two Project Agreements betweenthe Bank and the Municipality o f Ulcinj and the PEW.
Under the above Subsidiary Agreements, the GoM will be providing sub-credits to these entities.
These entities will be accepting the responsibility to repay the credit and to implement the Project.
PEW will be performing the function o f an implementing agency for the G o M and the
Municipality o f Ulcinj in terms o f Project implementation, including procurement, financial
management, reporting and other operational functions. These Subsidiary Agreements will define
the following:


        0       The obligation o f the GoM to on-lend part o f the credit proceeds it receives from
                IDA to the Municipality o f Ulcinj and PEW, and to contribute its share o f the
                Project costs.

        0       The responsibilities and functions o f PEW, as an implementing agency on behalfo f
                the Municipality o f Ulcinj and the GoM, such as: procurement and procurement
                procedures and limits, use o f the special account, monitoring and reporting
                requirements in relation with the Bank, reporting to the GoM and the Municipality
                o fUlcinj.

        0       The responsibilities of PEW, as the final beneficiary o f the Project, such as: to
                operate    and    maintain    the     Project   financed     assets, comply      with
                financial/performance/financial      management       indicators,   implement     the
                Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plans, and implement
               the results o fthe proposals developed under the provided Technical Assistance.

        0      The responsibilities o f the Municipality o f Ulcinj, as the final beneficiary o f the
               project to enforce the detailed urbanplans developed under the Project.


In order for the Financing Agreement to become effective, at least the Sub-credit and Project
Agreement with PEWwill need to be executed.

Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

Monitoring and evaluation o f the Project will be carried out by PEW on behalf o f the MoTEP.
PEW will be responsible for preparing quarterly and annual Project Management Reports, which
will be submitted to the Inter Ministerial Committee and the Bank. These reports will integrate


                                                 47

financial and procurement information as well as reporting about physical outputs and
achievements inregards to the project indicators.

A Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) was conducted during project implementation
which helped to establish a baseline for the project indicators. Based on the PSIA, a participatory
qualitative and quantitative framework for monitoring and evaluation will be developed after
consultation with key stakeholders (beneficiaries and affected people). The framework will
identify expected social development indicators, establish benchmarks, and design systems and
mechanisms for measuringprogress and results related to development objective.




                                               48

                   Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
        REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                          DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

RiskAnalysis.

The overall financial management risk for the project i s substantial before mitigation measures,
and with adequate mitigation measures agreed, the financial management residual risk is rated
moderate. Table below summarizes the financial management assessment and risk ratings o f this
project:


                Risk                 Risk
                                     Rating Risk Mitigation Measures                                       Risk Rating
                                                                                                          after mitigation
                                                                                                             Measures

  1.       INHERENTRISK
Country level. Perceived              S     Risks described on the left inhibituse o fcountry systems.          M
corruptioninthe country is                  PEWis not inthe scope o fwork neither o f SA1nor
high.Capacity ofboth State                  internal audit department within the Government o f
Audit Institution (SAI) and                 Montenegro. This risk will be mitigatedby use o f private
internal audit i s still relatively         auditor for audit o f both entity and project financial
low. Treasury system has been               statements and by the Bank's supervision. Inaddition,
modernized over the last several            robust system o f internal controls will be instituted for
years but still needs                       the project inorder to secure use o f funds for intended
improvements inorder to                     purposes and safeguard o f project assets. This was
accomplish measurable and                   achieved by preparing draft FMmanual o f internal
specific results. Internal                  controls and procedures for the project. Designated
controls are not always applied             Account will be opened ina commercial bank acceptable
inpractice, whichis confirmed               to the Bank. Stand alone accounting system will be used
inreports o finternalaudit and              for project accounting and reporting.
external audit. Sector within the
M o F that performs role o f
oversight over SOEs has very
low capacity (1 person
employed).
Entity level. The entity is not       S     Action plan developed inorder to mitigate the risks                 M
preparing annual plans, hence               described on the left has been successfully implemented
there i s no prior experience in            prior to negotiation.
planning and budgeting on the               There    was   adequate planning and budgeting            for
entity level.                               previous/ongoing World Bank projects implemented by
Manual o f internal controls and            the entity, therefore planning and budgeting capacity on
procedures      was       developed         the project level is adequate.
before current legislation was              Draft FMManual of internal controls and procedures was
adopted and is assessed to be               prepared which describes controls and procedures that
rather obsolete.                            will be used for the project.


Project level. Software used for      M     Action plan developed inorder to mitigate the risks                 L
entityaccounting is designedon              jescribed on the left has been successfully implemented
principles o f accrual accounting           ?nor to negotiation.
andit is assessedthat it cannot             Separate accounting software acceptable to the Bank will
provide sufficient transparency             >eused for cash basedproject accounting.
andquality information with
respect to use o fproject funds.


                                                        49

OverallI nherent Risk            -S                                                              M

  2.        CONTROLRISK
 1. Budgeting and Planning. The       There was adequate planning and budgeting for              M
entity is not preparing annual        previous/ongoing World Bank projects implemented by
plans, hence there i s no prior       the entity, therefore planning and budgeting capacity o n
experience     in planning and        the project level i s adequate.
budgeting on the entity level.

2. Accounting. Software used          Separate accounting software acceptable to the Bank will   M
for entity accounting provides        be used for cash basedproject accounting.
reliable financial information.
However, it i s designed on
principles o f accrual accounting
and it is assessedthat it would
not provide sufficient
transparency and quality
information with respect to use
o fproject funds.

3. Internal controls. The PEW      S  Draft FMManual o f internal controls and procedures was    M
instituted appropriate controls       prepared which describes controls and procedures that
and procedures. However, the          will be used for the project.
Manual o f internal controls and
procedures      was     developed
before current legislation was
adopted and is assessed to be
rather obsolete.

4.Fundsflow.                       L No additional mitigation measures needed. Designated        L
                                      Account will be opened ina commercial bank acceptable
                                      to the Bank.
                                   S  Financialreporting will be based on separate accounting    M
                                      software used for cash based project accounting and
                                      acceptable to the Bank.
6.Auditing. The PEW is not in      S  Private audit fmacceptable to the Bank will perform        M
the scope o f work o f the SAI,       audit o f the project.
nor is it obliged by legislation
to have mandatory audit o f
financial statements.
                                 -
                                 L   No additional mitigation measuresneeded. PEW staff is
                                      adequately qualified andpossessesprevious experience       L
                                 -S   o f working on the World Bank's financed projects.
                                                                                                 M

     OVERALLFM RISK                                                                              M

S: Substantial; M: Moderate; L: .



CountryIssues.

Progress in developing the system o f public financial management since findings o f the CFAA in
2002 has been impressive in some areas. A Fiduciary review conducted in 2007 concludes that
budgetary control has improved significantly through the establishment o f a fully fbnctioning
treasury system linked to all budget users. Systems for the process o f allocating and accounting for
tax revenues have been enhanced. The credibility o f revenue and expenditure forecasts has

                                                   50

 improved, suggesting that the planningprocess has become more reliable. Elements o f a modem
public sector audit function (both internal and external audit) have been established and have
begunto make a difference to the quality o fthe control andoversight inthe country.

While recognizing the progress that has been made, a number o f significant challenges remain.
Despite a considerable investment inthe development o fprogram budgetingthe process has yet to
have a substantial impact on policy planningand prioritization across government. Further work i s
requiredinorder to develop a mediumterm expenditure framework which links policies, planning
into the budgetary process. The Government also needs to build a comprehensive picture o f fiscal
risks prevalent in the public sector; particularly loans, contingencies and guarantees by
municipalities and public enterprises. Finally some basic buildingblocks of the financial control
system are missing; for example the treasury system still has to implement the commitment
control system that would allow the M o F to include accounts payable inthe accounting system.

Strengths.

Strengths of the project focus on the fact that there i s prior experience o f working on Bank
financed projects. Performance of the ongoing project from a financial management point o f view
i s satisfactory. The auditors issued a clean opinion on the project's financial statements for the
year 2005, while the entity audit report for 2005 showed sound financial management. The
opinion was qualified, but with only one qualification relating to no verification performed
regardingpotential impairment of assets. PEW developed an action plan subsequently, addressing
the issue and the ways to deal with this matter in the future. There are no overdue audits for the
project under implementation. Complexity o f the project from financial management perspective
i s low, with the project having three clearly definedcomponents and a rather straight forward flow
o f funds.

Weaknesses.

There is no adequate external oversight from the side of the Government and the legal entity is not
subject to mandatory auditing as per the legislation in Montenegro. The incremental risk to the
aforementioned will be mitigated by external audit, as well as the Bank's supervision.

The entity is not preparing an annual plan, hence there is no prior experience in planning and
budgeting on the entity level. However, there was adequate planning and budgeting for
previous/ongoing World Bankprojects implementedbythe entity.

Adequate internal controls for the project need to be instituted, hence draft FMManual o f internal
controls and procedures was prepared which describes controls and procedures that will be used
for the project.

Although the software used for entity accounting provides reliable accounting information, it is
designed on principles o f accrual accounting. Inorder to have sufficient transparency and quality
information with respect to the use of project funds, purchase o f accounting software acceptable to
the Bankthat would beusedfor cash based accounting hasbeeninitiated.




                                                51

A proposedactionplanto addressthe identifiedweaknesses is presentedinthe table below:
  I SignificantWeaknesses             Action                          I Responsible    Completion
                                                                      I                Date
    Manual o f internal controls      Manual o f internal controls      PEW            Negotiation
    andprocedures israther            and procedures needs to be
    obsolete and does not reflect     updated
    current legislation andgeneral
    business environment
    Software used for entity          Acquisition o f accounting       PEW             Negotiation
    accounting designed for           software to be used for cash
    accrual accounting                basedproject accounting


Implementing Entity.

The project will be implemented by PEW. It i s a public enterprise that was registering two types
o f revenues in the past: budget o f the Republic o f Montenegro and a surcharge o f one percent o f
the total investment amount inMontenegro's coastal areas. However, startingfrom 2007 the entity
will not be financed from the budget anymore. This will not have significant impact on the
company's revenue as the large proportion was coming from the other source o f revenue (one
percent o ftotal investments). Main categories o f expenses are salaries, followed by rent, electricity
and phone etc. PEW'Sprimary activity is coordination of construction o f water supply system.
PEWissues tenders, selects contractors andperforms oversight o f contracted works.

The PEW will designate a small team o f staff (project implementation team) for the
implementation o f the proposed Project to work under a Director o f the PEW who will be
responsible for overall project implementation. This team's main hnction will be to coordinate
with other corporate departments to ensure effective implementation o f procurement, contracting,
contract administration, disbursement, and financial management including reporting. This unit
will be staffed either with employees incharge of the ongoing project or other employees trained
bythem, which is a guarantee o f adequate capacity andresources for implementation.

Planning and Budgeting.

There is no prior experience in planning and budgeting on the entity level as the PEW is not
preparingannual plans. Consequently, other steps of the planningcycle are not performed, such as
regular monitoring o f performance comparing to planned figures, analyzing variances and taking
corrective actions.

However, there was appropriate planning and budgeting, as well as subsequent monitoring and
analysis, for previous/ongoing World Bank projects implemented by the entity. Based on the
aforementioned planningandbudgeting capacity on the project level is assessedto be adequate.




                                                52

Accounting.

Staffinq

PEW staff is adequately qualified and possessesprevious experience o f working on World Bank's
financed projects. Performance of the ongoing project and o f a closedproject interms o f financial
management i s satisfactory. No particular problems were encountered duringimplementation.

As mentioned above, for implementation o fthe project, PEW will designate a small team o f staff
(project implementation team). This unit will be staffed either with employees in charge o f the
ongoingproject or other employees trained by them, which is a guarantee o f adequate capacity and
resources for implementation. The staff will dedicate part o f their working hours to the project
assignments, as per the project's needs. This team's main function will be to coordinate with other
corporate departments to ensure effective implementation o f procurement, contracting, contract
administration and disbursement, financial management, accounting and reporting.

Information Systems

PEW uses software developed by a local company (TehnoShop). The software allows certain
modifications o f its functions as per users needs, and produces quality statutory reports. It is
however limited in generating reports focused on providing information to management, and i s
designed on principles o f accrual accounting. Inorder to have sufficient transparency and quality
information with respect to the use o f project funds, purchase o f accounting sofhvare acceptable to
the Bank that would be used for cashbased accountinghas been initiated.

Flow o f information in the company i s two ways and adequate, in terms o f time, accuracy and
completeness. This is also facilitated by the simple organization and the small size o f the
Company. Management has timely and quality information to enable effective decision making.

Accounting Policies and Procedures

PEW maintains its accounts in accordance with the Law on Accounting and Auditing which
governs the accounting policies and practices for the corporate sector. The Law is `broadly' in
line with IFRSbut is by no means fully compliant. The project accounts will be maintained using
the cashbasis o f accounting.

Internal Controls and Internal Audit.

Draft FMManual o f internal controls andprocedures which describes controls and procedures that
will be used for the project was prepared. The Manual sets out internal control policies and
procedures and is intended to guide staff and minimize risk o f errors and omissions, as well as
delays in recording and reporting. These written standards also clarify segregation o f duties and
responsibilities, including level of authority, clear control over assets, cash, and bank accounts,
and it ensures timely and accurate financial reporting. The project will generally be implemented
inaccordancewithPEW'Sstandard operatingprocedures.

Key internal controls to be applied for the project include:

      o    reconciliation o f the Bank's disbursement summaries with accounting records
           (evidence available);
                                                53

       o     reconciliation o fbank statements with accounting records (evidence available);
       o     reconciliation o f Statements o fExpenditures (SoEs) with accountingrecords;
       o     segregation o f duties as no single person has responsibility for all phases of
             transactions;
       o     specific staff authorized for signing andapproving o ftransactions; and
       o     transactions are properly documented.

There is no internal audit department established inthe Company. The incremental risk to this fact
is mitigated by low complexity o f the Company's operations and organization, including nature
and volume o f transactions. Inaddition, the risk is going to be reduced by the Bank's supervision
and external audits.

PEW is not in the'scope o f work o f the internal audit department established within the
Government o f Montenegro.

Reporting and Monitoring.

Reporting for the project will be based on simple accounting software acceptable to the Bank that
would be used for cash based project accounting. Purchase o f the software was initiated prior to
negotiations.

Project management-oriented interim un-audited financial reports (IFRs) will be used for project
monitoring and supervision. IFRs will be prepared in the pre-agreed format. The PEW will
produce a full set o f the reports for each calendar quarter throughout the life o f the project. They
will be due 45 days after each quarter ends.

The accounting for the project is on cash basis, while entity's annual audited financial statements
are prepared in accordance with provisions o f the Law on Accounting and Auditing in force in
Montenegro, or any law succeeding it.

External Audit.

Separate project and entity financial statements will be audited in accordance with terms o f
reference acceptable to the Bankby a private sector auditing company acceptable to the Bank.

The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by the project
implementationagency together with the due date for submission.

                      Audit Report                                   Due Date
   Entity financial statements.                       Within six months of the end of each
                                                      fiscal year and also at the closing of the

   Project financial statements (PFS), including
   SOEs and SpeciaVdesignatedaccount. The PFSs
   include sources and uses of funds by category, by
   components and by financing source; SOE
   statements, Statement of designated account,
   notes to financial statements, and reconciliation
   statement.


                                                 54

The auditor will be appointed by the PEW. The PEW i s responsible for delivering to the Bank,
within six months o fthe closing o f each fiscal year and six months after the closing o f the project,
the audited financial statements. The annual cost o f the project audit will be coveredby the project
funds, while the entity audit is funded under MESTAP project (P079116). Upon closure o f the
MESTAPproject, the entity audit will be financed from the project fimds as well.

Funds Flow and DisbursementArrangements.

Project funds will flow from: (i) Bank - either as an advance, via a Desiwated Account to be
                                  the
opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, which will be replenished under transaction
based disbursement method, and managed as described below in the section on disbursement
arrangements, or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment withdrawal applications; and
(ii) PEW.
   the

The transaction based disbursement will be used for the Project. Once the Project becomes
effective a Designated Account will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, to
which the funds will be transferred. The DesignatedAccount will be managed and operated by the
PEW. All spending will take place through it, with the exception o f direct payments to suppliers.

The Ceiling for this Designated Account will be stated inthe disbursement letter. Applications for
replenishment o f the Designated Account will be submitted monthly or when one-third o f the
amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.              Documentation requirements for
replenishment would follow standard Bank procedures as described in the Disbursement
Handbook. Monthly bank statements o f the Designated Account, which have been reconciled,
would accompany all replenishment requests.

Counterpart-funding will be flowing from PEWto suppliers.

Supervision Plan.

During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management
arrangements in two main ways: (i)      review the project's interim un-audited financial reports
(IFRs) as well as the project's and entity's annual audited financial statements and auditor's
management letter; and (ii)perform on-site supervisions, review the project's financial
management and disbursement arrangements to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum
requirements. Supervisions will be performed by the Bank accredited Financial Management
Specialist.




                                               55

                              Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
      REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGROSUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 and revised
October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers'' dated May 2004 and revised October 2006, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal
Agreement. The various items under different expenditure categories are described in general
below. For each contract to be financed by the Credit, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in the Procurement
Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

ProcurementofWorks:Works procured underthisproject would include:

(a)  Construction o f the Regional Water            Supply Scheme,      which will involve the
constructiodinstallation of: (i)a Continental Branch comprising: the Gravity pipeline from the
WPF Bolije Sestre to the Pumping Station (PS) Relijici; the pipeline from Relijici to Reservoir
Djurmani; and (ii)Southern Branch comprising: the Gravity pipeline from ReservoirDjumanito
                    a
PS Belveder, with Break Pressure Chamber (BPC); the Pressure Pipeline from PS Belveder to
BPC Bratica; the BPC Bratica; and Construction of the Gravity Pipeline from BPC Bratica to Bar.
These works will be procured under I C B for the package divided into three Lots. Procurement
will be carried out through one procedure, with each Lot to be bid separately, but with the
possibility o f awarding either one, two, or all three Lots to one contractor who i s technically and
financially qualified.   The procurement will be done using the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD) for ICB Works, andpost-qualification will be carried out for this package.

(b) Construction o f an Office building and Information Center for the Bojana Buna Delta
Management Unit. These works will be packaged under one Works contract. The procurement
will be done using the Bank's ECA regional sample Bidding Documents (BD) for National
Competitive Biddingo f Works (NCB) ina version agreedwith or satisfactory to the Bank.

Procurementof Goods: Goods procuredunderthis project would include:

   The main Supply and Install package comprising two Lots: (i)Construction, Supply and
   Installation o f Water Production Facility Bolije Sestre; and (ii) Construction o f the Pumping
   Station Relijici, PumpingStation Belveder, connection o f the Plant Bolije Sestre and pumping
   stations to the power network; with control and automation o f the system operation (post-
   qualification is envisaged).

   Supply o f office equipment, furniture and vehicles for the Bojana BunaManagement Unit.

The procurement o f goods will be done using the Bank's ICB Goods SBD for all procurement o f
goods estimated to cost more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent, or the Supply and Install SBD for ICB
inthe caseo fthe above mentionedrelevant contract (i).

                                                56

 These contracts will be procured using ICB in accordance with the applicable version o f Bank
 Standard BiddingDocuments. For the Supply and Install contract, procurement will be carried out
 through one procedure, with each Lot to be bid separately, but with the possibility o f awarding the
 two Lots to one contractor iftechnically and financially qualified for two.

 Shopping (S) procedures may be used for readily available goods o f standard specifications
 estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent. Shopping Procedures will require in writing
 quotations from at least three suppliers usingECA Regional Invitation to Quote sample document.

 Selection of Consultants: Consulting services that will be required under the project would
include:
         Consultancy services for a background study on the Bojana Buna Delta, which is needed
        before declaring it as a protected area, and which will also help develop an environmental
        management plan for the Delta, and to establish the Bojana-Buna Delta Management Unit
         to manage the protectedarea established under the project.

         Consultancy services to translate the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan into detailed Urban Plans
         for the Municipality o fUlcinj.

        Institutional Strengthening o f the management, monitoring and enforcement capacity in
        PEW to construct, operate and maintain the Regional Water Supply Scheme; and
         Strengthening the Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental Protection to oversee the
        implementationo f environmentally sound tourism development inMontenegro.

        Support for Environmental Monitoring and Monitoring o f land use and construction
        activities inthe Bojana BunaDelta.

        Finaldesign o f the Bojana-Buna Delta information center.

        Final design o f the water intake and part o f the pipeline route o f the regional water supply
        scheme.

        Design for the rehabilitation o fthe hydro-technical tunnel Sozina.

        The EnvironmentalManagement Planfor the Information Center.

        Audit services.

       lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$200,000
equivalent will be awarded using Quality and Cost based Selection (QCBS) method. Selection
based on Consultants qualifications (CQS) may be used for contracts estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent. Fixed Budget (FBS), and Least Cost selection (LCS) may also be
methods used for specific contracts such as auditing services.

OperatingCosts: Operatingcosts which wouldbe financed bythe project andprocured usingthe
implementing agency's administrative procedures, include costs made for activities on account o f

                                                57

management o f the Project implementation such as communications, utilities, printing and
publications, office rent, maintenance and supplies, office security systems, vehicle operation and
maintenance, transportation [andfield trip expenses, training o f the staff for the purpose o f Project
management], remuneration for staff, including qualified social charges but excluding salaries o f
civil servants, and such other expenditures as may be agreed uponby the Bank.

The procurement procedures and SBDs intended to be used for each procurement method, as well
as the Bank standard or sample contracts for works and goods to be procured, are presented inthe
Project ImplementationManual.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the Public Enterprise for Water Supply, Wastewater
Drainage and Treatment, and Solid Waste Disposal (PEW). The agency is staffed by 22 staff, out
o f which the procurement hnction is staffed by two Procurement Specialists, supported by an
additional 11 technical specialists (Engineers) who have gained international procurement
experience through their participation in implementation o f the on-going MESTAP and the now
completed MEP financed by the Bank. The procurement requirements for this project are limited
to relatively few contracts. However, the complex country environment characterized by
unresolved governance issues, and the risk o f interference in the procurement process are likely to
remain significant concerns duringthe life o f the project

A short and summarized assessment o f the capacity o f the Implementing Agency to implement
procurement actions for the project, based on procurement practice by the same procuring entity
under the previous MESTAP project has been carried out by Salim Benouniche, Procurement
Specialist. The assessmentreviewedthe organizational structure for implementing the project and
the interaction between the project's staff responsible for procurement, and PEW'Srelevant unit
that would be responsible for administration, procurement and financial management o f the
project.

The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation o f the project have been
identified and include the procurement and management o f a large works contract (the Regional
Water Supply Network, divided into three Lots), and a large Supply and Install contract divided
into two Lots (Including Water production plant, pumping stations, and connection to the power
network, with control o f the system). The mitigating measures which have been agreed are close
supervision and support by the Bank's Procurement Staff through prior review o f all contracts
estimated to cost more thanUS$200,000.

The overall project risk for procurement is ratedhigh.

C. ProcurementPlan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan was agreed between the Borrower and
the Project Team on April 26,2007 and is available at PEW offices (Address is on the PAD data
sheet).  It will also be available in the project's database and in the Bank's external website
without the cost estimates column. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

                                                58

D. FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the Implementing Agency has recommended supervision missions at least once a
year to visit the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.


E. Detailsofthe ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition

1. Goods, Works, andNonConsultingServices

(a) List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:

1     2                             3          4                5      6           7                8           9

Ref.  Contract                      Estimated  Procurement      P-Q    Domestic    Review           Expecte     Comments
No.   (Description)                 cost       Method                  Preference  by Bank          d
                                                                       (yedno)     (Prior / Post)   Bid-
                                                                                                    Opening
                                                                                                    Date
 1    Water     treatment   plant,             ICB    (Supply   No     No          Prior            Dec 3,      Will   have
      pumping stations, connection             and Install)                                         2007       performanc
      to power network, control of                                                                              e     based
      the system(Two Lots)                                                                                      specificatio
                                                                                                               ns.
2     Works contract(s) for                    ICB              No     No          Prior            Nov. 1,    Will    have
      RegionalWS (pipeline                                                                          2007       performanc
      network) (Three Lots)                                                                                    e      based
                                                                                                               specificatio
                                                                                                               ns.


(b) Initial procurement planreview thresholds: All ICB contracts, contracts estimated to cost more
than US$200,000 per contract and all direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the
Bank.

2. ConsultingServices

(a) List o fconsulting assignments with short-list o f international firms.

                                                               1          1
   1          ( 2                             1 3              1 4        ( 5           ( 6            1 7

   Ref.No.    I DescriptionofAssignment        Estimated        Selection   Review         Expected      Comments
                                               cost             Method      byBank         Proposals
                                                                            (Prior    I Submission
                                                                            Post)          Date
   1.          Background Study on Bojana                       CQS         Prior          October  1,   Eligible for
               BunaDelta                                                                   2007          retroactive
                                                                                                         financing.
   2           Final Design for Office & Info                   CQS         Prior          May     15,   Eligible for
               Center                                                                      2007          retroactive
                                                                                                         financing.
   3           Support     of   Environmental                   QCBS        Prior         December 1,    Eligible for
               Monitoring of the Bojana Buna                                              2007           retroactive
               Delta                                                                                     financing.
   4           Detailed Urban Plans        for                  QCBS        Prior         December 1,    Eligible for
               Municipality ofUlcinj                                                      2007.          retroactive
                                                                                                         financing.
   5           Institutional strengthening of                   CQS    & Post             January   2,   Eligible for
               PEW, MOTEP andBBMU                               IC                        2008.         retroactive


                                                           59

(b) Initial procurement plan review thresholds: Selection for Consultancy Services estimated to
cost more than US$lOO,OOO per contract and all single source selection o f consultants (firms), as
well as selection o f Individual Consultants (IC) for assignments estimated to cost above
US$50,000 will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Prior Bank review will also be required
for all terms o f reference for consultants. Inaddition, the first two contracts under CQS, FBS, and
LCS methods are subject to Bank's prior review as set forth inparagraphs 2 and 3 o f Appendix 1
to the Guidelines.

Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of
national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines.




                                               60

                             Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
       REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                     DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Economic analysis

Traveland TourisminMontenegro

Travel and Tourism (T&T) is one o f the main sources o f income for individuals and municipalities
located inthe coastal region inMontenegro. Inan independent analysis, the WTTC has projected
that it is possible for Montenegro to realize annual tourism T&T demand growth at a rate o f 10
percent, annual T&T employment growth o f 5.7 percent and annual capital investment growth o f
7.4 percent - resulting in annual T&T GDP growth o f about 9 percent over 2004-2014 per year.
However, certain constraints need to be removed if that potential is to be realized. Among them
are the lack o f adequate and reliable water supply in the peak tourism periods and the negative
impacts of wastewater discharges that affect water quality in the resort areas. These constraints
particularly impact the desired shift towards high quality, high value-added,                      tourism.
Improvements are also required in land use and spatial planning, landscape management and
control o f solid waste in the tourist areas as well as investments in improvement o f transport and
other infrastructure. The magnitude o f the overall investments required i s large in relation to
Montenegro's fiscal space, but they can be undertaken in phased approach expenditures. This
project supports a phase o f the water supply upgrading plan and o f the government's efforts to
improve land use planning and control. A subsequent phase o f this project would hrther extend
the water supply systems and address wastewater handling and treatment, as well as continue
support to landuse planning and control. Together with other government, IFI, donor, and private
investments and technical assistance, the overall program i s expected to provide the           investments
and enabling environment interventions required for Montenegro to realize sustained T&T growth.
Without such a phased approach, it will not be possible for Montenegro to realize the potential
benefits from a sustained growth o ftourism.

Market analysis and discussions with a variety of hotel operators has given the government
confidence that improved infrastructure and the preservation and enhancement o f the landscape
and sea water quality will induce the needed private sector investment in quality hotel
accommodations. According to the WTTC the expansion and renovation o f Montenegro's tourism
infrastructure, particularly its hotel supply, i s one o f the greatest challenges facing the country's
tourism industry today and will be a critical competitive factor in determining the growth o f
demand over the coming years5 The Government "Tourism Masterplan for Montenegro" outlines
its strategic goal ofpositioning Montenegro as "high-quality Majorca" inthe summer season and a
qualified niche provider with special products in the winter season. Its long-term plan calls for
hotel capacity expansion in the international standard 3-5 star category to provide a quality
product mix targeted at the upper segment o fthe T&T market.

In line with the Government's strategic position described above, if the needed infrastructure
investments are made and land use planning implemented, the growth in 4-5 star hotels is
expected to be about 19.6 percent in the years 2011-2015, 14.6 percent in 2016-2020, 10 percent
in2021-2028 and seven percent in2029-2033. The growth in 1-3 star hotels is projected to be


 Montenegro, The Impact of Travel and Tourism on Jobs and the Economy, World Travel and Tourism Council, 2004
                                                   61

much lower in this scenario, at about two percent per annum. The growth in private
accommodations is expected to be below one percent per annum.6

According to the Montenegro Ministryo f Tourism, overnight stays totaled 5 million in 2005 and
resulted in tourism revenue o f about Euro 209 million - a 21.8 percent increase from the 2004
level. Over 2001-2005 the growth in overnight stays has been inthe order o f 8.2 percent. These
statistics do not capture tourism travel attributed to the grey market, which by some estimates
currently accounts for about 60 percent o fthe existing bed capacity. The highest recordedlevel o f
overnight stays was from 1989, when it reached 11 million. That number was achieved through
mass market tourism o f a relatively low standard and comparably low value-added. The current
strategy focuses on the value added, rather than body count.

Estimationof economic costs andbenefits

Among the several dimensions o f the project, the investment inimproved water supply dominates
interms ofloanvolume andis also the element most susceptible to quantification. This dimension
i s addressed in detail below. By contrast, the land use planning and control activities require
relatively small financial resources, but considerable political and administrative resources.
Success in these components will have a very high economic payoff, but attribution solely to the
financial investmentwould be misleading, hence i s not undertakenhere.

Due to the need to commit government resources in a phased manner to remain within annual
commitment allocations, this project will build only part o f a much larger water supply system.
The larger system will supply water to six coastal municipalities, while the current phase reaches
only Bar. Because the first phase is designed to supply the larger set o f beneficiaries, it is over
dimensioned in terms o f Bar alone, hence excessively costly were the second phase not be
constructed. That second phase risk is explicitly addressed in project design, as recorded in this
appraisal document. This economic analysis highlights the potential cost o f failing to execute the
second stage.

The economic analysis estimates costs and benefits o f the incremental water sales due to
incremental water demand met by the proposed infrastructure investments that cannot be met
through existing resources and infrastructure. The expectation, based on market studies, i s that the
excess demand will occur duringthe tourist season. The water demand estimate derives from the
projected growth innumber o f hotel beds discussed in the section above. Details can be found in
the project files. To highlight the relative costs and benefits from the two phases, an economic
analysis was undertaken for the overall investment designed to benefit all six coastal
municipalities and a separate analysis for investment under the current project, with transmission
mains sized to meet the six municipality needs, but benefiting only the municipality o fBar.

Costs: The estimated present value o f the economic costs of construction, operation and
maintenance o f the bulk water supply system that will provide incrementalwater supplies to all six
coastal municipalities to cover their water deficit is Euro 58.9 million. The economic cost o f
construction, operation and maintenance o f the Continental branch and a part o f the southern
branch that will supply water only to the city of Bar (under the proposed project) i s estimated at
Euro 31.4 million.



  The growth rates are estimated basedo n the Consultant's report "Montenegro Sustainable TourismDevelopment',
Engineering Consultancy Service, June 2006.
                                                       62

Benefits: Project benefits derive from the value o f the incremental water supplied during the
project's implementation. The filleconomic value ofthat incremental water is represented by the
area under the water demand curve representing that incremental supply.         The shape o f the
demandcurve is not known and for the purposes o fthis analysis, the economic value calculated is
simply that o f the expected revenue from incremental water sales. That value, inturn, is a lower
bound estimate o f the total economic value. The expected revenue figures are based on the
projected bulk water sales price o f Euro 1.15 per cubic meter. This price has been tested in the
market analysis undertaken among potential entrants in the higher quality hotel operations in
Montenegro, on which the volume o f sale estimates are based. At this price, the economic benefit
from the overall infrastructure investments i s estimated at Euro 61.5 million, while the economic
benefit from the investments benefiting Bar only is estimated at Euro 4.1 million. The summary
of the analysis can be seen inthe following table:

                                          SUMMARY
                                           PV (costs)  PV (benefits)    NPV         ERR
  1. Incrementalwater sales to 6
  municipalities                           58,931,307   61,55 1,260    2,619,953    12.6%

  2. Incrementalwater sales to Bar only    31,437,131   4,141,813     27,295,318   -10.6%

Clearly, while the f i l l project has a positive NPV even with the acknowledged underestimate o f
economic benefits, a project sized to reach six municipalities but constructed only to Bar would
suffer a significant negative NPV. In economic terms, the cost to the government o f not moving
the phase two would be Euro 30 million. This figure emphasizes the importance o f committing to
phase two as an element o f launching the current project.

A delay inphase two coming on line would reduce the positive NPV of the overall project. For
example, if the total project were completed on schedule, but municipal connections beyond took
place over three years instead of all in 2011 as forecast, the NPV would be slightly negative for
the overall project and the ERR drop to 11.8 percent. Of course, that remains a lower bound
estimate, so the NPV based on the actual demand curve would likely remain positive. A two year
delay in funding phase two at all would drop the ERR to 10.4 percent. These sensitivity values
likewise suggest the economic impact o f the private investment in hotels being slower than
projected - if the system i s finished in a timely fashion, but hotels come on stream two years
slower than estimated, the ERR again drops to 10.4 percent.

Financial analysis

Under the proposed MSTDPl the PEW Company will be responsible for the construction o f the
continental branch and part o f the southern branch o f the entire regional water supply system
(RWSS).

The total cost o f the RWSS (continental branch and part o f southern branch) component is
estimated at around US$33.2 million (excluding taxes & duties). This will be financed by IDA
with the amount o f about US$8.3 million, to be on-lent by the Government o f Montenegro to the
PEW on IDA terms. The PEW will contribute to the financing cost from the proceeds it receives
from the surcharge o f 1%of capital investment costs inthe region with about US$6.0 million. The
Government o f Montenegro is estimated to finance about US$18.9 million (excluding taxes and
duties).


                                                  63

The financial projection was performed for the PEW that includes: (a) financial statements o f the
new Regional Water Supply Company from 2007 to 2011, (b) bulk water tariff projection, and (c)
main assumptions and key indicators. A financial rate o f return and risk analysis was performed
to assess the future financial viability o f the new regional water company.

As explained inthe previous sections, the entire RWSS is envisaged to be constructed through two
World Bank funded projects (IDA and IBRD separated) and an EBRD funded project. The IDA
and EBRD fundedprojects are expected to start in2007, andthe IBRDfunded project is expected
to start in2008.7 Therefore, the financial viability o f the PEW Company i s estimated based on the
most likely scenario (Scenario A) that assumes: first, the three projects will be implemented as
planned; which means that the entire RWSS will be completed through end o f 2010 and will be
fully operational in 2011; and second, the RWSS will cover the peak demand o f all six coastal
water utilities in the summer plus supply all year round in cases where the supply cost from the
regional system is lower than the one from the local sources.* A sensitivity analysis i s conducted
to assess the risk o f one year delay o f the IBRD and EBRD financed projects. A sub-scenario
(Scenario B) o f the most likely scenario is developed by changing only the second assumption in
a way that it i s assumed that the RWSS will supply water to all six coastal water utilities to meet
the demand deficit during the tourism peak season only. The worst case scenario is that both
projects will be delayed by about three years, and inthis case, at the beginning PEW will have to
supply water only to the city o f Bar. The bulk water price in the worst scenario that covers only
cash expenses i s estimated to be during2011-2013 Euro 1.75 m3, Euro 1.72 m3 and Euro 1.69 m3
respectively. Although these prices are high, the impact on the hotel tariffs i s still within the
affordability rangeo f Euro 2.50 (see Table 8).

The demand forecast for the peak season is based on the anticipated growth o f investments from
the private sector in hotels, private accommodations, and summer houses, the increased
occupancy rate and the extended tourist season, (Report Montenegro Sustainable Tourism
Development Project, June 2006). The number o f tourist beds from hotels and other
accommodations estimated by the report is expected to increase from 248,314 in 2005 to 343,713
in2035 and the demand for water supply, to be provided by the RWSS and local sources, from
2,026 Vs to 2,325 Vs respectively duringthe tourism seasoninall six cities.

As per the Financing Agreement (FA) the maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the
GoM on the Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one half o f one percent (1/2 o f 1%) per
annum, and the Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall
be equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 o f 1%) per annum. However, the Commitment
Charge has been waived by the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors for projects going to
the Board inFY2007, and has partially waived the fee for the Service Charges by 55 basis points
for FY2007, bringing the charge to 0.2 percent. Credit funds will be passed on to MoTEP via
budget transfer, and to the Municipality o f Ulcinj and PEW under the same modified IDA terms as
received, with a 10-year grace period, a final maturity o f 20 years, a service charge o f 0.75
percent, a commitment fee o f 0.50 percent, subject to any waiver o f fees and charges the Bank
mightprovideto the GoMS9


'The   IBRDfundedprojectis inavery advancedphaseofpreparationandthe GOMhasagreedwith the cost andfinancingsources
that includethe Government financing.
* The cost of local sources stand for productionandtransmissionO&M cost for aperiodof 5 years, and afterthat depreciation cost
i s added.
9 Inthe financial statementsforecast we have assumedthe same modifiedterms willapply untilthe first year of
operation of the regional water supply system.
                                                            64

  Coastal water utilities are assumed to make regular payments for the bulk water supply, based on
  annual contracts with PEW, although a sensitivity analysis i s performed to show the impact on the
  revenues in case less payment would occur. The bulk water tariffs approval responsibility rests
  withthe Board o fDirectors o fPEW accordingto the Statute o fthe PEW, Article 29.

  Financial Rate o f Return(FRR) and Risk Analysis. The FRR is estimated based on the stream o f
  the costs (investments and O&M costs) andbenefits for a period o f40 years. The FRRresults at a

I rate o f 3.2 percent, and the financial projection for the period of the economic life o f the
  investments shows a stable positive cash flow, and therefore the investments are financially
  justified (see Table 7).

  The main financial risks are:
      (i)     the local water utilities and large resorts will not purchase the anticipated amount o f
              bulk water supply because of less investments from the private sector in the tourism
              industry;
       (ii)   the local water utilities will not be able to pay 100 percent o f the annual bulk water
              supply;
      (iii)   the Government fails to provide the financing contribution timely and adequately; and
      (iv)    the one percent earnings from the investments in the coastal areas o f Montenegro
              mightnot be at the forecasted level due to less private investments than anticipated.

  Assumptions for the risk analysis i s based on:
      (i)     for the first risk a more conservative demand forecast compared to the base scenario;
      (ii)    for the second risk: a lower forecast of the collection rate that would be anticipated
              based on the willingness to pay and affordability analysis (85 percent);
      (iii)   for the third risk: it is sought that PEW'Stimely forecast and request for counterpart
              funds and the recent development o f Government revenues will make this risk
              negligible, or at least it could be overcome through deferred payment to contractors
              andbridgingthe gap with additional resources from PEW; and
      (iv)    for the fourth risk: a conservative forecast o f these revenues (only 51 percent o f PEW'S
              own forecast).

  BulkWater TariffsanditsImpacton end Consumers.

  The estimation o f the Bulk Water Tariffs o f PEW has been reviewed with regard to two aspects,
  (1) to ensure financial viability of the regional water supply system and (2) to ensure that the
  estimated tariffs for the end consumers (hotels, private accommodations and residents) will not
  have a negative effect on the competitiveness and affordability.

  Financial sustainability o fthe regional water supply system

  The estimation o f the bulk water tariffs for PEW is based on the utility cost recovery approach.
  Following this approach the revenues required to cover the full costs to ensure that PEWwill meet
  its cash commitments (which includes payment o f cash operations and maintenance (O&M)
  expenses and repayment o f debt used to finance capital expenditures for the regional water supply
  system) and also covers the depreciation costs and generate a profit margin to build up cash in
  anticipation for future capital expenses (i.e., replacement costs). In this way the regional water
  supply system ensures a long term financial sustainability, which is consistent with the concept
  that PEWmust operate as a corporate entity.
                                                   65

Two scenarios were developed for Bulk Water Tariffs estimation (see Table 2 below). Scenario A
assumes that PEW supplies water to all six coastal water utilities to cover the peak demand inthe
summer, plus supply all year round in cases where the supply cost from the RWSS is lower than
the production and transmission costs from the local sources (see Table 3). It was further assumed
that this supply level will be reached gradually. Some coastal water utilities will only switch
when the reinvestments are due. The second scenario assumes that PEW supplies water to meet
only the demand deficit duringthe summer (tourist period) o fthe six coastal water utilities.




                           2011         2015        2020        2025       2030         2035
Scenario A                 0.40          0.40       0.40        0.40       0.40         0.40
Scenario B                 0.70          0.70       0.70        0.60       0.60         0.50

Table 3 below explains how the costs o f production and transmission o f water by each utility
differ from the price o fpurchasing water from the regional system under scenario A and B (Table
2), and the advantages that most o f them have to reduce their water supply costs to end consumers
bypurchasingbulk water.




1. HercegNovi                                                        0.94
2. Tivat                                                             0.72
3. Kotor                                                             1.19
4. Budva                                                             0.76
5. Bar                                                               0.55
6. Ulcinj                                                            0.36

Impact on competitiveness andaffordability o f end-consumers.

The scope andsize o fthe project has beenbased on affordability considerations. The rate o ftariff
increase for the coastal utilities due to purchase o f bulk water from PEW over the project period
andthereafter hastakeninto account the impact onhotels, private accommodations andresidents.

The water utilities will recover the costs for the regional water supply scheme primarily from
hotels and private accommodations.        The cause for the regional water supply scheme is the
tourism industry and not the permanent residents who could be supplied from local sources and
who would not need the regional scheme would there not be the demand for water from the
tourism industry.

To implement the above principle the project has suggested introducing a hotel tariff and a peak
summer tariff for domestic consumption.        The last one is related to private bed & breakfast
tourism, which i s much developed in the coast of Montenegro, and therefore during the summer
households consume muchmore water thanthe rest o fthe year. Although the peak summer tariffs
are also higher than the off peak tariffs to private households which do not provide bed and
breakfast, for these customers the tariffs will be balanced out over the entire year. Therefore the
annual payment o fpermanent residents who are not rentingto tourists will remain the same.
                                                66

With respect to the hotel tourism industry, the analysis aims to ensure that the hotel tariffs will not
affect the competitive advantages o f the tourism industry in the coast o f Montenegro in
comparison with other neighboring countries. The hotel tourism industry i s one o f the most
profitable businesses in the country and the increase in costs o f the water supply i s insignificant
compared to the higher earnings that the improvements in the water supply will bring to this
industry. The cost o f a seven night vacation (4 star hotel including transportation from Belgrade)
at the coast o f Montenegro in2004 was around 700 Euro and in2011it is forecasted to be around
Euro 8051 . The estimated costs o f water per one tourist per 7 days vacation would be around
Euro 6.1 in2011or 0.8 percent o f the total costs per one tourist inthe same year (Table 8).

The revenues o f the families                  that host tourists during the summer period (private
accommodations) haven been estimated in the report to be around Euro 1,000 in 2005 and are
anticipated to increase to nearly Euro 1,800 in2011. The estimated costs for water billed in2011
using the new proposed tariffs would be around Euro 8.5 (for a family o f three persons) or about
2.8% o fthe revenues from one family tourist accommodation for 10 nights (Table 8).

Fiscal Impact. According to the financing plan o f the project, the Government o f Montenegro
(GoM) is estimated to provide around US$35.8 million towards the entire project cost through the
central budget, which is part of the tourism development strategy in the coast o f Montenegro. In
return the GoM i s expected to enjoy a financial benefit directly from the project by collecting
income tax from the Bulk Water Utility. The present value o f this benefit (assuming 25 years
project life, discounted at 10 percent) is estimated at US$1.3 million. The GoM would also
receive revenue from 7 percent value added tax (VAT) on bulk water sales. The present value o f
this benefit (assuming 25 years project life, discounted at 10 percent) is estimated at US$ 6.0
million". An important indirect and long term fiscal impact i s the increase o f tourist tax, and also
o f VAT on tourism revenue. The present value o f the benefit from incremental tourist tax revenue
due to tourism growth is estimated at US$18.9 million (assuming the same project life and
discount rate as above).12 It should be noted that the GoM currently is not capturing all o f the
tourist tax revenue as approximately 60 percent o f all tourists beds are currently provided by the
grey market. Grey market tourists do not register and hence do not pay the tax. The GoM will also
benefit from additional revenue from the VAT due to the growth intourism and travel industry in
Montenegro's coastal areas (projected by the WTTC at about 10percent per annum). The present
value o f overall estimated incremental VAT collection due to the tourism growth is estimated at
US$4 bi1li0n.I~ The incremental VAT revenue i s estimated based on the overall anticipated
growth intourism revenue, rather than due to the project.




loThe total packageper one tourist in2011is estimated to increase by around 15 percent from 2005 that includes also
inflation impact.
'IThe value addedtax payments on imported equipment used for the project would not create a fiscal benefit since
PEW would be able to deduct these payments frompayments to the Government o f value added tax on estimatedbulk
water sales.
l2The tourist tax per nightis currently 1 Euro/night o f which is shared between the central and local governments 70
and 30 percent respectively.
l3The project is expected to contribute to the incremental VAT, because o f the highconfidence that the very good
quality o f water supply services will create inthe private developers to construct new hotels and resorts inthe coastal
area, which will generate value added. But it is difficult to measure the portion o f the water supply inthe estimated
incrementalVAT.
                                                          67

                           Annex 9, Table 4: PEWFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
                                                    (US$)


                              Montenegro: Sustainable Tourism Development Project
                                           FINANCIALSTATEMENTS
                 Scenario A   - PEW supplies water to all six coastal water utilities all year round')



INCOME STATEMENT                       2007                             2009                2010           2011

Revenues
Water invoiced revenues                                                                               5,254,115
Other revenues')                    1,440,000    2,100,000         2,280,000              1,920,000   2,400,000
Total revenues                     1,440,000      2,100,000        2,280,000              1,920,000   7,654,115

Operating Expenses
Personnel                                                                                             288,000
Electricity                                                                                           1,132,406
Chemicals and materials                                                                               1,442,946
Repairs & maintenance                                                                                 1,452,240
Other cash expenses                                                                                   24,600
  Total cash operating
expenses')                         900,000       900,000           900,000             900,O00        4,340,192

Net income before depreciation     540,000       1,200,000         1,380,000          1,020,000       3,3 13,922
Depreciation                       158,922       158,922           158,922            158,922         2,758,977
Total operating costs              1,058,922     1,058,922         1,058,922          1,058,922       7,099,169
Financial incomelexpenses
Interest and financial charges
   IDA Sub-credit interest         992           5,459             13,398             18,856          74,430
   IBRDSub-loan interest                                                                              521,456
   EBRDloaninterest3)              314,550       405,000           765,450            810,000         810,000
  Total loan interest expenses     315,542       410,459           778,848            828,856         1,405,886

  Net income before tax            65,536        630,619           442.230            32,222          (850,940)
[ncome tax
  Net income after tax             65,536        630,619           442,230            32,222          (850,940)
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
2ash and cashequivalents           48,519        100,382           168,402            296,595         820,016
rrade receivables                                                                                     287,177
qon-trade receivables
[nventories                                                                                           262,706
3ther current assets
  Total current assets             48,519        100,382          168,402             296,595         1,369,899

Zross fixed assets                 20,424,011    20,424,011       20,424,011          20,424,011      95,973,711
Less: Acpumulated depreciation     158,922       317,844          476,766             635,688         3,394,665
 Net fixed assets                  20,265,089    20,106,167        19,947,245         19,788,323      92,579,046
2onstruction Work-in-Progress      7,25 1,145    32,243,581       66,080,35 1         75,549,700

Ither non current assets                                                                              300,000
                                                   68

Total fixed assets               27,516,234  52,349,748      86,027,595 95,338,023   92,879,046
  Total assets                   27,564,753  52,450,130      86,195,997 95,634,618   94,248,945

Liabilities and equity
Accounts payables                                                                    356,728
Other current liabilities                                                            493,153
current portion ofthe long term
loan
  Total current liabilities                                                          849,881
short term debtshinancia1
obligations
long-term debts
Long term loans
IDA sub-credit                   828,000     3,726,000    7,452,000     8,280,000    8,280,000
IBRDsub-loan                                 2,250,000    7,200,000     9,000,000    9,000,000
EBRDLoan                         1,800,000   8,100,000       16,200,000 18,000,000   16,615,385
Monk-Grant                       360,000     1,620,000    3,240,000     3,600,000    3,600,000
CIDA-Grant                       180,000     810,000      1,620,000     1,800,000    1,800,000
TA-TF-Grant                      96,000      432,000      864,000       960,000      960,000
  Total non-current liabilities  3,264,000   16,938,000   36,576,000    41,640,000   40,255,385
  Total liabilities              3,264,000   16,938,000   36,576,000    41,640,000   41,105,266
Capital and reserves             24,235,2 18 34,815,975      48481611.8 52,824,011   52,824,012
Retained earnings                65,536      696,155      1,138,385     1,170,607    319,667
  Total equity                   24,300,753  35,512,130   49,619,997     53,994,618  53,143,679

  Total liabilities and equity   27,564,753  52,450,130   86,195,997    95,634,618   94,248,945
Sources & Applications of
Funds
 Sources
Income after tax                 381,078     1,04 1,078   1,221,078     861,078      554,946
Depreciation                     158,922     158,922      158,922       158,922     2,758,977
Change in working capital

1) IDA Credit                    828,000     2,898,000    3,726,000     828,000
2) IBRDLoan                                - 2,250,000    4,950,000     1,800,000
3) EBRDLoan                      1,800,000   6,300,000    8,100,000     1,800,000

4) Monk-Grant                    360,000     1,260,000    1,620,000     360,000
5) CIDA-Grant                    180,000     630,000      810,000       180,000
6) TA-TF-Grant                   96,000      336,000      432,000       96,000
7) GOMequity                     3,840,000   10,680,000   13,800,000    4,380,000
Total Sources                    7.644.000   25,554.000   34.8 18,000   10,464,000  3,313,922

Applications
Capital Expenditures            7,279,939    25,09 1,678  33,971,132    9,506,95 1
Debt Service                    315,542      410,459      778,848       828,856     2,790,501
Total Amlications               7.595.481    25,502.137   34,749.980    10,335,807  2,790,501

Annual CashBalance              48,519       51,863       68,020        128,193     523,421




                                              69

                                Annex 9, Table 5: PEW Summary of FinancialperformanceIndicators
                                                                (ScenarioA)

                                                 2011             2015             2020            2025       2030         2035


1) Volume of water invoiced (m3)              10,946,072 11,I69,934 18,435,413 26,821,234 29,136,066 31,562,122
2) Bulk water tariff (euro/m3)                    0.40             0.40             0.40           0.40        0.40         0.40

3) Total revenues (Euro)                      6,378,429        6,467,974        8,874,165      10,728,494 10,728,494 12,624,849

4) Total expenses (Euro)                      7,089,256        6,936,397        7,864,771      8,989,938   9,422,547     9,890,229
4) Collection ratio (%)                           0.95             0.95             0.95           0.95        0.95         0.95
6) Working ratio (%)                              0.87             0.86             0.72           0.66        0.66         0.63
7) Operating ratio (%)                            1.42              1.4             1.05           0.88        0.85         0.82
8) Max. water hotel tariffs (euro/m3)              2.5              2.5             2.5            1.95        1.95         1.95
9) Max. water peak tariffs (euro/m3)              1.35             1.35              1.3           1.25        1.25         1.25




                                                         Overnightstays (No.)                     BulkWater Sales (M3)
                                                       2011                    2035                2011           2035
      HERCEGNOVI                                    4,754,880               9,922,680           2,2 13,617       6,346,190

      TIVAT                                         2,052,000               2,910,600           745,296          2,844,415

      KOTOR                                         2,622,000               3,523,800            1,093,309      2,078,962

      BUDVA                                         8,040,000               9,735,000           1,938,110       5,409,887

     BAR                                            7,200,000               8,008,800            2,920,371      7,954,235

     ULCINJ                                         5,880,000               9,480,000            2,035,369       6,928,433

                                            Annex 9, Table 7: SensitivityAnalysisof FRR

           Scenario                           Assumption                                       Financial -IRR
           PEW
           Base case Scenario A               The PEW is a newly created regional              3.2%
                                              water supply company, and therefore the
                                              base case i s the start up o f the operation o f
                                              the new utility. With and without project
                                              alternativesprinciple does not apply.
           Collectionrates Scenario A, risk IIThe collection rate will drop bv 10%from        I2.5%
           (ii)                               the base case scenario 1eveii.e: from 95%
                                              to 85%.
           Purchase o fbulk water Scenario    All six utilities willpurchase less 10%of        2.8%
           A, risk (i)                        the anticipated amount, due to the lower
                                              that anticipated scope o f private
                                              investments inhotels and new resorts.
           Investments Scenario A, risk (iv)  The GoM and PEW delay the financing o f          3.2%
                                              investments for one year.


                                                                   70

                  Annex 9, Table 8: Impact on the competitiveness of the hotels and family tourism.
                                                       (Scenario B)




The water costs as percentage o f
seven night tourist income. (%)                       0.8        0.7       0.6       0.4         0.3        0.3




l4The family income duringthe tourism seasonincludes renting o f a roodapt. for a period that starts from60 days in
2011and increases to 90 days in2035. The rent is assumed 30 Eurolnight in2011 and increases to Euro 50 in2035.
The increase o f the renting costs over the estimated period is assumed to cover the costs of maintenance, rehabilitation
and remodeling.
                                                          71

                                Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
      REPUBLICOF MONTENEGRO: MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

InvoluntaryResettlement,OP/BP4.12

The project objective o f initiating priority investments to improve environmental conditions and
foster development o f high-quality tourism will involve land acquisition for specific infrastructure
investments, and the need for demolition o f illegally constructed buildings or sites for the
environmental protection o f the Bojana-Buna Delta cannot be completely ruled out at this point in
time. However, currently the project does not anticipate any retroactive demolitions o f illegal
buildings in the Bojana-Buna Delta area. If such demolitions o f existing buildings were to arise,
they would only arise at the time when the management plan for the protected area will be
implemented, which is not part of this project, but envisaged under MSTDP 2. However, with this
project laying the foundation for the establishing o f the protected area, potential issues that would
trigger O.P.12, the Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard Policy, are already addressed here. Should
such demolition occur, affected people-be      they legal or illegal-would    require assistance in, or
restoration of, their standard o f living. The same applies for the land acquisition which will be
required for the construction o f water pipes and pumping stations for the regional water supply
scheme. It i s not anticipated that any physical resettlement will be required, because all these
constructions will take place inareas without any existing constructions or inpublic roads.

As o f now, the Municipality o fUlcinj has no legal basis for issuing construction permits for areas
which lack a detailed urban plan. The project will finance detailed urban plans for some areas
which will enable the municipality o f Ulcinj to issue construction permits on a legal basis. The
preparation o f detailed urban plans will not cause any demolition o f buildings or resettlements o f
legal and illegal inhabitants. On the contrary, it will enable the municipality o f Ulcinj to legalize
previously illegally constructed buildings which had no constructionpermits because o f lack o f an
urban plan. Legalization o f constructed buildings will be carried out in accordance with the
Vienna Declaration on Informal Settlements, adopted by the Government o f Montenegro.
However, for any construction in the area o f the Municipality o f Ulcinj commencing after
December 14th,2006 (this cut o f f date i s the day the round table discussion was held inUlcinj, at
which the public has been informed on the action plan for the protection o f Bojana/Buna Delta),
the compensation will not be provided in case the construction will not be legalized. This is in
order to ensure that new illegal settlers are not encouraged to encroach on the land.

Once the final designs for the regional water supply system are completed and it becomes possible
to determine which specific sites will be affected by project activities, the implementing agency
will determine the legal status o f the respective sites and the rights o f the people using them and
develop appropriate site-specific plans.

In case demolition should be necessary, the Borrower has completed a Resettlement Policy
Framework that addresses core requirements for potential land acquisition for specific
infrastructure investment. Specifically, the framework seeks to identify: how much private land
might be acquired and where, whether illegal buildings are to be demolished, how manymightbe
demolished, how many people might be affected, how many people might be displaced and who
might those people be, and what the eligibility is for defining the categories o f displaced persons.
A review o f the legal framework was carried out in order to investigate the fit between borrower

                                                 72

laws and regulations, and the Bankpolicy requirements and measures proposed to bridge any gaps
between them. The Resettlement PolicyFramework also describes the methods o f valuing affected
assets, organizational     procedures for delivery o f entitlements,       grievance mechanisms,
arrangements for hnding resettlement, preparation and review o f cost estimates, flow o f funds,
and contingency arrangements.

The Framework also addresses and describes the consultation process, which calls for the
participation o f potentially displaced persons in planning, implementation, and monitoring,
including which monitoring arrangements are to be planned by the implementing agency, or
whether such monitoring arrangements will be the responsibility o f independent monitors. The
Resettlement Policy Framework i s attached inannex 13.

Implementation of Resettlement Policy: Responsibility for implementation o f the resettlement
Policy will lie with PEW and with the Municipality o f Ulcinj in consultation with relevant
Government institutions including the Ministry o f Economic Planning, and the Ministry o f
Tourism and Environmental Protection.

EnvironmentalAssessment (EA) OPBP 4.01

The project triggers the Safeguards Policy on Environmental Assessment. The project has been
processed in accordance with Bank procedures for Category A for Environmental Assessment
(EA), based on its original design entailing a broader scope which included, among other things,
wastewater management sub-components. As these investments are no longer included during
this phase, the EA Category i s revised to B. While Phase 1 (MSTDP 1) o f the MSTDP will only
take the water pipeline as far as Bar, it will be extended to Ulcinj under MSTDP 2. In addition, a   '


number of activities under MSTDP 1 will lay the groundwork for MSTDP 2 activities, so that
together they make up a comprehensive approach for avoiding and mitigating negative
environmental impacts and for achieving positive impacts.         Therefore, a full Environmental
Impact Assessment has been carried out for the entire Regional Water Supply Scheme, and an
Environmental Framework has been prepared covering other investments which will be developed
under both Phase 1 and Phase 2 o f the MSTDP. Intensive public consultations were conducted as
part o f the Environmental Assessment Process for the project. These included consultations with
local stakeholders inMontenegro heldat a round table duringthe Water Fair inBudva from May 8
to 11,2006, where the proposed RWSS was presented indetail. A similar presentation was made
at the Montenegrin Academy o f Science. Additional public consultations were done through a
meeting with Lake Skadar Np expert advisory Board on November 7,2006, with focus mainly on
the environmental impacts on Lake Skadar. The project was also publicized on Montenegro
National Television on November 30,2006.        Inaddition, as part o fthe EIApreparationa detailed
sociological study was undertaken involving questionnaires to local residents and to NGOs as well
as public meetings. This provided another avenue for stakeholders to obtain information about the
project and convey any concerns or ideas.      The EIA was also presented for discussion at a public
meeting as part o f this opinion survey and consultationprocess. The comments and ideas received
were taken into consideration in the EIA and the project, and overall the project has wide public
support. The draft Final EIA Report has been disclosed publicly on the PEW website, with
announcements in the local press. It was published through the Bank's Infoshop on January 30,
2007, and in-country through the PEW Website on February 5,2007.

The Regional Water Supply Scheme includes: (i) "continental part" starting from the water
                                                       a
intake at Bolje sestre, through the hydrotechnical tunnel Sozina, to the Djurmanireservoir which
is the main water storage tank in the system; and (ii)    a "coastal part" (divided into a southern
                                                73

branch to be financed with assistance from the World Bank and a northern branch to be financed
with assistance from EBRD). The southern branch, 34 km in length, will supply water to the
municipalities o f Bar and Ulcinj and northern branch, 73 km long, will go from the Djurmani
reservoir to the municipalities of Budva, Kotor, Tivat and Herceg Novi. One portion o f the
continental part will cross under Lake Skadar.

The environmental issues o f this project fall under three main headings: impacts at the water
offtake site; impacts along the water pipeline route; and impacts o f increased water supply and
other investments for tourism development at and near the coast. The EIA also divided issues into
those relating to the constructionphase and those for the operationalphase.

        For the water offtake the main issue is that the proposed source lies within the Lake Skadar
        National Park (the Bolje sestre spring is within the Malo blato, a separate water basin
        which is connected to Lake Skadar, similar to a gulf). Therefore, the EIA referenced the
        Law on Protected Areas and addressed potential impacts not only at the micro location o f
        Bolje sestre but the wider environment o f Lake Skadar National Park as a whole. Inorder
        to obtain the ecological permit (from the Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental
        Protection) which is requiredinorder to beginconstruction o f the offtake, PEW is obliged
        to undertake a study for protection o f the source, covering both the immediate catchment
        and surrounding areas, including the carstic hinterland that feeds the source.     The study
       will look at all pollution threats and will identify protection measures requiredin each o f
        the three legally defined protection zones around the source.        At the same time, the
        ecological permit process will ensure that the proposed works are compatible with the
        spatial plan and management objectives o f Lake Skadar National Park. During project
       preparation, the Skadar National Park management reviewed the RWSS project
        documentation (designs, investigations results, draft o f the EIA, etc.), and its opinion was
       that project implementation will not have negative impact on Skadar lake basin and issued
       the official approval for the project.


    0  Potential impacts along the water pipeline route are minimized by the fact that the pipeline
       will mainly follow existing roads and use an existing tunnel through the mountains. The
       EIA paid special attention to the portion o f the pipeline which will cross Lake Skadar
       National Park.


    0  At the coast, the impacts o f the Project are mainly expected to be positive during the
       operational phase. During the construction which will be mitigated through enforcement
       and monitoring o f good construction practices. Long-term beneficial impacts include the
       generation o f economic, social, environmental and public health benefits, and greater
       capacity on the part of the government to prepare and enforce environmental regulations
       andstandards to ensure sound management ofMontenegro's coastal enviroment.

Specific positive and negative impacts addressed by the EIA and Environmental Framework are
outlined below:

Potential Positive Impacts
0   Improved WSS Services through construction o f the RWSS will provide high quality potable
    water to the targeted population along Montenegro's coast.
0   Provision o f economic and social benefits through employment opportunities from improved
    tourism development, which inturnincreases the value placed on the natural environment.

                                               74

0   Increase inlandprices/property values where water supply has been improved.
0   Protection and improved management o f the biodiversity and ecology o f the Bojana-Buna
    delta, through establishment o f a protected area.

Potential Negative Impacts

Constructionphase:

The main impacts identified by the EIA (dust and noise from construction, disturbance or
destruction o f vegetation and animals at construction sites, loss o f visual amenities due to
vegetation removal and stockpiling o f construction materials), will be temporary and minimized
by following detailed recommendations outlined in the Environmental Management Plan, as
described below. Investigations indicated no endangered or vulnerable species at the proposed
construction sites, either at the source or at the coast (e.g, recognized fish spawning sites and
ornithological reserves in Lake Skadar, and environmentally sensitive areas at the coast such as
the salt pans inUlcinj andthe area surrounding the Bojana-Buna river are not included).

Operationalphase:

The EL4 investigatedpossible effects o f water offtake on water levels and temperatures in Malo
blato and in Lake Skadar as a whole, and concluded that they will be negligible. Even at the
maximum level o f offtake (which would not be reached for some years), the volume o f the lake
would be reduced by no more than 0.03 percent, with an estimated decrease inwater level o f about
2 mm (compared with an annual natural water level fluctuation o f about 5m).            The water
temperature o f Malo Blato depends almost entirely on climate conditions, with little influence
from the Bolje sestre spring (temperature o f the water 20m from the spring i s the same as that in
the middleo fMalo Blato.

Operation o f the pipeline passing beneath Lake Skadar i s not considered to be risky because the
water within the pipeline will be minimally treated fresh water from the same basin (selection o f
the Bolje sestre source was based in large part on the high quality o f the water, so that only
minimal treatment i s requiredprior to entry into the pipeline).

At the coast, the main issues to be addressed are the impact o f increasing piped water supply in
relation to wastewater treatment capacity, and the impacts o f increased tourist numbers and
facilities triggered by greater availability o f water and other tourism development investments,
some o f which are to be financed under MSTDP 2.           Expansion and improvement o f existing
wastewater treatment facilities at Bar andUlcinj are planned under MSTDP 2, and the government
is also in discussions with other donors for assistance inthis area. To help minimize and mitigate
potential negative impacts of tourism development, the government is committed to establishing a
protected area encompassing the ecologically sensitive area o f the Bojana-Buna delta, to preparing
an updated detailed urban plan for Ulcinj, to implementing the environmental provisions o f the
Coastal Zone Act, to finding responsible and reputable investors for any Greenfield development
(see Annex 1). The updated Tourism Master Plan, which will provide the guiding framework for
tourism development inthe future, also strongly emphasizes environmental carrying capacity and
the need to maintain natural and cultural values as the basis for sustainable and competitive
tourism in Montenegro. A Letter o f Development Policy outlines the key government
commitments, and a Memorandum o f Understanding with Ulcinj Municipality is expected to put
inplace amoratoriumonnew constructioninenvironmentallysensitive areas untila management

                                                 75

plan and detailed urban plan have been completed.          The MSTDP 1 will support the required
background study and capacity building to establish the protected area and to put in place a
capable Management Unit for it and will support both environmental monitoring and monitoring
to enforce the moratorium on new construction.

Environmental Manaaement Plan: The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) outlines detailed
mitigation measures including good environmental practice during construction and operation o f
the water supply system, environmental monitoring, and institutional strengthening to protect
humanhealth, environmentalquality, andnatural andculturalheritage.

Several institutions are responsible for environmental management in Montenegro.              Overall,
mitigation o f any environmental effects under the project will be the responsibility o f PEW as the
project implementing agency.       In addition, with specific regard to the RWSS, it will be the
responsibility o f the contractors constructing the system to ensure that mitigation measures in
accordance with the EMP are carried out during construction works as required. The contractor
will be supervised by PEW. The provisions described in this EMP will be incorporated in the
contract with the construction companyhes selected to perform the works. The cost o f mitigation
measures will be included in the cost o f the contracts and will be borne by contractors, who will
make the necessary provisions for implementation o f mitigation measures as part o f their
contractual obligations. The contractors shall take also all necessary precautions for the types o f
civil works involved, especially inresidential areas and those with high circulation o f persons and
vehicles. All construction and rehabilitation works should be carried out with keeping the safety
equipment rules, and health and safety regulations. Safety measures will be adopted to protect the
personnel involved in the works. Public access to construction sites will be properly restricted.
Internationally accepted practices and active regulations should be assisted regarding restoration
o f construction, health and safety. Environmental monitoring in the area o f Lake Skadar National
Park will be carried out by experts from the Public Enterprise Skadar Lake NP and an inspection
team o f the Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental Protection.          This includes both routine
monitoring for park management and monitoring o f specific indicators as outlined in the EMP.
The environmental inspection team will also implement monitoring o f both construction and
operational phases at the coast.

The locationo f the small nature information center and office buildingfor the management unit o f
the protected area still needs to be identified during project implementation. N o land acquisition
is anticipated for this building, although a Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared for the
project which addresses land acquisition as well.        The Financing Agreement includes as a
disbursement condition that a Category B Environmental Assessment and Environmental
Management Plan satisfactory to the Bank need to be carried out before disbursement for the
nature information center andoffice buildingcan be done.

CulturalProperty:

As part o f the EA process, potential impacts on physical cultural resources were addressed.
Although there is no evidence of physical cultural objects or resources            at the foreseen
construction sites, like all projects involving infrastructure investments, the possibility o f chance
finds (defined as physical cultural resources encountered unexpectedly during project
implementation), cannot be ruled out. The remote possibility o f chance finds alone, does not
trigger the OP 4.11. However mitigation measures how to deal with them, should they occur will
beincluded inall constructioncontracts.

                                                76

InternationalWaters (World Bank OP 7.50):

The Project triggers the World Bank's Operational Policy on International Waters OP 7.50
because it involves the use o f the Adriatic Sea and Lake Skadar, which are international
waterways under OP 7.50. Internal and external notification requirements are applicable, and the
requirements o f OP 7.50 have been taken into consideration in processing the project.            In
accordance with the requirements o f OP 7.50, on November 21, 2006, the Government o f
Montenegro sent letters notifying the Governments o f all riparian countries o fthe Adriatic Sea and
Lake Skadar, including Italy, Albania, Croatia and Slovenia, o f the proposed project and its
details. None o fthe riparian countries has raisedany objection to the proposed project.


NaturalHabitats (World Bank OP/BP 4.04)

The Natural Habitats Operational Policy i s triggered because the water offtake site lies within
Lake Skadar National Park, which i s also a Ramsar site.       In addition, the Bojana-Buna delta,
which will be affected more indirectly, includes important natural habitats and ecologically
sensitive areas.  However, as described above, the direct negative impacts are expected to be
negligible to minor and will be mitigated through good construction practices, and the project will
have a positive impact by supporting a variety o f measures to improve protection and sustainable
management o fthe Bojana-Buna Delta.




                                               77

                        Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision
      REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLE TOURISM
                                 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                        Planned                     Actual
PCNreview                                                           10/13/2005
Initial PID to PIC                                                  10/26/2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                 12/02/2005
Appraisal                               3/28/2007
Negotiations                            4/25/2007
Board/RVP approval                      6/12/2007
Planneddate o f effectiveness           9/10/2007
Planneddate o fmid-term review          3/20/2009
Plannedclosing date                     9/20/2011

Key institutions responsible for preparation o f the project are the Ministry o f Tourism and
Environmental Protection, the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Sustainable Tourism Development
and Coastal Zone Management (IMC), the Coastal Zone Management Agency (Morsko Dobro),
and the municipalities o fBar andUlcinj.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                            Title                                Unit

Agi Kiss                        Lead Ecologist                       ECSSD
Aleksandar Crnomarkovic         Financial Management Analyst         ECSPS
Alfiya Mirzagalyamova           Consultant                           ECSSD
Andreas Rohde                   Task Team Leader                     ECSSD
Arben Bakllamaja                Financial Specialist                 ECSSD
Christopher Warner              Peer Reviewer, Senior                AFTS1
                                Environmental Specialist
Carolyn Cain                    Peer Reviewer, Tourism Specialist    IFC-CGMS1
Kirsten Burghardt Propst        Counsel                              LEGEC
Hermine de Soto                 Social Specialist                    AFTSD
HilarionBruneau                 Sr. Finance Officer                  LOAGl
Maria Teresa Lim                ProgramAssistant                     ECSSD
Miroslav Frick                  Operations Analyst                   ECCYU
Olav Christensen                Sr. Financial Management Specialist BEGWB
Rita Cestti                     Sr. Water Resources Economist        ECSSD
Sabine Beddies                  Social Specialist                    SDV
Sanyu Lutalo                    Operations Analyst                   ECSSD
Salim Benouniche                Sr. Procurement Specialist           ECSPS
Sanela Ljuca                    ProgramAssistant                     ECCU4
Silvia Mauri                    Portfolio Manager, Montenegro        BEGWB
Ventura Bengoechea              Peer Reviewer, Lead Water &          AFTU1
                                Sanitation hecialist



                                              78

Bankhnds expendedto dateonprojectpreparation:
    1. Bankresources: $380,570
   2. Trust funds: $312,710
   3. Total: $693,280

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remainingcosts to approval: $5,000
   2. Estimated annual supervision cost: $85,000




                                           79

                            Annex 12: Documentsin the ProjectFile
     REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


Letter o fDevelopment Policy

Memorandum o fUnderstanding for the Protectiono f the Bojana-Buna Delta

Environmental Assessment category A for the Regional Water Supply Scheme

Cost Benefits Analysis for the regionalwater scheme produced by the GoM

Resettlement PolicyFramework

Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) for the Water Sector Reform in Montenegro and
Social Assessment (SA) for the Montenegro Sustainable Tourism Development Project

Montenegro - Montenegro Sustainable Tourism Development Project (ERM & SWS Italy), June
2006

Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis




                                             80

                            Annex 13 ResettlementPolicyFramework


      REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


Project

The proposed Montenegro Sustainable Tourism Development Project (MSTDP) will assist the
Republic o f Montenegro to better design and implement an integrated coastal zone management
approach aimed at reducing coastal degradation and at the same time fostering environmentally
sound tourism development through (i)     enhancing spatial development, use o f natural resources,
regulatory policy, institutional capacity and governance of the coastal zone, and (ii)initiating
priority investments to improve environmental conditions and foster development o f high quality
tourism.

The components o fthe MSTDP are as follows:

a) The integrated management policy for the Montenegrin Coast and institutional capacity
building:
0  Improving landuse planning so as to protect the landfrom uncontrolled development;
0  Developing spatial and ecological plans for the management o f Bojana-Buna Delta as an area
   with the protected area status;
0   Spatial plans, updating the cadastral register, integrated municipal management plans and
   detailed spatial plans o fthe municipalities inwhich the Project will be implemented;
0  Improving the capacities o fpublic utility companies; and,
0  Institutional strengthening o f the Bojana River Delta management;

b) Construction o f the infrastructure necessary for the sustainable and quality management o f the
water supply systems and eco-tourism infrastructure o fthe Bojana Delta:
0  Constructions o f the Regional water supply system (RWSS) from water intake in the Skadar
   Lake aquifer - the continental part, and the southern branch o f the system for the water supply
   to Bar,
0  The construction o f a Nature Information Center and Office Building for the Bojana Buna
   Management Unit.

c) Project management and monitoring:
0  Project management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation.

ProjectInvestmentsand Social Impacts

Project investments will be made inthe:


   0   Podgorica - Skadar Lake, where the water intake (Bolje Sestre) will be constructed
       together with the continental part of the RWSS for Montenegrin Coast; and


   0    Coastal area -where the construction o f the southern branch o f the RWSS up to the
       Municipality o fBar i s envisaged.
                                                81

Considering the various components o f MSTDP, several legal entities will act as final
beneficiaries o f the project. Public Enterprise for water supply, wastewater drainage and treatment
and solid waste disposal "Regional Waterworks - Montenegrin Coast" (hereinafter: PEW) will be
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and accordingly in charge o f implementation, monitoring
and evaluation o f the overall MSTDP, in compliance with the items 6 and 7 o f the Letter
Development Policy (LDP) inthe chapter on sustainable tourism development inthe Montenegrin
Coast, yet to be issued by the Government o f Montenegro. The entity in charge o f eco-tourism
projects and the protected area o f Bojana-Buna Delta will be determined afterwards, on the basis
o f the findings o f the background study on the protected area o f Bojana-Buna Delta, which is
being prepared. All the above-mentioned entities will work under supervision o f the Inter-
Ministerial Committee, which will act as the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) liable to the
Ministryof Tourism and EnvironmentalProtection. This RPFhas beenprepared bythe PCUwith
the aim o f outlining how PCUitself, PIU and other entities implementing the projects will manage
potential impacts o f the activities. In general, it appears that the project objective o f initiating
priority investments to improve environmental conditions and foster development o f high quality
tourism might involve potential land acquisition for specific infrastructure investments, as well as
removal o f a few seasonalbusiness capacities.

Rationalefor Preparationof the ResettlementPolicyFramework

WB policy requires "screening" o f all projects proposed for WB financing to help ensure that they
are environmentally and socially sound and sustainable. Inthe process o fproject preparation, WB
screening ascertained that under Operational Policy (OP) 4.12 the MSTDP project might involve
land acquisition. As the exact location, land type and size have not yet been determined, a
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) is prepared for this project, as a condition o f appraisal.
Should land acquisition occur under the activities supported under the Project, it will then be
carried out following well-established procedures specified in Montenegro's laws and procedures
relating to land purchase and expropriation and World Bank Operational Policy (OP)4.12 and
BankProcedures (BP) 4.12 onInvoluntaryResettlement, as spelled out inthe RPF.

Objectivesof the ResettlementPolicyFramework

The purpose o f the RPF is to set out the policies, principles, institutional arrangements, schedules
and funding mechanisms for any land acquisition that may occur as the result o f the project. The
operational objective of the framework is to provide guidelines to stakeholders participating inthe
mitigation o f adverse social impacts o f the project, in order to ensure that the social and economic
well beingo fproject affected persons (PAPS)will not beworsened as a result o fthe project.

 MSTDPcomponentsandtheir possibleimpactsare describedin the followingsections:

Regional Water Supply System

This MSTDP component involves the implementation o f the RWSS project with the sustainable
water source at Skadar Lake by means of, inthe first phase (2007-2010), the constructiono f water
production facilities and transmission pipeline to the coast, along with the connection to the South
to cover water needs inBar and Ulcinj. Inorder to be financially viable, the remaining part o f the
southern branch to Ulcinj will be prepared under the IBRD financed MSTDP 2, and the northern
branch to Budva, Tivat, Kotor and Herceg-Novi should follow suit (to be financed under a
separate EBRD financed project).
                                                 82

The final design for most o f the RWSS is already completed, and only the part for the water intake
still needs to be carried out. On the basis of the prepared studies, and depending on the results o f
the remaining studies, certain issues regarding the land acquisition will arise. In this respect, it
must be considered that the studies prepared for the project - EngineeringConsultancy Services
Report, Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Safeguards Framework - foresee
the majority o f investments to be realized on land owned by the Government/municipalities.
However, some works regarding RWSS will have to be carried out on the private land, and thus
might call for a resettlement plan. Ithas been estimated that the total size o fthe private landto be
acquired will be 1, 5 ha, divided as follows:


    0   Water intake "Bolje sestre" at Skadar LakeBodgorica Municipality - 1ha;
        Access road to the water intake and reservoir "Bratica" inUlcinj - 0, 5 ha ( will come later
        under MSTDP 2); and
    0   All other compensations are related to the so-called temporary expropriations (former
        licenses that were granted have been expired), or the right to install pipeline that will cover
        approximately 2 ha on the pipeline route from WTP "Bolje Sestre" to the reservoir
        "Djurmani" and, maybe later under MSTDP 2, from the reservoir "Bratica" to Ada Bojana
        Island inUlcinj, where certain temporary expropriations through olivewoods is expected.

The exact extent o f the works on the private land will be known upon completion o f the final
designs. At this stage, no demolitions are foreseen.

The sanitary protection zone o f the water intake for RWSS, located in Skadar Lake/Bolje sestre, is
not populated, while the private land that will be acquired has no agricultural value whatsoever,
and has never been exploited in any way. Land to be acquired for the construction o f the access
road to the water intake and "Bratica" reservoir has the same characteristics. Private land, which
will be temporary, expropriated (the so-called right o f way) for pipeline construction from the
water intake to "Djurmani" reservoir, is occasionally flooded due to seasonal fluctuation o f the
Skadar Lakewater level, and has no significant importance for the livelihoods o f the owners.

Eco-infrastructure for the protected area o f Boiana-Buna Delta

Only the construction o f a combined Nature Information Center and Office Building is foreseen
under this project. The site has not yet been identified, but it i s expected that public unused land
will beused as the constructionsite. All other eco-infrastructure investments would be carried out
under MSTDP 2.

Illegal settlements inthe Municipalitv o fUlcini

As ofnow, the Municipality o fUlcinj has no legal basis for issuing construction permits for areas
which lack a detailed urban plan. The project will finance detailed urban plans for some areas
which will enable the municipality of Ulcinj to issue construction permits on a legal basis. The
preparation o f detailed urban plans will not cause any demolition o f buildings or resettlements o f
legal and illegal inhabitants. On the contrary, it will enable the municipality o f Ulcinj to legalize
previously illegally constructed buildings which had no constructionpermits because of lack o f an
urban plan. Legalization o f constructed buildings will be carried out in accordance with the
Vienna Declaration on Informal Settlements, adopted by the Government o f Montenegro.
However, for any construction in the area o f the Municipality o f Ulcinj commencing after

                                                83

December 14`h, 2006 (this cut off date i s the day the round table discussion was held inUlcinj, at
which the public has been informed on the action plan for the protection o f BojandBuna Delta),
the compensation will not be provided in case the construction will not be legalized. This is in
order to ensure that new illegal settlers are not encouraged to encroach on the land.

Legalframework in Montenegro Regarding the Potentially Affected Sites

The Coastal Zone Management Agency, Morsko Dobro, previously issued temporary licenses for
persons to construct cottage-like buildings on the coastal strip area. These temporary licenses have
now been expired. According to the Law on morsko dobro ("The Official Gazette o f the Republic
o f Montenegro", No. 14/92, 27/94) Morsko dobro can compensate affected persons by issuing
new license on other location with lower land - lease fees.

According to the Law on Waters ("The Official Gazette o f the Republic o f Montenegro," No.
16/95, 22/9) Article 3, Paragraph 1, water management business is in the public interest. Water
management business, among other, includes the protection o f water from pollution and provision
o f potable water. Consequently, the water management facilities include facilities for the
protection o f water from pollution (main collectors for wastewater drainage into treatment plants,
wastewater treatment plants, and treated wastewater drainage facility) and water supply systems
(regional water supply systems, public water utility for potable water supply, rural water utility).
The construction and reconstruction o f water supply systems, central municipal wastewater
treatment plantsand wastewater discharge collectors entail water management requirements issued
bythe Ministryincharge o fthe water management. Buildingpermissions for the construction and
reconstruction o f the facilities and plants, as well as for the construction works on these facilities
may be issued after the water management approval has been obtained. The authority, which
defines the water management requirements, issues water management approval as well.

The public interest in the expropriation o f an estate can be determined through a separate law or
by a decision adopted by the Government. In this case, public interest in the construction o f
RWSS has been declared inArticle 1 of the Law on water supply, wastewater drainage and solid
waste disposal inthe municipalities of HercegNovi, Kotor, Tivat, Budva, Bar, Ulcinj and Cetinje
(The Official Gazette o f the Republic of Montenegro, No. 46/91), which has been adopted as, so-
called, "lex specialis". Regarding the eco-infrastructure for Bojana-Buna Delta, public interest will
be declared in the foundation act o f the protected zone. The Real Estate Agency (REA) o f the
Republic o f Montenegro is in charge o f conducting the expropriation procedure for estates for
which the public interest has been declared, which means that REA will conduct expropriation
procedure upon the request of PEW. REA has the obligation to consult the owner o f the estate
concerning the facts relatedto expropriation, prior to issuinga decision on expropriation. The head
o fthe REArules a complaint against the first-degree decision issuedby the REA.

The national legislation treats this issue under the Expropriation Law (Official Gazette o f the
Republic o f Montenegro No. 55/00 and 12/02). According to this Law, the final beneficiary for
whom the expropriation will be carried out is responsible for paying the compensation to the
owner. Additional legislative sources are the Spatial Planning and Development Law (Official
Gazette o f the Republic o fMontenegro No. 28/05), Nature Protection Law (Official Gazette o f the
Republic o f Montenegro No. 36/77, 39/77, 2/89, 39/89, 48/91, 17/92, 27/94) and other secondary
legislation.




                                                 84

The ExpropriationLaw defines that the compensationfor the expropriatedestate equalsthe
commercialvalue of the estate

The user o f the expropriated estate sends an official note regarding the proposed amount o f the
compensation to the REA. At the same time, REA obtains the information from other institutions
and organizations about the facts that could be important for mutual agreement regarding the
compensation. REA is responsible to organize, without delay, a discussion between the owner and
the fbture user o f the expropriated estate, in order to obtain a mutual agreement regarding the
compensation. This compensation can be financial, or achieved by land replacement, relocation o f
the existing facilities, construction o f an access road, or other legally approved actions.

The PEW has been established in 1991, upon the Decision o f the Parliament o f the Republic o f
Montenegro from 1991 (The Official Gazette o f the Republic o f Montenegro" No. 50/91).
According to LDP, PEW will be in charge o f the overall MSTDP implementation and will act as
PIU, or implementation agency.

According to the World Bank's Operational Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), the
implementation agencies are required to compensate all affected persons. According to the
national legislation on this issue, under the Expropriation Law, the final beneficiary for whom the
expropriation will be carried out i s responsible for paying the compensation to the owner. Since
duringthe implementationo f this Project, the implementation agency, inprinciple, is not going to
be the final beneficiary o f all the project components, this issue will be settled by the Sub-credit
and Subsidiary Agreements, which should be signed between the implementation agency and the
final beneficiaries (such as: ViK Bar, and Bojana-Buna Delta Management unit), with the Bank's
prior no-objection. Sub-credit and Subsidiary Agreements shall identify the responsibilities o f the
final beneficiaries inrespect to the compensation to the affectedpersons.

Principlesto be applied

Under supervision o f Ministry o f Tourism and Environmental Protection and PCU, PEW will
adhere to the following principles during completion o f final designs and investments plans, in
order to mitigate any anticipatednegative impacts:


    0  Minimize disruption
    0  Engage affectedpersons actively inthe development o f mitigation plans
    0  Substitute land to enable people to continue their economic practices, if feasible and
       desired
    0  Compensate people for lost assets (structures and plants) at full replacement cost
    0  If incomes are adversely affected as a result of taking assets, assist affected people to
       restore income such losses.

The above mentioned World Bank's Operational Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP
4.12) requires implementation agencies to compensate all affected persons, for lost assets and to
provide assistanceto relocate (homesteads andfarmsteads) andrestore incomes, regardless o f their
legal status. Thus, the impact o f the removal o f orchards and commercial structures will be
mitigated whether or not the users have the legal right o fuse.




                                                  85

Removing orchards and commercial structures may affect the incomes o f affected households and
employees. Mitigation plans will therefore include provisions to restore incomes by compensating
lost income flows or, ifpossible, assisting affectedpersons to find alternative sites.

PreliminaryMatrix ofEntitlements

Based on available information, three groups o fpersons that may be affected by investments inthe
area o f Skadar Lake and municipalities Bar and Ulcinj are anticipated. The actual number o f
groups, and the way they will be affected, will be determined once final designs are complete.
Additional groups may also be identified during the preparation o f mitigation plans, such as
owners o f other types o f structures that must be removed. The following matrix describes the
anticipated affected persons andtheir respective entitlements.




                                                86


ProjectRequirements

Ifthe orchards areremoved, thePEWwillprepareanabbreviated resettlement actionplan(RAP)
as described in OPBP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement that covers the mitigation measures for
displacement due to the removal o f garden units or orchards, and landacquisition and/or removal
o f residences and commercial structures due to the construction o f the new pipeline, Prior to
tender announcement for the construction contract for the respective works, the plan will be
submitted to the World Bank for review, comment and approval.

The mitigation planwill contain the following sections, at least:

        Number and category o f affected persons
        Nature and magnitude o f impact on affectedpersons
        Laws, regulations and special provisions, ifany, prescribing obligations, entitlements,
        procedures
        Specific mitigation measures to be taken
        Matrix o f entitlements o f affected groups
        Implementation responsibility
        Implementation schedule
        Estimated budget
        Monitoring and impact assessmentplans


Procedure

Consultants preparing the final designs o f the project investments will notify the implementation
agency on whether the design o f the structure or work requires the removal o f orchards or
structures, or acquisition o f private land. The PCU, in cooperation with the implementation
agency and users o f the expropriated property, will prepare a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
for any expropriation required, and execute it prior to commencing physical works on the
expropriated property. The RAP will include details about steps already taken, such as
notification or consultation with the owners, and the description o f the land acquisition process.
It should also include the following: an estimate o f the amount o f land that will be acquired,
baseline census and socio-economic survey information for the affected persons; the specific
compensation rates and standards; entitlements that are to be provided relating to the impacts
identified through the census or survey; description(s) o f the land to be provided and/or the
resettlement sites; the implementation schedule for the compensationhesettlement activities; and
a detailed cost estimate.

In consultation with the PCU, the PEW will commission the preparation o f the RAP either
through the existing design contract or by an additional contract. Preparation o f the RAP will
entail an appropriate legal analysis, census o f affected persons, consultation with affected
persons on mitigation measures, and development o f a mitigation planandbudget.

The PEW will submit the RAP to the World Bank for review and comment and revision, as
appropriate, andissue a no-objection when the plan is approved.




                                                 88

The PEWwill incorporate the RAPinthe construction contract for the work.

The PCU and PEW will monitor implementation of the RAP continually, and the Bank will
review status andmonitor field implementation duringscheduled supervision missions.




                                            89

                                Annex 14: StatementofLoansand Credits
            REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGROSUSTAINABLETOURISM
                                      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                                                         Differencebetween
                                                                                         expected and actual
                                                                                           disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                       IBRD    IDA    SF   GEF   Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Frm.Rev'd
PO96598    2006 ECSEEAPL #3 MONTENEGRO
                           -                    0.00   9.00  0.00  0.00   0.00    9.26    0.00        0.00
PO84597    2005 EDUC (MONTENEGRO)               0.00   5.00  0.00  0.00   0.00    2.03   -0.52        0.00
PO79116    2004 ENVIRONMENT                     0.00   7.00  0.00  0.00   0.00    5.20   4.02         0.00
PO82223    2004 HEALTH SYSTEM(MONTENEGRO)       0.00   7.00  0.00  0.00   0.00    5.60    3.56      -0.17
PO87470    2004 PENSIONADMIN (MONTENEGRO)       0.00   5.00  0.00  0.00   0.00    4.38    1.99        0.00
PO77473    2003 EMG POWERLIC (MONTENEGRO)       0.00   5.00  0.00  0.00   0.00    0.57   -0.09        0.00

                                       Total:   0.00  38.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   27.04    8.96     -  0.17




                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        In Millionsof US Dollars




                                                    90

                                                   Annex 15: Country at a Glance
REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO: MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLE TOURISM
                                                    DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


  Monteneqro at a qlance                                                                                                                     5/15/07

                                                                                 Europe8        Lower
 Key Development Indicators                                                         Central     middle
                                                                 Montenegro           Asia     income           Age distribution, 2005
 (2006)                                                                2006           2005       2005                     Male ( )           Female( )

 Population,mid-year (millions)                                          0.6          473       2.475           70-74:
 Sulface area (thousandsq. km)                                            14        24,234     39,946
 Populationgrowth(%)                                                     0.2           0.1         1.0         8584 -

 Urban population(% of total population)                                  63           64          50          5054
                                                                                                               42-44 :
 GNI (Atlas method.US$ billions)                                         2.3         1,945      4,746          30-   :
 GNI per capita (Atlas method,US$)                                     3,710        4,113       1,918          m-24 j
 GNI per capita (PPP, international5)                                               9,142       6,313           10-14:
                                                                                                                 0 . 1
 GDP growth (%)                                                          6.3           6.0         6.9               0     0     0    1      1     1      1
 GDP per capita growth (%)                                                ...          5.9         5.9                              percent

 (most recent estimate, 200&2006)

 Povertyheadcount ratio at $1 a day (PPP, %)                                             1
 Povertyheadcountratio at $2 a day (PPP, %)                                             10                     Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
 Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                          73            69          70
 Infantmortality(per 1,000live births)                                    10           26          33
 Childmalnutntion(% of childrenunder5)'                                    1             5         12           "1

Adult literacy.male (% of ages 15and older)                              99            99          93
Adult literacy,female (% of ages 15and older)                            96            96          85
 Gross primaryenrollment,male (X of age group)                          108           105         115
 Gross primaryenrollment,female (% of age group)                        107           102         113

Access to an improvedwatersource (% of population)^                      98            92          82
Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)'                99            85          57                    1990   1995    moo     mos

                                                                                                                   CMontenegrn( ) OEurnpe 8 Centra Asa


 Net Aid Flows                                             1980        I990          2000       2006

(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                                                                       Growth of GDP and GDP per caplta ('h)
 Top 3 donors (in 2005):
  n.a.                                                                                                         10
  n.a.                                                                                                            I




  n.a.                                                                                                          5

                                                                                                                0   ;  ;
Aid (% of GNI)                                                                                                              ~




Aid per capita (US$)                                                                                            5



Long-Term Economic Trends
                                                                                                                    w                       w
Consumerpnces (annual% change)                              36.9                                                                95
                                                                      134.9                                                                               05
                                                                                     24.0         2.8
GDP implicitdeflator (annual% change)                                                22.0         4.0         I   --O-GDP         -GDP       percapita(..)  I
Exchangerate (annualaverage,local per US$)                                             1.1        0.8
Terms of trade index (2000= 100)                                                      100
                                                                                                                 1980-90    1990-2000      2000-06
                                                                       1991         2000        2005                  (average annualgrowth %)
Population,mid-year(millions)                                           0.6           0.6         0.6
GDP (US$millions)                                                                     944       2,100
                                                                        (X of GDP)
Agriculture                                                                          13.1        12.9
Industry                                                                             24.6       25.4
  Manufacturing                                                                      12.3        12.6
Services                                                                             62.4       61.7

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                                                70.6       81.3
Generalgogt final consumptionexpenditure                                             22.9        18.0
Gross capitalformation                                                               21.4        19.5

Exportsof goodsand services                                                          36.4       46.8
Importsof goodsand services                                                          53.3       65.6
Gmss savings                                                                        21.9        10.5


'Note: 32005Preliminaryreport
      Figuresin italics are for years otherthan those specified. 2006 data are preliminary. Groupdata are for 2005. ..indicatesdata are not available.
 MlCS

MontenegroStatisticsAgency (MONSTAT)and World Bank Staff estimates




                                                                              91

                                                                                                                                                        Montenearo

Balance of Payments and Trade                             2000        2006
                                                                                           Governance indicators, 2000 and 2005
(US$ mi//ions)
Total merchandise exports(fob)                              161        645                                                                I
Total merchandise imports (ci9                                                              Voice andaccountability
Net trade in goods and services                            -141       -817                          Politicalstability
Workers' remittances and
   compensationof employees(receipts)                                                             Regulatoryquality

Current account balance                                     -99       -665                               Ruleof law
   as a % of GDP                                           -8.8       -28.3                     Controlof corruption

Reserves, including gold                                   100         405                                            0     25           M              r5    100


Central Government Finance                                2000        2005                       02005                  Country'spercentilerank (0-100)
                                                                                                 02000                    hgher values imp4y teller ratings

(Om of GDP)
Revenue                                                    39.3        39.5                Source KaufmanwKraav-Masbuzz Wodd Bank

   Tax revenue                                             29.6        35.4
Expense                                                    39.2        41.7
                                                                                        Technology and Infrastructure                                  2000    2006
Cash surplusldeficit                                         0.0       -2.2
                                                                                        Paved roads (% of total)
Highest marginaltax rate (Oh)                                                           Fixed line and mobile phone
   Individual                                                                            subscribers(per 1,000people)
   Corporate                                                                            Hightechnology exports
                                                                                         (%of manufacturedexports)
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                        Environment
(US$ mi//ions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                       615         979              Agricultural land (%of land area)
Total debt service                                                                      Forest area (% of land area, 2000 and 2005)
HlPC and MDRldebt relief (expected;flow)                       -         -              Nationally protectedareas (% of land area)

Total debt (% of GDP)                                      55.2       46.6              Freshwater resources per capita(cu. meters)
Total debt service (% of exports)                                                       Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internal resources)

Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)                       10        468              C02 emissions per capita (mt)
Portfolio equity (net inflows)                                 0         6
                                                                                       GDP per unit of energy use

   Composition of total external debt, 2005                     (data                    (2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)

   are not available)                                                                  Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)




                                                                                        (US$ mi//ions)

                                                                                        IBRD
                                                                                         Total debt outstanding and disbursed
                                                                                         Disbursements
                                                                                         Principal repayments
                                                                                         Interestpayments

   JSS millions                                                                         IDA
                                                                                         Total debt outstanding and disbursed
                                                                                         Disbursements
Private Sector Development                                2000       2006                Total debt service

Time requiredto start a business (days)                        -        24              IFC (fiscal year)
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)                         6.6               Total disbursedand outstandingportfolio
Time requiredto register property(days)                        --       86                 of which IFC own account
                                                                                         Disbursementsfor IFCown account
Ranked as a major constraintto business                                                  Portfolio sales, prepaymentsand
  (% of managers surveyedwho agreed)                                                       repaymentsfor IFC own account
    n.a.
    ma.                                                                                 MlGA
                                                                                         Gross exposure
Stock market capitalization(% of GDP)                                                    New guarantees                                                   -
Bank branches (per 100,000 people)


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2006 data are preliminary.
..indicates                                                                                                                                                  4/4/07
            data are not available. -indicates Observationis not applicable.

Development Economics, DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).



                                                                                      92

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 34373R

                                                  Rijeka                                                     Golubovci                                                                                              19                                                                          MONTENEGRO
                                           Crnojevica                                                                                                                MAJOR HIGHWAYS

                                                                                                                                                                     OTHER ROADS                                                                 SUSTAINABLE TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                    Maraca                                                           RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                     AIRPORTS                                                                                                                                               20

                                                                                                                                                                     TOWNS
                                                                                                           Plavnica
                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                     CehotinaGradac                                                                        0       5       10   15      20        25
                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARY         Drina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS
  Milocer                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pljevlja


       Sveti Stefan                                                         Virpazar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S E R B I A
                                                                                                                                                                 BOSNIA AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         v
                                                                                                                                                                HERZEGOVINA                                              Zabljak
                                                                                                                    Lake                                                                 Goransko                                                Durdevica
                                                                                                                   Skadar                                                                                                                        Tara

                                                                                                                                                                                              Rudinice
              Petrovac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tomasevo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             v     Ljbuovija

                                                                                                                                       ALBANIA                                                  Bajovo                                                   Tara                                        Bijelo Polje
                                                                                                                                                               43                                   Polje   Komarinca                                                                                                                                                     43


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Savnik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mojkovac                Lmi



                                                              Sutomore                                                                                                                                             Zeta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Gvozd                                                                                                                       Rozaje
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           v

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 v
                                                                                                                                                                                     Velimlje                                                                               Kolasin                            Ivangrad

                                                                                 Stari                                                                                        Petrovici                                                                                      Matesevo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    v

                                                                        Bar                                                                                                                                          v
                                                                                 Bar                                                                                                                            Niksic
                                                                                                                                                                                    Vilusi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Morakovo          Medurijecje Taracav           Andrijevica
                         A d r i a t i c                                                                                                                                                 Grahovo
                                S e a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lijeva Rijeka                   Murino
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             K O S O V O
                                                                                         Dobro                                                                                                                       Zeta
                                                                                                                                                             CROA                Crkvice                                                           Moraca                                             Gusinje
                                                                                         Voda                                                                                                                                 Danilovgrad                       Pelev                                                     Plav
                                                                                                                                                                  TIA
                                                                                                                                                                                     Risan
                                                                                                                                                                              Herceg-        Perast                                               Bioce       v

                                                                                                                                                                              Novi                                               Spuzv                                                                                         20

                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kotor
                                                                                                                                                       4200'                          Tivat                                                  Podgorica                                        18                         20                             22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H U N G A R Y
                 Water Supply Scheme                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                                                Radovici            Cetinje     For details,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 For details,                                 Cijevna                          46
                                                                                                                                                                                                              see map at left       aca          Tuzi                                                                                                 PROVINCE CAPITAL

                 Reservoir Djurmani                                                                                                                                                                           see map at left roM                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V O J V O D I N A                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                 Water Intake Bolje Sestre                                                                                       Sveti-                                                                                                 Plavnica                                                CROATIA

                                                                                   Valdanos                                     Dorde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Novi Sad
                 Waste Water Treatment Plant                                                                           Bojana - Buna                                                         Budva          Sveti                                                    ALBANIA                   45                                                       ROMANIA           45
                                                                                                                            Delta                                      Adriatic                             Stefan          Virpazar                                                                                                BELGRADEBELGRADE
                 Proposed Protected Area                                                           Ulcinj                                                                  Sea                         Petrovac                               Lake                                              BOSNIA AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HERZEGOVINA
                 Major Highways                                                                                            Solana                                                                                                        Skadar
                                                                                                                            Lake
                                                                                                                                       a-najoB
                                                                                                                                         Buna   River

                 Other Roads                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   44   SARAJEVO                      S E R B I A                             44

                                                                                          Porte Milena                                                                                                                         Stari Bar                                                                Area of map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Area of map
                 Railroads                                                                                          Velika                                                                                            Bar                                                  Shkodr
                                                                                                                                       Sveti
                 Selected Towns                                                                                           Plaza      Nikola
                                                                                                                                                               42                                                                                                                  42
                 International Boundaries                                                                                                     Ada                                                                                                                  River                                                                                                   43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M O N T E N E G R O
                                                                                                                                             Island                        Montenegro                                                                                                                                                 Pristina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         najoB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a- Buna                           CROATIA PODGORICA
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                Ulcinj                                                                                              K O S O V O
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information          0            5             10             15
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BULGARIA
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                      Sveti Nikola
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                            KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALBANIA                                  F Y R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SKOPJE          M A C E D O N I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19                                                                                                      20                                22

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAY 2007

