Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4322-MOT 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sustainable Tourism Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 28, 2007  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4322-MOT 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 28, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MONTENEGRO (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to six 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,600,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.    
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall: (a) carry out Parts 1(a), 1(c), 1(d) and 
1(g) of the Project through the Ministry of Tourism and Environmental 
Protection; (b) cause PEW to carry out Part 1(f), Part 2 and Part 3 of the Project; 
and (c) cause the Municipality of Ulcinj to carry out Parts 1(b) and 1(e) of the 
Project, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions, the PEW Project Agreement, and the Ulcinj Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) The 
PEW’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
PEW to perform any of its obligations under the PEW Project 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Municipality of Ulcinj’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Municipality of Ulcinj to perform any of its obligations 
under the Ulcinj Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
PEW or the Municipality of Ulcinj shall have failed to perform any of 
their obligations under the Financing Agreement, the PEW Project 
Agreement or the Ulcinj Project Agreement, respectively. 
 
(d) 
The Recipient has taken any action, or omitted to take any action, that 
has materially and adversely affected the provisions of the Program.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that any 
event specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60)
 
days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Association to the Recipient.  
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The PEW Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and PEW. 
 
(b) 
The PEW Operational Manual has been adopted by PEW and is 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(c) 
The Project Coordination Unit has been established and adequately 
staffed and funded, in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The PEW Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Recipient and PEW and is legally binding upon the Recipient and 
PEW in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The PEW Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
PEW and is legally binding upon PEW in accordance with its terms. 
 
(c) 
The Ulcinj Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Municipality of Ulcinj and is legally binding upon the Municipality of 
Ulcinj in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, t
he
Recipient’s 
Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
Page  5
4
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Stanka Dragojevica 2 
81000 Podgorica 
Republic of Montenegro 
 
Facsimile: 
 
382 81 224 450 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Podgorica, Republic of Montenegro, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO 
 
By /s/ Igor Luksic 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Jan-Peter Olters 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in designing and 
implementing an integrated approach to coastal zone management aimed at reducing 
coastal degradation and fostering environmentally sound tourism development, through: 
(i) enhancing environmental protection, spatial development, institutional capacity and 
governance in the coastal zone; and (ii) initiating priority investments, such as the first 
phase of a regional water supply system for the coastal areas, to improve environmental 
conditions and foster development of high-quality tourism. 
 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Recipient and the 
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1:  
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Policy and Institutional Capacity 
Building 
 
(a) 
Carrying out of an environmental background study of the Bojana Buna 
Delta, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
 
(b) 
Development of urban plans for the municipality of Ulcinj based on the 
Coastal Zone Spatial Plan, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
 
(c) 
Environmental monitoring in the Bojana Buna Delta, through the 
provision of consultants’ services and goods; 
 
(d) 
Monitoring of land use and construction activities in the Bojana Buna 
Delta, through the provision of consultants’ services and goods; 
 
(e) 
Construction of an information center and office building for the Bojana 
Buna Delta Management Unit. 
 
(f) 
Institutional strengthening of PEW, through the provision of Training 
and consultants’ services. 
 
(g) 
Institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Tourism and Environmental 
Protection, as well as the development and implementation of a public awareness, 
communication and consultation campaign on the protection of the Bojana Buna Delta, 
including consultations about future eco-infrastructure, through the provision of Training 
and consultants’ services. 
Page  8
7
Part 2: 
Coastal Environmental Infrastructure 
 
Construction of the first phase of a regional water supply scheme between Lake 
Skadar and the coast, through the provision of civil works, goods and services. 
 
Part 3: 
Project Management and Monitoring 
 
Support for Project management and monitoring, through the provision of 
consultants’ services, goods and Incremental Operating Costs. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Inter-Ministerial Committee shall be responsible for monitoring sectoral and 
cross-sectoral issues relating to Project implementation.  To that end, the Recipient shall 
maintain the Inter-Ministerial Committee with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
2. 
The Project Coordination Unit within the Ministry of Tourism and 
Environmental Protection shall be responsible for overall Project implementation and 
coordination, as well as for implementation of Parts 1(a), 1(c), 1(d) and 1(g) of the 
Project.  To that end, the Recipient shall maintain, adequately fund and staff the Project 
Coordination Unit with terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
 
3. 
PEW shall be responsible for procurement and financial management of the 
Project, as well as for implementation of Part 1(f), Part 2 and Part 3 of the Project, in 
accordance with the PEW Project Agreement and the PEW Operational Manual.  The 
Recipient shall cause PEW to undertake the responsibility with regard to financial 
management and procurement in accordance with the provisions of the Financing 
Agreement, the PEW Project Agreement, and the Ulcinj Project Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Municipality of Ulcinj shall be responsible for implementation of Parts 1(b) 
and 1(e) of the Project, in accordance with the Ulcinj Project Agreement. 
 
B. 
PEW Subsidiary Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the 
proceeds of the Financing available to PEW under the PEW Subsidiary Agreement, under 
terms and conditions approved by the Association. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the PEW Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the PEW Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of the provisions
.
Page  10
9
C. 
Ulcinj Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the 
proceeds of the Financing available to the Municipality of Ulcinj under the Ulcinj 
Subsidiary Agreement, under terms and conditions approved by the Association. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Ulcinj Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Ulcinj Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of the provisions
.
Section II
.
Implementation Covenants
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental 
Management Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework, and shall not amend, 
suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the Environmental Management Plan 
or the Resettlement Policy Framework without prior approval of the Association. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Program and the 
Memorandum of Understanding, and shall not amend the Memorandum of 
Understanding or the Program so as to materially and adversely affect the execution of 
the Project. 
 
Section III
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports for the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.   
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than March 31, 2012. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause PEW to maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  11
10
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
cause PEW to prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause PEW to have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of PEW, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project was 
made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section IV
.
Procurement
A. General 
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Page  12
11
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Shopping 
 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding - with the modifications set forth in  
 
paragraph 3 below 
 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
3. 
Modifications to the Recipient’s National Competitive Bidding Procedures:
 
(i) 
Eligibility:
 foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(ii) 
Procedures:
 “Open procedures" shall be followed in all cases. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(iii) 
Pre-qualification:
 when pre-qualification shall be required for large or 
complex works, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised 
in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum 
of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-
qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and financial 
requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. 
 
(iv) 
Participation by government-owned enterprises
:
government-owned 
enterprises in Montenegro shall be eligible to participate in bidding only 
if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
government. Such enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(v) 
Bidding documents:
 procuring entities shall use the appropriate 
standard bidding documents for the procurement of works which shall 
contain draft contract and conditions of contract, satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
(vi) 
Submission of bids
:
bidders may, at their option, deliver bids either in 
person, by courier service, or by mail at any time prior to the deadline set 
the submission of bids. 
 
Page  13
12
(vii) 
Bid opening and bid evaluation:
 bids shall be opened in public and, if 
two envelopes are submitted for technical and price components, both 
shall be opened simultaneously.  The time for the bid opening shall be 
the same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or immediately thereafter, 
and shall be announced, together with the place for bid opening, in the 
solicitation documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict 
adherence to the monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not 
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be requested 
without the prior approval of the Association. Contracts shall be awarded 
to qualified bidders having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially 
responsive bid. Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated bidder or any other bidder. 
 
(viii) 
Price adjustment:
 civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than 
eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment 
clause. 
 
(ix) 
Rejection of bids:
 all bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited 
without
 the Association’s prior concurrence. 
 
(x) 
Contracts:
 all contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by 
authorized signatories of the purchaser and the supplier, and shall contain 
identical terms and conditions of contract to those included in the tender 
documents. 
 
(xi) 
Securities:
 bid securities shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the 
estimated cost of the contract; performance securities shall not exceed 
ten percent (10%). No advance payments shall be made to contractors 
without a suitable advance payment security. The wording of all such 
securities shall be included into the bidding documents and be acceptable 
to the Association. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, c
onsultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Page  14
13
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)
 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c)  Least Cost Selection 
 
(d)  Individual Consultants 
 
(e)  Single Source 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association.
 
Section V
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  15
14
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1)  Goods, works, consultants’  
 
services, Training and  
 
Incremental Operating Costs for  
 
Parts 1(a), 1(c), 1(d) and 1(g) of  
 
the Project   
 
350,000 
 
85.5% 
(2)  Goods, works, consultants’  
 
services, Training and  
 
Incremental Operating Costs for  
 
Parts 1(f), 2 and 3 of the Project  
5,900,000 
 
85.5% 
(3)  Goods, works, consultants’  
 
services, Training and 
 
Incremental Operating Costs for 
 
Part 1(b) of the Project   
 
150,000 
 
85.5% 
(4)  Goods, works and consultants’  
 
services for Part 1(e) of the  
 
Project   
 
200,000 
 
85.5% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
6,600,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 670,000 may be made for 
payments made prior to this date but on or after August 1, 2006, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) in the table in Section V.A of this Schedule; 
 
(b) 
in respect of payments under Categories (3) and (4) in the table in 
Section V.A of this Schedule, until the Ulcinj Subsidiary Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the Municipality of Ulcinj and is legally 
Page  16
15
binding upon the Recipient and the Municipality of Ulcinj in accordance with its terms; 
and 
(c) 
in respect of payments under Category (4) of the Project in the table in 
Section V.A of this Schedule, until: (i) an environmental assessment for Part 1(e) of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Association, has been conducted by an independent 
environmental assessment experts not affiliated with the Project and which shall have 
been retained by the Recipient under terms of reference acceptable to the Association; 
and (ii) an environmental management plan for Part 1(e) of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Association, has been prepared  by environmental experts acceptable to the Association, 
to eliminate, offset, or reduce to acceptable levels any adverse environmental and social 
aspects, including the actions needed to implement the mitigation, monitoring and 
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of said Part 
1(e). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2011. 
Page  17
16
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a 
percentage)* 
 
On each April 15 and October 15, commencing October 
15, 2017 to and including April 15, 2027: 
 
5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, except as 
the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Page  18
17
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Bojana Buna Delta” means the part of the delta area of the Bojana-Buna River 
which is located on the territory of the Municipality of Ulcinj. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section V of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Coastal Zone Spatial Plan” means the Recipient’s plan for the area of Morsko 
Dobra. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan adopted by the Recipient on 
March 9, 2007, satisfactory to the Association, consisting of the set of mitigation, 
monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken to eliminate adverse 
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable 
levels, as well as actions needed to implement these measures, for the Project. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
7. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
PCU, PEW and the Municipality of Ulcinj on account of the Project 
implementation including the costs of communication, printing and publications, 
supplies, bank charges, local travel costs and field trip expenses. 
 
8. 
“Inter-Ministerial Committee” means the Recipient’s committee for sustainable 
tourism development and coastal management, established in December 2005, 
chaired by a representative from the MoTEP (hereinafter defined), and composed 
of high level Government staff, municipal representatives, and other 
stakeholders. 
9. 
“Memorandum of Understanding” means the Memorandum of Understanding for 
the temporary protection of the Bojana-Buna Delta against unwanted 
construction, adopted by the Recipient on May 3, 2007. 
10. 
“Ministry of Finance” or “MoF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and 
includes any successor thereto. 
 
Page  19
18
11. 
“Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Protection” or “MoTEP” means the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Protection and includes any 
successor thereto. 
12. 
“Municipality of Ulcinj” means the Recipient’s Municipality of Ulcinj, 
established in 1995, the Project Implementing Entity charged with 
implementation of Parts 1(b) and 1(e) of the Project, established pursuant to the 
Municipality of Ulcinj’s Legislation (hereinafter defined). 
 
13. 
Municipality of Ulcinj’s Legislation” means the Law on the Territorial 
Organization of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro, published on the Official 
Gazette No. 23/1995. 
 
14. 
“PEW” means Crnogorsko Promorje, the Recipient’s public enterprise for water 
supply, wastewater treatment and solid waste disposal, the Project Implementing 
Entity charged with implementation of Parts 1(f), 2 and 3 of the Project, 
established pursuant to the PEW’s Legislation (hereinafter defined) on December 
20, 1991, and registered by the Commercial Court of the Recipient on January 
23, 1992. 
 
15. 
“PEW’s Legislation” means the Law on water supply, wastewater discharge and 
solid waste disposal for the municipalities of Herzeg Novi, Kotor, Tivat, Budva, 
Bar, Ulcinj, and Cetinje, dated November 19, 1991, and published in the Official 
Gazette No. 46.91, and the decision of the Parliament dated November 18, 1991, 
and published on the Official Gazette No. 50/91, dated December 20, 1991. 
 
16. 
“PEW Operational Manual” means the manual describing procedures for 
implementation of the Project, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement 
and with the national laws and regulations of the Recipient and including, inter 
alia: (i) procedures governing staffing, procurement, accounting, financial 
management, including adequate measures for procurement and forensic audits, 
and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; and (ii) a financial management 
manual. 
 
17. 
“PEW Project Agreement” means the agreement between the International 
Development Association and PEW, of even date as the Financing Agreement. 
 
18. 
“PEW Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part 
of the proceeds of the Financing available to PEW. 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
Page  20
19
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 25, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
21. 
“Program” means the program designed to maintain the environmental beauty 
and biodiversity of the Recipient’s coast and foster sustainable tourism 
development, set forth or referred to in the letter dated May 3, 2007, from the 
Recipient to the Association. 
22. 
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the Recipient’s project 
coordination unit established within the MoTEP and referred to in Section I.A.2 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework adopted by the 
Recipient on April 10, 2007, satisfactory to the Association, setting forth the 
procedures, actions, and policies for the assessment, mitigation, and monitoring 
of resettlement resulting from activities performed under the Project, as the same 
may be modified from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Association. 
 
24. 
“Training” means training activities (other than consultants’ services) to be 
carried out under the Project, as approved by the Association on the basis of 
annual training and study tour plans acceptable to the Association, including the 
reasonable and necessary local and international travel and visa expenses 
incurred by participants in training workshops, as well as lodging, subsistence, 
local and international per diem allowances according to the guidelines of the 
Recipient, registration, tuition and facilitators’ fees, minor organizational 
expenses (including costs of stationery, handouts and training materials), 
translation and interpretation costs, facility rental costs, and other expenditures 
directly relating to the training workshop and study tour activity, as may be 
agreed with the Recipient. 
 
25. 
“Ulcinj Project Agreement” means the agreement between the International 
Development Association and the Municipality of Ulcinj, of even date as the 
Financing Agreement. 
26. 
“Ulcinj Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.C.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part 
of the proceeds of the Financing available to the Municipality of Ulcinj.
 
