Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/10/2007 
Report No.:  AC1944
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Montenegro 
Project ID:  P093461 
Project Name:  Sustainable Tourism Development Project (Montenegro) 
Task Team Leader:  Andreas Rohde 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 29, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: June 12, 2007 
Managing Unit:  ECSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Water supply (80%);General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%) 
Theme:  Access to urban services and housing (P);Biodiversity (S);Pollution management 
and environmental health (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
10.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
25.10 
 Sub-borrower(s) 
6.00
31.10 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The proposed Project Development Objective (PDO) is to assist Montenegro in better 
designing and implementing an integrated coastal zone management approach to reduce 
coastal degradation and in the same time foster environmentally sound tourism 
development through: (i) enhancing environmental protection, spatial development, 
institutional capacity and governance of the coastal zone, and (ii) initiating priority 
investments, such as the first phase of the regional water supply system for the coastal 
areas, to foster development of high-quality.   
 
3. Project Description 
Project Background:  Under the original project concept the MSTDP was designed to 
have a broader scope that covered additional activities, including: (i) under the Coastal 
Environmental Infrastructure Component, a sub-component on the management of 
wastewater along the coast; and (ii) under the Integrated Coastal Zone Management 
Policy and Institutional Capacity Building Component, additional Technical Assistance 
and Institutional Strengthening activities for institutions involved in managing water 
supply and wastewater, tourism and environmental protection in Montenegro.  In view of 
financing issues and associated subsequent preparation time constraints that arose during 
Page  2
the period when Montenegro temporarily lost World Bank membership after it gained 
independence in June 2006, a decision was made to divide the original MSTDP Project 
into two parts: (a) the proposed MSTDP 1, primarily comprising the Regional Water 
Supply Scheme (RWSS), providing water from Lake Skadar up to Bar, and priority 
measures for the environmental protection of the Bojana Buna Delta area, to be financed 
by IDA, PEW and Government; and (b) the intended follow-up MSTDP 2, primarily 
comprising the second phase of the RWSS from Bar to Ulcinj and Velika Plaza, and 
wastewater and additional environmental protection measures, to be financed through a 
GEF grant, IBRD, and the Government.  The above changes were made in order to 
ensure that Montenegro would be able to benefit from IDA financing which would only 
be available in FY 07. Relevant Safeguards procedures carried out by the Borrower and 
the Bank, took the original broad project scope into consideration. The original 
Environmental Assessment rating for the project was Category A, but has been revised to 
Category B because it no longer includes wastewater treatment or new infrastructure 
(other than one small information center/office building) in this phase.   
 
Project Components:  The project has three components summarized below:  
 
Component 1: Integrated Coastal Zone Management Policy and Institutional Capacity 
Building Component: This component will finance improvements in land-use planning 
and protection to guard against uncontrolled construction and development. In particular 
it will finance:  
 
a) 
Consultancy services to carry out a Background Study on the Bojana Buna Delta 
which is needed before declaring it a protected area, and which will also help to develop 
an environmental management plan for the Delta, and to establish the Bojana-Buna Delta 
Management Unit to manage the protected area to be established under the project;  
 
b) 
Consultancy services to translate the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan into detailed 
Urban Plans for the Municipality of Ulcinj.  
 
c) 
Environmental monitoring of the Bojana Buna Delta;  
 
d) 
Monitoring of illegal construction/land use activities in the Bojana Buna Delta;  
 
e) 
Provision of an Information Center and Office Building for the Bojana Buna 
Delta Management Unit  
 
f) 
Institutional Strengthening for the Regional Water Supply Company (PEW) and 
the Ministry of Tourism and Environment. As part of the institutional strengthening, this 
component will finance public awareness and dissemination activities for (i) 
environmental protection measures in the Bojana Buna Delta; and (ii) for water demand 
management on the coast, which will, among others, comprise the developing and 
implementation of a public awareness, communication and consultation campaign which 
includes the promotion of support groups.  
 
Page  3
Component 2: Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Component: This component will 
finance investments for the Continental and Southern part of the Regional Water Supply 
Scheme to provide water from Lake Skadar to the Municipality of Bar.  Extension of 
water supply to the other cities under the Southern Branch (to Ulcinj and the tourist areas 
of Valdanos and Velika Plaza) is expected to be done under the subsequent project 
MSTDP2.  
 
Component 3: Project Management and Monitoring Component:  This component will 
finance consultant services, training, equipment and incremental costs for project 
management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project location covers the area to be covered by the continental and the southern 
branch of the proposed Regional Water Supply Scheme (RWSS), including the 
Municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj.  Under the MSTDP1, the RWSS is divided into a 
Continental Part and a Southern Coastal Part.  The Continental Part of the RWSS 
stretches from the water intake Bolje Sestre, through the hydrotechnical tunnel Sozina, to 
the Djurmani reservoir, the main water storage tank in the system.The Southern Coastal 
part under this project covers the area along the pipeline route from the Reservoir 
Djurmani to the Municipality of Bar. (A northern coastal branch is expected to be 
financed with assistance from EBRD)  
 
The water source, the Bolje Sestre spring, is one of several springs which feed the small 
Malo Blato lake.  Malo Blato is a small water body branching off Lake Skadar, which in 
turn is both a National Park and a protected wetland under the Ramsar Convention. 
However, investigations indicate that Malo Blato is not an ecologically sensitive site and 
contains no essential habitat for endangered or vulnerable species.  A small part of the 
water pipeline will pass through the National Park, including about 1.5 km of pipeline 
along the bottom of Malo Blato. Otherwise, the water pipeline route will mainly follow 
existing roads and tunnels.  
 
Another area warranting particular attention is the Bojana-Buna delta, which is in the 
vicinity of Ulcinj on the southern coast. Although no investments will be constructed 
within the Delta under this project (with the exception of a small combined 
Nature/Information Center and office), environmental protection of the area is high on 
the priority list of issues to be addressed under the Policy and Institutional Capacity 
Building Component.  The Bojana- Buna Delta is one of the most important sites for bird 
and nature conservation along the Adriatic coast.  It represents an important habitat and 
an essential link in the migration corridor for fish, water birds, sea turtles and water-
bound mammals from the Adriatic Sea to Lake Skadar and the hinterland, and for coastal 
species.  It is also a major refuge and stopover for migrating birds along the Central 
European Flyway.  Ada Bojana in particular is an important ecological site showing all 
the different successional phases of a natural estuary, as well as numerous ponds and 
wetlands in the interior which draw their water supply from the Bojana-Buna River.  The 
delta area is already under significant development pressure, particularly unplanned and 
Page  4
uncontrolled construction and increasing problems of inappropriate disposal of 
wastewater and solid waste.  The project design recognizes that it is essential to identify 
and protect sensitive ecological areas from inappropriate or excessive development and 
use.  For this reason, it is proposed under the project that a protected area be established 
covering the most biologically significant and vulnerable parts of the Bojana-Buna Delta.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Agnes I. Kiss (ECSSD) 
Ms Hermine De Soto (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
(i)  Environmental Assessment (World Bank OP 4.01)  
 
The project triggers the Safeguards Policy on Environmental Assessment.  The project 
has been processed in accordance with Bank procedures for Category A for 
Environmental Assessment (EA), based on its original design entailing a broader scope 
which included, among other things, wastewater management sub-components.  As these 
investments are no longer included during this phase, the EA Category is revised to B.  A 
full Environmental Impact Assessment has been carried out for the entire Regional Water 
Supply Scheme (continental and coastal parts.  
 
The environmental issues of this project fall under three main headings: impacts at the 
water offtake site; impacts along the water pipeline route; and impacts of increased water 
supply and other investments for tourism development at and near the coast.  Issues are 
also divided into construction and operational phases of the water supply system.  
 
Water offtake:  the Bolje Sestre spring lies within the Lake Skadar National Park, and 
Lake Skadar is also a protected wetland of international importance, under the Ramsar 
Convention.  Therefore potential biodiversity and ecological impacts were assessed not 
only for the micro location of the offtake installation but in relation to the wider 
environment of Lake Skadar as a whole.  In order to obtain the required ecological permit 
Page  5
from the Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Protection, PEW is obliged to 
undertake a study for protection of the source, covering both the immediate catchment 
and surrounding areas, including the carstic hinterland that feeds the source.  The study 
will identify pollution sources and required protection measures for each of the three 
legally defined protection zones around the source.  The ecological permit process will 
also ensure that the proposed works are compatible with the spatial plan and management 
objectives of Lake Skadar National Park.  During project preparation, the Skadar 
National Park management reviewed the RWSS project documentation (designs, 
investigations results, draft of the EIA, etc.), made opinion that project implementation 
will not have negative impact on Skadar lake basin, and issued the official approval for 
the project.  
 
Potential impacts along the water pipeline route are minimized by the fact that the 
pipeline will mainly follow existing roads and use an existing tunnel through the 
mountains.  The EIA paid special attention to the portion of the pipeline which will cross 
Lake Skadar National Park.  
 
At the coast, the impacts of the Project are mainly expected to be positive during the 
operational phase, by providing high quality potable water to targeted populations and 
generating economic and social benefits through employment opportunities based on 
tourism development.  As the tourism is primarily nature-based, this will increases the 
value placed on the natural environment and strengthen local and national commitment to 
conserve it.  The Project also includes direct support for the establishment of a protected 
area in the Bojana-Buna delta, for environmental monitoring and for reducing pressures 
of illegal construction.  
 
Construction phase:  The main impacts identified by the EIA (dust and noise from 
construction, disturbance or destruction of vegetation and animals at construction sites, 
loss of visual amenities due to vegetation removal and stockpiling of construction 
materials), will be temporary and minimized by following detailed recommendations 
outlined in the Environmental Management Plan, as described below. Investigations 
indicated no endangered or vulnerable species at the proposed construction sites, either at 
the source or at the coast (e.g., recognized fish spawning sites and ornithological reserves 
in Lake Skadar, and environmentally sensitive areas at the coast such as the salt pans in 
Ulcinj and the area surrounding the Bojana-Buna river are not included).  
 
Operational phase:  Potential effects of water offtake on water levels and temperatures 
in Malo blato and in Lake Skadar as a whole will be negligible. Even at the maximum 
level of offtake the volume of the lake would be reduced by no more than 0.03%, with an 
estimated decrease in water level of about 2 mm (compared with an annual natural water 
level fluctuation of about 5 m).  The water temperature of Malo Blato depends almost 
entirely on climate conditions, with little influence from the Bolje sestre spring 
(temperature of the water 20 m from the spring is the same as that in the middle of Malo 
Blato.  Operation of the pipeline passing beneath Lake Skadar is not considered risky 
because the water within the pipeline will be minimally treated fresh water from the same 
basin.  
Page  6
At the coast, the main potential issues are the impact of increasing piped water supply in 
relation to wastewater treatment capacity, and the impacts of increased tourist numbers 
and facilities triggered by greater availability of water and other tourism development 
investments, some of which are to be financed under MSTDP 2.  Expansion and 
improvement of existing wastewater treatment facilities at Bar and Ulcinj are planned 
under MSTDP 2, and the Government is also in discussions with other donors for 
assistance in this area.  
 
To help minimize and mitigate potential negative impacts of tourism development, the 
Government is committed to establishing a protected area encompassing the ecologically 
sensitive area of the Bojana-Buna delta, preparing an updated detailed urban plan for 
Ulcinj, implementing the environmental provisions of the Coastal Zone Act, to finding 
responsible and reputable investors for any Greenfield development (see Annex 1).  A 
Letter of Development Policy outlines the key Government commitments, and a 
Memorandum of Understanding with Ulcinj Municipality is expected to put in place a 
moratorium on new construction (and enforcement against illegal construction) in 
environmentally sensitive areas until a management plan and detailed urban plan have 
been completed.  The MSTDP 1 will support the required background study and capacity 
building to establish the protected area and to put in place a capable Management Unit 
for it and will support both environmental monitoring and monitoring to enforce the 
moratorium on new construction.  
 
Environmental Management Plan:  The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) 
outlines detailed  mitigation measures including good environmental practice during 
construction and operation of the water supply system, environmental monitoring, and 
institutional strengthening to protect human health, environmental quality, and natural 
and cultural heritage.  
 
The location of the small nature information center and office building for the 
management unit of the protected area still needs to be identified during project 
implementation.  No land acquisition is anticipated for this building, although a 
Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared for the project which addresses land 
acquisition as well.  The Financing Agreement includes as a disbursement condition that 
a
Category B Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan 
satisfactory to the Bank need to be carried out before disbursement for the nature 
information center and office building can be done.  
 
(ii) 
Natural Habitats (World Bank OP/BP 4.04)  
 
The Natural Habitats Operational Policy is triggered because the water offtake site lies 
within Lake Skadar National Park, which is also a Ramsar site.   In addition, the Bojana-
Buna delta, which will be affected more indirectly, includes important natural habitats 
and ecologically sensitive areas.   However, as described above, the direct negative 
impacts are expected to be negligible to minor and will be mitigated through good 
construction practices, and the project will have a positive impact by supporting a variety 
of measures to improve protection and sustainable management of the Bojana-Buna delta.  
Page  7
(iii) 
International Waterways (World Bank OP 7.50)  
 
The Project triggers the World Bank?s Operational Policy on International Waters OP 
7.50 because it involves the use of the Adriatic Sea and Lake Skadar, which are 
international waterways under OP 7.50.  Internal and external notification requirements 
are applicable, and the requirements of OP 7.50 have been taken into consideration in 
processing the project.  With regard to the RWSS component, Lake Skadar would be the 
source of water for drinking water purposes for the coastal municipalities, although the 
proposed project (MSTDP 1) would only finance the Continental Branch and the 
Southern Branch up to the Municipality of Bar.  The assumed maximum overall 
abstraction from Lake Skadar would amount to one and a half cubic meter per second.  
This would have no measurable impact on the fluctuation of the water level in Lake 
Skadar, which fluctuates naturally several meters per year, and it would represent only 
about 0.5% of the average annual river flow (300m3/s) and 1.1% of the minimum annual 
flow (130m3/s) in the Bojana River which drains Skadar Lake. Therefore this abstraction 
is considered to have a negligible impact on the river flow. Based on the team?s 
assessment of the Project scope and impact, it has been concluded that the Project would 
have a negligible impact on the quantity of water in Lake Skadar and in the Bojana River, 
which drains Lake Skadar.  The Government of Montenegro has informed the riparian 
countries of the project in accordance with Bank OP 7.50 requirements.  
 
(iv) 
Involuntary Resettlement (World Bank OP 4.12)  
 
The project may trigger OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement.  The results of studies 
prepared for the project (Engineering Consultancy Services Report, Environmental 
Impact Assessment and Environmental Safeguards Framework) foresee the majority of 
investments to be realized on land owned by the Government/municipalities.  However, 
some works regarding RWSS will have to be carried out on private land, and thus might 
call for a resettlement plan.  It has been estimated that the total size of the private land to 
be acquired will be 1, 5 ha.  The exact extent of the works on the private land will be 
known upon completion of the final designs.  
 
A
Resettlement Policy Framework has therefore been agreed upon with PEW, on the 
broad principles governing land acquisition. These principles include but are not limited 
to issues relating to the eligibility criteria for defining various categories of adverse 
impacts, method of valuing affected assets, compensation standards, organizational 
procedures for delivering entitlements, description of implementation process and 
funding arrangements, etc.  
 
(v) 
Cultural Property:  Although there is no evidence of cultural objects at the 
foreseen construction sites, like in all projects involving infrastructure investments, the 
possibility of chance finds (defined as physical cultural resources encountered 
unexpectedly during project implementation), cannot be ruled out.While the remote 
possibility of chance finds alone does not trigger the OP 4.11, mitigation measures on 
how to deal with them should they occur will be included in all construction contracts.   
 
Page  8
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Please see section 1 above.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
(i)Reduce complexity of approach:  The team considered focusing on fewer interventions 
to support sustainable tourism development and coastal zone management.This approach 
has been successful in the ongoing Bank-financed solid waste management project 
(MESTAP). However, it was felt that a window of opportunity has arisen to build on past 
successes to achieve even more tangible results on the ground.  Only a comprehensive 
approach that fills the gaps in policy reform, institutional strengthening, environmental 
protection and infrastructure needs will bring tangible results for sustainable tourism 
growths.  Focusing on only one area of support would not be sufficient for preparing the 
basic market conditions that would allow reputable international developer to enter the 
market.  In addition, if this opportunity is missed, the door would be open to undesirable 
tourism development and environmental degradation at the coast, which would be 
difficult or impossible to repair.  
 
(ii)Not to include the protection of the Bojana-Buna Delta in the Project: Considering 
the demand different interest groups have in using the Bojana-Buna Delta, it is clearly a 
challenge to include the environmental protection of the Bojana-Buna Delta as an 
objective in the project design.  However, it was felt that the Bank should take this risk 
because: (i) the Bojana-Buna Delta is one of the most important areas of biodiversity at 
the Adriatic coast and is under an immediate threat of significant environmental 
degradation; (ii) the environmental degradation of the delta would not only mean a 
substantial loss of globally important biodiversity, but also would significantly 
undermine any sustainable tourism growth in the area; (iii) the central Government, the 
Municipality of Ulcinj, and the private sector (reputable international developers as well 
as the local private sector such as the Solana) have realized that the environmental 
protection is key for the economic development of the area and are highly committed 
towards the goal to protect the area; and (iv) the Bank is well positioned based on its 
international experience to work together with these stakeholders and with the 
international donor community towards the environmental protection of the delta.  
 
(iii)A project focused on the development of the Regional Water Supply System:The 
team worked initially on a project focused on the development of the regional water 
supply scheme alone, a lumpy investment that would have significant long-term benefits 
and has been part of the GoM?s strategy for some years.  The team proposed instead a 
more comprehensive project, around the concept of coastal zone management and 
environmental protection, while scaling down the investments in improving water supply 
to the priority elements of the scheme that is needed to guarantee the water supply to the 
southern municipalities, within the available fiscal space for the country. Completely 
eliminating any improvement in water supply would be undesirable as tourism growth 
will not materialize without secured water supply at the coast.  On the other hand tourism 
growth will also not materialize if the environmental beauty of Montenegro will not be 
Page  9
maintained and the beaches will not be free of wastewater.  Therefore the project includes 
high priority measures needed to protect the biodiversity of the Bojana-Buna 
Delta.Additional measures needed for sustainable tourism development, which could not 
be included in the project due to the fiscal constrains Montenegro is under, will be 
covered by the follow-up project, MSTDP 2, which is scheduled to follow MSDTP 1 
with a time gap of less than a year.  MSTDP 2 will include the extension of the regional 
water supply system from Bar to Ulcinj and Velika Plaza, improvements to wastewater 
treatment and disposal, and additional environmental protection measures.  MSTDP 2 is 
included in the CAS for fiscal year 2008, and in the unexpected event that the Bank 
would not co-finance the MSTDP 2, the Government has committed itself in the Letter of 
Development Policy, either by itself or together with PEW and/or other Donors, to 
finance the completion of the water supply scheme from Bar to Ulcinj and Velika Plaza, 
and the necessary upgrading of environmental sound wastewater disposal facilities. This 
combination of infrastructure development and environmental protection will assist the 
country in implementing its long-term plans for the environmental protection and 
management of the coastal areas, and hence enable future tourism development in a 
sustainable way.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
a)Environmental Assessment:  A full Environmental Impact Assessment has been carried 
out for the Regional Water Supply Scheme. The Environmental Management Plan 
includes direct mitigation measures including good environmental practice during 
construction and operation of the water supply system, environmental monitoring, and 
institutional strengthening to protect human health, environmental quality, and natural 
and cultural heritage.  While Phase 1 will extend the water pipeline only to Bar, the 
project includes measures to support the establishment of a protected area in the Bojana-
Buna delta, a detailed urban plan for Ulcinj, and monitoring of illegal construction.  
These are proactive measures to mitigate existing issues of uncontrolled tourism 
development and to avoid increased problems that could be triggered by future expansion 
of the water supply system to Ulcinj.  
 
b)Resettlement Policy Framework:  A draft Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has 
been prepared for this project.  The RPF sets out the policies, principles, institutional 
arrangements, schedules and funding mechanisms for any land acquisitions that may 
occur in the project areas as the result of the project.  The RPF will also provide 
guidelines to stakeholder participating in the mitigation of adverse social impacts of the 
project, in order to ensure that the social and economic well being of project affected 
persons (PAP)s will not be worsened as a result of the project. . In order to ensure that 
new illegal settlers are not encouraged to encroach on the land, the RPF includes a cut off 
date, after which compensation for involuntary resettlement will not be provided.  
 
c)Projects on International Waterways:  In accordance with the requirements of OP 
7.50, on October 31, 2006, the Government of Montenegro sent letters notifying the 
Governments of all riparian countries of the Adriatic Sea and Lake Skadar, including 
Page  10
Italy, Albania, Croatia and Slovenia, of the proposed project and its details.  None of the 
riparian countries has raised any objection to the proposed project.  
 
Borrower Capacity to manage Safeguards Issues  
 
Environmental Issues:  Several institutions are responsible for environmental 
management in Montenegro.  The Public Enterprise for Water Supply, Wastewater 
Treatment and Solid Waste Disposal (PEW), which is responsible for managing these 
functions along the Coastal Region of Montenegro, as the project implementing agency, 
will be responsible overall for mitigation of any environmental effects under the project.  
 
In addition, with specific regard to the RWSS, it will be the responsibility of the 
contractors constructing the system to ensure that mitigation measures in accordance with 
the Environmental Management Framework (EMF) are carried out during construction 
works as required.  The contractor will be supervised by PEW.  The provisions described 
in this EMF will be incorporated in the contract with the construction company/ies 
selected to perform the works.  The cost of mitigation measures will be included in the 
cost of the contracts and will be borne by contractors, who will make the necessary 
provisions for implementation of mitigation measures as part of their contractual 
obligations.  
 
The contractors shall take also all necessary precautions for the types of civil works 
involved, especially in residential areas and those with high circulation of persons and 
vehicles. All construction and rehabilitation works should be carried out with keeping the 
safety equipment rules, and health and safety regulations.  Safety measures will be 
adopted to protect the personnel involved in the works. Public access to construction sites 
will be properly restricted. Internationally accepted practices and active regulations 
should be assisted regarding restoration of construction, health and safety.  
 
Implementation of Resettlement Policy:  Responsibility for implementation of the 
Resettlement Policy Framework will lie with PEW and the Municipality of Ulcinj in 
consultation with relevant Government institutions including the Ministry of Economic 
Planning, and the Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Protection.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key Stakeholders under the project include: (a) the Government institutions in charge of 
managing the tourism and environmental sectors, who include the Ministry of Tourism 
and Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Economic Development; and Morsko 
Dobro; (b) the Regional Water Company, PEW, and the Water Utility Companies in the 
municipalities that will benefit from the project; and (c) the project beneficiaries, the 
population and leadership in the Coastal Municipalities that will benefit from the project.  
 
Intensive public consultations were conducted as part of the Environmental Assessment 
Process for the project.  Public consultations with regard to EA were held with local 
stakeholders in Montenegro in accordance with Bank Guidelines for EA.  A round table 
Page  11
was held on the Water Fair in Budva from May 8 to 11, 2006, where the proposed RWSS 
was presented in detail.  A similar presentation was made at the Montenegran Academy 
of Science.  Additional public consultations were done through a meeting with Lake 
Skadar NP expert advisory Board on November 7, 2006, with focus mainly on the 
environmental impacts on Lake Skadar.  The project was also publicized on Montenegro 
National Television on November 30, 2006.  The public comments were taken into 
consideration in the EIA, and overall the project has wide public support.  The draft Final 
EIA Report has been disclosed publicly.  It was published through the Bank?s Infoshop 
on January 30, 2007, and in-country through the PEW Website on February 5, 2007.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/25/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/05/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/29/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
03/27/2006  
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/29/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/27/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/30/2007 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
No 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
N/A 
Page  12
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways 
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? 
Yes 
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification 
requirement, has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo 
to the RVP prepared and sent? 
N/A 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Andreas Rohde 
04/09/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Agnes I. Kiss 
04/07/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Hermine De Soto 
04/09/2007 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
04/09/2007 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Sumter Lee Travers 
04/09/2007 
Comments:   
