                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001484



     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IDA-43220)




                                ON A

                               CREDIT

               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR6.6 MILLION
                 (US$ 10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO

                           MONTENEGRO

                               FOR A

MONTENEGRO SUSTAINABLE TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                            JULY 7, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective May 7, 2010)

                      Currency Unit =
                     EUR1.00 = US$1.28
                   US$1.00 = EUR0.78 Euro
                     SDR1.00 = US$1.49

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIC    Average Incremental Cost of Water
BPC    Break Pressure Chamber
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA   Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CQS    Consultants Qualifications
DEG    Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (German
       Investment and Development Agency), Cologne
EAR    European Agency for Reconstruction
EBRD   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB    European Investment Bank
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
FA     Financing Agreement
FBS    Fixed Budget Selection
FRR    Financial Rate of Return
GEF    Global Environmental Facility
GIS    Geographic Information System
GTZ    German Association for Technical Assistance
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICZM   Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IDA    International Development Association
IFAC   International Federation of Accountants
IFC    International Finance Corporation
IFI    International Financing Institution
IFRs   Interim Financial Statements
IMC    Inter-Ministerial Committee
ISA    International Standards of Auditing
KfW    Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
LCS    Least Cost Selection
LDP    Letter of Development Policy
LTMC   Long Term Marginal Cost

                               ii
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MEIP           Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure Project
MESTAP         Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas Project
Morsko Dobro   Coastal Zone Management Agency
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MoTEP          Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Protection
MOU            Memorandum of Understanding
MSTDP          Montenegro Sustainable Tourism Development Project
NGOs           Non-Governmental Organizations
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
PCE            Public Communal Enterprises
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PDO            Project Development Objective
PEW            Regional Water Supply Company
PFS            Project Financial Statements
PSIA           Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
QCBS           Quality and Cost Based Selection
RAP            Resettlement Action Plan
RWSS           Regional Water Supply Scheme
SA             Social Assessment
SAI            State Audit institution
SBDs           Standard Bidding Documents
SEA            Strategic Environmental Assessment
SIL            Sector Investment Loan
SINP           State Institute for Nature Protection
SOE            Statements of Expenditures
SSD            Strategy of Sustainable Development
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WURP           Water Utility Reform Plan
WSPF           Water Sector Policy Framework

                          Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                        Country Director: Jane Armitage
                         Sector Manager: Wael Zakout
                     Project Team Leader: Sanyu Lutalo
                       ICR Team Leader: Bjorn Philip




                                        iii
 
                               MONTENEGRO
                 SUSTAINABLE TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 17
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 28
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 36
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 37
  MAP IBRD 34825R..................................................................................................... 38




                                                             iv
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Sustainable Tourism
Country:                Montenegro              Project Name:            Development Project
                                                                         (Montenegro)
Project ID:             P093461                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-43220
ICR Date:               07/29/2010              ICR Type:                Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                MONTENEGRO
Original Total
                        XDR 6.6M                Disbursed Amount:        XDR 6.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.0M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Montenegro: Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environment
 Crnogorsko Primorje (PEW)
 Municipality of Ulcinj
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/13/2005     Effectiveness:            11/26/2007        11/26/2007
Appraisal:            02/04/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/12/2007     Mid-term Review:          09/10/2009        07/08/2009
                                     Closing:                  09/30/2011        01/08/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                  Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:             Unsatisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower        Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:            Unsatisfactory



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       3                   3
Sub-national government administration                                 8                    8
Water supply                                                           89                  89


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                   29                  50
Biodiversity                                                           14                  5
Environmental policies and institutions                                14                  10
Pollution management and environmental health                          14
Water resource management                                              29                  35

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Wael Zakout                           Sumter Lee Travers
Project Team Leader:       Sanyu Sarah Senkatuka Lutalo          Andreas Rohde
ICR Team Leader:           Sanyu Sarah Senkatuka Lutalo
ICR Primary Author:        Bjorn Philipp


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed Project Development Objective (PDO) is to assist Montenegro in better
designing and implementing an integrated coastal zone management approach to reduce
coastal degradation and in the same time foster environmentally sound tourism


                                                ii
development through: (i) enhancing environmental protection, spatial development,
institutional capacity and governance of the coastal zone, and (ii) initiating priority
investments, such as the first phase of the regional water supply system for the coastal
areas, to foster development of high-quality tourism.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target       Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   People in Project areas with access to Improved Water Sources.
Value
quantitative or 128000                      132000                            130000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/12/2007                    01/07/2010                        01/07/2010
                Water supply system not completed at cancellation. Original target date given in
Comments
                portal Datasheet should correspond to original closing date 09/30/2010 but
(incl. %
                system programming will not allow insertion of date after cancellation. Corrected
achievement)
                in Word version.
                Protected area status is granted to the Bojana-Buna Delta and a unit for managing
Indicator 2 :
                the area is established and maintained.
Value
quantitative or Not yet granted             Status granted                    Not granted
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/12/2007                    12/31/2008                        01/07/2010
Comments        Protected area status was not granted. Non-compliance with relevant
(incl. %        implementation covenant on granting protected area by end of 2008 led to
achievement) Project cancellation.
                Illegal construction in the area of the Bojana-Buna Delta where detailed urban
Indicator 3 :
                plans were conducted is halted during Project implementation.
Value
                                                                              Urban plan has not
quantitative or Not done                    Done
                                                                              been done
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/12/2007                    01/07/2010                        01/07/2010
Comments        Activities under Component 1 including mentioned urban plans not fully
(incl. %        implemented. See comment for PDO1 above on original target date in this
achievement) datasheet.
                Lack of sufficient water supply is not a constraint anymore for tourism
Indicator 4 :
                development in the area of Bar.
Value
                12 hrs of supply during                                       12 hrs of supply
quantitative or                             24-hr supply.
                peak.                                                         during peak.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/12/2007                    01/07/2010                        01/07/2010


                                               iii
Comments        Indicator not achieved by cancellation date. Construction of water scheme
(incl. %        continues after cancellation, financed by Government and other funds. See
achievement)    comment for PDO1 above on original target date given in this datasheet.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of water utilities that the project is supporting
Value
(quantitative   0                           6                                 0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/12/2007                    01/07/2010                        01/07/2010
                No bulk water delivered by cancellation hence no direct support to utilities from
Comments
                project achieved, but likely after water scheme is completed since Borrower
(incl. %
                continued construction using own funds after Credit cancellation. See above
achievement)
                comment on target dat
                New piped household water connections that are resulting from the project
Indicator 2 :
                intervention.
Value
(quantitative   0                           1000                              0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/12/2007                    01/07/2010                        01/07/2010
Comments
                Water scheme construction not completed yet. See above comment on target
(incl. %
                date.
achievement)
                Piped household water connections that are benefiting from rehabilitation works
Indicator 3 :
                undertaken by the project
Value
(quantitative   0                           32000                             0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/12/2007                    01/07/2010                        01/07/2010
Comments
                Water scheme construction not completed yet. See above comment on target
(incl. %
                date.
achievement)
                Detailed Urban Plans in the Municipality of Ulcinj finalized, enforced and
Indicator 4 :
                implemented
Value
(quantitative   Not completed               Plans completed                   Not completed.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/12/2007                    01/07/2010                        01/07/2010
Comments
(incl. %        No urban plans prepared under Component 1. See above comment on target date.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Background study carried out to determine environmental protection status
Value           Not completed                                                 Not completed



                                               iv
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/12/2007                                                  01/07/2010
Comments
                  Background study was preapared but has not been approved. No environmental
(incl. %
                  protection status was declared
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Monitoring of illegal construction is on-going
Value
                                            Monitoring                        On-going, but
(quantitative     Not done
                                            ongoing                           outside the project
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/12/2007                01/07/2010                        01/07/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Monitoring is being carried out separately by Government outside the project
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Public awareness and dissemination activities completed successfully
Value
                                            Campaign
(quantitative     Not done                                                    Campaign ongoing
                                            completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/12/2007                01/07/2010                        01/07/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Regional water supply scheme that will provide water from Lake Skadar to the
Indicator 8 :
                  Municipalities of Bar operational
Value
                                            Scheme
(quantitative     Not constructed                                             Not completed
                                            operational
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/12/2007                01/07/2010                        01/07/2010
Comments
                  60% of construction completed, but scheme not operational yet. See comment on
(incl. %
                  target date.
achievement)
                Project funds disbursed according to plan, project status reports received by the
Indicator 9 :   Bank in a timely manner are of adequate quality, satisfactory financial and
                procurement records and timely audits
                0 percent disbursed and
Value
                other activities expected 100 percent                         92 percent
(quantitative
                to start after project    disbursed                           disbursed
or Qualitative)
                becomes effective.
Date achieved 06/12/2007                  01/07/2010                          01/07/2010
Comments
(incl. %        See earlier comment on target date.
achievement)




                                                 v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    06/26/2007       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    08/22/2007       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    11/13/2007       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  4    05/03/2008       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.50
  5    07/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              5.29
  6    02/01/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              9.61
  7    04/05/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              9.61
  8    08/13/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              9.61


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country background. Montenegro is located on the southeastern coast of the Adriatic
Sea. It has a total area of about 13,938 km2 and population of about 631,000 people
(2004 census). The mild climate, natural beauty, and resources offer considerable
potential for tourism development, particularly along the coastal zone, which is renowned
for its environmental beauty. In particular, the Bojana-Buna Delta in the south offers
almost 13 kilometers of unobstructed beach, dunes, and mixed hinterland, wetlands,
forests, and pastures. The Delta is home to many endangered avian and other species;
dolphins and sea turtles have been sighted in the area. Before the war that followed the
former Yugoslavia's breakup in the 1990s, the Delta and other coastal areas attracted
large numbers of tourists. Recently, tourism is on the rise, but achieving its full economic
potential will need to be carefully balanced with protecting natural resources.

Sector background. During Project appraisal in March 2007, tourism contributed about
15 percent of GDP, accounted for 15 percent of employment, and was Montenegro's
second largest source of foreign exchange. According to the Ministry of Tourism,
revenues from the tourism industry rose from 480 million in 2007 to 597 million in
2009. The World Travel and Tourism Council sees opportunities for the country to
increase the contribution of tourism to 21 percent of GDP by 2014, but only if natural
resources and the industry itself are managed well enough to attract higher value-added
tourism. A major constraint for developing higher-value added tourism is water shortages
during high tourist season, when local water supply cannot meet increased demand. For
decades, the need for more and better quality water on the coast during summer months
has been one of the biggest development challenges for Montenegro.

After the war, the Government of Montenegro embarked on a plan for rapid tourism
development, particularly in coastal areas where about 95 percent of tourism is
concentrated. Two main instruments framed this plan: (i) the Tourism Masterplan for
Montenegro, adopted in 2001, and (ii) the Coastal Zone Act, adopted in 1992. The
Tourism Masterplan set up an integrated regional approach to reorganizing and
developing the tourism industry, including protecting sensitive environmental areas such
as the Bojana-Buna Delta. The guiding legislation, the Coastal Zone Act, established the
Coastal Zone Management Agency (Morsko Dobro) in charge of (i) managing beach
areas; (ii) supporting planning activities e.g., for wastewater treatment, monitoring water
quality; and (iii) financing coastal infrastructure. The Republic of Montenegro also
established PEW, a Government-owned company to improve water supply and
wastewater services in the coastal region, among other things. The PEW reports directly
to the Government. Based on these instruments, the Government developed the Coastal
Zone Spatial Plan for environmentally sound coastal zone development and aimed to
attract investors to develop capacities for higher value-added tourism.




                                             1
Main challenges. Two main obstacles to balanced coastal zone development existed.
First, significant shortcomings remained in the coastal zone legal framework, institutional
setup, and local government enforcement capacity; and second, developers were
concerned about the lack of infrastructure, particularly to secure future water supply.
Although recent tourism levels are relatively low, hotels already experience water
shortages and have incurred high penalties from international tourism operators.1

In the Bojana-Buna Delta, insufficient local environmental protection enforcement
capacity exists to protect and manage natural areas of high ecological value. Delta
protection status is limited to the coastal strip, which is inadequate. Updated urban
master plans, cadastres, and integrated municipal management plans are also incomplete
and no single government unit oversees managing the entire area, which is threatened by
uncontrolled development.

Rationale for Bank involvement. There was strong rationale for World Bank involvement.
Although Montenegro had other development partners, the Bank was well positioned to
help Government implement a comprehensive Project that simultaneously addressed
infrastructure, multi-sectoral planning, and coastal zone management priorities.
Regulatory interventions work best when complemented by physical investments to
reinforce Government's desired pattern of private investment. The Bank has long
supported sustainable tourism development on Montenegro's coast, but the main barrier
has been insufficient water supply, and the longer-term threat to the industry is
accelerated environmental degradation, particularly at the coast. The Montenegro
Sustainable Tourism Development Project (MSTDP) aimed to address these issues,
leverage other donor activities in the sector, and complement ongoing activities such as
EBRD-supported greenfield development and coastal water supply; USAID coastal
wastewater efforts; GTZ-supported urban planning in coastal cities; KfW coastal water
utilities support; and DEG coastal tourism development, and EIB support.

Project background. The MSTDP aimed to address two key development challenges--
insufficient water supply and accelerating environmental degradation. The long-term
Project objective was to maintain Montenegro's coastline environmental beauty and
biodiversity while fostering sustainable tourism development to contribute to economic
growth. The Project concept was developed before Montenegro gained independence
from the former Serbia and Montenegro on June 3, 2006; hence, the Project was included
in the former Serbia and Montenegro FY05-07 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The
Project was well aligned with country priorities and supported all three CAS goals:
creating a more sustainable, efficient public sector (Goal 1); providing enabling
conditions for private tourism industry growth (Goal 2); and access to public services
(Goal 3). The Project was also part of the first CPS for Montenegro, presented to the
Board on May 15, 2007.

On June 12, 2007, the Board of Executive Directors approved the Project; on November
26, 2007, the Project was declared effective. Project implementation began swiftly, and

1
    Reimbursement is up to 40 percent of the entire cost of a tour package according to the Frankfurter List


                                                        2
Component 2 (infrastructure investments) disbursed quickly. By September 2008, 92
percent of Project funds were fully disbursed. However, Component 1 (integrated coastal
zone management) implementation showed no significant progress. By October 29, 2009,
the Project was suspended for non-compliance with the Financing Agreement
implementation covenant, which required the Recipient to carry out the Project according
to the Program and the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the protection of the
Bojana Delta. On January 7, 2010, the Project was cancelled. The original Project closing
date was September 30, 2011.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to assist Montenegro in better designing
and implementing an integrated coastal zone management approach to reduce coastal
degradation and at the same time foster environmentally sound tourism development
through: (i) enhancing environmental protection, spatial development, institutional
capacity and governance of the coastal zone, and (ii) initiating priority investments, such
as the first phase of the regional water supply system for the coastal areas, to foster
development of high-quality tourism.

Three key indicators for achievement of the PDO were defined: (i) Protected area status
is granted to the Bojana-Buna Delta and a unit for managing the area is established and
maintained; (ii) Illegal construction in the area of the Bojana-Buna Delta where detailed
urban plans were conducted is halted during Project implementation; and (iii) Lack of
sufficient water supply is not a constraint anymore for tourism development in the area of
Bar.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Not applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main Project beneficiaries included workers, entrepreneurs, shop and restaurant
owners, tourism operators, and developers who would receive increased revenues from
higher value-added tourism growth. Regional water supply system improvements would
benefit tourism and non-tourism-related domestic, private, and public consumers in the
short- and longer-term. Beneficiaries of direct institutional support under the Project were
expected to be the Regional Water Supply Company (PEW), the Ministry of Tourism and
Environmental Protection, and the Municipality of Ulcinj.




1.5 Original Components (as approved)




                                             3
The Project financed three Components:

Component 1: Integrated Coastal Zone Management Policy and Institutional Capacity
Building Component (US$2.1 million, of which US$1.6 million equivalent IDA
financing). This Component provided financing to improve land-use planning and
protection to reduce or prevent uncontrolled construction and development. The
Component envisioned financing for the following: (i) Background study on the Bojana-
Buna Delta; (ii) Detailed urban plans for the Municipality of Ulcinj; (iii) Environmental
monitoring of the Bojana-Buna Delta; (iv) Monitoring of land use and construction
activities in the Bojana-Buna Delta; (v) Provision of an information center and office
building for the Bojana-Buna Delta Management Unit; and (vi) Institutional
strengthening for the Regional Water Supply Company (PEW) and the Ministry of
Tourism and Environmental Protection.

Component 2: Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Component (US$38.3 million, of
which US$8.3 million equivalent IDA financing). This Component provided financing for
the Continental and Southern part of the Regional Water Supply Scheme to provide water
from Lake Skadar to the Municipality of Bar. Extending water supply to other Southern
Branch cities, including Ulcinj and the tourist areas of Valdanos and Velika Pla a, was
envisioned under a subsequent project.

Component 3: Project Management and Monitoring Component (US$0.5 million, of
which US$0.1 million equivalent IDA financing). This Component provided financing for
consultant services, training, equipment and incremental costs for Project management,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project Components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

Project cancellation. The Project was cancelled on January 7, 2010, 20 months before the
planned closing date because progress under Component 1 was unsatisfactory, in
particular with respect to its compliance with a critical implementation covenant
regarding protection of the Bojana. Early Project cancellation has a major impact on the
overall project outcomes. Component 2 concerning construction of the regional water
supply system has continued to progress despite cancellation of the remaining Credit and
the scheme will be completed with Government co-financing. However, at Project
cancellation, this component was incomplete.

Reorganization of implementing Ministry. Implementing Ministry structure and
responsibilities were changed during the second year of Project implementation. The
Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Protection (MoTEP) became the Ministry of
Tourism; and the former Ministry of Economic Development was split into the Ministry
of Economy, and Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environment (MoSPE), which now



                                           4
has responsibility for environmental and communal services. Responsibility for Project
implementation was moved to MoSPE, including Project implementation staff.




                                          5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background analysis. During Project preparation, the potential impacts of the underlying
political economy and institutional incentive structure were underestimated. Key
stakeholder incentives and expectations about Project outcomes differed substantially in
light of the multifaceted Project development objective (PDO). There was strong
incentive to construct the regional water supply system to support tourism development
and economic growth. However, coastal zone governance and environmental protection
lacked strong national champions. PEW has high institutional incentives to finalize
infrastructure investments in the regional water supply system, but its influence and
leverage on coastal zone management is limited.2 Morsko Dobro has responsibility to
protect, restore, and develop coastal and marine resources, but its mandate does not
extend to general environmental protection such as the coastal zone hinterland, so its
involvement in the project was very limited. MoTEP was the key national stakeholder
responsible for both environmental protection and tourism development, but its weight
suffered from this dual role, and to be effective, the ministry depended on careful internal
balancing and close coordination with other line ministries.

The extraordinary tourism potential of the Bojana-Buna Delta coastal strip, particularly
Velika Pla a ("long beach") is a magnet for private developers that expect billions of
Euros of foreign investment to pour into the area. Tourism potential is also the main
driver for burgeoning illegal private construction near Ulcinj Municipality. The
Government of Montenegro has launched two tenders and invited international investors
to bid for long-term lease and development of the area. The Ministry of Economic
Development anticipated construction of an exclusive complex comprising hotels,
apartments, medical centers, and education, sports, and cultural facilities. However, lack
of water and wastewater infrastructure remains a primary constraint.

Assessment of Project design. During Project preparation, several conceptual changes
occurred that expanded Project design into a broader coastal zone management approach
from what had initially been a focus on infrastructure investments for a regional water
supply system. A more comprehensive Project approach seemed logical to protect
infrastructure investments for tourism growth by preserving the environment on which
long-term sustainable economic growth depends. While this approach involved higher
risk, the Bank recognized and decided to use a unique window of opportunity to optimize
development impact. With hindsight, Project design was ill-suited to address increased
Project complexity and the required multifaceted policy reforms overwhelmed the
immature institutional framework. The lending instrument, a Specific Investment Loan,
ultimately proved inadequate for the more ambitious PDO which would have required a
phased approach to support a more long-term development program. Bank financing

2
  Government granted PEW, the main implementing agency, revenues from a 0.8 percent levy on all new
investments along the coast, plus revenues from bulk water sales PEW would deliver to coastal
municipalities when the regional water supply system was complete.


                                                  6
mobilized significant Government and other donor funds, but had limited leverage
compared to the total investment cost; and the bulk of Bank funding went into two large
contracts that disbursed quickly.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified legal and institutional shortcomings in
the set-up for coastal zone management; lessons learned and alternatives considered
highlighted the importance of building high-level consensus, government ownership, and
stakeholder coordination.         But Project design fell short in addressing these
implementation arrangements and gave insufficient attention to other key institutions for
coastal zone management, such as the Coastal Zone Management Agency, Morsko
Dobro, or the State Institute for Nature Protection (SINP), which were neither assigned a
specific role in the Project, nor included as beneficiaries.

Government commitment. Against this background, government commitment and
enforcement capacity is critical to implement environmental protection measures implied
in the ambitious PDO. Government commitment to initiate high priority infrastructure
investments was strong; and the Government signed a MoU and Letter of Development
Policy (LDP) before Board approval to underline its commitment to environmental
protection. In the MoU, the Ministry for Economic Development, the Ministry of
Tourism and Environmental Protection, Morsko Dobro, and the Municipality of Ulcinj
agreed to preserve the natural values of the Bojana-Buna-Delta and commit to
cooperation on effective conservation by establishing a protected area. The LDP outlined
Government commitment to sustainable tourism development objectives. Despite these
assurances, the Project lacked authentic Government ownership and the Project's national
level champion proved relatively weak.

Risks and mitigation measures. Project design had chosen a higher risk approach to
maximize development impact, and many of the risks were identified in the PAD risk
framework, including (i) opposition to environmental protection status for the Bojana-
Buna Delta (High risk); (ii) increased illegal construction before the Bojana-Buna Delta
receives protected status (Substantial risk); and (iii) follow-up Second Montenegro
Sustainable Tourism Project (MSTDP-2) fails to materialize (Moderate risk). Key
measures to mitigate these risks included intensive public consultation during Project
preparation and creation of a local support group; attempt to establish high-level
government ownership; and intention to provide further investment financing under
MSTDP-2. Government commitment to sustainable tourism development was inter alia
supported through the MoU and LDP, which stated that all activities would be
implemented even without World Bank support for MSTDP-2. However, risk mitigation
measures overestimated Government commitment and overemphasized additional
financing availability under a follow-up project. In addition, the risk that MSTDP-2 itself
would fail was underrated. The Project lacked a clear national champion to coordinate
and implement mitigation measures; many competing interests were involved; and the
stakes were high considering the enormous economic development potential from
tourism.

The ICR rates quality at entry as Moderately Unsatisfactory.



                                            7
2.2 Implementation

Implementation efficiency. Project design affected Component 1 implementation
progress, and as a result, overall implementation efficiency. Multiple agencies were
involved in key Component 1 activities that were to precede declaration of the Bojana
Delta protected area status and Government commitment was weak, which resulted in
lack of consensus among key stakeholders and eventually, Component 1 implementation
ground to a halt. Moreover, key stakeholders failed to agree on two aspects of a technical
background study, prepared by an independent consultant, to establish the Bojana Delta
as a Protected Area: (i) legal responsibility for background study preparation, claimed by
SINP; and (ii) the natural protection status suggested by study findings, including
implications for whether local or national government, or regional institutions, would be
responsible for park area administration. An independent consultant prepared the
background study and submitted it to the Government, which discussed findings among
central and local stakeholders, including MoTEP, Morsko Dobro, the Municipality of
Ulcinj, and SINP. However, no agreement was reached and the Bojana Delta was never
declared a Protected Area, leading to a breach of the relevant implementation covenant,
and eventually resulting in Project cancellation. Other activities under Component 1 were
not implemented.

Implementation delays. Implementation of Component 2 progressed satisfactorily.
Construction of the regional water supply system was carried out through five large
contracts; three of which were partially financed under MSTDP. In January 2010, when
the Project was cancelled, 60 percent of the scheme was completed, in line with planned
Project scheduling. However, Bank financing provided only 22 percent (US$8.3 million)
of the overall cost of the regional water supply system (US$38.3 million), and technical
difficulties increased financing needs and caused delays. Pipeline construction at the
bottom of Lake Skadar required technical design changes adding to other required
quantity increases, raising the contract amount by about 20 percent. In addition,
Government co-financing lagged due to the effects of the global financial crisis, which
delayed contractor payments and led to further delays.

Government Commitment. Implementation of infrastructure investments advanced very
well, but overall project implementation progress was unsatisfactory due to delays in
Component 1 so that eventually Project restructuring was suggested to better align the
PDO and Project-financed activities. During the Mid-Term Review from July 6-10, 2009,
the World Bank team discussed this proposal with the Government; and on July 16, 2009,
the World Bank Country Director and the Government held follow up discussions.
Project restructuring was planned in combination with preparing additional financing
under a follow-up project MSTDP-2 that would among other things support completion
of the regional water scheme. Suggested changes included a revised PDO, adjusted to
reflect more realistic outcomes, and discontinuing specific Component 1 activities that
could not be realistically achieved. However, Project restructuring and processing
additional financing were contingent on Government commitment to establish a protected
area in the Bojana-Buna-Delta by adopting an action plan that specified steps to define
and declare the protected area. The Bank and Government initially agreed that the latter
would submit an Action Plan for establishing the protected area, but a satisfactory Plan


                                            8
was not submitted to the Bank by the agreed deadline of September 15, 2009. The
Government, represented by MoSPE, eventually confirmed that it no longer intended to
declare a Protected Area in the Bojan-Buna delta area, which was a critical outcome
under Component 1. Moreover, the Credit funds for component 2 had at that time fully
disbursed. Consequently, in October 2009, the remainder of the Credit was suspended,
and on January 7, 2010, the Project was cancelled.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The indicators and target values for results monitoring were aligned with
Project design and used to monitor outputs under the Project components. However, PDO
complexity was also reflected in outcome indicators: two of the three indicators focused
on Component 1 achievements, namely (i) granting protected area status for the Bojana-
Buna Delta, and (ii) halting illegal construction during Project implementation--both
were to be achieved in the first year of Project implementation and proved unrealistic.
The third outcome indicator, under Component 2, was a 24/7 water supply in Bar
municipality in the final year of Project implementation. Target values for this third
indicator were realistic and measured construction progress of the water supply scheme
(25 percent annually over four years).

M&E implementation. Project monitoring and evaluation, including preparing progress
monitoring reports was carried out regularly by PEW. Baseline and target values were
identified at Board presentation, and progress was updated regularly.

M&E utilization. Monitoring reports were used to measure Project progress.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Project triggered Bank safeguard policies Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01),
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). A full
Environmental Impact Assessment was carried out for the entire Regional Water Supply
Scheme and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared.

Environmental safeguards. PEW carried out Project environmental management;
contractors were responsible to mitigate impacts according to the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP). The Bank requested that the recipient prepare an updated
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) to reflect changes in regional water supply
system technical design since Project approval, in particular the increased length of the
underwater pipeline section in Lake Skadar from 1.5 km to 7.5 km, and the diversion of a
section of pipeline through the Sozina tunnel. The Bank also requested a detailed revised
EMP. Neither document was submitted by Project cancellation on January 7, 2010. The
Project was in partial compliance with Bank environmental safeguards.

Social safeguards. PEW was responsible for managing social safeguards; no Project-
related social safeguards issues were reported. Expropriation for the southern branch of
the regional water supply system for the Municipality of Bar progressed well. The RFP
was followed, and owners received advance notice of the Project; compensation


                                           9
discussions were held in advance, and works progressed only after compensation was
extended. Although a key PDO indicator was to halt illegal construction in the Bojana-
Buna Delta area until detailed urban plans could be prepared, Component 1
implementation stalled and no urban plans were prepared; therefore, illegal construction
continued but no land acquisition or resettlement took place in the Delta.

Fiduciary compliance. Contractor non-performance caused disputes on a key Project
contract. All issues were discussed and closely coordinated with the Bank, which agreed
to a process to resolve the conflict, and PEW cancelled the contract.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

On January 7, 2010, when the Project was cancelled, the regional water supply system
was incomplete, however, construction progress maintained the implementation schedule
and 60 percent of the scheme is now complete. Delays were due to technical issues and a
gap in Government co-financing as a result of the global financial crisis. However, PEW
finally secured financing to complete the system. By end-March 2010, a financing
agreement for MSTDP follow-up investments was signed with the Abu Dhabi Fund for
Development (ADFD), which agreed to provide a loan of 17.0 million equivalent to
complete construction of the regional water supply system from Lake Skadar to Bar, and
the Northern and Southern segments from Bar to Budva, Tivat, Kotor, Herceg-Novi and
Ulcinj. Finalizing the system's continental branch to Bar is planned for July 2010.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of PDO. The PDO remains relevant for Montenegro's development priorities
to enhance sustainable economic growth as reflected in the Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) FY07-11. Given the centrality of sustainable tourism to the Montenegro economy,
the Bank agreed to provide assistance for tourism planning and critical infrastructure, but
linked to environmental improvements. This approach promised higher development
outcome, but also higher risk of failure. The CPS highlights tourism potential along the
Montenegrin coast, but also environmental pressures that need to be carefully managed.
However, Government is emphasizing economic development along the coast,
particularly since the global economic and financial crisis in late 2008, and although
Government acknowledges the importance of long-term environmental protection,
immediate infrastructure investments priority is reflected in day-to-day decision-making.
In hindsight, the PDO was too complex and over-estimated Government commitment to
environmental protection.

Relevance of design. Project design failed to evolve in line with the high risk/ high
reward approach opted for by the Bank; it was geared towards infrastructure investments
but failed to address the PDO priority of better coastal zone management through
enhanced institutional capacity for environmental management and governance of the
coastal zone. Moreover, the lending instrument of choice did not allow for sequenced



                                            10
reforms, but front-loaded policy conditionality in an immature institutional framework
instead of triggering realistically phased reforms. Design relevance is rated Low.

Relevance of implementation. Implementation focused on the infrastructure component
due to its high priority for Government and importance for national economic
development. Regional water supply infrastructure investments are crucial to realize
economic development potential, and funds were disbursed quickly. Bank support for the
water scheme has leveraged significant co-financing from Government and other donors,
and Bank involvement was crucial to initiate this investment and leverage additional
resources. However, less attention was given to institutional issues that were crucial for
environmental protection. The Bank team recognized shortcomings in the Project design
and attempted to restructure the Project, although at that point the majority of Bank
funds, which disbursed quickly on Component 2 (the regional water scheme), were
already disbursed and Government priorities clearly shifted attention from establishing a
Protected Area in the Bojana-Buna Delta.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Overall achievement of PDO. The Project development objective was not achieved. The
PDO was to assist Montenegro in better designing and implementing an integrated
coastal zone management approach to reduce coastal degradation while fostering
environmentally sound tourism development. Overall PDO achievement is
Unsatisfactory.

However, Project achievements were mixed; and implementation delays on Component 1
linked to non-compliance with a critical implementation covenant - establishment of a
protected area in the Bojana-Buna delta - led to Project cancellation 20 months before the
original Project closing date. As a result, none of the final target values of the three key
indicators were met. Achievement of each indicator under the two PDO dimensions is
discussed below.

Environmental protection. The Project was unable to enhance environmental protection,
spatial development, or institutional capacity and governance of the coastal zone. Lack of
progress under this PDO dimension led to Project cancellation. This aspect of the PDO is
rated Highly Unsatisfactory:

   ·   Indicator 1: Protected area status is granted to the Bojana-Buna Delta and a unit
       for managing the area is established and maintained. This indicator was not met.
       The background study to provide the technical basis to establish the Bojana Delta
       as a Protected Area was submitted to Government and key stakeholders, but no
       consensus could be reached and no further actions were taken. The status of the
       area remains unprotected.

   ·   Indicator 2: Illegal construction is halted in the area of the Bojana-Buna Delta
       where detailed urban planning will be conducted during project implementation.
       This indicator was not met since no detailed urban plans were prepared under the



                                            11
       Project. Translation of the Coastal Zone Spatial Plan into detailed urban plans was
       anticipated for after the Protected Area was declared, but key stakeholders could
       not agree. Although limited, illegal construction continues.

   Priority infrastructure investments. The Project was highly relevant to initiate priority
   investments for the first phase of the regional water supply system, a crucial
   investment that mobilized additional donor financing for the coastal branch of the
   system and key to foster development of high-quality tourism. Although the regional
   water supply system has not yet been finalized, Government designates this
   investment high priority and is on track to finalize it by summer 2010 with its own
   funds. Taking into account Project cancellation, this aspect of the PDO is rated
   Moderately Unsatisfactory, since it is likely to be achieved, albeit after the project
   cancellation date.

   ·   Indicator 3: Lack of sufficient water supply is no longer a constraint for tourism
       development in the area of Bar. This indicator was not met since the regional
       water supply system is not yet complete. Baseline value for this indicator was 12
       hours of water supply during peak season, with a target value of 24 hours water
       supply during peak in year four of Project implementation. However, construction
       progress on the regional water scheme measured under the corresponding output
       indicator is fully in line with annual targets, but was not fully met due to Project
       cancellation. The continental branch of the regional water supply system from
       Lake Skadar to Bar is likely to be finalized as scheduled, although during ICR
       preparation, no bulk water is yet being delivered to the municipality.

3.3 Efficiency

Economic analysis. At appraisal, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated for
two scenarios: (A) incremental water sales to six coastal municipalities, and (B)
incremental water sales to Bar only. The analysis acknowledged the need to commit
Government resources in a phased manner, and hence the Project would build only one
section of a much larger regional water supply system, which is eventually planned to
supply water to six coastal municipalities. The current phase under MSTDP would reach
only Bar. Because this phase is designed to contribute to supplying the larger set of
beneficiaries, it is over dimensioned for Bar alone, hence the costs appear excessive since
the second phase will not be constructed. Based on these two scenarios, the EIRR at
appraisal ranged from 12.6 percent for scenario A, to -10.6 percent for scenario B.
Rigorous economic analysis at Project cancellation would result in economic costs of
 49.7 million, because 20 months before the original closing date, no benefits have been
produced, only costs. However, Government is anticipated to complete construction of
the continental branch to Bar. Hence, the EIRR for Scenario B after cancellation would
be -10.5 percent. On January 7, 2010, at Project cancellation, two municipalities had
signed contracts with PEW to purchase bulk water from the regional water supply
system, and negotiations were ongoing with two more municipalities. Since four coastal
municipalities are about to be connected to the system, EIRR for an adjusted Scenario A
after Project cancellation (four instead of six municipalities) would be 7.2 percent.



                                            12
Financial analysis. During Project appraisal, investment financial viability was validated
using the same basic assumption as the economic analysis, i.e., investments for the
regional water supply system to supply water to six coastal municipalities will materialize
in two phases. Scenario A assumed that the entire regional water supply system would be
completed by the end of 2010, and by 2011, would be operational and supplying water to
all six municipalities to meet peak demand during tourist season, plus additional demand
during the off-peak season. Financial Rate of Return (FRR) calculated at appraisal for
Scenario A was 3.2 percent. The ex-post FRR calculation for adjusted Scenario A (four
coastal municipalities) is 2.0 percent. This FRR is based on a bulk water price of 0.45
 /m3 agreed between the four coastal municipalities and PEW under the contract signed
for annual water supply in 2010. The FRR calculation at appraisal estimated a price of
0.40 /m3. PEW can sustain its positive financial position, assuming that the tourism
growth rate of 7.6 percent will maintain anticipated demand.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The ICR rates the Overall Outcome of the Project Unsatisfactory.

The Project remained relevant, and in particular crucial infrastructure investments for
economic development have high relevance to Government development priorities.
However, Project design relevance, in particular the disconnect to the complex PDO, was
low. Project efficiency is Unsatisfactory; and at Project cancellation, overall PDO
achievement was Unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not applicable

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Although the PDO emphasized strengthening institutional capacity and governance for
coastal zone management, Project impacts were limited. The Project envisioned capacity-
building activities for PEW and MoTEP, but no needs assessment was undertaken to
specify actions for Project implementation. Project design did not target as beneficiaries
other key stakeholders such as Morsko Dobro and SINP.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable



                                              13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to development outcome is rated Substantial. The risk rating needs to distinguish
between the two main Project components.

Component 1. There is a risk that illegal construction along the coast, including the
Bojana-Buna-Delta, will increase after the regional water supply system is completed.
Limited water supply during tourist peak season was a main constraint for larger-scale
tourism development in Montenegro. Delivery of bulk water from the inland might
trigger increased investments along the coast. Since Component 1 was designed to
safeguard against this risk and was not implemented, there is a risk of environmental
degradation and unsustainable development. The likelihood of this risk is substantial;
negative impact of this risk will depend on the effectiveness of existing coastal zone
management and environmental protection arrangements, although legislation was
updated to harmonize with EU guidelines, enforcement capacities remain low. Against
this background, potential impact is rated Substantial.

Component 2. Completion risk is the most important for Component 2; potential negative
impact of non-completion would be high. Substantial resources were allocated to the
regional water supply system without economic or financial returns. However, this risk is
unlikely to materialize because work contracts to complete the continental branch of the
system have been signed with contractors and an ADFD financing agreement was
reached.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Project-financed investments were highly relevant and have leveraged resources from
other donors3; implementation arrangements for the regional water supply system
Component were well designed and progressed satisfactorily during implementation.
However, Project scope, in particular the PDO, was broadened during Project preparation
to enhance coastal zone management and environmental protection but Project design
failed to evolve to align with this broader intention. Institutional arrangements were weak
and not tailored to achieve the broader PDO. Project preparation underestimated the
underlying political economy and institutional incentive structure. The lending instrument
was not well suited to support wide ranging policy reforms; and the fast-disbursing
Component 2 missed an opportunity to create leverage for support under Component 1.
The ICR rates Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry as Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision


3
    EBRD provides EUR15 million for construction of the northern branch.


                                                    14
During implementation, the Bank team performed regular bi-annual supervision
missions, and noted early on the low performance of Component 1, compared to highly
satisfactory progress of Component 2. Workshops and roundtable discussion were
implemented to support reaching stakeholder consensus on the background study, but
eventually delays resulted in non-compliance with the implementation covenant since the
Bojana Delta was not declared a Protected Area. The Bank downgraded overall project
implementation progress in the Implementation Status Report (ISR) to moderately
satisfactory in July 2008, and noted non-compliance with the legal covenant in January
2009. In July 2009, during the mid-term review, the Bank team suggested Project
restructuring, although at this time 92 percent of Project funds had been disbursed.
However, no Government action was taken and the Bank was not willing to continue
supporting project activities without environmental protection measures in place in the
Bojana Delta. As a result, in October 2009, the remainder of the Credit was suspended,
and on January 7, 2010, the Project was cancelled. In hindsight, team skill mix and
frequent Project Task Team Leader changes appear to have created some fluctuations in
the level of attention given to some key issues such as protection of the delta and the
institutional issues surrounding that.4 The primary focus became the infrastructure
Component, which was valid given technical challenges that required team supervision,
but less attention was given to the mentioned issues. Overall, the ICR rates the quality of
Bank supervision as Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

The ICR rates overall Bank performance as Moderately Unsatisfactory, based on an
moderately unsatisfactory rating of Bank performance to ensure quality at entry, and a
moderately satisfactory rating of quality of supervision, and an overall unsatisfactory
Project outcome rating.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Government performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Despite signing the MoU,
illegal construction in the Bojana-Buna-Delta continued and actions taken were
insufficient to declare the Delta a protected area. The Recipient was in non-compliance
with the Financing Agreement implementation covenant, which required carrying out the
Project in accordance with the MoU. Overall, Government focused on the infrastructure
Component; commitment and ownership were very low for Component 1. Project
performance suffered from weak inter-institutional coordination and consultations with
key stakeholders. No appropriate actions were taken to restructure the Project to reflect
changing priorities.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance




4
    The Project Task Team Leader changed four times between Board approval and cancellation.


                                                    15
Performance of the implementing agencies is rated Moderately Satisfactory. PEW was
responsible for implementing Component 2 and 3, and all Project fiduciary aspects
including financial management and procurement functions. PEW's performance is rated
satisfactory; MoTEP and the Municipality of Ulcinj were responsible for implementing
Component 1, and their performance is rated unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Despite shortcomings
in Project design, better Borrower performance during Project implementation could have
helped achieve the PDO. Despite Government statements in the MoU and LDP,
Government actions signaled low commitment to Project objectives and contributed to
slow progress in implementing Component 1.

6. Lessons Learned

(i)     Balance risk and potential development outcome. MSTDP helped Montenegro to
        address a critical development challenge in providing water to the coast during
        summer month and support tourism development. A simpler project with focus on
        the regional water supply system was already ambitious: technically, e.g. crossing
        the lake; financially, e.g. ensuring that summer tariffs could finance annual
        operation and maintenance costs; and politically, i.e., getting coastal
        municipalities to accept a regional water authority and commit to a minimum
        water demand throughout the year to finance the scheme. A simpler regional
        water supply Project in itself would have been important and with significant
        development impact. A more ambitious PDO had the potential to maximize
        development outcome, but increased the risk of failure. A choice of higher risk
        can be well justified but requires careful balancing and in particular, adequate
        mitigation measures be embedded in the project design.

(ii)    Adopt a phased approach to reform initiatives. The PDO and required reform
        agenda was unrealistically ambitious within the short time frame, given the
        fledgling institutional structure of this recently independent state. The rationale
        for policy reforms was logical, but project design failed to accommodate political
        and capacity realities. Complex reforms require strong champions, and these must
        be nurtured over time--particularly in weak institutional structures. A phased
        approach, possibly using a different lending instrument, e.g., an Adaptable
        Program Loan (APL), may have been more effective. Rewards that are triggered
        after achieving progress against agreed milestones provide higher policy reform
        incentives.

(iii)   Conduct stakeholder analysis and incorporate results in Project design. Projects
        with an ambitious reform agenda requiring coordination among multiple
        stakeholders must skillfully analyze and understand the underlying political
        economy and institutional arrangements. Key stakeholders' institutional interests




                                            16
       and reform incentives must be addressed in Project design. The risk of failure
       increases when implementation arrangements overlook key stakeholders.

(iv)   Ensure that risk mitigation measures are within Project control and not based on
       assumptions about future developments. Many key risks were correctly identified
       during Project preparation. However, MSTDP assumed that investments
       envisioned under follow-up operations would provide sufficient incentives for
       reforms and increase Government ownership and commitment. Risks identified
       during Project preparation should be reviewed during Project implementation in
       case adjustments are needed to respond to changing circumstances.

(v)    Project viability must not depend on unconfirmed follow-up operations. Bank-
       financed projects can leverage significant additional resources from other donors,
       but Project financial viability should not depend on unconfirmed follow-up
       investments. MSTDP expected additional funds from GEF and Additional Bank
       Financing (MSTDP-2), none of which materialized, and underfinanced projects
       fail to produce expected benefits.

(vi)   Be candid and proactive. Slow progress of Component 1 was highlighted early on
       and candidly during project implementation. Actions were taken to address low
       performance, but only at a late stage, when the majority of project funds had been
       disbursed, non-compliance with the legal covenant led to suspension of the
       Project. A more proactive approach that fully utilizes available legal tools may
       help addressing key issues earlier during implementation and improve Project
       performance.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Not applicable.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                           17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                      Percentage of
           Components                               Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)5
Component 1: Integrated Coastal
Zone Management Policy and               2.10               0.20                             9.5
Institutional Capacity Building
 Component 2: Coastal
                                        34.8               41.87                           120.3
Environmental Infrastructure
 Component 3: Project
                                         0.5                0.0                              0
Management

            Total Baseline Cost                 37.4                   42.07               112.5
Physical Contingencies                           1.8                    0.0                  0
Price Contingencies                              1.6                    0.0                  0
             Total Project Costs                41.1                   42.07               102.4
Front-end fee PPF                                0.0                    0.0                  0
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.0                    0.0                  0
      Total Financing Required                  41.1                   42.07               102.4




(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of         Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing        (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                            millions)   millions)
                                         Counterpart
Borrower                                                      25.10            32.616         163.6
                                         Funds
International Development
                                         Credit               10.00            9.46              94.6
Association (IDA)
Sub-borrower(s)                          N/A                   6.00            0.00                0




5
  Original estimates were provided in Euro which was the currency of most contracts. The Euro exchange
rate to the US dollar has fluctuated considerably over the project life, which has slightly affected
calculation of the final estimates.
6
  Final estimate for Borrower contribution cannot be confirmed until the regional water supply scheme is
completed. The Scheme was not yet completed at the time the ICR was drafted.


                                                   18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Overview of outputs per component:

                                                                                   Progress to date
         Output                         Indicator                      Baseline
                                                                                     (April 2010)
Component One
Detailed Urban Plans in      Detailed Urban Plans in the         Not completed     Not completed.
the Municipality of Ulcinj   Municipality of Ulcinj finalized.
finalized.

Background study carried     Background study carried out to     Not completed     Completed
out to determine             determine environmental
environmental protection     protection status.
status.
Monitoring of illegal        Monitoring of illegal               Not completed     On-going but
construction is ongoing.     construction is ongoing.                              being carried out
                                                                                   separately by
                                                                                   Government
                                                                                   outside the
                                                                                   project.
Public awareness and         Public awareness and                Not done          Completed.
dissemination activities     dissemination activities
completed successfully.      completed successfully.
Component Two
Regional water supply        Bar is supplied with water from     Not constructed   Construction
scheme up to Bar supplies    the regional scheme in a way                          85% completed;
all needed water             that allows for supplying water                       system expected
priorities.                  services to the end users in Bar                      to be operational
                             for 24 hours per day.                                 by July 2010.



Project well managed and     Project funds disbursed             N/A               92% disbursed;
implemented.                 according to plan, project status                     status reports
                             reports received by the Bank in a                     received by the
                             timely manner are of adequate                         Bank in a timely
                             quality, satisfactory financial                       manner are of
                             and procurement records, and                          adequate quality;
                             timely audits                                         satisfactory
                                                                                   financial and
                                                                                   procurement
                                                                                   records; timely
                                                                                   audits.




                                                    19
Component 1: Integrated Coastal Zone Management Policy and Institutional Capacity
Building

   (a) Carrying out of an environmental background study of the Bojana-Buna
       Delta, through the provision of consultants' services.

The project financed consultancy services for development of background study to
provide technical basis for establishment of the Bojana Delta Protected Area(s). The
overall objective of the Background Study (hereinafter Study) for Establishing Protected
Area(s) in the area of Bojana Delta provided evaluation of key ecological values of the
zones mentioned above, and based on that recommended: (i) the exact width of the future
protected area with the zoning system (ii) status of conservation and (iii) regimes of the
management, all in compliance with both, national and international requirements. Main
cultural and socio-economic values of the area were also reviewed along with ecological
values.

Work on the study was initiated in September 2007 by BRL Consultants and was
completed in December 2008. The findings of the Study were presented to key
stakeholders in central and local governments, NGOs and citizens of Ulcinj.

Although the consultants did complete their task as defined per ToRs, it was further
determined among various stakeholders that ­ due to a number of reasons including new
Spatial Plan (March 2008) and new Law on Environmental Protection (August 2008)-
the Study was not sufficiently detailed as a basis to take further steps and that some
additional elements need to be added before the Study was processed further. At the Mid-
Term Review, the Government presented a draft action plan on steps needed to update
the Study and proceed towards declaration of a protected area in Bojana Delta. No further
actions have though been taken by the Government to that end.

   (b) Development of urban plans for the municipality of Ulcinj based on the
       Coastal Zone Spatial Plan, through the provision of consultants' services.

PEW launched the tender for DUP preparation (even during PPG phase) but despite the
fact that six companies have expressed interests no bids were submitted. Due to lack of
coordination on counterparts side, no steps were taken in due time to reevaluate the
tender process and repeat it or take action as necessary. In the meantime, New Law on
Spatial Planning and Construction was adopted (August 2008), determining that lower
scale plans (such as DUP planned under this project) can be adopted only after a spatial-
urban plan (SUP), covering the entire municipal territory, is developed and adopted by
municipality. Preparation of spatial-urban plan for Ulcinj municipality is currently
underway with Government financing (final stage of preparation).

   (c) Environmental monitoring in the Bojana-Buna Delta, through the provision
       of consultants' services and goods;

The contract for monitoring of potential nestling of turtles (Careta Careta) on Velika
Pla a, has been signed (July, 2006) with individual consultant and was partly eligible for


                                            20
retroactive financing. Consultant's Report has been sent to the Bank and shared with
relevant stakeholders.


   (d) Monitoring of land use and construction activities in the Bojana-Buna Delta,
       through the provision of consultants' services and goods;

No monitoring was carried out as a result of project activities/financed from Project
funds.

   (e) Construction of an information center and office building for the Bojana
       Delta Management Unit.

Final design for eco-infrastructure in Bojana Delta have been prepared for a number of
potential tourist attractions including bike paths, educational trails, platforms, including
the final designs for information centre and office building for the Bojana Delta
Management Unit. In order to prepare necessary conditions for construction of eco-
infrastructure, the Government has signed (February, 2008) with Urban Institute contract
for preparation of the final design for eco-infrastructure in Bojana Delta including public
consultation. The final draft of this design pointed out to some less than harmonized
plans related to the broader area of Bojana Delta (for instance: designed eco-
infrastructure trails cross land that has been offered to international investors for high-end
resort development, unknown borders and protection status in the Bojana Delta etc) as
well as unclear decisions regarding future ownership and responsibility to operate and
maintain the eco-infrastructure facilities once constructed.

Further steps related to implementation of the design were placed on hold until
Background Study, as a minimum precondition on defining the future use of a protected
area, is formally adopted and necessary institutional decisions are taken.

   (f) Institutional strengthening of PEW and the Ministry of Tourism and
       Environmental Protection

Public awareness in form of public hearings, workshops etc have been conducted
successfully during preparation and finalization of the Background Study for Bojana
Delta Protected Area as well as eco-infrastructure design, raising a lot of interest and
participation on national and local level.

PEW has also conducted consultations with local stakeholders regarding water demand
management on the Coast.

Component 2: Coastal Environmental Infrastructure

Construction of continental branch is still underway, with the delays caused by a)
cancelation of large contract for inland and underwater pipeline construction (from water
source to Skadar Lake as well as through the Lake and further to Bar) with Austrian
company "Strabag" in September 2009, due to poor performance, and b) floods in the
area in March 2010. PEW as contracting authority continued work with subcontractors.


                                             21
Most of the works related to construction, rehabilitation, supply and installation of
equipment in essential facilities of the regional water supply system (water source and
pump station "Bolje Sestre", including break pressure chamber, pump station and water
tank "Relji i" and reservoir " urmani") as well construction of pipeline in Bar
municipality have progressed as planned and are in the final stage/final acceptance stage.

Component 3: Project Management and Monitoring

There have been no activities related to the institutional strengthening of either PEW or
MoTEP. In discussions during the MTR, it was recommended by the Bank that relevant
institutions identify specific activities to meet their institutional strengthening needs and
include them in the PP which did not go forward.




                                             22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

  I.   Introduction

At appraisal economic and financial analysis were performed, and internal rate of return
and NPV were calculated. The economic analysis at appraisal was based on the basic
assumption that investments for the regional water supply system (RWSS) will supply
water to six coastal municipalities, which will materialize in two phases. This project
financed only the first phase of the investments, which included continental and southern
branches of the RWSS, aiming only Bar.

As per above, the economic analysis was undertaken for the overall investment designed
to benefit all six coastal municipalities. A separate analysis was undertaken for
investment under this project, with transmission mains sized to meet the six municipality
needs, but benefiting only the municipality of Bar. The economic analysis estimates costs
and benefits of the incremental water sales due to incremental water demand from the
growth of tourism, during the tourist season, while the financial analysis includes in
addition the water demand during the off season period.

At project closing the water is not supplied to Bar as yet, because ongoing investments
under the signed five contracts have not finished. However, it is very likely that the
ongoing investments to be completed by 2011, which should make possible for the
system to become operational to supply water to four coastal municipalities, i.e. Bar,
Budva, Kotor and Tivat around 2012. The extension of the regional water system to
supply water to Ulcinj and Hercegnovi is unknown at this stage. Given this situation at
project closing, the ex-post calculations of economic and financial rate of return and NPV
have involved three scenarios.

The 1st Scenario shows the effect of not achieving the objective of the project, i.e.
investments for supplying water to Bar did not materialize at a time when the project was
closed. The 2nd Scenario has assumed that Bar will benefit water from the regional
system in around 2012 once construction is finished. The 3rd Scenario assumes that only
four coastal cities will benefit water from the regional system, instead of six cities at
appraisal.

It should be noted at the outset of this ex-post economic and financial analysis that at
appraisal the project was planned to end on September 30, 2011, while it was closed in
January 2010, i.e. more than a year and a half earlier, while investments planned to
achieve the objective of the project are underway, expected to be completed in 2011. This
means that the economic and financial effect of the investments on the country will
remain within the foreseen timeframe.

Another key note here is that the appraisal has taken into account the effect of a two year
delay in funding phase two on the ERR and NPV, i.e. in 2013 instead of 2011, which is
expected to be reduced to one year.




                                            23
The discount rate used is 12%, which is IDA's generally accepted and used hurdle rate for
water supply projects.

    II.   Net Present Value/Economic rate of return

The economic analysis estimates costs and benefits of the incremental water sales due to
incremental water demand from the growth of tourism, during the tourist season,

The economic cost of the construction of the regional water system that will supply water
to four coastal municipalities at project closing is Euro 54.2 million (excluding VAT and
duties) or 14% higher than at appraisal. While, the economic cost of the construction of
the Continental branch and a part of the Southern branch that will supply water only the
city of Bar is Euro 35.1 million (excluding VAT and duties)7 at appraisal or 28% higher
than at appraisal (Table 1 below).

Table 1: Economic investment cost (Euro million)
                                                                                              At                At
                                                                                           appraisal         project
                                                                                                             closing
1. Continental branch and a part of the Southern branch to reach only 27.4                                  35.1
Bar
2. Continental, Southern and Northern branches to reach Bar, Budva, 47.4                                    54.2
Kotor and Tivat
3. Continental, Southern and Northern branches to reach all six 54.6                                        70.2
coastal cities 1)
Note: 1) The total capital investment cost for the entire RWSS, including provision of water to Ulcinj is
estimated now by the PEW about Euro 70.2 million.

The quantifiable benefits of the projects measured in monetary terms are the value of the
incremental water supplied to meet the demand of water tourist. The water demand that
represent the incremental supply was estimated at appraisal based on the independent
analysis of the WTTC that has projected for Montenegro tourism T&T demand growth at
a rate of 10% annually. As per the revised Tourism Development Strategy of
Montenegro in 2009, the demand growth of T&T is anticipated to be about 7.6% until
2020, which has been adjusted based on the revised growth of number of hotel beds and
private accommodations as well, and overnights stay. Although the global financial crisis
hit the tourism industry, in Montenegro revenues from tourism during the project
implementation experienced a moderate growth, but 2009, as presented in the below
table.




7
  The capital investment cost for four the bulk water supply system that will supply water to four coastal municipalities
is based on the value of five signed contracts for the construction of the continental, south, and north branches of the
RWSS.


                                                          24
                   Table 2: Montenegro Revenue from Tourism (million )
                             Year                     Revenue                    %
                             2005                       244
                             2006                       308                    126%
                             2007                       480                    156%
                             2008                       590                    123%
                             2009                       597                    101%

The ex-post calculations of the IRR and NPV are presented in the Table 3 below.

Table 3: Results of Cost-Benefit Analysis at Project closing and with the system
start operating in 2012
                                                                                               Internal Rate of
                    Three scenarios                              NPV in Euro million
                                                                                                Return (IRR)
1. No water delivered to Bar yet (project closing)                    (49,711,410)
2.Incremental water sales to Bar only                                 (39,761,578)                   -10.5%
3.Incremental water sales to 4 municipalities                         (19,040,953)                    7.2%

It was acknowledged at appraisal that large investments required to supply water only to
Bar are over dimensioned and not economically justified. Therefore would suffer a
significant negative NPV in the short term, which proved to be the same at project
closing. Because phase two of the project did not materialize at the project closing, two
municipalities (Ulcinj and Hercegnovi) will not connect with the water system designed
to reach six municipalities, which led to a negative NPV and the decrease of IRR to
7.2%. The incremental water demand during the tourist season of these two coastal cities
constitutes about 40% of the total demand expected to be met by the RWSS. It should be
noted that the increase of the capital cost by around 14% affected also the NPV and IRR
results.

III.     Financial rate of return

The financial viability of the investments at appraisal was validated based on the same
basic assumption used in the economic analysis, i.e. investments for the regional water
supply system (RWSS) to supply water to six coastal municipalities will materialize in
two phases. The financial analysis of the investments for the RWSS was performed at
appraisal into three scenarios. Scenario A (a most likely) assumed that the entire RWSS
will be completed by end of 2010 and will be fully operational in 2011based on the three
projects financing (IDA, IBRD and EBRD)8 that would be implemented as planned.
Under this Scenario the RWSS will cover the peak demand of all six coastal water
utilities in the summer plus supply all year round in cases where the supply cost from the
regional system is lower than the one from the local sources9. Scenario B assumed that
the RWSS will supply water to all six coastal water utilities to meet the tourism demand
8
 The IDA and EBRD funded projects were expected to start in 2007, and the IBRD funded project to start in 2008.
9
 The cost of local sources stand for production and transmission O&M cost for a period of 5 years, and after that
depreciation cost is added.


                                                         25
during the peak season. Scenario C assumed that at the beginning PEW will supply
water only to the city of Bar until the funding sources from two other projects will
become available to finance the remaining of the investments to complete the entire
RWSS by 2013.

The financial rate of return on investments, however, was calculated only for the most
likely scenario (Scenario A).

For the cash flow analysis and affordability impact, the bulk water tariffs were estimated
for the three scenarios at appraisal (Table 4 below).

Table 4: Bulk Water Tariffs (Euro/m3)
                          2011         2013        2015         2020        2025         2030         2035
Scenario A                0.40         0.40        0.40         0.40        0.40         0.40         0.40
Scenario B                0.70         0.70        0.70         0.70        0.60         0.60         0.50
Scenario C                1.75         1.69        N/A          N/A         N/A          N/A          N/A
Note: Although the Scenario C prices are high, the impact on the hotel tariffs is still within the affordability
range of Euro 2.50

The bulk water price in the worst scenario (Scenario C) was estimated only for the period
2011-2013, because in 2014 and onward the entire RWSS was assumed to be
functioning.
It should be noted that the cause for the construction of the regional water supply scheme
is the tourism industry, and therefore at appraisal it was anticipated that this additional
cost should be covered by the tourist industry through the tourist tariff that all
beneficiaries coastal municipalities should apply. Table 5 below indicates the bulk water
tariffs at project closing.10.

Table 5: PEW Bulk Water Tariffs Forecasts (Euro/m3)
          Scenario A               2012         2015          2020         2025         2030          2035
At closing for 4 coastal
                                    0.45         0.46         0.49         0.53          0.55         0.58
municipalities

The bulk water price of 0.45 Euro/m3 is agreed between the four coastal municipalities
and the PEW Company under the contract signed for annual water supply in 2010. At
project closing none of the four coastal municipalities have applied tourist tariff,
however, the projected impact of the higher prices on the hotel tariffs over the same
period is still within the affordability range of 2.50 ­ 4.9 Euro/m3.

Because the regional water system was not finished at project closing, the NPV for all
three scenarios results negative. The appraisal, however, has foreseen one year delay of
the investments, which allows to perform the FRR and NPV under this assumption that
the system to become operational in 2012. The connection of Ulcinj, and Hercegnovi
with the system is not known at this stage when it is going to happen, which means that
the system will start supplying water to four cities, hence the calculations of the FRR and

10
     Tariffs are calculated based on the current prices that assumes inflation of 3% per annum


                                                        26
NPV has considered only four cities will to meet the peak demand in the summer plus
demand during the off season.

The FRR is estimated based on the stream of the costs (investments and O&M costs) and
benefits for a period of 40 years. As indicated in the Table 6 below, the FRR resulted at
a rate of 2.0 percent. The financial projection of the Company serving water to four cities
for the period of the economic life of the investments shows a stable positive cash flow,
and therefore the investments are financially justified.

Table 6: Results of financial rate of return for the system to operate in 201211
                                                                                     Financial Rate of
                                                        NPV in Lek million
                                                                                      Return (FRR)
Incremental water sales to 4 municipalities                   (30,662,687)                2.0%

The reason of this low rate of FRR is to maintaining the bulk water tariffs at affordable
level for the end consumers.. The ex-post cash flow analysis provides for stable and
positive financial position of the company for the forecast period. Table 7 indicates that
the PEW Company will be able to sustain its positive financial position, assuming that
the tourism growth rate of 7.6% will maintain the forecast of water demand.

                 Table 7: PEW Summary of Financial performance Indicators
 Key Indicators                                       2012       2015    2020       2025   2030     2035
 PEW REGIONAL WATER
 COMPANY
 1) Volume of water invoiced ( million
 m3)                                                   9.1        9.9        13.3   15.8    18.4    21.3
 2) Bulk water tariff ( /m3)                          0.45       0.46        0.49   0.53    0.55    0.58
 3) Water sales (million )                            4.1        4.6         6.5    8.4     10.2    12.4
 4) Other revenues (million )                          1.9        1.9         1.9    0.3     0.3     0.4
 5) Total revenues (million )                         5.9        6.5         8.4    8.6     10.5    12.8
 6) Operating expenses (million )                      2.4        2.8        3.8    4.8      6.0    7.5
 4) EBITDA                                             3.5       3.7          4.6    3.9    4.6     5.3
 Depreciation                                          2.3       2.3          2.3    2.3    2.3     2.3
 Operating Result (EBIT)                               1.2       1.4          2.3    1.5    2.2     3.0

 Interest payment                                      0.1        0.7         0.5    0.2      -       -
 Income before tax                                    1.0         0.7         1.8    1.4     2.2     3.0
 6) Working ratio                                     0.60       0.60        0.58   0.57    0.58    0.60
 7) Operating ratio                                   1.2        1.1          0.9    0.9     0.8     0.8
  8) Max. water hotel tariffs (euro/m3)                2.5        2.7         3.2    3.7     4.3     4.9




11
     In the calculation of the FRR are used the real prices


                                                        27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
         Names                      Title                  Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Andreas Rohde            Senior Sanitary Engineer      AFTUW Task Team Leader
                         Senior Water & Sanitation           Senior Water & Sanitation
Michael John Webster                                   ECSS6
                         Specialist.                         Specialist
                         Regional Environmental and
Agnes I. Kiss                                             ECAVP     Lead Ecologist
                         Safeguards Coordinator
                         Lead Water and Sanitation                  Lead Water and Sanitation
Manuel G. Marino                                          ECSS6
                         Specialist                                 Specialist
Sanyu Lutalo             Environmental Engineer.          ECSS6     Environmental Engineer
Kirsten Burghardt Propst Counsel                          LEGEM     Counsel
Arben Bakllamaja         Consultant                       ECSSD     Financial Analyst
Sabine W. Beddies        Senior Social Scientist          MNSSO     Senior Social Scientist
                                                                    Lead Procurement
Salim Benouniche        Lead Procurement Specialist    MNAPR
                                                                    Specialist
                        Senior Rural Development                    Senior Rural Development
Rita E. Cestti                                     OPCQC
                        Specialist                                  Specialist
Xavier Chauvot De       Senior Water & Sanitation                   Senior Water & Sanitation
                                                   MNSWA
Beauchene               Specialist.                                 Specialist
Edward Daoud            Consultant                 LCSFM            Consultant
Hermine De Soto         Consultant                 EASVS            Social Scientist
Miroslav Frick          Operations Analyst          ECSS2           Operations Analyst
                        Senior Resource Management                  Senior Resource
Michael Gascoyne                                   CFRPA
                        Off                                         Management Officer
Lucy O. Hancock         Consultant                 ECSSD            Consultant
                        Senior Rural Development                    Senior Rural Development
Nikola Ille                                         ECSS3
                        Specialist                                  Specialist
Maria Teresa R. Lim     Program Assistant          ECSSD            Program Assistant
Kishore Nadkarni        Consultant                 EASCS            Consultant
Gennady Pilch           Senior Counsel             LEGES            Senior Counsel


Supervision/ICR
 Michael John Webster       Senior Water & Sanitation Spec.       ECSS6 Task Team Leader
 Sanyu Lutalo               Environmental Engineer                ECSS6 Task Team Leader
Jonathan Kamkwalala         Lead Financial analyst                 AFTU Task Team Leader
                                                                        Senior Program
Lynette Alemar              Senior Program Assistant              ECSSD
                                                                        Assistant
Arben Bakllamaja            Consultant                            ECSSD Financial Analyst
                                                                        Lead Procurement
Salim Benouniche            Lead Procurement Specialist           MNAPR
                                                                        Specialist


                                            28
                                                                   Financial
Aleksandar Crnomarkovic    Financial Management Specialis    ECSC3 Management
                                                                   Specialist
Miroslav Frick             Operations Analyst                ECSS2 Operations Analyst
                                                                   Senior Procurement
Ahmet Gokce                Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSC2
                                                                   Specialist
                                                                   Regional
                           Regional Environmental and              Environmental and
Agnes I. Kiss                                                ECAVP
                           Safeguards Specialist                   Safeguards
                                                                   Specialist
Maria Teresa R. Lim        Program Assistant                 ECSSD Program Assistant
Sanela Ljuca               Operations Analyst                ECCME Operations Analyst
                                                                   Water Resources
Shelley Mcmillan           Water Resources Spec.             AFTWR
                                                                   Spec.
Kirsten Burghardt Propst   Counsel                           LEGEM Counsel
                                                                   Lead Operations
Karin Shepardson           Lead Operations Officer           ECSS3
                                                                   Officer
Dragana Varezic            Team Assistant                    ECCME Team Assistant
Ulrich Zeidler             Consultant                        ECSSD Ecologist


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                           14.73                  100.33
  FY06                                           30.33                  163.86
  FY07                                           24.92                  123.69
  FY08                                            0                      -1.21
                           Total:                                       386.67
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                            0                       0.00
  FY06                                            0                       0.00
  FY07                                            2.55                    8.55
  FY08                                           19.30                   88.70
  FY09                                           19.23                   99.27
  FY10                                           18.57                   72.93
                           Total:                                       269.45




                                            29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No beneficiary survey was carried out.




                                         30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was carried out.




                                           31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

         BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                      BUDVA, MONTENEGRO
                          MARCH 2010

Principal Performance Ratings per Project parts
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely,
L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory,
H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

Part 1
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Policy and Institutional Capacity Building
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: U
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U

Part 2
Coastal Environmental Infrastructure
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S

Part 3
Project Management and Monitoring
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design

In the overall perspective, the Montenegro Sustainable Tourism Development Project's
development objective was partially achieved, that is, in respect to Components 2 and 3,
the objective was posed well, and as such it was achieved, or should be achieved in the
near future, while on the other hand the objective aimed under Component 1 was not
fulfilled. Although the Project development objective as originally formulated, was too
broad, and, at one point of Project's implementation, it was decided to restructure it in
order to reflect all activities financed by the Project, only limited progress was made in
enhancing environmental protection, spatial development, institutional capacity and
governance in the coastal zone.


                                           32
4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
4.1 Outcome / Achievement of objectives

The Component 1 of the Project envisaged the realization of a number of activities all
aimed at the reduction of coastal degradation and implementation of environmentally
sound tourism development. From the listed activities, several were fully or partially
executed, as indicated bellow, but their implementation in practice was incomplete:

   Environmental background study of the Bojana Delta was the principal framework for
all future efforts, which had to be made in order to achieve the Project's objectives.
Although the study was prepared, and undertook several revisions by different
stakeholders, interested state/municipal institutions never officially adopted it. The
process took a great amount of time, several Bank's missions were addressed to this
particular issue and at the end it was
the principal reason why the Project was cancelled.

  Final designs for eco-infrastructure in Bojana delta have been prepared for a number of
potential tourist attractions including bike paths, educational trails, platforms, including
the final designs for information centre and office building for the Bojana Delta
Management Unit.

  Environmental monitoring in the Bojana Delta has been partially executed by
monitoring of potential nestling sites of turtles (Careta Careta) on Velika pla a.
Consultant's Report has been sent to the Bank and shared with relevant stakeholders.

Other activities, like preparation of detail urban plans, or monitoring of land use and
construction activities were more or less dependent of the status of environmental
background study of the Bojana Delta, and as a result, they could not be completed. In
respect to the Components 2 and 3 of the Project, the construction of regional water
supply system for the Montenegrin coast is progressing satisfactorily, with the plan to
start with the operation of the system in June/July of 2010. The total of 3 major contracts
were signed during implementation of the Project, as follows:

  Construction of continental branch in two Lots, inland and underwater pipelines. The
original contract was signed with the Austrian company "Strabag". PEW, as the
Employer, was not satisfied with the performance of "Strabag" and on December 1st,
2009, the Contract was officially terminated. It is possible that the final resolution of
pending issues from this Contract will be the matter of international arbitration. In order
to continue the works on site, PEW has used an option given in the Contract and also in
the Montenegrin Law on obligatory relations to continue with the works by adopting the
Contracts, which "Strabag" had with its subcontractors. As additional difficulty,
immediately after the termination of the Contract, adverse weather conditions took place,
including the flooding of the area where underwater pipes are produced. This caused
additional 1,5 months of delay. Nevertheless, the plan to begin with the operation of the
system before the summer season of 2010 is still in force.



                                            33
   Construction of regional water supply facilities. This Contract as signed with the
company "Jedinstvo" from Serbia, with the scope of construction, rehabilitation, supply
and installation of equipment in essential facilities of the regional water supply system:
water source and pump station "Bolje Sestre", including break pressure chamber, pump
station and water tank "Relji i" and reservoir " urmani". The works are progressing as
planned; the civil works are in final stage, while the equipment is in process of
installation.

   Construction of southern part of the regional water supply system from reservoir
" urmani" to break pressure chamber " afe", for the water supply of Municipality of
Bar, and, in the second phase, of the Municipality of Ulcinj. The Contract for these works
was signed with the Turkish company "Gintas", and currently it is in the stage of final
acceptance of the works. Taking in consideration that other contract for the construction
of the regional water supply system, such as the contracts for construction and
rehabilitation of northern branch of the system (co-financed by European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, the Government of Montenegro and PEW) for water
supply of Municipalities of Budva, Kotor, Tivat and Herceg Novi, or the contract for
rehabilitation of hydro-technical tunnel "Sozina" (co-financed by the Government of
Montenegro and PEW), are progressing in a satisfactory manner, it can be concluded that
the completion of pipelines in continental part of the system is on the critical path for
commencement of operations of the system.

4.2 Institutional Development Impact
The implementation and sustainability of the Project highly depended on institutional
arrangements, which had to be made between the municipalities and the Government on
one side, and between the Government and the Bank on the other side. This refers mainly
to the institutional setup of the Bojana Delta Management Unit, and in this respect the
declaration of protected areas of Bojana delta, whether as National park (under
jurisdiction of the Government) or as Regional park (under jurisdiction of
Municipality/ies). As indicated above, although the Bank's team, the Ministry of Spatial
Planning and Environmental Protection, Ministry of Tourism, Municipality of Ulcinj and
PEW made several attempts to move forward the Project, unfortunately, the deadlines set
by the Bank to finally agree upon the status of Bojana Delta were not met and the Project
was cancelled.

5. Sustainability
The issue of sustainability can be commented only for the PEW, as the final beneficiary
of the Components 2 and 3 of the Project. The institutional arrangement under which the
repayment of the Credit is going to be effected is such that PEW will acquire funds from
local ­ municipal Water Utilities on the base of Contract agreements for purchase of
water. The company will have competitive prices of water in respect to production prices
of Water Utilities. The tariff system will be applied, which will depend on the total
quantity of water necessary for a particular Municipality in specific period of year
(seasonal and off-seasonal regime). The price shall be constituted in a manner that PEW
will be able to repay all the credits used for the construction of system, to cover all



                                           34
operational expenses, but without any additional profit. In this manner the Project will
remain sustainable and in the same time affordable to customers.

6.Bank and Borrower performance

6.1 Bank's performance
The overall Bank performance can be assessed as satisfactory, both in landing and in
supervision of the project. The number of Bank supervision missions was sufficient.
Bank staff and experts hired by the Bank took part in all major meetings with all
interested parties (Government, municipalities, NGO's, etc.) and gave key contribution to
resolving all capital issues. Also through the whole project, the Bank staff had intensive
communication via e-mail, faxes, etc. with PEW and other interested parties through
which they shared their views and experiences obtained during implementation of other
projects regarding certain issues. During procurement procedures, the Bank experts
responded regularly with detailed and extensive comments regarding the submitted
bidding documentation.

6.2 Borrower's performance
The overall performance of the Borrower cannot be assessed as satisfactory, although the
fact remains that for the Government, Municipalities and PEW this was the first project
of such complex nature involving many different stakeholders from diverse institutions
and the Project which includes several fields of interest, such as environment, tourism,
spatial planning, water supply, waste water treatment etc. PEW, as Project
implementation unit, sufficiently improved during the project implementation and carried
away its obligations in a timely and satisfactory manner, although from the very
beginning the project was rated as high-risk.

7. Lessons Learned
Only with involvement of both central and local authorities and their commitment to
sustainable development of tourism through capital investments, these kinds of projects
can be satisfactorily implemented. Capital investments should have as a result the benefit
for the whole local population, but in the same time should secure the protection of
environment and sustainable spatial development, which consequently requires
substantial institutional strengthening. For implementation of all high-risk projects from
environmental point of view, the domestic institutional and legislative framework has to
be adopted. This also includes a wide public information and public awareness campaign,
so that each citizen of the beneficiary country realizes all the benefits and all the risks of
the certain project. This campaign has to be realized prior or at the beginning of
implementation of the project.




                                             35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No comments were provided.




                                    36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   ·   Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for Montenegro for the period
       FY10, March 20, 2009
   ·   Country Partnership Strategy for Republic of Montenegro, FY01-10, Executive
       Summary
   ·   Project Information Document
   ·   Project Paper (PJPR) Vol. 1, Jan 18, 2007
   ·   Resettlement Policy Framework, April 04, 2007
   ·   Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet, Report No. AC1944, April 10, 2007
   ·   Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 34253-YU, May 14, 2007
   ·   Legal Amendments and Assumption of Responsibilities : second order
       restructuring
   ·   Environmental assessment (Vol. 1 of 3) : Summary of environmental assessments
   ·   Environmental assessment (Vol. 2 of 3) : Environmental management plans -
       rehabilitation of the
   ·   Environmental assessment (Vol. 3 of 3) : Environmental impact assessment study
       Lovanja and Goran landfills
   ·   Development Credit Agreement
   ·   Aide memoires
   ·   Project Management Reports
   ·   Implementation Status Reports




                                         37
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 34825R
                                                                                       19°E



                 BOSNIA AND                                                                                                                                                             M O N TE N E GRO
                HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIVERS




                                                        a
                                                        in
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAIN ROADS

                                                     Dr
                                                                                                                                 To                                                               RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                Priboj
                                                                                           Cehotin                                                                                                OPSTINA (MUNICIPALITY) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                               To




                                                                                                    a
                                                                    To                                                                                        Priboj
                                                                   Foca                        Gradac                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                   Pljevlja



                                                                                                 Ljubisnja                                                                                              20°E
                                                                                                 (2238 m)
                                                                          Du
                                                         Bioc                   rm              v
                                                                                                Zabljak
                                                         (2396 m)                    ito
                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                ´
                                                                                                                         Durdevica                                                                             SERBIA
                                                                                                                         Tara
                                                                                                                                                 San
                                                                   Rudinice                                                                               dzak
                          To                        Goransko
                                                                    Kom




                                                                                                                                                                v
                         Foca                                                                                                                              Tomasevo
                                                                       ari




                                                                                                                                       Ta                                           Bijelo Polje
                                                         Bajovo            a                                       Sin                    ra
                                                                           nc




                                                           Polje                                                         jaj
43°N                                                                                                                           evi
                                                                                           Savnik                                          na
                                                                                                                                                                     Mojkovac                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Vucitrn

   To
  Mostar                                                                          Zeta                                                                                                                                 v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Rozaje
                                                                                               Gvozd                                                             v
                                                                                                                                                                                  Ivangrad
                                                                                                               Kapa                                         Kolasin
                                         Velimlje                                                            Moracka
                                                                                   v
                           Petrovi ´
                           Petrovici                                                 `
                                                                                Niksic                       (2227 m)                                                    v
                                                                                                                                                               Matesevo
                                Vilusi
                                                                                                                                                     v
                                                                                                                                                                                         Andrijevica
                                                                                                        Morakovo                      Medurijecje
        To                                                                                                                                                                    Komovi                                            To
     Dubrovnik                                                                                                                                                               (2656 m)                                         Dakovica
                                            Grahovo
                                                                                                                                                         Lijeva Rijeka                   Murino
                                                                                                                                ca
                                                                                  Ze




                                                                                                                              M o ra
                                                                                     ta
                                                                                      a




                                                                                                                                             Pelev                                                     Plav
                                 Crkvice                                                       Danilovgrad
   To
Dubrovnik                                                                                                      v                                                                        Gusinje
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KOSOVO
                                   Risan                                                                  Spuz                         v
                                                     Perast                                                                    Bioce
                              Herceg-
                              Novi
                                          Tivat           Kotor                                                       PODGORICA
                                Radovi´ci                                                                                                   vn a
                                                                                                                                 ije
                                                               Cetinje                                                     Tuzi C


                                                                                                                Plavnica
                                                                                                                                                                         ALBANIA
                                                                         Sveti
                                                       Budva
                                                                         Stefan                Virpazar


                                                                Petrovac                                            Lake
                         A dr ia t ic                                                                              Scutari
                                                                                                 Stari Bar
                            Sea                                                      Bar                                                                    Shkodër


42°N
                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                            un                           To
                                                                                                                                       -B                               Kukes
                                                                                                                               a




    0       5       10   15       20 Kilometers                                                                                                                                         MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                              Bojan




                                                                                                    Ulcinj

    0           5          10            15         20 Miles                                                  Sveti Nikola


                                                                                                                                                                           To
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                          Tirane
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                19°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JULY 2009
