Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20699
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND PROVINCIAL REFORM - TUCUMAN
(LOAN 4221-AR)
June 30, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Peso
US$1 = ARG$1
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANSES               -     National Administration of Social Security
ANSAAL              -     National Administration Health Services
CAS                 -      Country Assistance Strategy
CPI                 -      Consumer Price Index
EGB                 -     Educaci6n General Basica (General Basic Education)
ERR                 -      Economic Rate of Return
GCBA                -      Great City of Buenos Aires
GDP                 -     Gross Domestic Product
GDP                 -     Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                -      International for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                 -      Implementation Completion Report
ICSID               -      International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes
IPS                 -      Provincial Insurance Institute
LPR                 -     Letters of Provincial Reform
MDP I               -     First Municipal Development Project
MDP II              -      Second Municipal Development Project
NGO                 -     Non-Government Organizations
PDP I               -      First Provincial Development Project
PDP II              -      Second Provincial Development Project
PRESSAL             -      Provincial Health Sector Development
PRESSAL I           -     First Provincial Health Sector Development
PRESSAL II          -      Second Provincial Health Sector Development
PRISE                     Programa de Reformas en el Sector Educaci6n (Reform
Program on Health Sector)
PRL                 -      Provincial Reform Loan
PRL II              -      Second Provincial Reform Loan
PRODYMES            -     Higher Education Reform
PRODYMES I          -      Secondary Education Reform I
PROMIN              -     Maternal and Child Health
SAL                 -     Structural Adjustment Loan
SIPROSA             -     Provincial Health System
Vice President                      Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director                    Ms. Myma Alexander
Sector Director                     Mr. Guillermo Perry
Task Manager                        Mr. Mark Hagerstrom



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN -TUCUMAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ...                                                              4
Part  1.    Project Implementation Assessment
A.           Statement of Objectives.                              5
B.           Achievement of Objectives.                            8
C.    Public Finance .11
D.  Education .13
E.  Health .15
F.           Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation .18
G.           Project Sustainability: Uncertain .22
H.    Bank Performance .23
I.           Borrower Performance .24
J.           Assessment cf Outcome .24
K.    Future Operation .25
L.           Lessons of Experience .26
Part  II.    Statistical Annex
Table 1:            Summary of Assessments .27
Table 2:            Related Bank Loans .28
Table 3:            Project Timetable .29
Table  4:           Cumulative Loan Disburse ments .29
Table 5:            Status of Legal Covenants .30
Table  6:           Key Indicators for Project Implementation .31
Table  7:           Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................... 31
Table 8:            Bank Resources: Missions .32
Table 9:            Tucuman's Policy Matrix .34
Table 10:           Changes in Own-source Revenues by Province            36
Table Ii:           Change in Personnel Expenditures by Province          37
Table 12:           Evolution of Current Account Balance by Province      38
Table 13:           Change in Stock of Debt by Province, 1996-98 .39
Table 14:           Change in the Fiscal Performance Indicators, 1995-98 . 40
Table 15:           Education: Monitoring Indicators .41
Table 16:           Health: Monitoring and Impact Indicators .42
Annex A:            Letter of Provincial Reform .43
Annex B:            Institutional Assessment .51
3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



INTENSIVE LEARNING IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
TO TUCUMAN
(Ln. 4221-AR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Provincial
Reform Loan to the province of Tucuman, Argentina, for which Loan 4221-AR in the
amount of US$100 million equivalent was approved on August 26, 1997 and declared
effective on September 9, 1998. The loan was disbursed in two tranches of US$55 million
and US$45 million on September 18, 1998 and July 9, 1999 respectively. The loan closed
on December 31, 1999 as expected. It was disbursed in its totality, thus no balance was
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Cecilia Zanetta (consultant), with Olympia Icochea
(Institutional Development) under the supervision of Mark Hagerstrom, Task Manager
(LCSPR), and reviewed by David Rosenblatt (LCSPR), John Underwood (LCSPR), and
Geoffrey Shepherd (LCSPR).
Preparation was begun in August 1999, following the new Bank guidelines for an
intensive learning ICR. It is based on information in the project files and discussions with
government at the national and provincial levels. Stakeholder workshops were conducted
with provincial authorities and technical staff in each of the sectors to assess the scope and
impact of the reforms, and the relevance of institutional factors in implementation and
sustainability. Missions were fielded with specialists from outside the Region to review
issues in fiscal performance (David Vetter, Cons), health (Simon Blair, ECSHD), and
education (Luis Pisani, Consultant), with the participation of technical staff for the relevant
federal ministries. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its
own evaluation of the project's initial preparation and execution, and by actively
contributing its views, providing background material, and arnple support whenever needed.
4



Part I
Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement of Objectives
1.    Towards the end of 1994, Argentina was already experiencing the benefits from
the ambitious reform program implemented by the Menem administration after it took
office in July 1989. Swift and far-reaching reforms targeted at reducing the role of the
state in the economy, tackling fiscal imbalances, and achieving price stability had been
implemented successfully. The success of the reform program was evidenced by the
substantial improvements in the country's economic performance: inflation rates were
drastically cut from a monthly rate of 200 percent in 1989 to an annual inflation rate of
3.9 percent in 1994, growth rebounded to an average of 7.7 percent over the 1991-94
period, and fiscal balance was achieved at the federal level by 1994.
2.    However, the financial crisis that resulted from the Mexican devaluation in
December 1994 pointed out the vulnerability of the reform program. Investors' reduced
confidence in Argentina, together with higher international interest rates, contributed to
net capital outflows. As a result, GDP fell 2.8 percent and unemployment soared to 18
percent during 1995. The government took prompt measures to control the crisis by
cutting expenditures, raising main tax rates, and taking measures to enhance the liquidity
of the banking system. Moreover, with the support of the Bank and IDB, a package of
US$1.1 billion was made available in support of the Convertibility Plan. This backing
helped to restore confidence in the economy and the financial sector.
3.    By the end of 1995, the Argentine economy had recovered and was well out of a
recession. Economic growth reached 5.5 percent in 1996, and inflation (CPI) was
practically nil. The need to deepen the adjustment effort, particularly among provincial
governments, had now become obvious to the federal government. Provincial reform was
critical to ensuring the sustainability of the government's stabilization program, since
most provincial governments continued to be a source of fiscal imbalance, accounting for
a (leficit of 1.2 percent of GDP in 1995.1 Improvements in fiscal performance at the
provincial level had been mostly cyclical, reflecting the increase in transfers from the
center rather than a sustained effort to reduce expenditures and improve resource
allocation. Ensuring a sustained fiscal balance at the provincial level continued to be a
major challenge for the government and for the success of the stability program.
Moreover, provincial governments were ill prepared to fulfill their role as efficient
service providers, thus seriously endangering the productivity and competitiveness of the
country's economy. The adjustment strategy at the federal level included the
decentralization of health and secondary education to provincial governments. In 1994,
provincial governments accounted for 38.5 percent of all public expenditures and were
"Argentina Country Assistance Strategy," Report No. 16505-AR, April 24, 1997.
5



responsible for 96.5 percent of public spending in basic education and 74 percent in
health care.2
4.    Provincial reform was not a new item on Argentina's reform agenda. Since 1991,
the national government had launched a concerted effort to promote fiscal adjustment in
the provinces. Within its own direct jurisdiction, the national government's efforts were
aimed at correcting distortions within the revenue-sharing system, including the reduction
of discretionary transfers, and at eliminating Central Bank rediscounts for provincial
banks, a traditional source of provincial deficit financing. To promote reform within the
jurisdiction of sub-national governments, the national government sought the Bank's
assistance in developing a lending portfolio that provided both technical and financial
support to sub-national governments' efforts to stabilize their public finances, reforn
their administrations, and increase their efficiency as providers of public goods and
services.
5.    The first generation of IBRD operations targeted at sub-national governments
were the First Provincial Development Project (PDP-I) and the Municipal Development
Project (MDP-I) and subsequent follow-up operations--PDP-I1 and MDP-II.3  These
loans were multi-sector operations covering all provinces to provide, at a minimum,
support for institutional strengthening and, for those satisfying creditworthiness criteria,
financing for investments linked to sector reforms and improved fiscal performance. In
time, these loans were complemented by a series of sector investment operations aimed at
improving the efficiency of delivering secondary education, public health, provincial
roads, water supply, and agricultural services and infrastructure. In terms of reform, the
multi-sector operations had been successful in strengthening the weak technical capacity
of provincial and municipal governments and introducing the concept of rewarding good
fiscal performance. However, they were not suitable for providing the necessary
financial support to those provinces willing and able to implement major structural
reforms. The Provincial Reform Loan (PRL) was designed to fill in this gap.
6.    Targeted at a group of reform-minded provinces, the PRL was aimed at deepening
the fiscal reforms underlying macroeconomic stability and enhancing the capacity of the
provincial governments to fulfill their increasingly-important role as providers of public
goods and services. To accomplish these objectives, the operation was designed as a
quick-disbursing adjustment loan with conditionalities both at the federal and at the
provincial levels. The loan's proceeds were used to capitalize a Transformation Fund,
established by the national government in April 1993 to promote structural adjustment in
the provinces. Under the framework of the Transformation Fund, the national
government established individual agreements with each of the participating provinces,
deternining in each case the measures to be taken by the provincial governments, their
needs for technical and financial support, and the terms for repayment. The national
government, in turn, was responsible for maintaining an adequate macroeconomic
framework. The PRL operation in concert with the complementary Provincial Bank
2     "Argentina: Provincial Finance Study," Report No. 15487-AR, July 12, 1996.
3     The Inter-American Development Bank co-financed the First Provincial Development Project and
the Second Municipal Development Project.
6



Privatization and the Provincial Pension Reform loans were highly successful in
deepening public sector reform anong participating provinces. Some of their specific
accomplishments under the PRL include the reduction of 55,000 provincial agents, the
privatization or concessioning of 48 provincial enterprises, the privatization of nine
provincial banks, and the transfer of eight provincial pension funds to the national social
security system.
7.    The Second Provincial Reform Loan (PRL-2) came as the next step in the
progression towards more direct interaction with selected, reforn-minded provinces.
T argeted directly to individual provinces that had demonstrated their willingness and
ability to implement reforns, the PRL-2 was conceived as a more agile lending tool
tailored to fit the reform programs of individual provinces, thus avoiding the
administrative bureaucracy of programs administered at the central level and increasing
ownership at the provincial level.
8.    The PRL-2's specific objective, as stated in the Report and Recommendation of
the President (Report No. P-7136-AR, July 30, 1997) was to help four Argentine
provinces--Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan, and Tucuman--to reform and restructure their
governments so as to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services,
particularly in health and education, within fiscally sound policies. To accomplish these
objectives, the PRL-2 was structured as four quick-disbursing adjustment loans to the
individual provinces to support fiscal adjustment combined with structural reform in the
social sectors. The operation was to finance the adjustment cost of the provincial
programs and to provide technical assistance and analytical support to the provinces. The
]'RL-2 was fully consistent with the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
defined a strategy towards the provinces that focused on reform and sector investment
operations aimed at deepening reforms in selected provinces by improving the efficiency
of social expenditures.4
9.    According to the eligibility criteria and the focus of the program that had been
agreed between the national government and the Bank, the PRL-2 loans were available to
provinces that: (i) had introduced significant structural reforms in terms of the size of the
provincial government and the privatization of major public enterprises; (ii) had accepted
the transfer of the provincial pension funds to the national system; and (iii) had
demonstrated ability and political commitment to further reforms. On the basis of these
criteria four provinces were selected to pilot this approach: Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan,
and Tucuman. These provinces also represent a diverse pool in termns of their main
demographic and socio-economic indicators, economic base, and the political affiliation
of the provincial administrations Together, the four provinces account for 6 percent of
Argentina's GDP and 10 percent of the country's population..
10.   The borrower of the four adjustment loans was the Argentine Republic, which in
turn was to onlend funds equivalent to the loan amounts to each province. The amount of
each loan was determined as a function of the population of each province, its adjustment
needs, and the depth of each program. Tranche conditionality was also tailored to match
4     "Argentina Country Assistance Strategy," Report No. 16505-AR, April 24, 1997.
7



the depth and pace of reforns in each participating province. Disbursements for each
loan were conditioned on Board approval (i.e., loan effectiveness) and subsequent
positive evaluations on the compliance of the loan conditionality agreed with each
province. While the formal tranche-release actions were limited to key measures, the
operations supported an ambitious reform program in each of the participating provinces
that were detailed in the Letters of Provincial Reform (LPR) drafted by each province.
11.   Tucuman was one of the four participants in the PRL-2.  A relatively poor
province from the NW, Tucuman had a per capita income of about $3,600 in 1995, less
than half Argentina's average.5 It accounts for 2.2 percent of Argentina's GDP and 3
percent of the country's population. During the first part of this decade, the fiscal
situation of the province had deteriorated rapidly due to weak public administration and
rapid growth in current expenditures. By 1995, the wage bill had doubled, payment
arrears had accumulated to about US$200 million, and debt service expenditures
consumed half of the provincial revenues. In 1996, the Bussi administration took the first
steps to restore fiscal balance with the support of the PRL. Some of the early
accomplishments of Tucuman's reform efforts included the reduction of 4,800 provincial
agents and the privatization of the two provincial enterprises and the provincial and
municipal banks. The PRL-2 was designed to continue to provide critical support to the
implementation of this program, both financially and through technical assistance in
policy formulation.
12.   The loan amount for Tucuman (Loan 4221-AR) was US$100 million, to be
disbursed in two tranches of US$55 million and US$45 million respectively. The first
tranche was to be released after loan effectiveness, since the actions required for
disbursement had been implemented prior to Board presentation. The second tranche
was to be released within 12 to 18 months, depending on the pace in the implementation
of the agreed actions. The conditions required for disbursement included actions aimed at
enhancing: a) the province's fiscal performance; b) efficiency in the education sector; and
c) efficiency in the health sector (see Policy Matrix, Table 9). These specific conditions
supported the overall reform program set forth by the province in the Letter of Provincial
Reform (Annex A). A complete set of monitoring instrunents was also defined at
negotiations, including: a) fiscal targets to assess progress (i.e., personnel as a ratio of net
current revenues, current balance and debt stock as percentage of current revenues); b)
the mechanics of a Public Expenditure Review Program; and c) a set of performance
indicators.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
13.   Overall, Tucuman's PRL-2 has been effective in providing ongoing support to the
province's reform programn, particularly in relation to its fiscal aspects and the health
sector. The impact of the PRL-2 is reflected in Tucuman's fiscal performance, which
was well above the average fiscal perfornance of Argentina's provincial sector as a
whole in terms of all the main fiscal indicators for the 1996-99 period.6. The impact of
5     Argentina's average GNP per capita in 1995 was US$7,700 (Argentina CAS, 1997).
6     For a detailed description, see para. C.28.
8



PRL-2 on this performance is evidenced by the general improvements of all PRL-2
provinces as a group, as compared to no-PRL-2 provinces during the 1996-99 period
(Tables 10-13). The average change in own-source revenues for PRL-2 provinces was 18
percent between 1996 and 1999, compared to 9 percent for non-PRL-2 provinces (see
Table 10). Similarly, PRL-2 provinces showed an average increase in personnel
expenditures of only 8 percent between 1996 and 1999, compared to 17 percent for the
remaining provinces (see Table 11). The performance of PRL-2 provinces in terms of
both revenues and expenditures was also reflected in a strong improvement in current
account balance, which improved from a consolidated average annual level of -$310
million for the 1995-96 period, to a only -$17 million in 1998-99. (see Table 12).
Finally, the performance of PRL-2 provinces was also clearly superior with respect to the
provincial debt, with PRL-2 provinces increasing their stock of provincial debt by an
average of only 3.6 percent during the 1996-99 period, compared to 30 for the remaining
provinces (see Table 13).
14.   The PRL-2 has also provided a valuable road map to guide the participating
provinces in its efforts to introduce reforms in the health and education sectors. Tucuman
has been particularly effective in implementing reforms designed to improve the quality
and efficiency of health services. The same degree of success was not achieved in the
education sector. Moreover, the sustainability of the reforms implemented under the
PRL-2 is being tested, as the political party of the provincial administration was not
reelected. The new administration appears convinced of the need to deepen the fiscal
adjustment and has endorsed many of the other reforms. However, it remains to been
seen whether it has the commitment and willingness to implement further measures
needed in health and education.
15.   It is important to point out that the achievements of the PRL-2 are closely linked
tc, those of other loans.  In particular, the PRL-2 builds upon the technical and
institutional capacity built by the PDP-I and II at the provincial level. It also carries one
step further the efforts towards provincial reform that began under the PDP-I and II and
that were later deepened under the Provincial Reform, the Provincial Bank Privatization,
and the Provincial Pension Reform loans. Moreover, the PRL-2 has demonstrated the
potential complementarities between adjustment and sector operations by articulating
provincial sector objectives within the framnework of sound fiscal performnance. In this
way, the PRL-2 served to reinforce and promote the objectives of sector loans in
education7 and health.8
16.   Macroeconomic Policies: Substantial Achievement. Clearly, as a pilot program
iinvolving four provinces representing 10 percent of the Argentine populace, PRL-2 was
7      The specific objectives of the two education loans are as follows: a) IBD's PRISE supports
reforms in the education sector; and b) IBRD's PRODYMES I promotes the decentralization and
improvement of secondary education.
s      The specific objectives of the four IBRD health loans are as follows: a) the Social Protection
Project protects high priority federal social expenditures; b) PROMIN promotes maternal-child care
programs; c) PRESSAL, a pilot project, introduces the concept of self-managed hospitals in the context of a
broader sector reform; and d) the Health Insurance Refonn Project addresses efficiency and equity issues
related to Obros Sociales Nacionales.
9



not expected in itself to have a major direct impact on the country's fiscal situation.
However, by promoting reforms aimed at improving fiscal performance, while at the
same time protecting and enhancing expenditures in the social sectors, the PRL-2 has
demonstrated that the provinces can make an important contribution to further
Argentina's macroeconomic stability. In the case of Argentina, the link between fiscal
balance and macroeconomic stability is a particularly important one due to the strict
restrictions on currency emission established by the Convertibility Law. By putting
pressure on the balance of payment, persistent fiscal deficits at the provincial level can be
a source of strain on the money supply and the financial system, thus reducing the
credibility of the government's long-run ability to maintain the Convertibility Plan. The
PRL-2 has contributed towards improving fiscal balance in the four participating
provinces by reducing large deficits in current spending, as noted above, from -$310
million on average annually during the 1995-96 period to only -$17 million for the 1998-
99 period. This performance compares well to the overall consolidated accounts of the
provinces, where the current balance declined for $75 million in 1995-96 to -$690 million
in 1998-99. (see Tables 12).
17.   The challenge of reducing the public deficit in the provinces is compounded by
the important role that provinces play in the provision of social services--education and
health--which are critical to the country's long-terrn economic growth and poverty
reduction.  Within this framework, the PRL-2 has also contributed towards the
stabilization of Argentina's economy and the sustainability of the overall reform program
by supporting the implementation of measures conducive to reorienting provincial public
spending in ways that increased productivity and efficiency in the delivery of services
while strengthening fiscal positions. In the case of Tucuman, these improvements were
achieved mainly within the health sector, as shown on Table 16.
18.   Financial Objectives: Substantial Achievement.  In the case of Tucuman,
significant savings have resulted from increased efficiency in the functioning of the
public sector in general, and of the social sectors, i.e., health and education, in particular.
Some of these savings are described below for each of the individual components. They
include savings in the payroll of the provincial administration corresponding a reduction
of an additional 2,500 public sector positions, savings of approximately US$10 million
resulting from an improved monitoring of teachers' absenteeism and leave, and increased
revenues from health insurance providers by self-managed hospitals. In the case of the
Hospital Padilla alone, the increased annual revenues are more than US$600,000 relative
to 1996.
19.   Public Sector Reform: Substantial Achievement. The PRL-2 has successfully
accomplished its original objectives by effectively supporting reforrns aimed at
improving efficiency in the management of resources within the social sectors--health
and education--in the participating provinces within a framework of sound fiscal
responsibility. As a result, Tucuman has consolidated its fiscal situation and is at the
forefront of public sector reform in the health sector. A detailed analysis of the factors
that affected the implementation of each component and the achievement of their specific
objectives follows below.
10



C.    Public Finance
20.   Achievement of Objectives:  Satisfactory. Tucuman's fiscal situation had
experienced rapid deterioration during the first part of the 1990's. Weak public
admninistration had led to rapid growth in current expenditures and serious fiscal
imbalances, marked by excessive public employment and borrowing. By 1995-96 the
deficit reached $75 million annually, or about 10 percent of current revenues. The wage
bill had doubled since 1990 and by 1995 it absorbed 83 percent of the provincial net
revenues. Payment arrears had reached approximately US$200 million by end of 1995,
or almost one-third of the outstanding debt of US$650 million, which itself grew to $930
million by 1996, and provincial bonds and scripts represented another 20 percent of the
outstanding debt. The rest was owed to commercial banks at high interest rates. Debt
service consumed half of provincial revenues (see LPR, Annex A).
21    Beginning in 1996, the newly-elected Bussi administration embarked on a
comprehensive reform program aimed at reestablishing provincial fiscal balance,
increasing tax collection, reducing current government expenditures, and reducing
provincial debt (see LPR, Annex A). In the framework of the PRL, Tucumrnn had taken
its first successful steps towards reform including the privatization of the provincial bank,
another publicly owned bank and two provincial enterprises, the transfer of the provincial
pension fund to the national government, and the implementation of an administrative
reform program. Both the pace and depth of the reforms accelerated in the framework of
the PRL-2, which supported more ambitious fiscal targets together with the
implementation of structural refonns in health and education.
22.   The specific fiscal objective adopted by Tucuman for 1997-99 in the framework
of the PRL-2 was to achieve a sustained fiscal balance through improvements in tax
administration and better spending. In particular, Tucumain expected to reach: (a) a
decline in its wage bill to a sustainable 65 percent of net revenues by the end of the
program; (b) a current account surplus beginning in 1997; (c) an increase in current
savings to enable the province to finance a higher share of public investment; and (d) a
decline in the debt stock as a share of revenues. The province was successful in attaining
its objectives, as demonstrated by its ability to meet the agreed performance benchmarks
and its fiscal performance compared to other Argentine provinces. In particular:
23.   Civil Service Reform: Overstaffing had been a continuing problem for Tucuman.
In 1995, it employed 45 provincial agents per 10,000 inhabitants relative to 33 for the
national average. As a result, personnel expenditures represented a large share of net
current revenues, reaching 83 percent in 1995.9 In its initial steps towards reform, the
province took several measures leading to a reduction of 4,800 provincial agents. During
1997-99, the government continued to implement a program for rationalizing public
9     For the purpose of the fiscal targets, "Current Revenues" are calculated as (i) revenues from taxes;
(ii) non-tax revenues from the sale of goods and services and from property rentals; and (iii) revenues from
federal revenue-sharing transfers (fondos de coparticipaci6n; excluding those from Fondo Nacional de la
Vivienda, from Fondo Especial de Desarrollo Electrico del Interior and for the financing of public works
expenditures. "Net Current Revenues" excludes revenues that are transferred by the Province to its
municipalities.
11



sector employment by means of a privatization program, early retirement, outsourcing of
peripheral services, natural attrition, and non-renewal of temporary contracts. This
program has been successfully implemented, reducing an additional 2,500 positions
during 1999, thus bringing the level down to less than 19,000 public agents. This
achievement surpasses the initial target of no more than 20,000 positions.
24.   These efforts have enabled the province to lower its personnel salary and benefits
expenditures to 62 percent of net current revenues, meeting 65 percent target required for
the second tranche release. '° Reducing the rigidity in the structure of expenditures will
allow the province to better respond to unanticipated declines in revenues.
25.    Fiscal Balance:  In agreement with the conditionality for the release of the
second tranche, a current account surplus of US$17.7 million was achieved during the six
continuous months of September 1998 through March 1999.11 This compares with an
annual average current deficit of US$75 million during the 1995-96 period. Along with
greater control and the restructuring of provincial expenditures, this performance can be
attributed largely to improvements in local tax administration and an aggressive
collection effort. With the continuing recession, provincial elections and the change to a
new administration, this performance began to falter during the second semester of 1999
and the balance for the year declined to around $8 million.
26.   Debt Stock: As of May 15, 1999, the principal outstanding of public provincial
debt had been reduced to 90 percent of current revenues, as required by the loan
conditionality. This is a considerable reduction relative to the 1996 level, when the debt
stock was equivalent to 115 percent of the current revenues. However, Tucumrn still
ranks among the most indebted provinces, both in absolute terms and relative to its
current revenues, which makes the province extremely vulnerable to the fluctuations of
financial markets. As a result, it is now participating in the Federal Government's new
debt relief program.
27.   To help promote the sustainability of transparent budgeting and sound fiscal
practices, PRL-2 conditionality also required that the province presented to the
Legislature a Financial Discipline Law based on five principles: (i) all annual provincial
public sector budgets to be balanced; ii) debt not be used to finance provincial public
sector current expenditures; iii) provincial public sector revenue and expenditure records
and accounts to be audited and made publicly available; iv) personnel salary and benefits
expenditures not to exceed 65 percent of net current revenues; and iv) principal
outstanding of provincial debt not to exceed 90 percent of current revenues. The province
has successfully met this condition. The proposed legislation was presented to the
legislature on December 11, 1998 and approved by the legislature in June 1999. The
sanctioning of this law provides an important element to help the province sustain its
prudent fiscal course.
IO    Tucuman's personnel expenditures averaged 62 percent during the period September-November
1999, thus meeting the loan conditionality that required a period of any three continuous months among the
nine months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release date.
I I   Loan conditionality required a current account surplus of at least US$10 million for a period of
three contiguous months among the nine months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date.
12



28.   The overall success of the actions taken by Tucuman is also evident when
comparing Tucuman's fiscal performance relative to that of the other provinces. Tables
10 through 14 show that Tucuman's performance during 1996-99 is above the median for
all provinces in terms of the changes in own-source revenues, personnel expenditures,
and stock of debt. Specifically, the increase in own-source revenues between 1996 and
1999 was 19 percent, relative to a median of 12 percent for all provinces (Table 10). In
termns of the change in personnel expenditures, Tucumin's saw an absolute increase of
2.9 percent between 1996 and 1998, compared to a median increase of 8.4 percent for all
provinces as a whole (Table 11). In 1999, with the electoral campaign and a change in
administration at the end of the third quarter, personnel expenditures were increased
substantially, but Tucumnan still outperformed non-PRL-2 provinces over the 1996-1999
period with an overall increase of 10 percent compared to a median of 14 percent in non-
PRL-2 provinces. In terms of its stock of debt, Tucumrnn increased it by 11 percent
between 1996 and 1999, while the median for all provinces shows an increase of 20
percent (Table 13). Finally, Tucuman also shows an outstanding performance in terms
of current account balance with a surplus of which averaged $38 million annually in
1998-99, as compared to an annual average deficit of almost $75 million in 1995-96
(Table 12.).
D.   Education
29.   Achievement of Objectives:  Partial Achievement. The challenges that
Tucumrn faces in education are similar to those of other provinces. Personnel
expenditures dominate the education budget, leaving little room to finance non-personnel
inputs and investment. The quality of education is poor, while average costs per student
are high due to low student/teacher ratios and disproportionate use of temporary and
substitute educational personnel. Teachers often abuse the leave system and their pay is
unrelated to teaching quality or effective classroom hours. These problems are
compounded by the fact that a significant increase in educational demand is expected due
to demographic growth and extension in compulsory education from six to ten years, as
mandated by the National Education Law.
30.   With the support of the PRL-2, Tucuman has developed a reform program for the
education sector aimed at ensuring the extension of mandatory education and improving
access to the poor within current budget constraints. The specific actions implemented
between 1997 and 1999 fall into four areas: (i) improving the management of human
resources; (ii) improving efficiency in primary and secondary schools; (iii) reforming the
system of private sector incentives; and (iv) restructuring the teacher training institutes.
31.   Management of Human Resources: The province has implemented several
measures aimed at improving the management of human resources in the education sector
including: a) the rationalization of pay and benefits of public sector teachers on leave; b)
the improvement of the control system of sick leave and absenteeism; c) the redesign of
administrative procedures and implementation of a computerized system; and d) the
irnplementation of a new payroll system.
13



32.   Overly generously leave policies and a lack of control over sick leave claims led
to major abuses in the system. For example, almost 40 percent of the teachers failed to
show up for work an average of 47 days, costing the system an estimated US$31 million.
Such distortions contributed to almost exclusive channeling of sector spending for
salaries, as opposed to needed investments in materials and facilities. It also engendered
a general lack of morale among those teachers committed to the education process.
Through a series of decrees and operation manuals, provincial authorities have been able
to reduce these abuses. 12 The use of substitute teachers has been reduced by 54 percent
relative to 1996, and the number of perrnanent disability cases has been reduced by 30
percent, representing an annual saving of approximately US$10 million. The province
was able to achieve this despite a juridical decision which voided Decree 1477 to
outsource the control of public teachers sick leave. Instead, an independently run
monitoring system was implemented under an agreement with Provincial Health System
(SIPROSA).
33.   The redesign of administrative procedures and the implementation of a
computerized system have resulted in outstanding time savings (and consequently,
savings in personnel as well). For instance, the time required to officially appoint a
substitute teacher has been reduced from seven years to just six days. Also, Tucumrnn is
at the forefront of the national efforts to implement provincial infornation systems that
consolidate all the data on individual teachers in a single electronic file ("legajo lunico").
34.   Private Sector Incentives:   Transfers to private schools, which represent
approximately 12 percent of the education budget, had been traditionally based on
historical agreements and political favors.  Under this system, the subsidies were
dispersed among many schools, providing little incentive for improving efficiency,
equity, and quality. As agreed under the framework of the PRL-2, Tucurnin adopted an
improved fornula to allocate public subsidies to private schools. The new formula was
designed to promote equity, quality and efficiency, based on the tuition, performance, and
student/teacher ratios. However, although the disbursement condition was met, the
decree by which the new formula was put into effect was subsequently rescinded by the
executive after tranche release.
35.   Restructuring Public Teacher Training: The official system for teacher training
institutes had been characterized by poor efficiency and low quality of the graduates. The
number of teacher training institutions in Tucuman largely exceeded the number needed,
as their graduates could not be absorbed by the educational system.'3 Prior to this
initiative, the training institutes were graduating annually eight students for each opening,
thereby wasting fiscal resources and training people for non-existent jobs. Accordingly,
the province has reduced the output of these institutes by 35 percent and has channeled
the corresponding savings back into the education budget.
12    These are: Decree No. 505 (New Regime for Leaves of Absence); Decree 1477 (Outsourcing of
Control System of Sick Leave and Absenteeism); Operation Manual for Medical Leaves; Operation Manual
for "Docencia Pasiva."
13    "Argentina: Improving Health and Education in Tucuman," Sept. 24, 1997.
14



36.   Levels of Expenditure in the Education Sector: The actions implemented under
the PRL-2 have enabled the province to reduce the level of salary and benefits
expenditures from 96 percent in 1996 to 90 percent of total sector spending in May 1999,
as required for the second tranche release. As agreed under the PRL-2, education budgets
for 1998 and 1999 exceeded the 1996 budget of US$280 million. In addition, the federal
government has channeled an additional US$20 million to the sector. Moreover, the
province has allowed savings from personnel expenditures to be used to cover non-
personnel costs within the sector and actual expenditures have not been shifted from
investment to current expenditures.
37.   Efficiency in Education: Table 16 shows some improvements that have resulted
from the implementation of the actions agreed under the PRL-2 based on the limited data
provided by the province on performance indicators for the education sector. These
improvements do not yet represent the initiation of a more far-reaching reform of the
education sector envisaged by the operation. The political will to implement the agreed
actions came directly from the governor, mainly to ensure that the loan conditions
required for the disbursements were met. There was no strong champion within the
Miinistry of Education with a vision that would guide the overall reform efforts of the
sector. Thus, the impact of the PRL-2 can be characterized as focalized as opposed to
systemic.
38.   Lessons from the education reforms: Tucumrn's partial achievement in the
implementation of education reforms underscores the importance of several factors,
including: a) the need to have a champion with a vision of the sector along with political
support; b) the importance of taking into account institutions factors into the design and
implementation of the reforms to foster ownership of the reforms within the public
administration; c) the importance of having adequate resources to strengthen the limited
institutional capacity of the sector; d) the importance of educating the sector constituency
on the reform agenda; and e) the priority of fiscal adjustment over social sector reform.
Thlese factors are illustrated by the effort to reform private sector incentives, where a new
formula was adopted without participatory mechanisms. Because it involved the
reallocation of funds within the same budget envelope, it was not seen as an important
tool for the primary concern of the executive for fiscal adjustment. So when it came
under attack politically, it was easily rescinded by the governor.
E.    Health
39.   Achievement of Objectives: Highly Satisfactory. There is large scope for
improving the health status in Tucuman and the other Northwest provinces. Infant and
maternal mortality rates are higher than the national mean. Mortality causes include
long-standing public health diseases associated with underdevelopment and poverty.
Malnutrition and diarrhea remain among the principal causes of death of children 1-4
years old.
40.   Poor health performance are to a large extend the result of structural deficiencies
irn the province's health delivery capacity. The health system is predominantly hospital-
based, with hospitals being managed primarily by the provincial government. Most
15



hospitals are obsolete and lack basic maintenance, both in terms of equipment and
physical facilities. Internal inefficiencies are magnified by the lack of accountability of
hospital directors. As decision-making is highly centralized at the level of the Provincial
Ministry of Health, hospitals have limited authority to achieve improvements in
efficiency. Public hospitals are inefficient, with low occupancy rates averaging only 57
percent, low personnel productivity and low quality of care. Hospital care dominates the
budget of the sector. Personnel costs absorbed 82 percent of the health budget in 1996,
leaving little room for essential complementary inputs. The size and salary of personnel
are not under the control of the hospital authorities, and there is no motivation to budget
and use resources efficiently. In addition, there was no targeting to the poor and no cost
recovery.
41.   Under the framework of the PRL-2, Tucuman developed a reform strategy aimed
at promoting the progressive separation of the provision of health services and public
financing. This basic objective translated into actions in three areas: (a) the establishment
of self-managed hospitals; (b) strengthening of the Provincial Insurance Institute
(Instituto Provincial del Seguro-IPS); and (c) the extension of health insurance coverage
for the poor using money now allocated to public hospitals.
42.   Self-Managed Hospitals: The transformation of public hospitals into self-
managed (or autonomous) hospitals is a central pillar in the program towards increasing
efficiency in the sector. The concept of self-management implies that public hospitals are
to be financed by the sale of services to private and public insurance providers rather than
by direct budget lines from the Ministry of Health. As the resources generated by these
self-managed hospitals are to remain in the hospitals, self-management is expected to be
conducive to cost recovery and improved efficiency.
43.   Tucuman has permanently converted five hospitals into  self-administered
hospitals. These hospitals are now collecting revenues from their patients on the basis of
per capita demand through a new payment system. The hospitals retain the majority of
their collected revenues, which constitute approximately 10 percent of their total budget,
using them for investments and incentives for the personnel. To increase flexibility in the
management of human resources and to provide incentives for performance, new staff is
now being recruited with fixed-term contracts with merit bonus provisions.
Approximately 10 percent of all the staff is currently under this regime and it is expected
that incumbent staff will increasingly opt for the new regime on a voluntary basis.
44.   Tucuman has been highly successful in the implementation of the self-managed
hospitals and considerable improvements can already be observed in terms of efficiency
as well as cost recovery. An information system to identify patients' health coverage is
up and running in the self-managed hospitals. This allows self-managed hospitals to bill
health insurance providers for the services provided. Automatic payment agreements with
the OPS, ANSES, and major insurance providers have resulted in timely payments and
high cost recovery rates. In turn, the increased budget has allowed for staff training, the
purchase of additional equipment, etc., which have effectively motivated the staff.
16



45.   The experience of the Hospital Padilla is a particularly successful one and should
be used as an example for other hospitals, both in Tucumnan and elsewhere. Billing to
third parties has increased from US$686,500 in 1996 to US$929,700 in 1999. Even more
impressive is the increase in collection rates, which went from 20 percent in 1996 to 84
percent in 1999. It is important to point out that the poor constitute a large percentage of
the patient population of the self-managed hospitals. In the case of the Hospital Padilla,
almost 95 percent of all the patients are poor.
46.   The quality of the services provided by self-managed hospitals has also improved
between 1996 and 1999, as indicated by the reductions in waiting times and mortality
rates shown in Table 17. A survey conducted at Tucuman's public pediatric hospital, the
Hospital del Nino Jesus, shows an overall satisfaction with the quality of services.14 For
instance, in the ample majority of the cases the health problem was successfully treated
ancl parents expressed satisfaction with the level of service received and the time the
doctor spent with them (90 percent, 80 percent, and 78 percent of the sample
respectively).
47.   Unfortunately, the sustainability of these improvements is being tested, as some
of the hospital directors have been replaced under the new administration, despite having
been re-elected by the hospital staff. Moreover, the reforms implemented at the hospitals
still leaves important challenges in improving the health sector, including the need to
strengthen primary health posts. (See par. 13, Annex B: Institutional Assessment.)
48.   Provincial Insurance Institute (Obra Social Provincial; OSP): As required under
the PRL-2, an improved information system to keep records on accounts of beneficiaries
of the OPS is being implemented, with more that 60 percent of the beneficiaries already
having accounts. Also, the OSP has implemented a policy to allow its members to
choose among different health insurance providers, beginning with lower income
beneficiaries. This freedom of choice is expected to provide strong incentives for the OSP
to be competitive. Finally, new budget procedures have been implemented in which
national revenue-sharing funds to provincial entities can be re-directed to the OSP to pay
for service arrears. For years, decentralized public agencies, including municipalities,
have not paid to the OPS the required fees corresponding to their employees. The
province has also implemented a series of automatic payment agreements with
decentralized provincial entities, thus improving significantly OSP's financial situation.
These initiatives have put Tucuman at the forefront in national efforts to reform the
"Obras Sociales" in line with the efforts initiated under the Bank's Health Insurance
Reform Loan (Ln. 4002/3).
49.   Provincial Health Insurance:  One of the conditions of the PRL-2 was the
establishment of a Provincial Health Insurance to cover non-insured poor people.
Through the SIPROSA, the province has established and is administering a provincial
health insurance system to provide coverage for a basic health care package to all
indigent residents of the province who are unable to pay for health care through any other
14    The survey was conducted in June 1999 among a randomly-selected sample of 599 patients. The
design was based on a stratified sample and a 95 percent confident level.
17



means. Under the Plan de Salud, the poor are being treated on a par with the general
population. They are also provided with an ID card and information on their rights. More
than 400,000 people are now on the roster. Community health workers are currently
confirming income eligibility, as it is estimated that about 10 percent of those currently
on the roster were incorrectly identified during the first phase.
50.   Levels of Expenditure in the Health Sector: As required under the PRL-2, the
province has preserved the level of expenditures in the sector. The annual budget for
public health was US$103 million in 1998, maintaining the 1996 budget in real terms.
Moreover, the savings from personnel have been retained by the sector to cover
investment costs.
51.   Efficiency in the delivery public health: At appraisal, overstaffing of SIPROSA
was identified as one of the major contributors to the inefficient spending within the
health sector. As part of its efforts under the PRL-2, the province has reduced the
number of positions from 6,700 to 6,224. As a result, the spending in salaries within
SIPROSA has been reduced from a level of almost 80 percent in 1996 to 68 percent in
1999. The overall sector expenditures in personnel have also been reduced from 82
percent to 76 percent of provincial public health sector expenditures between 1996 and
1999. At the same time, the percentage of investment expenditures was increased by 25
percent, exceeding the initially agreed target. In terms of quality and efficiency, the
actions taken in the health sector have also resulted in the improvements in the delivery
of services, particularly in self-managed hospitals (Table 17).
52.   Lessons from the health reforms: In the case of health, the actions supported by
the PRL-2 were at the forefront of the reform strategy being formulated at the national
level. In Tucuman, the coordinator of the project's executive unit actively championed
the reforms within the health sector and was able to bring an overall vision that tied
together the individual actions implemented under the PRL-2. Some important lessons
were learned that are now being incorporated in related sector operations, such as the
"Health Insurance for the Uninsured Project." Some of these lessons are: a) the
importance of having a champion within the sector; b) the importance of developing
effective payment mechanisms to ensure the adequate funding of the Obra Social
Provincial; c) the importance of developing automatic payment agreements between the
self-managed hospitals and major health insurance providers as a pre-requisite for the
successful implementation of self-managed hospitals; d) the need to develop more
transparent mechanisms to select hospital directors based on professional qualifications
and not on their political affiliation.
F.    Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
53.   Dispute with water concessionaire: Although not a specific objective of the loan,
a dispute between the province and the water concessionaire resulted in considerable
delays at the front end of the program and an additional and unexpected burden on the
fiscal accounts of about $8 million to cover operation expenses. The water company had
been concessioned to a foreign-owned firm, "Aguas del Aconqugia," during the previous
administration.   The agreement was seriously flawed with an overly ambitious
18



investment program and the increases in tariffs needed to finance it. Sharp increases in
the tariffs brought widespread discontent among the population that was exacerbated in
January 1996 when murky water was provided in the capital city for more than ten days.
Collection rates fell sharply, making the concession financially unsustainable. With the
support of the Bank, through the Second Water Supply Project, the province and the
water concessionaire renegotiated a new contract in 1996, but the legislature
subsequently included additional terms to which the concessionaire could not agree.
After Board approval the situation deteriorated and the company indicated that it wanted
to leave. The province indicated that the company had to stay for at least eighteen
months before leaving. With no one to turn the facilities over to, the company decided to
avert potential threats to public health and continued operating the facilities. However, it
also presented a formal petition to the International Center for the Settlement of
Investment Disputes (ICSID).
54.   Prior to loan signing, the Bank indicated to the province that the current situation
was not sustainable and that it could jeopardize future attempts to resolve the situation,
i.e. once the company left after having stayed involuntarily for 18 months , the province
would find it hard to rebid the concession, and further, that the Bank would require
agreement on resolving the situation prior to declaring effectiveness, as per the provinces
agreement in the Letter of Provincial Development to ensure sustainable provision of
public services. Although at loan signing the province agreed to resolve the situation, it
subsequently argued that the problem was between the company and the consumers and
the province was not involved and therefore should not be held accountable. The Bank,
however, stood firm as regards the need for the province to resolve the situation, as water
was a public good which the province was responsible for providing whether it did so
directly or through a private concession. An agreement was finally reached to allow the
company to hand over operation to the Federal Water Authority to operate the facilities
pending rebidding. The Bank also agreed with the province that for the second tranche a
new bidding document satisfactory to the Bank would need to be submitted to the
legislature and that performance in cost recovery would need to improve so as to
demonstrate to prospective bidders the viability of the concession. Subsequently, the
Bank secured grant funds to assist the province in this effort.
55.   The loan was finally declared effective on Sept. 1998, about five months after
scheduled. Although the province continued to implement the reform prograrn during
this period, it complained that the Bank's position on the basis that the PRL-2 legal
agreement had no clauses related to the water concession, and that the delay in tranche
release was not justified. At the same time, it acknowledged that the Bank had played an
important role in providing experts and technical assistance to resolve the water problem.
56.   Fragmented political support: Support for the PRL-2 was mostly limited to the
govemor and a small circle of advisors and cabinet members. As the legislature was
dominated by the opposition, reforms were enacted through executive decrees, with the
risk of being easily overturned by a future administration. Moreover, the authoritarian
leadership style of the govemor meant that many actions were implemented without
incorporating key actors in the discussion, which resulted in low acceptance by the
19



bureaucracy and other relevant constituencies increasing the uncertainty of sustainability.
On the other hand, there was no strong unified political opposition to the reformn
themselves. Indeed, the society at large was disillusioned by years of political stalemate
and seemed to welcome a decisive executive. In the end, even the legislature was
persuaded by the need to approve the Law of Fiscal Discipline. (see Annex B:
Institutional Assessment).
57.   Municipalfiscal performance: Reforms at the municipal level were not included
in the program, although implicitly the level of transfers to these governments was
limited by conditionality aimed at current spending, because most municipalities were
governed by opposition parties and the province could not ensure their participation and
compliance. Towards the end of Bussi's administration, municipal governments were the
foci of high political volatility, with unpaid municipal workers carrying out strident
demonstrations in the capital city. These fiscally irresponsible municipalities were
eventually bailed-out by the new administration.
58.   Preparatory studies: The policy actions outlined under the PRL-2 benefited from
the in-depth ESW on social sectors in each of the participating provinces prepared at the
same time as the PRL-2 loans. The Provincial Finance Report (Report No. 15487),
prepared July 1996, provided the basis for the initial dialogue on provincial fiscal reform
and for the discussion on major issues in the design of fiscal federalism in Argentina.
The report was shared with all governors and discussed in the Senate. The policy reforms
that have been prepared by the provinces were amply discussed in that report, which
provided a very useful introduction to the current work with the provinces. Tucuman had
the additional benefit of a joint Bank/IFC diagnostic study on the structure of Tucuman's
economy prepared in 1995, which was discussed with the then incoming Bussi
administration and presented to the business community with ample press coverage.
Finally, a review of social sector spending was prepared in conjunction with project
preparation. All the preliminary sector work provided a solid foundation for loan
preparation.
59.   Sector reforms: Provincial reformns in health and education benefited from and
complemented national initiatives, particularly in health, and was able to call on support
from an array of Bank (and IDB) sector investment operations available to assist in
implementation. In education, the PRL-2 has complemented the IDB-financed PRISE
and the IBRD-financed PRODYMES I, which provide technical support to the provinces
to improve the management of the education sector.  In health, the PRL-2 has
successfully complemented other ongoing Bank loans to the health sector, namely
PRESSAL, PROMIN and Health Insurance Reform Projects.  The PRL-2 has also
promoted the concept of self-managed hospitals in the four participating provinces, a key
objective of the PRESSAL and, more importantly, has tied its implementation to a
broader health finance reform agenda. Finally, while the Health Insurance Reform
Project is addressing efficiency and equity issues pertaining to "Obras Sociales
Nacionales," the PRL-2 has confronted similar issues in relation to the "Obras Sociales
Provinciales" and has helped provincial governments develop a public health insurance
fund to finance coverage of the currently uninsured, mostly the poor. The relatively
fragile institutional capacity of the provinces and the depth and complexity of the reform
20



program called for sustained technical assistance as a prerequisite for sustainability and
success. The assistance to the education reform program was provided by the IDB-
financed PRISE and by the Bank-financed PRODYMES. In health, the Bank-financed
PRESSAL continued the assistance provided during preparation of the program.
60.   National framework for fiscal reform.  Along with specific sector-level reforms
promoted by the federal government, the Tucuman effort benefited from a consistent
system of fiscal incentives at the national level that combined a hard budget constraint
and federal resistance to providing bailouts, with proactive programs to support state
reform.. In Argentina, a set of critical actions was implemented during the 1992-1996
period, including the signing of the Fiscal Pacts, the elimination of quasi-deficit financing
through Central Bank rediscounts and provincial banks, and support for transferring
provincial pension funds to the national govern-ment, and privatizing provincial banks and
public enterprises, and institutional strengthening for financial and tax administration
61.    Economic downturn: Despite the sharp decrease in provincial revenues resulting
from the economic downturn during 1999, Tucuman was able to successfully meet all its
fiscal targets. However, the conditionality to maintain sector budgets (i.e., education and
health) at the same absolute levels of 1996 or higher put additional strains on the
provincial finances. While this was consistent with the design of the program to protect
the social sectors from inmnediate fiscal adjustment and to permit sector-based savings to
be plowed back into investment, for the year 2000 budget spending was reduced in the
health sector in the face of the continuing fiscal strain. Indeed, over the longer-term,
once savings in efficient social sector spending are realized and essential core services
are protected, the province will need to be in a position to reduce the excessive overall
level of public spending, including in the social sectors, and to retain the flexibility to
reduce investment levels in the short-term in response to downturns in revenue.
62.   Institutional capacity:   The PRL-2 took into consideration some of the
institutional arrangements for service delivery that encompass voice, competition, and
hierarchy. In education, for example, the reform of the criteria to allocate subsidies to
private schools implied competition among private schools for accessing to more
subsidies, and thus served as an incentive for improving their quality. Likewise, the
school management decentralization promoted greater participation from parents and the
community. In the case of health, the establishment of a provincial health insurance for
the poor combined with the establishment of autonomous hospitals provided mechanisms
for competition among public institutions and citizen participation. However, these
arrangements were not properly complemented with accountability and transparency
mechanisms. Likewise, the lack of adequate institutional arrangements during the
irnplementation and monitoring phases limited the opportunities to build ownership of the
reforms and, consequently, to enhance their sustainability. In addition, the low
institutional capacity of public agencies was a severe constraint on the implementation of
the reforms. Finally, the PRL-2 did not explicitly assess or incorporate institutional
factors into its project design. In the case of Tucumdn, there was not a good fit between
the PRL-2's institutional arrangements and the characteristics of the province, mainly in
terms of its fragmented power structure. These institutional factors have limited the
impact of the program. (See, Annex B: Institutional Assessment).
21



G.    Project Sustainability: Uncertain
63.   A number of important reforms have been implemented in Tucuman under the
PRL-2. However, the sustainability of these reforms is uncertain. There are several
reasons contributing to this uncertainty, including: a) the lack of legislative support
during the Bussi administration; b) the narrow base of support for the actions that have
been implemented; c) the potential lack of continuity in the implementation of reforms by
the current administration; d) the low institutional capacity of the public sector in terms
of its capacity to design and implement the reforms; and e) the continuing fragility of the
fiscal situation.
64.     As mentioned earlier, the Bussi administration did not have the support of the
legislature. As a result, al the actions were implemented using executive decrees and
resolutions, except for the Financial Discipline Law. These actions can, of course, be
easily reversed by subsequent administrations. Even more worrisome is the fact that two
of these actions were reversed while the Bussi administration was still in power. The first
one was the outsourcing of the control system for public teachers' sick leave. Although it
was initially authorized by Decree 1477, this action was found to be unconstitutional
once the Financial Emergency Law ceased to be in effect.15 The decree that instituted the
new allocation formula for private school subsidies was also reversed towards the end of
the Bussi's administration.
65.   The new administration has largely endorsed continuing the reforms efforts that
were initiated. Still, the reforms suffered from a four month transition period between
administrations and the need for the incoming administration to get up to speed.
Moreover, no wide support was built for the reforms during their implementation. For
instance, in the case of the self-managed hospitals, some of the hospital directors were
replaced by the new administration despite having been re-appointed by the vote of the
staff. It is not clear whether enough awareness of the positive impact of the reforms
existed both within and outside the self-managed hospitals to guarantee their
sustainability.  In addition, the fact that the reforms did not address the sector's most
important problems, scarcity of resources and inequities in the allocation of resources
among the health care levels, had an important effect on the reform's legitimacy (see
Annex B: Institutional Assessment).
66.   There are also questions on whether Tucuman's fiscal position can be sustained
over the medium and long run. It is clear that the PRL-2 was highly successful in
promoting fiscally-sound practices in the province and in improving the provincial debt
structure. It is also important to guarantee the new government's efforts to continue with
the implementation of basic management tools, such as cadastre, financial management,
and tax administration, to help consolidate the improvements in the fiscal situation.
67.     However, with a need to access markets to turn over its short-term  debt,
Tucuman's fiscal situation remains highly susceptible to fluctuations in financial markets
15    The Financial Emergency Law protected the province from creditors and gave extraordinary
powers to the executive branch.
22



and flirther adjustment is required. Indeed, as the second tranche was largely devoted to
reducing floating debt (arrears to employees and salaries), the share of official debt to
current expenditures was actually increased in the short run.  The new federal
administration has initiated a program to support provinces in reducing short-term
indebtedness. In return for agreement to maintain its adjustment efforts and reach an
overall balance by 2003, Tucuman is participating in this program.
H.   Bank Performance
68.   Project Identification: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank correctly identified the
need to focus resources on selected provinces with demonstrated willingness and ability
to implement reforms. It also identified the window of opportunity provided by reform-
mincled administrations both at the national and provincial levels. Finally, the Bank also
identified correctly the need to promote reforns in the social sectors-education and
health-in a framework of fiscal soundness. These two sectors are central to the
medium- and long-term success of any provincial reform strategy, as they represent
between 40 and 45 percent of the provincial budgets. Moreover, the services in these two
sectors are key in determining the level of human capital development of the province in
the rnedium and long term.
69.   Project Preparation: Satisfactory. The Bank's performance was satisfactory
with respect to the sectoral and technical aspects of the operation, identifying a Policy
Matrix that operationalized the major aspects of the government's reform strategy
towards the provinces. The Bank worked in close collaboration with the national and
provincial governments and maintained a high degree of coordination between the PRL-2
and other Bank operations, both provincial and sector loans. However, in retrospect, as
low institutional capacity hampered the achievement of some of the reforms, an
institutional assessment as part of project preparation would have been useful.
70.   Project Appraisal: Satisfactory. The strong will to participate demonstrated by
Tucuman during project preparation may have overshadowed some of the underlying
risks associated with sustainability, including the level of political support and the fragile
fiscal situation. As mentioned earlier, it had strong political support from the executive
branch, but not from the legislature. Further, the arnbitious reform program required a
longer period to implement than anticipated and was actually completed in the midst of
the political campaign for governor. Still, the judgement of the mission, which designed
a program based largely on executive decree, was proven right as regards the
cornmitment of the executive and its ability to implement the program.  While
sustainability still has to be rated as uncertain, the new provincial administration has
largely kept the reform initiatives in place and continues to pursue fiscal adjustment.
71.   Project Supervision: Satisfactory. SAL operations pose a challenge in terms of
supervision, as they require both precision and agility. The Bank worked closely with the
Borrower, assessing the overall evolution of the provincial finances, as well as
monitoring the progress towards reform in health and education. The supervision team
forged a close relationship with provincial authorities through periodic visits and a fluid
communication. The geographical proximity of the supervision team-located in Buenos
23



Aires as opposed to D.C.-contributed to such fluid communication. Once the tranche
conditionalities were met, the Bank moved quickly to accelerate the corresponding
disbursements. The Bank also sought informal agreements with the provincial
government to ensure consistency when other operations, such as the compromise to the
revitalize the implementation of the provincial cadastre and the financial management
system.
I.    Borrower Performance
72.   Project Preparation:  Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's work had the full
collaboration of both the province and the federal govermment. Staff from the Ministries
of Interior, Economy, Education, and Health participated in the preparatory work,
ensuring not only that the proposed policies were consistent with the national policies but
also that the provinces could count on the support of the federal government during the
implementation of the reforms.
73.   Project Implementation: Satisfactory. The supervision of the program was
entrusted to an Executing Unit located in the province's Ministry of Finance, reporting
directly to the governor. In addition, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministries of
Education and Public Health were also active participants. At the national level, the
Ministry of Economy contributed to the implementation of the program by undertaking
the supervision of the fiscal and debt components. The performance of the Executing
Unit was highly satisfactory, serving as an effective interface between the different
actors, including the governor, the provincial ministries, the Bank, and the executing
units of other related projects. The supervision team was kept well informed of all
relevant developments-both progress and occasional difficulties-that took place during
the implementation of the program. Adequate documentation was made available to
support the request for each tranche. However, the province lacked internal cohesiveness
during the implementation of the PRL-2, failing to generate a broad political support for
the reform program.
74.   Compliance with Covenants: Less Than Satisfactory. Over the life of the
project, compliance with the stipulated covenants and agreements was met. However, as
discussed above, the implementation of the new formula for the allocation of subsides to
private schools was rescinded by the executive following release of the final tranche.
The new administration appears willing to re-launch this program.
J.    Assessment of Outcome
75.   Overall rating: Satisfactory. The PRL-2 has been successful in strengthening
Tucuman's fiscal situation. Moreover, the operation has promoted the implementation of
important reforns in the health sector aimed at ensuring an efficient and responsive
delivery of public services within fiscally sound policies. To this effect, the PRL-2 has
articulated successfully the various Bank-supported health loans to improve the overall
efficiency of the sector and protect the poor. The impact of the PRL-2 in the education
sector is more limited and does not yet constitute a far-reaching reform of the sector.
24



76.   Some of the specific achievements of the PRL-2 include: a) Tucuman's superior
fiscal performance over the 1996-99 period relative to other provincial governments in
terms of own-source revenues, personnel expenditures, and stock of debt; b) the reduction
of more than 2,500 provincial agents; c) the enactment of a Financial Discipline Law; d)
savings of approximately US$10 million accrued from the implementation of an
improved human resource management system and an absentee control system in
education; e) significant improvements in efficiency within the health sector; f)
restructuring of public teacher training institutions; i) the implementation-including the
enactment of the necessary changes in the legislation-of self-managed hospitals; and j)
the establishment of a Provincial Health Insurance System for the poor.
77.   However, Tucuman's performance was hampered by the lack of political support
from the provincial legislature and the lack of solid leadership in the education sector.
On the other hand, Tucum6.n's highly successful experience with some individual
components, such as self-managed hospitals, can have a strong demonstration effect for
other provinces.
K. Future Operation
78.   Numerous discussions and field visits have been carried out following
disbursement of the final tranche and the closing of the loan, particularly with the new
provincial administration which took office in September 1999, with the participation of
staff from the national ministries of Economy, Education and Health. Although
sustainability has been rated as uncertain at this time, the new provincial administration
has increasingly shown its willingness to carry on with most of the reforms initiated.'6
79.   Public Finances. Although the situation remains fragile due to the economic
downturn and tightening financial markets, the new administration has taken important
steps to improve fiscal performance and is participating in the Federal Government
program of debt relief.
80.   Education. While the previous administration complied with program targets, it
lacked sufficient zeal to bring about important results on the ground. In this regard, the
new administration appears to have embraced the reform effort and has indicated its
intention to a) improve the weak financial and human resource management systems,
including increased training of staff; b) maintain the successful system for controlling
medical leave; c) deepen the pilot for school decentralization to include experimenting
with charter schools; and, d) re-launch the effort to improve incentives for efficiency and
quality in private schools by improving the system for allocating subsidies.
81.   Health. The new administration is continuing with the reform initiated as regards
decentralization, targeting the poor, and strengthening the Provincial Obra Social.
Further steps to consolidation are needed, including: a) improving the legal framework
and staff training for the self-managed hospitals; and b) completing the census for the
uninsured poor and implementing a dynamic system for determining eligibility.
16 An exit letter was provided to the province analyzing these efforts with recommendations for improving
implementation, and is found in the project file.
25



L. Lessons of Experience
82.   Quick-disbursing loans directed to sub-national governments can be effective
complements of sector reforms and operations. If properly coordinated with sector
strategies, provincial SALs can promote sector objectives by boosting political will to
take key sector actions in the sector. This is particularly important in the case of
Argentina, where the provinces play a predominant role in providing public services in
education and health.
83.   An important lesson from  the Tucuman experience is that a determined
executive branch supporting sector champions with vision can successfully pursue a
reform effort under less than optimal political and social conditions. The leverage of
quick-disbursing funds can act as a powerful incentive in such situations. However, to
help ensure sustainability, there needs to be even greater attention to participatory
mechanisms in designing and implementing the reforms.
84.   Sector reforms are possible even when the overriding priority is fiscal
adjustment. However, sector budgets need to be protected to ensure that cost savings
from efficiency gains can be plowed back into the sector.
85.   The combination of effective sector leadership and participatory mechanisms
in the design and implementation of reforms can be a powerful tool for pursing
institutional change and overcoming bureaucratic resistance.  In the case of
Tucuman, this is suggested by the stark contrast between the implementation of health
reforms as opposed to the education sector.
26



Table 1
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of Objectives    Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not
Applicable
Macro Policies                   /
Sector Policies
Education                                  /
Health                                                                    l
Financial Objectives        _
Institutional Development   _
|Physical Objectives
|Poverty Reduction.
Gender Issues               _                                               I
Other Social Objectives               _
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management                                                    I
Private Sector Development              _
Other                                                                I
B. Project Sustainability
Project Sustainability           Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
C. Bank Performance
Bank Performance                 Highly        Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory                 l
Identification                     I 
Preparation Assistance                                      l
ppraisal                    _                               l
Supervision                 _                               lI
27



D. Borrower Performance
Borrower Performance             Highly            Satisfactory           Deficient
l _______________________      Satisfactory                                              l
Preparation                         /
Implementation                                          /
Covenant Compliance                                                                     l
Operation (if applicable)   _
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of Outcome        Highly       Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory        Highly
Satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
I/
Table 2
Related Bank Loans
Loan                           Purpose             Year of Approval              Status
Preceding operations
3877-AR Provincial      Provincial PS and                1995                   Ongoing
Development Loan II     Reforms
3860-AR Municipal       Municipal Reform                 1995                   Ongoing
Development II
3826-AR Provincial      Provincial Reform                1995                    Closed
Reform Loan
4218-AR Provincial      Provincial Reform                1997                   Ongoing
Reform (Rio Negro)
4220-AR Provincial      Provincial Reform                1997                   Ongoing
Reform (San Juan)
4219-AR Provincial      Provincial Reform                1997                    Closed
Reform (Salta)
Following operations
Provincial Reform       Provincial Reform                FY00                   Proposed
(Catamnarca)
Provincial Reform       Provincial Reform                FY01                   Proposed
(Cordoba)
Provincial Reform       Provincial Reform                FY0I                   Proposed
(Buenos Aires)
Seventh Provincial      Provincial Reform                FY02                   Proposed
(Santa Fe)
28



Table 3
Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification                                            April 8, 1997
IM (Project Concept
Document)                                                                  l
Preparation                                                                l
Appraisal                                                  April 1997
Negotiations                                            June 1 i-12, 1997
Letter of Provincial Reform                               July 1, 1997
Board Presentation                                      August 26, 1997
Signing                                                 January20, 1998
Effectiveness                                          September 9, 1998
First Tranche Release                                  September 18, 1998
Midterm Review                                                NA
Second Tranche Release                                    July 9, 1999
Third Tranche Release                                         NA
Project Completion                                        July 9, 1999
Loan Closing                   December 31, 1999       December 31, 1999
Table 4
Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Cumulative              FY98    FY99    FY00
Disbursements                                    l
Appraisal Estimate        55.0   100.0    --
Actual                             55.0    100.0
Actual as % of Estimate    0%      55%    100%
Date of final disbursement: July 9, 1999.
29



Table 5
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present                       Description of                         Comments
Type    Status                         Covenant
2.02 (d)  13       C       Actions described in Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement (all of Complied with
LA         (ii) (C)                   which have been agreed to by the Province and are consistent
with the Bofrower's policy framework regarding provincial
refonns) have been taken in fonm and substance satisfactory to
the Bank. If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have
given notice to the Borrower that the applicable conditions ref
erred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled and, within 90
days after such notice, such conditions continue to be
unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part
thereof
LA         3.01 (a)  13       C       The Borrower and the bank shall from time to time, at the Complied with after
request of either party or of the Province, exchange views on delay
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedules 3 to the Loan Agreement. The
Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan
Agreement, cause the province to participate in such exchanges
of views with the Borrower and the Bank.
LA         3.01 (b)  13       CD      Prior to each such exchange of views, as well as every three    Complied with after
months from the Effective Date to the Second Tranche Release delay
date, the borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan
Agreement, cause the Province to furnish to the Bank for the
Bank's review and comment a report on the progress achieved
in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonable request
LA         3.01 (c)  13       C       Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Complied with
Section 3.01, the Borrower shall exchange views, and, as
allowed by the terms of the Subloan Agreement, cause the
Province to exchange views, with the Bank on any proposed
action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including
any actions specified in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement.
LA         3.01 (d)  13       C       Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of Complied with
Section 3.01, the borrower shall as allowed by the terms of the
Subloan Agreement, cause the Province to assist in, and
provide all infonmation required for, the preparation of the
report referred to in Section 9.07 (c) is amended pursuant to
Section 1.01 (e) of the Loan Agreement.
Covenant Types:
I = Accounts/Audits                                 8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/generate revenue from      9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10 = Project implementation not
3 = Flow and utilization of Project funds                covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                              It = Sectoral or cross sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the project                    budgetary or other resource
or executing agency                                   allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                          12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7 = Involuntary resettlement                            regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Present Status:
C = covenant complied                                CP = complied with partially
CD = complied with after delay                       NC = Not complied with
30



Table 6
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.      Key Implementation Indicators in President's         Estimated        Actual
Report
L
S>ee tables 9, 14-16.
Table 7
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned             Revised               Actual
Stage of
IProject Cycle                                                                                   l
Weeks   US$'000   Weeks   US$'000   Weeks    US$'000
Preparation to Appraisal               n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      n.a.     20.3      $73,531
Appraisal-Board                        n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       6      $24,145
Negotiations through Board Approval    n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       2       $5,337
Supervision                            n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       21       60,588
Completion (WPA costs)                 NA    $30,000                             X1  $35,9382'
TOTAL Direct Costs                                                                      $163,601
rOTAL WPA Costs                                                                        $35,93821
Note: Provincial Reforn loans for Salta, Tucuman, San Juan, and Rio Negro were processed as one loan
uT) to Board presentation. Thus, the project cycle costs shown above represent 1/4 of the total spent on
processing through Board Approval.
' Includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants. Dollars are direct costs only for Preparation through
Supervision; Completion dollars are WPA costs.
2' Actual through April 4, 2000
X = Not available - SAP data is not reliable
31



Table 8
Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Rating
Number                    Specialized     Implementati   Develop-met
Stage of      Month/          of        Days in       Staff Skills         on          Objectives      Types of
Project         Year       Persons       Field       Represented         Status                      Problems/Status
Cycle
ldentification         December         7      12            TM, FM, EcF,            n.a            n.a
2-14, 1996                            PS, SS, ED,
Appraisal              April 1997       7      14             TM, EcF,               n.a.           n.a.              n.a.
ED, PS, C,        ______
Appraisal through                                                                    n.a            n.a               n.a
Board Approval
Supervision
I             December        8           3         TM, EcF, S ,            S              S         Progress in fiscal
10-12,                             ED, PS, C                                        and tax
1997                                                                                administration as
well as in health
system reforms.
Education reforms
somewhat slower.
Lack of agreement
with the water
concessionaire and
potential impact this
may have on fiscal
position delayed
effectiveness and
first tranche release
11            March 19,       2            1           ,PS                  S              S         Program on
1998                                                                                schedule, but
province needs to
resolve issue with
water service.
III            May 1998       6            2        ML, PS, ED, Hit         s               U        Province
implementing
largely in line with
LDP; however
situation with water
service is
unsustainable
delaying
effectiveness.
IV            November         1           2                              No PSR         No PSR       Effective 9/9/98.
12-13,                                                                               First tranche
1998                                                                                disbursed
September 18,
1998.
32



v             December,       1            1        PS                      S              S         The Province
1998                                                                               implementing its
programn in line with
the Provincial
Development
Letter, but problems
in resolving the
situation with water
concession
continue.
VI             FebrMary       2            1             PDSL, Hlt       No PSR          No PSR      Firsttranche
1999                                                                                delayed by water
concession
problems. Federal
water agency will
manage the system
until a new
concessionaire is
found. For second
tranche, province
would have a
bidding document
satisfactory to the
Bank and collect at
least 70% of
billings.
Vin            May 1999        3           2         HDSL,ED,PS
Completion         .August        3            2        TM, PS, C               S               S        Second Tranche
1999                                                                                conditions were met
by the Province in
May 1999 and the
tranche was made
available in July
1999. ICR
Preparation
underway
Completion         October        2            2        C, PSM                  S               S        Overall program
1999                                                                                objectives were
achieved, but with
new administration
sustainability is
uncertain.
Completion         May 2000       4            2        TIM, PSM, Ecf,       No PSR          No PSR
Hlt
Completion        June 2000       2            2        ED
!/ Key to specialization
TM: Task Manager
ML Mission Leader
PSM: Public Sector Management Specialist
SS: Social Sector Specialist
SD: Social Development Specialist
ED: Education Specialist
Hlt: Health Specialist
HDSL: Human Development Sector Leader
EcF: Economist/Fiscal Specialist
FM: Financial Management Specialist
Con: Consultant
33



Table 9
Tucumian's Policy Matrix
Activity                      Accomplished                        Second Tranche
General Condition           Legal opinion confirming the
constitutionality of the reforms included
in the program and conditions of
disbursement
PUBLIC FINANCE
Fiscal Balance              Agreement on targets for the program  Three-month Current Account Surplus
at least at US$10 million equivalent
Reduction in Personnel Cost  Entry into effect of the new public  Personnel Cost is equal to no more than
and Conversion of Public    employee retirement system (as part of    65% of net current revenues
Employment                  the implementation of the program to
restructure public employment)
Implementation of planned reduction of   Number of public sector employees
1,000 central administration employees    (temporary and permanent, excluding
(compared to 1996) through outsourcing   education and health) is limited to
of peripheral services, voluntary or  20,000
planned retirement, and restructuring of
temporary staff.
Debt Stock                  Agreement on overall decline of debt  Debt stock is equal to less than 90% of
current revenues
Sought legislative enactment of Law of
Financial Discipline as mentioned in the
LPR
Public Expenditure Program   Agreement on the composition of      Review of the PEP is satisfactory to the
until 1999                  program and structure of social sector  Bank
expenditures consistent with the
objectives of the program and is included   External auditing of the Provincial
in the Letter of Provincial Reform   Public Accounts; public disclosure of
audit reports.
EDUCATION POLICY REFORM
Improve Administration of   Issuance of decree rationalizing the pay
Human Resources             and benefits of public sector teachers on   Implementation of a new leave system
leave,                               to rationalize the pay and benefits of the
leave.                           educators who are on leave
Obtained legislative authorization to
outsource the control of public teachers
sick leave (Decree 1477) and prepared
the invitation for bids.
Draw of new school structures (plantas
orgdnico-funcional)                  Implementation of the new structures
(plantas organico-funcional)
Management of Sector        Agreement on the budget for the sector    Sought legislative authorization for
and multi-yeai program                annual budgets at the real 1996 level or
at least $280 million equivalent,
whichever is higher.
Personnel cost is equal to no more than
90% of the provincial education budget.
Sought legislative authorization so that
savings in personnel costs can be
applied to non-personnel items;
budgeted amounts may be preserve and
will not be transferred to other sectors.
34



Tucumain's Policy Matrix (cont.)
Activity                      Accomplished              I         Second Tranche
EDUCATION POLICY REFORM (cont.)
Private Sector Participation   Prepare new formula-based subsidies and  Put into effect new system of subsidies
implementation plan                  to private school by provincial decree.
Conversion of Teacher       Restructuring study prepared and study    Reconversion plan started.
Training Institutes         on budgetary impact has been contracted.
HEALTH REFORM COMPONENT
Sector Budget               Agreement to protect the budget of the  Sought legislative authorization for
Health Sector during the reform process   annual sector budget equal to al least
(including IPSS, SIPROSA, and capital    1996 level and to allow savings in
requirements).                       personnel spending to be used in non-
personnel items, including incentives to
Project of 1997 health budget guarantees   staff in the autonomous hospitals.
at least the 1996 level.
Personnel share in health spending is no    Personnel cost share is 80%.
more than 82%.
Autonomous Hospitals        Law defining the autonomous hospitals    Five hospitals are made autonomous.
and calendar for implementation.
Identification of: a) at least five hospitals   New payment system is implemented in
to be converted into self-administered  the HPA.
hospitals (hospitales publicos de
autogesti6n); and b) hospital services to
be outsourced.
Provincial Health Fund for    Agreement to focus public subsidies, now   Establishment of a provincial health
the Poor                    oriented to finance SIPROSA, to the poor  fund (Instituto de Seguro Provincial) to
population.                          provide coverage for a basic health care
package to all indigent residents of the
province who are unable to pay for
health care through any other mean;
maintaining and updating a roster to
identify all potential beneficiaries of the
fund.
Obras Sociales Provinciales   Begin with census of beneficiaries of  The province installs and implement an
OSP, including the beneficiaries of the    improved information system on records
IPSS.                                 on OSP beneficiaries; implement a
policy allowing beneficiaries to choose
Plan to improve structure of OSP.    in which "obra social" to become
members.
New budget procedure allows revenue-
sharing funds ("fondos coparticipados")
for the Province to the provincial entities
to be made available directly to OSP.
Personnel                   SIPROSA staff limited to 6,700.       SIPROSA permanent and temporary
staff limited to 6,250; wage bill in the
Design of incentives scheme to apply to    SIPROSA budget does not exceed 70%.
the autonomous hospital staff.
Incentive scheme applied in the
Apply savings in personnel costs to  autonomous hospitals.
finance these incentives.
35



Table 10
Change in Own-Source Revenues by Province
1996-1999
(US$'000)
1996       1997       1998        1999      Growth
___________  ___________  96-99
Santiago del Estero      65,268.9   82,945.3    93,122.7    89,521.5  37.2%
;alta      -            1115,031.6   130,5430   1133,50.    1468,925S9   27.7%
Chubut                   56,520.3   62,132.3   58,880.6    71,286.9   26.1%
Jujuy                    47,018.9    54,386.4   57,336.9   58,547.6   24.5%
Neuquen                 132,708.2   140,177.0   169,465.2   160,948.3  21.3%
Mendoza                 323,570.0  375,560.0   397,346.6   386,386.6   19.4%
TucumAn                    ,007.7   166,957.0   179,318.3  179,107.9
G.C.B.A.              2,313,880.4 2,455,772.9 2,770,523.8  2,759,651.1   19.3%
San Luis                 74,630.0   80,534.5   85,262.7    88,251.9   18.3%
Santa Fe                729,067.1   875,844,2  925,895.8   854,374.4   17.2%
On Juan                  79,313.6    9                     90,432.4   14.0%
Tierra del Fuego         39,566.5   41,521.9    44,401.0   44,699.0   12.9%
Catamarca                35,843.6   38,690.7    40,438.3   40,123.1   11.9%
Formosa                  22,573.4    27,911.9   30,800.6   25,152.7   11.4%
Buenos Aires          3,867.915.3  4,510,173.6  4,716,413.4  4,263,831.2   10.2%
Rlo Negro  2____    124,120.0   129,720.8   147,5026   135,428.2   9A1%
La Pampa                 90,357.1    93,004.0   104,933.9   97,447.4   7.8%
Corrientes               67,331.6   72,563.6    75,756.1    67,860.0   0.8%
Cordoba                 863,597.5   849,752.0   911,557.6   843,971.8   -2.3%
Entre Rios              286,124.7  298,434.0   302,739.3   275,826.6  -3.6%
Santa Cruz               63,108.9   63,404.6    64,701.2    59,343.1   -6.0%
Chaco                   110,166.2   111,982.3  104,471.8    99,814.9  -9.4%
Misiones                117,050.1   120,185.0   113,727.5   100,662.7  -14.0%
La Rioja                 27,142.6   23,634.2    22,119.0    22,354.0  -17.6%
Total                                                                11.8%
9,801,934.1 10,897,220.0 11,650,443.3 10,961,949.5
Median                                                               12.4%
100,261.7   102,493.2   104,702.9    98,631.2
Mean                                                                 10.7%
408,413.9   454,050.8   485,435.1   456,747.9
PRL-2 Provinces
Sub-Total                                                17.8%
468,472.9   518,609.8   560,549.3   551,894.4
Median                                                 16.7%
119,575.8   130,131.9   140,531.4   141,177.1
Mean   117,118.2   129,652.5   140,137.3   137,973.6   17.6%
NON PRL-2-Provinces
Sub-Total 9,333,461.2 10,378,610.2 11,089,894.0 10,410,055.0   11.5%
Median   100,261.7   102,493.2   104,702.9    98,631.2   10.8%
Mean   466,673.1   518,930.5   554,494.7  520,502.8   9.3%
Source: National Office of Coordination with the Provinces; Undersecretariat of Economic
Relations with the Provinces.
36



Table 11
Change in Personnel Expenditures by Province
1996-1999
(US$'000)
1996       1997       1998        1999     % Growth
.___________________              _ _________  1996-1999
Rio Nego               i391,5.53  383,556.0  386,949.7   377,2       -3.7%
Sao                     4           584.    4283,    474,718.7   1.8%
San Luis                203290.0   197,0                  210,770.1   3.7%6
G.C.B.A.              1,651,547.0  1,723,283.9  1,656,577.5  1,773,834.4   7.4%
Formosa                 347,055.5   355,518.4   371,674.0  374,157.7   7.8%
Catamarca               266,694.9   275,998.5   273,247.5  288,622.1   8.2%
La Pampa                209,927.1   218,574.6   223,913.7   229,874.8   9.5%
Chubut                  283,924.0   290,411.2   306,942.0   311,120.8   9.6%
La Rioja                288,136.1   287,490.9  295,882.2   316,330.3   9.8%
Yu-cum-n                           - 538,765.0  622,370j    7,70       9.9i
Santiago del Estero     361,844.6  372,161.0  389,984.8   401,739.5    1.0%
Jujuy                   330,783.6  327,063.8   368,708.9   367,393.2   11.1%
Mendoza                 638,084.0   645,900.0   672,985.9  721,261.1   13.0%
Santa Cruz              265,534.4   281,665.9   290,760.8   307,157.6   15.7%
Entre Rios              551,511.6   568,595.7   597,095.8   641,568.3   16.3%
Chaco                   505,987.0   526,144.0  557,466.4   593,271.7   17.3%
C6rdoba               1,052,753.7  1,180,495.2  1,213,418.0  1,239,332.6   17.7%
Santa Fe              1,185,451.1  1,213,386.1  1,291,094.5  1,409,732.2   18.9%
Misiones                360,666.1   405,300.0   415,800.0  447,383.3   24.0%
[Sa Juan                317,47U    347,125.7  386,195:0 '-   i77 4   261%
Tierra del Fuego        171,090.8   189,423.0   211,024.0  217,022.6   26.8%
Neuquen                 418,022.8   430,313.5  481,871.2   542,518.3   29.8%
Corrientes              364,833.0  439,106.4  475,024.6   481,445.0   32.0%
Buenos Aires          3,610,484.0  3,991,144.3 4,793,804.3  5,333,295.8  47.7%
Aggregate                                                            22.1%
14,752,157.4 15,646,808.1 16,835,740.8 18,018,224.4
Median                                                               12.1%
==_________________ .363,338.8  394,428.0  402,892.4   424,561.4
Mean                                                                 15.6%
614,673.2   651,950.3  701,489.2   750,759.4
PRL-2-Provinces      __ =_____,
Sub-Total                                                7.5%
1,684,536.0  1,727,771.0  1,758,345.3  1,810,393.1
Median                                                 5.7%
429,615.6  420,940.2   424,890.2  437,531.7
Mean                                                 8.5%
421,134.0  431,942.8   439,586.3   452,598.31
NON-PRL2-Provinces
Sub-Total                                                24.0%
13,067,621.3 13,919,037.1 15,077,395.5 16,207,831.3
Median                                                14.4%
361,255.4  388,730.51  402,892.4  424,561.4
Mean                       I16.9%
Mean_____ _  653,381.1   695,951.91  753,869.8  810,391.6
Source: National Office of Coordination with the Provinces; Undersecretariat of Economic
Relations with the Provinces.
37



Table 12
Evolution of Current Account Balance by Province, 1994-99
(USS'000)
Jurisdiction           1994        1995       1996        1997       1998        1999
TOTAL      957,238    -157,484    308,771   1,610,061    422,740   -1,800,328
G.C.B.A.            312,996     225,888     -62,722     83,271     493,538     220,446
Buenos Aires        784,238     781,486     -18,009    574,227    -356,105  -1,298,018
Catamarca            -84,496    -42,640      -9,108     11,058      22,388      15,513
Cordoba              -99,769    -58,214     222,081    236,811     168,722      82,768
Corrientes           -10,751    -19,961      52,508     26,708     -19,044     -67,851
Chaco                 15,156    -66,331      16,601     32,489      -5,508     -87,303
Chubut              -23,216     -29,377      -1,749     19,243     -55,277     -47,454
Entre Rios           12,495     -42,386      64,810    130,021     101,324      24,870
Formosa             -21,958     -42,262      -3,129     17,702      17,549     -43,651
Jujuy               -50,551    -115,025     -32,276     -57,193    -111,916    -108,380
La Pampa             32,924      25,532      30,932     54,492      43,251      23,141
La Rioja            -135,347    -207,596    -171,687    -117,509    -145,407    -197,263
Mendoza              189,415    -85,733     -80,511     -39,765    -36,180     -48,861
Misiones              3,674     -14,210     -63,567      -4,985    -18,414     -89,508
Neuquen              35,423     -49,458      99,027    144,410     -19,698    -107,924
Rio Negro           -61,713    -166,650    -117,693     -72,982    -54,701     -55,121
Salta                 7,478     -31,059      37,149     50,489      16,524     -24,045
San Juan            -187,602    -157,237     36,873     45,470      30,200     -23,303
San Luis             80,473     112,248     152,666    185,213     209,456     161,846
Santa Cruz           35,041       -3,928     89,118     18,422     -67,643     -87,966
Santa Fe             192,965    -35,581      89,093    226,926     142,390     -64,349
Santiago del Estero  -33,924     35,635      76,553    127,044      84,825      76,460
Tucuman                5,510     -85,097    -62,587     -25,067     67,558       7,791
Tierra del Fuego     -41,225     -85,528    -35,603     -56,436    -85,092     -62,167
38



Table 13
Change in the Stock of Debt by Province, 1996-99
Province         To December   To December        To June          Growth        % Growth
1996           1998            1999            96-99          96-99
ALL PROVINCES               17,255,725      18,780,014     19,936,462     2, 680,740.53        15.5%
Santiago del Estero          389,613          333,014         278,678     (110,935.20)        -28.5%
G.C.B.A. (includes debt to  2,554,100       2,435,400       2,323,400     (230,700.00)         -9.0%
compensate (1)
La Rioja                     506,033          462,890         471,565      (34,467.72)         -6.8%
San Juan               -    424,893           406,093         399,602      (25,291.00)     . 4.0%
La Pampa              -~    ~83,810            81,768          78,972       (4,838.49,)        -5.8%
S                     -      567,695          517,882         546,136      (21,55Y932-)        -3,8%
Mendoza                     1,069,352        1,013,905      1,058,424      (10,928.43)         -1.0%
Entre Rios                   608,083          600,921         637,518       29,434.53           4.8%
C6rdoba                     1,155,347        1,205,692      1,221,742       66,395.31           5.7%
Buenos Aires                3,275,412        3,142,100      3,544,400     268,988.00)           8.2%
Tucumgn                      931,255          982,041        1,033,436     102,180.92          11.0%
Formosa                      723,769          768,222         812, 548      88,779.03          12.3%
Chubut                       344,445          474,552         412,487       68,042.47          19.8%
JujtUy                       594,605          676,222         717,751      123,146.12          20.7%
Rfo Negro                    738,835          869.589         948,613      207,778.14          28.1%
Catamarca                    323,322          402,359         434,980      111,658.24          34.5%
Misiones                     538,973          720,513         782,161      243,187.91          45.1%
Corrientes                   717,836          948,491       1,044,478      326,642.05          45.5%
San Luis                      59,981           88,449          88,355       28,373.52          47.3%
Tier-ra del Fuego            133,119          161,296         225,934       92,814.68          69.7%
Chaco                        667,125         1,020,112      1,187,535      520,409.79          78.0%
Neuquen                      268,736          400,914         508,446      239,709.68          89.2%
Santa Fe                     496,632          931,542       1,004,754      508,121.95         102.3%
Santa Cruz                    82,750          137,046         176,548       93,798.36         113.4%
Stock of Debt    17,255,721  18,780,014       19,936,462         2,680,741           15.5%
Median        553,334     638,572          677,634            90,797            16.0%
Mean         718,988     782,501          830,686           111,698           28.1%
PRI-2-Provinces
Stock of Debt     2,662,678    2,774,604       2,925,787         263,109              9.9%
Median        653,265     693,735          746,374          40,311               3.6%
Mean         665,670    693,651           731,447          65,777              7.3%
NON-PRL2-Provinces
Stock of Debt    14,593,043  16,005,410       17,010,675         2,417,632           16.6%
Median        522,503     638,572          677,634            90,797            20.2%
Mean         729,652    800,270           850,534          120,882            32.3%
Note: (1) Includes 1.458,5 millions of debts to be compensated by the National Government.
Source: National Office of Coordination with the Provinces; Undersecretariat of Economic Relations with the Provinces.
39



Table 14
Change in the Fiscal Performance Indicators, 1995-99
Fiscal Performance Indicators                 1995      1996      1997      1998      1999
Own-Source Revenues / Current Revenues i      17.6%     18.6%    18.7%     18.7%     19.1%
Personnel / Current Revenues 1                68.6%    63.1%     60.6%     54.5%     59.5%
Current Account Balance / Current Revenues'  -11.4%     -7.8%    -2.8%      7.0%      0.8%
Stock of Debt (US$ Million)                     651      931      1010       982      1,033
Stock of Debt/Current Revenues                86.9%    115.7%    113.7%    102.4%    110.2%
' Excluding Discretionary Transfers.
Note: These indicators are based on executed budgets for the period 1995-99. There are some
slight differences with the calculations used to assess fiscal targets in May 1999.
Source: Ministry of Economy and Public Works
40



Table 15
Education: Monitoring Indicators
Monitoring Indicators                                    1996        1999
I. Improved Administration of Human Resources
Percentage of Personnel Costs in total budget in Education  96%      90%
Percentage of absenteeism                                24%          5%
Percentages of substitute teachers                                   54%
II. Increased Educational Efficiency
Percentage of sections with a student / teacher ratio = 19:1  na      Na
Percentage of investment in EGB IlIl and "polimodal" in total  na     Na
educational budget
Number of students in EGB IlIl and "polimodal"            na          Na
III. Decentralization of Educational Institutions
Number of high schools included in the decentralization pilot  Na     30
Percentage of total enrollment in the decentralization pilot  a10%
IV. Private Sector Development
Percentage of schools that abide by the norm
Percentage of additional enrollment in schools under the              0%
new system            __ _
V. Restructuring.of Teacher Training Institutes
35%
Number of higher education institutes closed                       decrease
.___________________________________ _  _in output
Source: PRL-2 Executive Unit; Tucumrn
41



Table 16
Health: Monitoring and Impact Indicators
Monitoring and Impact Indicators                         1996        1999
1. Monitoring Indicators
1. Self-Managed Hospitals
Relative share of self-managed hospitals in terms of:
.  Consultations                                      n.a.        n.a.
.  Total expenditures                                 n.a.        n.a.
2. Payment Mechanism
Relative share of staff that is now under contracts                  10%
3. Human Resources
Percentage of personnel expenditures in total expenditures  79%     67.6%
Percentage of per.sonnel in services and maintenance that  n.a.      n.a.
chooses outsourcing
I. Impact Indicators
1. Targeting of subsidies
Population without coverage covered by the Health                   400,000
Secretariat
2. Service Quality
Average waiting time between recommendation and actual
surgery in self-managed hospitals
.  Centro de Salud
.  Hospital Padilla                                   7.7         4.3
4.7         4.5
.  Niho de Jesus                                      n.a.         i
.  Hospital Avellaneda                                2.2          1
  Maternidad                                          1          1.1
Average waiting time between admission and surgery in self-
managed hospitals
.  Centro de Salud
.  Hospital Padilla                                   12.4       17365
.  Nino de Jesus                                       6          4.9
  Hospital Avellaneda                                 14         5.8
  Maternidad                                          3          2.9
Rate of inter-hospital mortality rate in self-managed hospitals
.  Centro de Salud
.  Hospital Padilla                                   8.9          8
.  Nino de Jesus                                      2.4         1.5
.  Hospital Avellaneda                                3.3         1.6
.  Maternidad                                         2.4         2.6
3. Efficiency in Health
Percentage of bed occupation                            60.8%       60.2%
Average days of hospital stay                             8            7
Percentage of Personnel with respect to total expenditures  79%     67.6%
Expenditures / medical hour                              $120        $87
Office visits I medical hour                              2.7         2.4
Period August-December 1999.
Source: PRL-2 Executive Unit; Tucuman
42



Annex A
Letter of Provincial Reform
Province of Tucuman
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM
July 1, 1997
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn
1.    This letter describes the main objectives of the reform program of the Province of
Tucuman as well as the actions to be taken in the areas of public finance, education and health.
To implement this reform, the Provincial Government requests the financial and technical
assistance of the World Bank.
Background
2.    Tucuman is a province in the Northern Argentina, with a per capita income of about
$3,600 in 1995, ranking 17th in Argentina an-] less than half the Argentina's average. It accounts
for 2.2 percent of Argentina's GDP and 3 percent of the country's population.
3.    In the first part of this decade, the fiscal situation of the province deteriorated rapidly due
to weak public administration and rapid growth in current expenditures. In 1995, the provincial
deficit reached US$186 million or 27% of current- revenues. The wage bill had doubled since
1990 and absorbed 83% of the provincial net revenues. Payment arrears had accumulated to
about US$200 million at end of 1995 or almost one-third of the outstanding debt of US$650
million. Provincial bonds and script represented another 20%. The rest of the outstanding debt
was owed to commercial banks at high interest rates. Debt service consumed half of provincial
revenues.
4.    On the social sectors, the province faced serious problems. Poverty levels were high -
22% of the population had unsatisfied basic needs -- and performance in both health and
ecducation provision was poor despite the high share that both sectors had in the budget. Lack of
water supply is still a major bottleneck to improve the condition of the poor --65% of the rural
poor have no access to water or sewage. Diarrhea is chronic and infant mortality is rampant.
Recent Development Mid-Initial Adjustment
5.    To improve the fiscal situation and restore credibility of the public sector, the new
provincial government initiated a comprehensive reform program aimed at reducing the role of
the state in the local economy and improving the efficiency of social spending.
6.    In 1996, the government took the first steps to restore fiscal balance. The most important
measures were the following:
*  Education of seven departments in the central administration;
* Imposition of a reimbursable 15% "Solidarity tax" on wages, which is now being
reimbursed;
43



*  A wide privatization program of public enterprises - the province has completed the
privatization of all its major enterprises and public services. (The Savings Bank is now
beginning to privatize some departments.);
*  Reduction of public sector employment (mainly through early retirement) by 4,500
workers;
* Transferred the Provincial Pension Fund to the central government;
*  Elimination of the discretionary transfers to the municipalities andcomunas, which in the
past had quasi-automatic financing of their deficits by the province;
* Refinancing the provincial debt.
7.  In 1997, additional measures were taken:
* The Municipal Bank was privatized, assisted by the provincial government;
*  The department of gambling of the Savings Bank is now being privatize a part of the Bank's
privatization;
*  A Ministry of Education has been created to support the reforms in the sector and the
application of the Federal Education Law, while improving resource allocation and aiming
at larger decentralization m the management of the resources allocated to the enrollment
and quality of the education services;
* Since January 1997 the government is retiring "scrip" (provincial bonds) in the amount of
$50 million and is committed to eliminate this type of debt, which has an additional $33
million outstanding.
8.    As a result of the above measures, the fiscal situation improved substantially. The
current deficit fell from $186 million in 1995 to $106 million in 1996 and a small surplus is
expected in 1997 (about 4% of current revenues) allowing some regularization of arrears and
renegotiation of outstanding debt. In the social sectors, the government has improved the
efficiency and equity of the provision of services.
The Reform Program of the Province of Tucuman
9.     The strategy of the Provincial Government is to reduce the role of the pubic sector in the
regional economy, promote participation of the private sector, restructure the provincial
government and ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services. For the period
1997-99, the program focuses on public finance adjustment and reform of social sectors.
10.   On the public finance front, the government intends to: (a) improve tax collection and
administration to promote higher reliance on own-source revenues; (b) reform the civil service
through the structural reform of selected sectors, privatization of public services, outsourcing of
peripheral services and controls to lower absenteeism and overpayments; and (c) rationalize
public expenditures, the spending levels of the social sectors.
11.   In the social sectors, the objective is to improve efficiency in the education and health
sectors, focusing on demand and poverty reduction aspects, while promoting involvement of the
private sector.
* The Education reform will ensure the extension of mandatory education and
implementation of the "polimodal" (polyvalent education) as well as access to the poor
within  current budget constraints.   Priority actions include: (a) increasing  the
student/teacher ratio and the participation of staff teaching actively in total staff, (b) reduce
the disproportionate use of temporary and substitute education personnel; (c) improve the
44



incentives for quality achievement, (d) increase participation of the private sector; and (e)
reduce administrative costs.
* Health reforms will also improve efficiency and equity in the health sector, notably by
separating the provision and the financing of public health semrices, increasing cost
recovery, consolidating Hospital facilities, reducing excessive labor costs and reallocating
resources to non-personnel expenditures, improving targeting to the poor and increasing
health insurance coverage (within the current health budget constraints).
Public Finance
12.    The provincial government is committed to obtain a sustained fiscal balance by the end of
1998, and to abide by strict creditworthiness rules. In particular, it intends to (a) obtain a current
surplus every year; (b) reduce personnel expenditures to 65 % of net current revenues; (c) assure
fiscal surpluses large enough to reduce the debt stock to a sustainable level (less than 80% of the
recurrent revenues in 1999, while keeping investment levels at an adequate level: (d) maintain
debt service at an adequate level, although this will be possible only after the debt stock is
completely refinanced and restructtred.
13.    The fiscal objectives and benchmarks are shown in Table HI (in Annex) and are feasible.
The provincial government is committed to increase the current resources and cut personnel costs.
Provincial resources are expected to grow due to, among other factors, the improvement in tax
collection and outsourcing of collection of the delinquent tax debt. The provincial government
expects that provincial tax revenues will exceed 24% of total resources in 1999 compared with
19%/o in 1995.
14.    The provincial government plans to adjust public spending through outsourcing of
peripheral activities; debt refinancing and restructuring of the public administration. We plan to
implement a program of restructuring of the public sector, which includes several national and
provincial programs of voluntary retirement, as well as measures to increase the efficiency and
reward of the public sector employees.
15.    The government expects to reach a sustainable fiscal balance in 1998 with a current
surplus of at least $40 million. Personnel costs will be 65% of the net current revenues in 1998;
the debt stock would go below 80% of current revenues by 1999.
(a) Tax Administration Reform
16,   Improvement in Tax Collection, Auditing and Billing. The province has an important
tax base, which traditionally has been underutilized due to weak administrative capacity and high
tax evasion. The government plans to implement several measures to remedy that situation.
17.    Tax Collection. The province made an agreement with the commercial banks to enable
the automatic registration of the tax payments. The implementation of regional tax agencies has
begun which will improve tax management by decentralizing the issue property and vehicle tax
statements. The collaboration of the Department de Rentas and the Department of Cadastre led to
an increase in the number of registered properties by 30,000 (increasing the tax base in 1997) and
is expected to cover an additional I 00,000 plots 'm 1997-99.
18.    Tax Auditing. The government 'increased the number of auditors (inspectors) which led
to better supervision and assessment of the size of the delinquent taxes (about $21 million in
terms of turnover tax). In addition, 2,000 cases of vehicle tax evasion were reported. Law 6812
45



was approved authorizing the outsourcing of tax auditing, collection and ban of the taxpayers
living outside the province -- "Ingresos Brutos del Convenio Multilateral ".
19.   Compulsive Collection. A special effort was done to recover delinquent taxes. More
lawyers were hired and the "Court de Apremio" was strengthened. During February-April, the
lawyers initiated tax recovery actions on a total of $5 million.
20.   The stock of delinquent tax is estimated at $5 6 million for the vehicle tax, $13 8 millions
in property taxes and $2 million inIngresos Brutos. To make it easier for the debt to be paid, the
province will offer a gradual payment plan by which outstanding tax debts will be paid in 8
installments at a rate of interest of 1.2% monthly.
21.   Reform of Tax Department-. After some interruption in the, strengthening process, the
program initiated with the support of the IDB and the Bank is being continued. Priority was
given to recovery of taxpayers' accounts, and revision of the Tax Code.
22.   Restructuring of the Cadastre: The Cadastre Department in Feb. 1997 began defining
the basic unit values to update property valuations. In parallel, we are planning to advance with
the aerometric assessment, cartography and census. This project will bring about 10 million
square meters of property tax base which means an increase of 50% without taking account the
updating of values.
23.   Both the measures taken and those to be taken, will raise provincial tax revenues even
before the impact of the subproject cadaster on collection levels. In addition, the improvement in
the own-source revenues will enable the province to advance in the elimination of distortionary
taxes, notably the tax on the payroll of the private sector.
b) Personnel Expenditures and Civil Service Reform.
24    Personnel expenditures in Tucuman represented 83 % of net revenues in 1995. During
1997-1999, the government program includes a reconversion program to promote the change
from public sector to private sector, while improving the quality of public services
25    The important aspects of the program  are: outsourcing, voluntary retirement, pro
retirement, and non-renewal of temporary contracts. The planned beginning of large private and
public works will provide work opportunities for employees who will be leaving the public
administration sector. In this way, we expect to the social cost of the reform
26.   These measures will be followed by a new system of regulation of payments, which will
allow to detect existing errors in the payment of public employees and could reduce the wage bill
by 5 percent.
27. The provincial government intends to outsource services which are being now delivered by
the State but that could be undertaken by public employees in the form of private firms or
cooperatives.
28.   The provincial government wants to reinforce the programs of voluntary and
programmed retirement offering public employees who want to leave a compensation package
which will provide either some capital for those willing to initiate their own private businesses or
a cushion while wait' to re-enter in the labor market.
46



29.   At the same time, the province plans to increase the wages of key personnel who have an
important role in the functioning of government. This would allow the province to require more
professionalism, higher productivity, and retaining good professionals. This measure will be
financed by the savings obtained by the other measures described above.
(c) Rationalizing Public Expenditure
30    The government will continue the policy of not subsidizing public enterprises (now
mostly privatized) and will ensure that public spending will be oriented to priority sectors with
strict criteria for economic and financial justification.
31.   Capital expenditures will increase from $ 101 million (9% of total expenditures) in 1996
to $149 million in 1999. Half will be financed by the provincial public savings. The remaining
will be financed by earmarked transfers from the center. The planned level of investment
expenditures would be reduced to the extent that the anticipated financing sources do not
materialize.
32.   The stock of debt will decline to 80% of the current revenues. New borrowing will be
exclusively designed to refinance old -debt, finance amortization, or finance well-justified
projects.
33.    The Three-Year Public Expenditure Plan mirrors the priorities of the government, e.g.
social sectors (education, health), poverty -alleviation, potable water and environment. The
government is committed to increase the education share to 30% of the budget. All investment
projects to be undertaken during 1997-99 will have adequate justification, with the ERR of at
least 10%.
34.   To improve the participation of the private sector and the transparency of the pubic
sector, the government will revise and propose to the Legislature a reform of the state contracting
lavv (licitaci6n para la contrataci6n de obras y servicios publicos).
35.   To ensure the continuity of the process of transparency and budgetary accountability, the
government will propose to the Legislature a Financial Discipline Law based on four principles:
(i) balanced annual budgets with a current surplus -- no borrowing will be permitted to finance
current expenditures; (ii) annual external auditing by independent auditors; (iii) debt limits: new
borrowing will be limited to finance feasible and economic sound projects; (iv) limits in the debt
stock below 80% of recurrent revenues and personal costs below 65 % of net current revenues.
Education
36.   Education in the province of Tucuman faces multiple challenges. On the one hand, a
significant increase in educational demand is expected due to demographic growth and extension
of compulsory education from 6 to 10 years. On the other hand, there is a need to improve the
efficiency and quality of the education system, since Tucuman is now in 18th position among the
Argentine provinces. In the present budget, current spending accounts for 97% of the budget,
lifnestone the allocation of resources to investment. The provincial government is committed to
improve this situation.
37.   The province has taken some measures, notably the creation of a Ministry for Education:
the definition of class organization (Planta funcional) in Primary Education; the diagnosis and
design of the administrative reform and the adoption of a new leave system
47



38.   During 1997-99, the government program includes five components aiming at generating
savings, which will finance the extension of primary education in line with the new Federal
Education Law. In this context, the savings will finance, in the first place, the equipment,
maintenance and expansion of school infrastructure; teaching training as required by the new
curricula; and programs aimed at reducing repetition and dropout rates. Secondly, the savings
will allow the new Ministry of Education to strengthen its capacity to manage, promote and
regulate educational policies and strategies. It is expected that the share of personnel costs will
drop to 87% of the education budget and that 13% could be allocated to investment and non-
personnel inputs, allowing the province to get closer to international standards.
39.   The objectives of those pro include: (i) improving the administration of the educational
sector; (ii) increasing educational efficiency; (iii) decentralizing educational institutions,
especially secondary schools; (iv) promoting the development of the private sector; and (v)
restructuring of the teacher training institutes.
a) Improvement in the administration of the sector. The government win implement a
system of global administration which will reduce sick leave as well as absenteeism- An
estimated $10 million savings could be used to improve the technical level of the personnel
both administrative and directors.
b)  Increase the efficiency of the primary education: The rearrangement of the functional
plant and school consolidation would produce significant savings that will be used to finance
structure -- associated with consolidated or expansion of some schools, as well as for the
extension of primary education to nine-years (EGB HD.
c)  The decentralization of schools will take place through one pilot program of 30 secondary
schools (out of 142). This will allow to test and better understand the concept of school
autonomy -- included in the future Provincial Education law -- whereby resources are
allocated to schools on a per-student basis, including incentives to improve quality and cut
repetition and dropout rates. The potential savings in the secondary education will be used
to increase in quality and enrollment at this level.
d) Development of the private sector: the government's policy aims at replacing the existing
teacher-based subsidy system by a Competitive Fund which will assign the resources based
on per-student based formula, and will promote new capacities and improve education
quality. A student-based formula would allow us to increase the number of private schools
that could benefit from these subsidies or generate savings to finance programs to improve
education quality
c)  Conversion of the Teacher Training Institutes: The provincial government is aware the
reconversion of teacher training is a priority in implementing the Federal Education law. To
reach this objective, the government will modify the enrollment system on 1998 in all public
institutes as well as those that are public with private management, and will implement a
system of accreditation which will regulate the functioning of these schools and their number
in line with the demand. In the future, teaching training (continuing education) will be
contracted out to universities and private teacher training schools.
40.   Monitoring System. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services
rendered to the community, the government of Tucuman will use a system of indicators discussed
48



with the Bank. These include the way that the reform unfolds and the long-run impact in the
education quality and school coverage.
Health
41.   The government is committed to restructure the sector as a key factor to improve quality
of the services. The ingredients of the reform include: (a) changes in the financing system and
targeting the subsidies to the poor in a context of a constant sector budget (in real terms); (b)
introducing a new payment system to be used by financing agents to contract out services with
public and private providers; and (c) a greater administrative and financial decentralization.
42. In particular, the government has the following key areas of intervention:
Autonomous Hospitals: the government will create at least 5 autonomous hospitals (all of
level LX) with corresponding administrative and financial decentralization, financed by the
sale of services to public and private Funds and insurance and with a legislation which will
allow a flexible contracting of human resources. The first three autonomous hospitals will
be operational at the end of 1997 and the other two by the end of 1998.
e Coverage of the Medical Program to cover I 00% of those not insured, through a new
Provincial Health Fund, which will outsource services to third parties. In this way the
public subsidy will subsidize demand through the creation of a Provincial Health Fund.
This medical program should be in place in 1999.
* Introduction of a new payment system based on a basic service-package and capitation
formula to be used in the autonomous hospitals.
* Restructuring of the Obra Social Provincial with the objective of offering an institutional
alternative to the workers and guaranteeing the efficiency in the provision of insurance and
the purchase of the services, This restructuring should begin in 1998.
* Restructuring of the central level of SIPROSA. With the creation of autonomous
hospitals, and the separation of public health provision from financing and the creation of
the Provincial Health Fund, SIPROSA will shift from its role of executive agent to one or
supervision, regulation and provision of public goods of especial concern, such prevention
of endemic diseases, infant and maternal mortality, etc. The restructuring would be
concluded at the beginning of 1999.
43. Intervention in these areas will lead to:
* a change in 13% of the--, wage bill, in addition to the policy reforms mentioned elsewhere
in this letter which will bring additional savings from outsourcing supporting services;
* increased cost-recovery capacity through better billing and collection mechanisms (from
Obras Sociales Nacionales and Provinciales and private insurance);
* the introduction of a n(,-w incentive system which will increase efficiency and
transparency of transactions in the health system and;
. outsourcing as a mechanism of contracting general services.
44.   Monitoring System. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services
rendered to the community, the government of Tucuman will use a system of indicators discussed
49



with the Bank (table H6), which will enable the government to monitor the progress and results of
the reforms.
45.   Financial needs. To support the reform, the sector would need the following assistance:
US$35 million to rehabilitate the infrastructure and equipment of the hospital network; (b)
US$8.3 million to strengthen the Provincial Health Fund information technology, census, and
identification of users and improvement of physical conditions; and US$5 million in technical
assistance to support the creation of autonomous hospitals and the restructuring of the provincial
health system.
46.   Part of these costs will be financed by the provincial government, PRESSAL I and II
(under consideration), the Projects Provincias I and ll, PROMIN and own sources.
Impact of the Reform Program in Environment
47.   Given the nature of the reform program, its implementation should have no negative
impact on the environment. However, the province will undertake environmental audits for the
hospitals included in par. 42, financed by the technical assistance of PRESSAL and before the
transformation of the Autonomous Public Hospitals. The terms of reference, the proposed
consultant, and his/her report will need to be satisfactory to the Bank. The recommendations will
be included in the contracts of transference and of constitution of the Autonomous Public
Hospitals. The government is fully committed to environment protection and is obliged to review
and revise the legal and institutional framework - which includes the government agency in
charge of the environmental control - of the management of the hospital and its pathological
waste. The government is committed to implement the improvements m the legal and
institutional framework which will be needed, in agreement with the normal rules and standards,
accepted in the Argentine Republic, to ensure the adequate collection, transport, treatment and
final deposit of pathological waste.
Letter of Provincial Reform of Tucuman
48.   In line with the above, the provincial government agrees that the National Government
includes, in the Loan Agreement to be signed with the World Bank, one Annex with the details
on the objectives considered in the Provincial Development Letter and referred to in the Policy
Matrix attached
Justification for the request of World Bank Assistance
49.   Three reasons justify the importance our provincial government gives to the support of
the World Bank. First, I would like to mention the importance of the financial support, which
will allow the financing of the adjustment costs and priority outlays. Second, I would mention
the technical and professional support received from your staff- Third, the fact that the bank is
supporting our program of reform gives us the confidence on the quality of our own program and
will help us to attract the private investors of Argentina and other countries.
Sincerely,
Dr. Antonio Bussi
Governor
50



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
Annex B
Institutional Evaluation
1.    This report reviews the relevance of institutional factors in project implementation and
outcomes. It focuses on the capacity of the institutional arrangements to affect incentives governing
policymaking and service delivery, and the fit between these arrangements and the institutional
capabilities of the province. The evaluation also includes an assessment of the sustainability of the
reforms and their impact on the province s' institutional development. The evaluation draws from a
desk review of the loan's main documents, and fieldwork based on interviews with key officers and
stakeholder consultations during two two-day missions to the province of Tucuman. It is organized
as follows:
Objectives and Reform Incentives
2.     The primary objective of the PRLII was to support the efforts of Tucumin to reform and
restructure its government so as to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services,
particularly in health and education, within fiscally sound policies. The strategy was to enhance
governance by beginning to reorient the role of the state toward that of a partner in promoting
market-led growth and as a facilitator and regulator of social services. The reforms encompassed
public finance and administration, education and health and addressed issues related to public
fiscal management and provision and financing of social services. Table I summarizes by sector
the objectives and actions in restructuring, institutional strengthening, and institutional
arrangements (i.e., rules, norms, procedures) for policy-making and service delivery.
3.     An important objective was to provide incentives for policymakers and public agents. As
such, the Financial Discipline Law would act as a hard budget constraint governing the size and
use of budgetary resources. Likewise, budget reform sought to protect social sector budgets and
allow them to retain savings that could then be spent on investment. Further, institutional
arrangements for service provision, were aimed at enhancing the state's ability to efficiently meet
common content and performance standards for social service delivery. These arrangements
comprised a combination of voice, competition and hierarchy mechanisms. For example, in
education, the criteria for allocating transfers to private schools was to promote competition
among these schools for improving efficiency and the quality of education. Likewise, school
management decentralization aimed at enhancing schools' performance by promoting greater
participation from parents and the community. In health, the arrangements called for a separation
of supply and demand for services, with autonomous hospitals and health insurance for the poor,
in order to provide competition to increase efficiency and quality.
4.     Although these arrangements were mostly adequate to generate the incentives pursued,
they might have been enhanced with greater use of transparency and accountability mechanisms
to help ensure that the new rules were binding. Table II provides examples such mechanisms.
This approach was used effectively in the implementation and monitoring of autonomous
hospitals, and reinforced and with strong participatory elements to help build ownership and
enhance sustainability (see box). Subsequently, a client survey was undertaken to measure
impacts on quality. This approach could have been extended to other reforms, with monitoring
the impact on the quality of service (through consumer surveys and surveillance by professional
associations) acting to increase the legitimacy of the reforms among other stakeholders.
51



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
Participatory Approach in the Implementation
of the Autonomous Hospitals Reform.
A team within the Ministry of Health was forned to design and conduct the strategy of
implementation of the autonomous hospital reform. It defined a comprehensive action plan with
changes at the hospital and sector level, new agreements with insurance companies and new working
relationships with the Federal Ministry of Health. The implementation of the action plan was
assigned to individual teams that were held accountable. At the same time, a sensitization process
was conducted among the sector's staff to disseminate the potential benefits of the reform. In
addition, the team employed incentives for involving the hospital's personnel in the reform
implementation. For example, additional resources were assigned to training, equipment and
upgrading of working conditions to facilitate the implementation of the reform. Also, performance
indicators were legitimized by discussing with medical staff and giving flexibility when necessary.
5.     In sum, PRL 2 was innovative in including institutional arrangements for policymaking
and service delivery reforms that are not normally considered in most Bank operations. In this
way, the project contributed to generate incentives for achieving higher levels of efficiency in
service delivery and sound fiscal performance. These arrangements were enhanced when
complemented by accountability and transparency mechanisms, which also served to build
ownership and promote sustainability.
Institutional Capability
6.     The implementation of the institutional arrangements introduced by PRL 2 required an
active participation and alignment of the institutions governing the state, politics and society. For
example, the reform actions aimed at introducing efficiency criteria in the use and allocation of
resources required that the public institutions (e.g., public sector practices, routines, tradition and
codes of behavior installed within the public bureaucracy) support the new management
procedures. Likewise, in the political sphere the Financial Discipline Law required the approval
of Congress, and thus, the alignment of different political preferences and incentives. Finally, the
reforms that dealt with the access and quality of social services were subject to judgment under
the society's paradigm on the role of the state and to be supported or opposed accordingly.
7.     Political institutions in Tucumin generally offered weak support in facilitating the
ownership for implementing the reforms. Although the governor and senior executive officers
expressed commitment to implement the institutional reforms of the program, the province's
considerable fiscal challenges was their dominant concern. Thus, priority was given to those
reforms with an immediate impact on savings over institutional reforms that might have required
additional resources. This situation, plus the limited access of the sector ministers to the governor
limited support to carryout the institutional reforms, particularly finance and education. In
addition, the province's political configuration had a negative effect on the implementation of
reforms. First, the ruling party did not have majority in Congress, which limited substantially
their chances to pass laws required by the reforms. Further, the three most important parties in
Tucuman lack a loyal political base, which make the parties more sensible to the population's
reactions. Thus, given the social costs implied by the reform in terms of eventual unemployment
and income-reduction, there was an important incentive for the opposition parties to benefit from
52



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
resisting the reforms. Moreover, the high level of fragmented interests within the political parties
due to the province's parliamentary electoral rules, limited the opportunities to obtain support
from the opposition through negotiations. Second, the capacity to build public consensus for the
reforms, and in this way to block the opposition, was limited due to the few participatory spaces
and mechanisms for involving the civil population in the design of policy and service delivery
options. Such mechanisms would have helped the government to tap the population's frustration
with the poor management and low level of accountability of previous administrations. As a
result, several laws presented to the Legislature for approval, -- e.g., the Education Sector Law
and the Law for Outsourcing Control of the Teachers Sick Leave-designed to support the
reforms were not passed, given the particular interests of the Congress members -- e.g., to
maintain political control over the executive agencies by using patronage. Surprisingly, however,
the administration did succeed in having the Law of Fiscal Discipline approved by Congress
(during negotiations, the administration was only able to commit to submitting the law for
approval given its lack of confidence in the political mechanisms). In this case, the government
was able to convince key opposition congress members about the benefits of this law and, thus,
had their support in the negotiation of the law within their parties.
8.    Public institutions also provided only limited support to the reforms. The lack of
adequate institutional arrangements within the public administration put serious obstacles during
the implementation. Thus, the required conditions of policy and rule credibility for generating the
correct incentives to implement the reform were not partially present. As mentioned above, the
presence of pork in the public administration created the incentives for particular groups to
oppose to the reforms and to seek for political support among Congress members. In addition, the
lack of accountability and transparency mechanisms within the public administration generated
practices and incentives among the staff that clashed with the reforms objectives and delayed the
refcorm implementation. The education sector illustrates clearly this situation. Due to the lack of
reliable planning and control mechanisms, the practice at all levels of the Ministry was to
overestimate the human resources requirements in order to maintain and increase jobs for the
personnel. Therefore, the administration had to first introduce new control mechanisms, which
delayed the implementation of the reforms. However, the Ministry of Finance did not have either
the sufficient power or the capacity to set clear rules nor assist the sector ministries to determine
their real need of resources to operate the sector under the reform process.
9.     The low institutional capacity of the public sector combined with the serious financial
crisis also hindered the implementation of the reforms and the PRL II made special efforts to
address the limited capacity of the sector agencies in terns of technical skills, procedures and
equipment by coordinating technical assistance with other World Bank and IDB projects. The
serious financial situation of the province combined with a weak pressure to accomplish the
institutional strengthening actions from the executive, limited the province's opportunities to
beniefit from them. Moreover, the low level of institutional development of other public agencies
put also obstacles in the achievement of the reform's objectives. For example, shortcomings at
the lower health care levels generated an excessive flow of patients to the autonomous hospital
that imposed important challenges on the hospital's capacity and on the system's financial
viability. Hospitals had to deal with patients who skipped lower levels of attention due to their
poor resolution capacity. Finally, the capacity and political support of the reform's leaders to
deal with legal and regulatory environment constraints was not adequate in certain cases. The
health sector, for instance, could manage these constraints given the superior position of the
reform leader in the government. When the Obras Sociales restrained the payments for services
rendered to the autonomous hospitals, the province appealed to the regulator institutions of the
Obras, the ANSAAL to get paid. However, this was not case for the education sector when the
Tribunal de Cuentas obliged them to stop the process of outsourcing the medical control of
53



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
teachers' leaves.  Although, the Ministry of Education challenged the objectivity of this
resolution, it was not able to get political support to resolve the dispute.
10.    Finally, social institutions offered few possibilities for building reform ownership within
civil society. Tucuman benefits from informed and organized actors including three important
universities and important NGOs that make substantial contributions on issues related to the state
administration. The Fundaci6n Tucuman is good example of the latter; a non-profit organization
financed by the province's major firms that develop specific analytical studies in the social sector
areas. However, these institutions are not closely linked to the political system and do not use the
provincial political parties as intermediaries to articulate their interests. Likewise, the population
at large has manifested increasingly its frustration with the performance of political parties. As a
result, the nexus between the state and society is weak. People have little incentive to pursue an
active participation and demand accountability. In addition, the fact that society's expectations
on the state's role are highly heterogeneous, also limit the opportunities to make the state
accountable for its actions. For example, the presence of patronage and pork in public
administration is the result of certain people's interests on benefiting from the state in this way.
Similarly, the presence of pervasive attitudes and practices among the population towards the
state such as rent seeking and not complying with tax obligations also debilitates the opportunities
for demanding good governance practices from the state.
Reform Sustainability and Impact on Institutional Development
11.    Sustainability: Several factors can  account for reform  sustainability, including
government lifespan, the likelihood of policy reversal, and incentives and capacity of societal
actors to hold government accountable. Underlying these factors is the question of the legitimacy
of refonns, i.e., are they considered as the best option to address the sector challenges and is there
acceptance of the expected benefits and costs among the major stakeholders. Such a process can
be facilitated by including main stakeholders and actors during reform design and
implementation.'7  By this measure, the level of sustainability of the reforms undertaken in
Tucuman is judged as mixed. To date, the new administration -- a coalition of the two most
traditional parties - has been pursuing policies to reinforce fiscal adjustment and savings-
generation. The factors that explained the continuation with the adjustment reforms have been
the awareness of both government and society of the costs generated by the financial deficits, and
thus, on their consensus about the benefits of pursuing a sound fiscal performance. As mentioned
above, the Law of Fiscal Discipline provided the opportunity to involve the government,
Congress and society in the discussion of the Law's benefits. In addition, the new administration
has showed its interested in continuing with the PRL II reforms that were not completed, such as
tax administration, reform of the state contracting law and the outsourcing of peripheral services,
including the medical control of teachers' leaves. Also, the current administration has limited the
contracting of personnel and is following the budget allocations required by the Fiscal Discipline
Law.
12.   In contrast, the reforms aimed at incorporating new institutional arrangement in service
delivery, have yet to receive a similar level of endorsement. Interviews and workshops with new
ministers and key officers of the sector ministries found that they were not very convinced as
regards the benefits and costs of these reforms. In the education sector, although there is some
interest in decentralizing school management to schools, the new authorities manifested that they
would postpone implementation until all costs or other potential problems generated by
17     A participatory approach could also provide insights about the factors and mechanics involved in
policymaking and service delivery that could enrich the project design.
54



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
decentralization could be fully identified.18 On the other hand, the chances to implement the new
subsidy system to private schools appear to be low, given uncertainty that the expected costs,
including the opposition of key stakeholders and constituencies, would not offset the expected
benefits (The successful results with this reform in Salta may provide some evidence to the
province of Tucuman for reconsidering the reform's benefits).
13.   In health, many stakeholders are not convinced that the reforms are the best option to
address the problems of the sector. The stakeholders' consultation revealed that the reform on
autonomous hospitals has surprisingly little legitimacy among them, in spite of the benefits of
enhancing the capacity to generate revenues, as this was seen as insufficient to resolve what the
felt was the sector's major problem: insufficiency of resources. Moreover, the perception of
stakeholders is that the new financing mechanisms introduced by the reform would increase the
inequities in the health system's financing, led to shortages in physical and human resources, and
did not adequately address issues of quality. Moreover, the stakeholders challenged the success
of the reform at hospital Padilla by accusing the hospital of practicing adverse selection or
discriminatory practices among its potential patients. In addition, although the hospital Padilla
came to a successful arrangement in the implementation of productivity indicators and
performance-based incentives for its personnel, this arrangement has not convinced health
workers at the sector level. Their main argument is that performance indicators could not address
the externalities found in hospital's operation. Finally, the fact that the reform could show
important benefits in just one hospital of the five were it was being implemented, reduced the
legitimacy of the reform.
14.   Impact: Whether the institutional changes introduced by the PRL2 had an impact on the
province 's institutional development, depends on the consolidation of the new rules of the game
for policy-making and service delivery and its impact on governance. Thus, an individual study
is required to evaluate those issues. However, the observations and information obtained suggest
that, in spite of the partial achievement of some PRL II reforms, there was some positive impact
on the province's institutional development, particularly in terms of provincial fiscal performance
institutions. For example, the PRL II had a key role on the consensus achieved between the
government and civil society on the serious costs of a poor fiscal management, and, hence, on the
need to have new rules and practices to prevent this. The PRL II, by introducing new institutional
arrangements and practices in public finance, generated a "new culture" on fiscal management
among the public sector staff. The sustainability of these measures, as indicated by their
employment by the new administration, strongly suggests an impact on fiscal management
institutions. For example, the government has granted the Ministry of Finance dominance over
aggregate spending by reinforcing its authority and capacity to set the rules and standards on
budget planning and to implement financial control mechanisms to the other sectors. On the
other hand, the low sustainability of the service delivery reforms indicates their low impact on
promoting institutional in this area. The lack of an adequate institutional assessment limited the
possibilities to incorporate institutional factors into the design and implementation of the service
delivery reforms, which could have enhanced the reform's sustainability and impact.
18    In this regard, the pilot implemented through the Plan Social and PRISE, based on introducing
autonomy and community participation in curriculum decision-making, may give the basis for evaluating
the benefits of this reforms, and thus, for extending the experiment to other school issues and to more
schools.
55



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
Lessons Learned from the Institutional Evaluation
15.   Institutional reforms can be facilitated by improvements in institutional capacity. The
previous efforts of the province of Salta in modernizing the public administration by improving
the stock of human and physical resources and management tools facilitated the implementation
of the reforms. On the contrary, the low institutional capacity in Tucuman posed constraints in
terms of time and competence to carryout the reforms.
16.   Institutional reforms benefit from a participatory approach: This was the case with the
implementation of the new subsidy formula to private schools in Salta and the reform on
autonomous hospitals in Tucuman. The participatory approach facilitated the resolution of the
constraints that appeared during implementation and provided options to resolve the potential
conflicts. Also, this approach promoted the legitimacy of the new formula in Salta.
17.    Transparency and accountability. Institutional reforms aimed at introducing incentives
for improving the performance on policymaking and service delivery, can benefit from
accountability and transparency mechanisms to help make them binding: In the case of Salta, the
fact that sector ministers had to show the Ministry of Finance that their fiscal management was
aligned with fiscal goals avoided potential disagreements amnong agencies and helped for a
smoother implementation of the reforms.
18.   Institutional strengthening actions are key for a successful reform implementation: The
efforts made by the PRL II to provide technical assistance by capitalizing on other loans proved
to be crucial for reform implementation. Likewise, when this support could not be provided on a
timely manner, it had a negative impact on the pace of the implementation of the reforms.
Therefore, technical assistance should be flexible enough to respond to the specific requirements
of the provinces in terms of time, contents and approach.
19.   Given the complexity of institutional reforms, the appointment of key staff with a vision
on the reforms along with political support had an important effect on the chances on
implementing the reform: Substantial progress on reform implementation was obtained when
there was a champion leading the reform, with vision and access to the governor. This was the
case in the education sector in Salta anti in the health sector in Tucuman.
56



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
Table I
Institutional Arrangernents of the PRL-2
Sectors/Area     Reform           Reform Objectives                      Reform Actions
Components                           Institutional              Institutional
Strengthening/Moderni-     Arrangements
zation and Restructuring
Public Finance and Administration
Policymaking     Tax               To promote higher   - Establishment of an      - Tax simplification and
Administration   reliance on own-    agreement with commercial   revision of the Fiscal Code.
Reform           source revenues by   banks for improving tax    - Outsourcing tax collection
improving tax      collection.                 (processing and collection).
collection and     - Improved identification of   - Reform of the Tax
administration.    tax payers.                 Department with focus on
- Completion of the project of monitoring and auditing.
modernization of the system
of cadastre.
Personnel        To enhance the      -Reinforce the programs of    - Privatization.
Expenditures and   public sector's   voluntary and programmed    - Outsourcing of peripheral
Civil Service    productivity and    retirement.                services.
Reform           efficiency.         - Increase the wages of key
personnel.
- Non-renewal of temporary
contracts.
-Establishment of a new
system of regulation of
payments.
Rationalizing     To enhance                                     - Establishment of a
Public           allocative                                      Financial Discipline Law.
Expenditures     efficiency.                                     - Reform of the State
Contracting Law.
- Establishment of ERR of
at least of 10% as a criteria
of justification for
______________ _______________I______________  _____________investment projects.
Education
Policymaking    Improve Sector    Ensure the extension                            - Agreement on budget
Budget            of mandatory                                   envelopes & introduction of
Management        education and                                  multi-year program.
implementation of                              - Legislative authorization
the "polimodal" as                            so that savings in personnel
well as guarantee                              costs could be applied to
access to the poor                             non-personnel items.
within budget
constraints.
Human resource    Enhance the level of  - Implement a new personnel
management       efficiency and      administration system.      -aIssuance of decree
reform.          productivity in the                             rationalizing the pay and
use of human                                   benefits of teachers' leave.
resources.                                     - Outsourcing the control of
public teachers sick leave.
57



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
Sectors/Area     Reform            Reform Objectives                     Reform Actions
Components                           Institutional               Institutional
Strengthening/Moderni-     Arrangements
zation and Restructuring
Increase the     Promote a better                                - Implementation of new
efficiency of the    utilization of the                          structures - plantas
system.           primary and                                    organicasfuncionales to
secondary schools.                            reduce the student/teacher
ratio.
Restructuring     Reduce the         - Prepare a strategy to train    Implementation of the
Teacher Training   inefficiencies    teachers.                   Nation's accreditation
Institutes        encountered in     - Reduce the training       system.
teacher training.  capacity.
Service Delivery  Decentralization    - To improve quality  - Implement a pilot   - Implement a pilot
of Secondary      of education.      compensatory program for    management model at the
Schools                              schools in risk and to support  school level.
teacher quality.
Development of    To introduce                                   - Establishment of a
the Private Sector  incentives for                               Competitive Fund to assign
private schools to                            resources based on per-
increase                                       student based formula.
enrollments.
Health
Policymaking     Sector Budget     To improve the                                 - Agreement on the sector
efficiency of the                              budget envelope &
health system and                             introduction of multi-year
target the benefits to                         program.
the poor within the                            - Legislative authorization
Constraints of fiscal                          so that savings in personnel
discipline.                                    costs could be applied to
non-personnel items.
Restructuring of   To change its role    Strengthen its role of
SIPROSA.         from direct provider  executive agent to one of
to regulator and   supervision, regulation and
fimancer of public    provision of public goods of
goods.             special concern.
Service Delivery  Autonomous       To improve                                     - Law defining the
Hospitals         allocative and                                 autonomous hospitals and
productive                                     calendar of implementation,
efficiency.                                   including inter-alia: (a)
administrative and fnancial
decentralization; (b)
legislation that allow
flexible contracting of
human resources.
-New payment system based
on basic service-package
and capitation formula.
Provincial Health   To improve the   - To establish and maintain a   - Establishment of a
Insurance         access of the poor to  roster of beneficiaries to  Provincial Health Insurance
quality services.  identify all potential      Institute to manage the
beneficiaries of the fund.  provincial health fund to
provide coverage to the
poor.
58



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
Sectors/Area     Reform            Reform Objectives                     Reform Actions
Components                           Institutional              Institutional
StrengtheninglModerni-     Arrangements
zation and Restructuring
Restructuring of                     - Implementation of system  - Policy to introduce
the Obra Social                      to control beneficiaries.   competition among Obras
Provincial.                                                      Sociales Provinciales.
59



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
Table II
Examples of Accountability and Transparency Mechanisms
for Policymaking and Service Delivery
Sector/Area       Reform Component  Institutional Arrangements  Accountability/Transparency
I Mechanisms
Public Finance
Policymaking                            Financial Discipline Law    - Sanctions.
- Publication of budget allocation results
on the press.
Education
Service Delivery   Decentralization of    Implementation of a pilot  - Establishment of performance
Secondary Schools    management model.           contracts among school main actors.
- Publication of school budgets and
school performance results.
Development of the    Establishment of a         - Publication of cost per student vis-A-vis
Private Sector       Competitive Fund            average school performance results.
- Establishment of public hearings to
expose reasons for requesting public
subsidies.
Health
Service Delivery   Autonomous           Flexibility in the contracting   - Clarity of purpose and tasks of hospital
Hospitals            and management of human    staff.
resources.                  - Establishment of performance
indicators including customer service
surveys to assess staff's performance.
World Bank User
A:\ICR_Tucuman.doc
06/22/00 10:37 PM
60



