DOCUMent of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6281-EC
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ECUADOR
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
NOVEMBER 22, 1994






ECUADOR
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
ANNEX 1 - INSTITUrIONAL CAPACITY OF THE NATIONAL
MODERNIZATION COUNCIL
A. Creating Institutional Capacity for Strategic Planning for
Privatization and Divestiture of State enterprises in Ecuador ...    ..... 1
I.  Background ....................................... 1
11. Institutional Support .................................. 1
III. Consultants' Profiles and Tasks ........................... 2
IV. Strategic Planning Unit: Organization and Financing  .............. 3
B. Guidelines for Privatization, Divestiture and Granting of Concessions .... .. 3
I. Background . ....................................... 3
II. Guidelines .  ....................................... 3
ANNEX 2 - POWER SECTOR REFORM
I. BACKGROUND   .....................................   6
Regulatory Structure  ...................................   6
Power Facilities and Market  ..............................   6
The Power System Expansion Plan  ..........................   8
Electricity Tariff...... ............  ...................  9
Performance of the Utilities ...................   10
II. MAIN SECTORAL AND POLICY ISSUES .13
Electricity Prices .13
Finance .13
Legal and Regulatory Framework .13
INECEL's Autonomy, Management, and Accountability .14



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                                       Pae No.
III.PROPOSED REFORMS AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ....                             .........  14
Regulatory Framework .          .................................  15
Tariffs .     ...........................................  15
Institutional Framework  ... .............................. 16
Restructuring of INECEL  ....................   17
Private Investors ...................................... 17
Environment .......... 17
IV. BANK'S ASSISTANCE TO IMPLEMENT THE REQUIRED REFORMS . 18
Actions ............ 18
Implementation Arrangement ...... ........................  19
Timetable .......................... 19
Consultants Requirements: Brief Description of Tasks ...............  25
ANNEX 3 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM
I. BACKGROUND ...................................... 26
Sector Organization . ...................................  26
Access to Service ...................................... 26
Usage of Service ...................................... 27
Existing Facilities and Quality of Service .......................  27
Demand for Service . ...................................  28
II. THE ENTITY ........................................ 28
Organization and Management .........                ....................  28
Staffing and Training . ..................................  29
Billing and Collection   .     .................................  29
Accounting  ........................................   30
Audit ........................................                                       30
Sector Reforms ...................................... 30
Supervised by the Government of Ecuador:  .......              ..............  32
Supervised by the Superintendency ........................... 33
Supervised by CONAM  and the Privatization Team   ................  33
Supervised by the Municipality of Agency  ......................  35



ANNEX 1
ECUADOR
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
A. Creating Institutional Capacity for Strategic Planning for
Privatization and Divestiture of State enterprises in Ecuador
I. Background
1.    Privatization and divestiture have proceeded slowly but steadily in Ecuador. The
privatization program has covered largely equity holdings in small enterprises,
landholding and buildings. However, there has not been an over arching strategy for the
privatization and divestiture of state enterprises. Nor has there been a strategic vision
of future privatization or ways to incorporate the learning to date in one institution
capable of giving a strategic vision for privatization and generating public support
through clearly defined and transparent processes. As the country enters the next stage
of privatization, divestiture and concession granting, such a vision will be crucial in
order to undertake the larger transactions. Hence there is a clear need to provide such
a capacity as the country goes ahead with the large privatizations such as in
telecommunications and electricity.
2.    Although the State Modernization Law, which was enacted in December 1993,
established that the State Modernization Council was going to take the leadership for the
strategic planning for privatization and divestiture of state enterprises in Ecuador,
CONAM's institutional capacity remains to be built up. It currently lacks experienced
technical staff to develop such a strategic vision and advise CONAM's management
accordingly. CONAM's capacity to efficiently coordinate with other agencies involved
in the state modernization process must also be developed. CONAM should be capable
of maintaining the public informed about the government reform program but also of
wining public confidence and support. Finally, CONAM should be capable of creating
a consistent strategy among the different agencies charged with the responsibility for
privatization, divestiture and granting of concessions.
II. Institutional Support
3.    To promote CONAM's strategic planning capacity, it is proposed to establish a
small strategic planning unit staffed with consultants experienced in privatization and
divestiture. They will work with the regular staff of CONAM on a daily basis,
developing a strategic vision for privatization from a technical standpoint, bringing to the



attention of CONAM's management emerging issues in privatization, and assisting the
management in developing a strategic vision for privatization, divestiture and granting
of concession. Such a vision would be disseminated widely to promote public awareness
and support as well as guide other agencies involved in these activities.
m. Consultants' Proriles and Tasks
4.    Expertise is required in the following areas:
(i)   competition policy and regulatory aspects;
(ii)  legal aspects; and
(iii)  valuation and pricing aspects.
5.    Competition and Regulatory Policy Analyst. The consultant should have a wide
experience in competition policy and regulation in similar contexts to adapt the
experience of other countries in order to create a competitive environment in Ecuador.
The consultant will review the overall competition and regulatory provisions established
in the Law of the Modernization of the State and determine the extent to which the
underlying regulatory regime prevailing in a specific sector could be adopted for the
privatization, divestiture and the granting of concessions in different sectors. The review
of these environments across sectors would allow the formulation of an overall wide
strategy promoting a competitive environment.
6.    The consultant would be available to give technical advice in this area to other
entities undertaking privatizations, divestiture and the granting of concessions. It is
envisaged that the task will be completed after a period of two to three years, once that
expertise is imparted to the staff of CONAM, and that the institution becomes adept at
analyzing the strategic issues in competition and regulatory policies across the different
sectors.
7.    Legal Exper on Privatization, Divestiture and the Granting of Concessions.
The consultant would have wide ranging experience with privatization, divestiture and
granting of concessions on an inter-country basis. The consultant will need to be
knowledgeable in the systemic law of the country as established by the Law of
Modernization of the State, as well as the laws relating to different sectors at the
transaction level. The consultant would need to give advice on the reconciliation of any
conflicts between the overall laws and transaction related laws, recommend amendments
to the laws when required and advice CONAM management on the refinement of the
existing legal norms to bring about a competitive environment with transparent laws and
implementable regulations to achieve privatization, divestiture and the granting of
concession. The consultant will work closely with the competition policy and regulatory
analyst and the staff of CONAM to ensure compatibility of the laws relating to



- 3 -
privatization, divestiture and the granting of concessions and provide the basis for a
strategic vision for creating the proper competitive environment through laws and
regulations. It is envisaged that the task will be completed after a period of 2 to 3 years.
8.    Valuation and pricing specialist. The consultant will have wide inter-country,
sector and transactions experience to value enterprises to be put up for sale, other forms
of divestiture and to cost concessions. The consultant will provide a framework for such
valuations taking into account the tax, regulatory and reporting practices prevailing in
Ecuador and help facilitate transactions in a wide range of activities. The consultant will
develop guidelines for the pre-qualification of bids based on the business plans provided
by the potential buyers of enterprises and bidders for concessions. The consultant will
need to evaluate the economic implications of different regulatory policies and advise
CONAM's management and staff on the suitability of specific valuation methods,
practices and conventions to ensure that the valuation and pricing process are established
in a clear and transparent way. This would help to allay any accusations of unfair bids
and cozy relationships between the sellers and the buyers. It is envisaged that the task
will be completed after a period of 2 to 3 years.
IV Strategic Planning Unit: Organization and Financing
9.    The Strategic Planning Unit will be established within CONAM and report to the
Director of CONAM. As indicated earlier, the consultants will be hired for a term
which will not exceed three years. They will be financed under the project once their
detailed Terms of Reference, biodata and contracts have been approved by the Bank.
B. Guidelines for Privatization, Divestiture and Granting of Concessions
I. Background
10.    A  common set of guidelines issued by a central agency charged with
privatizations, divestiture and granting of concessions would contribute much to the
coordination of these efforts that are currently dispersed among various agencies of
government. There are two main reasons for the use of such guidelines. First, it is an
essential element of transparency of the process.  Second, to the extent that other
agencies follow the guidelines, they will provide a common framework and help to
increase competitive forces in the economy even among various sectors. Adherence to
a set of guidelines would also make implementation easy across the country. It would
help to provide a common regulatory environment, standardized methods of divestiture
and make overall supervision of a privatization and concession granting program easier.



- 4 -
11.   Since the state enterprises that are to be privatized, divested or public services
granted as concessions are in different sectors, it is not realistic for each and every case
to follow every provision of the guidelines closely. Only the main principles need to be
followed. In some cases, the actual privatization would follow a standard path as
described in the guidelines. In other cases, the guidelines would only provide some
principles. Nevertheless there is merit in developing a common set of guidelines and
adopting them on a national basis.
12.   CONAM is the agency that would issue such guidelines. It has a high powered
board of directors, including a representative form the President's office, and it will have
the technical expertise to issue and implement the guidelines. Towards that end, some
broad guidelines are described below. These are related to the different stages of
privatization, divestiture and the granting of concession. They follow the stages of a
transaction - the identification of the privatization or divestiture program, preparation for
sale or concession, actual sale or transfer and finally, safeguards to prevent changes in
the regulatory environment following a privatization, divestiture or the graining of a
concession.
II. Guidelines.
13.    The identification of enterprises for early privatization can be based on the
tradeability of the activity in question. If the activity to be privatized is in a sector
subject to international competition, that provides a ready made situation of competition.
Small and medium size firms are easy to privatize as they or the sector in which they
operate need not be restructured prior to privatization. They can be sold directly.
14.   State owned enterprises in the non-tradeable sector, typically utilities, that have
a natural monopoly character require the creation of a competitive environment through
legal and regulatory changes as well as some restructuring. The form of transfer or
ownership of function of a utility can be different, depending on each circumstance.
Their large size, labor implications and high political profile makes the process more
difficult, but necessary. The absence of such legal regulatory frameworks can reduce
consumer welfare and diminish public support for privatization.
15.   There are different ways to create efficiency. Changing ownership is only one,
but the most powerful one to bring about efficiency. Other means could be used such
as management contracts, leases, contracting out and concessions. However, these forms
could contribute less to the reduction of the size of the State, an objective of the
modernization of the State. Also, a possible problem with leasing and concession
arrangements is that they may not provide sufficient incentives to maintain and expand
the facilities in their charge. A private supplier that does not own the production
facilities or is uncertain of contract renewal, may depreciate assets rapidly for short-run
gain and skimp on routine maintenance.



- 5 -
16.   The primary aim of privatization is to increase efficiency and not to increase
revenue. The sale of state owned companies in protected markets will detract from
efficiency even though short run gains in revenue can be made.
17.   Sale of state owned companies should be made on equal basis to both nationals
and foreign purchasers as provided by the recent investment laws that give national status
to foreign owned entities. Some discretion could prevail when the foreign purchaser is
another state owned entity. Thus, a sale or granting of concessions must be on the basis
of wide competition, both domestic and foreign.
18.  In restructuring state enterprises for sale, large investments should be avoided,
since there are greater risks involved in such a strategy.  Instead, the important
components of preparation for sale are carrying out legal, managerial and organization
changes, financial workouts and labor shedding.
19.   Labor can be co-opted to support the privatization and  the granting of
concessions by offer of shares. Some part of the shares could be retained earmarked for
labor for later sale since the value of the remaining shares is expected to increase with
the improvements in the regulatory environment, and with managerial and efficiency
gains. Labor does not lose in privatization, if adequate attention is paid to the social cost
of unemployment, through severance pay, unemployment benefits, retraining and job
search assistance.
20.   The best form of the sale is in an open market for cash. However, given the size
of some sales, the limited development of the stock market and the difficulties of valuing
assets in a changing regulatory, financial and legal environment, negotiated settlements,
special financial arrangements and debt-equity swaps are available means to effect the
sale.
21.   All that is possible to do to increase transparency of the transaction must be done.
This implies a large public information effort from the time a decision is made to
privatize to the ultimate sale or the granting of concessions.
22.   Efforts to improve the legal environment must go beyond the sale to ensure that
the parties to the sale are legally bound to meet all the provisions of the agreement at the
time of the sale. This would prevent the reversal of the agreement by either party to it.



-6 -
ANNEX 2
ECUADOR
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
POWER SECTOR REFORM
I. Background
Regulatory Structure
1.    The sector is not well organized. Although there are several agencies responsible
for energy activities, there is neither an agency to set energy policies nor one to regulate
electricity tariffs and the quality of service. The MEM is responsible for establishing and
enforcing energy policies. A Higher Council of Energy was created to coordinate energy
policies with the policies of other sectors. Its main functions are to: set national energy
policies and submit them for approval of the President of the Republic; approve and
supervise execution of the Master Energy Plan prepared by the National Energy Institute
(INE); and regulate energy sector activities. To date the Council has not been operative.
On paper, INE advises MEM on energy policies and coordinates sector planning; it is
also responsible for the formulation of power policies, long-term planning and setting of
prices. In practice, INECEL fulfills the dual role of both producing electricity and
regulating the sector. However, the country's largest distribution company, EMELEC
is not regulated by INECEL, but directly by the MEM.
Power Facilities and Market
2.    Between 1980 and 1992, total installed capacity increased 2.4 times, from 956
MW to 2279 MW, as shown in Figure 1. In 1991, INECEL's installed capacity was
1692 MW, of which 1300 MW (77 percent) was hydro and 392 MW (23 percent)
conventional thermal plants. Regional companies have installed 588 MW, of which 171
MW is hydro and 417 MW is thermal plants. About 8 percent of the installed thermal
capacity owned by INECEL and 31 percent by the distribution companies is out-of-
service due to lack of maintenance and needs to be rehabilitated. To meet electricity
demand, the sector now relies mainly on hydro generation and only uses thermal sources
in an emergency. During the dry season, hydro generation is restricted because the
capacity of the largest reservoir storage at the Paute hydro plants (1075 MW) is limited



- 7 -
to about five days of production. Paute is         INALLED caOTY
also chronically affected by a large
amount of sedimentation, reducing the life 
of its reservoir.  Following torrential  X..
rains in April 1993, Paute reservoir
received an estimated 3.5 million cubic   . .                             X
meters of sedimentation, exacerbating    . .. .                       X
even more this problem and obliging to
stop the plant for one week. The plant
then resumed operations at full capacity.  so           i   . .           
This sedimentation problem  obliges to                    _
have a dredge permanently operating in          H       ITHEL M&AL
the reservoir and will most probably Figure 1
exacerbate further the country's chronic
deficit in electricity.
3.    The second largest hydroelectric plant, Agoyan is essentially run-of-the-river.
The other hydro-electric plant with significant storage capacity is Pisayambo, which,
despite its small installed capacity, has a reservoir with capacity for about three months
of operation. During the first quarter of 1992, the vulnerability of the system to a severe
dry season (on average every five years) was evident. The drought considerably lowered
reservoir levels; total thermal plant capacity was not enough to supply the demand, so
the authorities established periodic supply cuts lasting up to 12 hours a day.
4.    There is an interconnected national grid of 230 kV, 820 km, which connects the
hydro-power plants with the major consumption centers of Quito and Guayaquil. A
dispatch center is under construction and will be commissioned by July 1994. There are
about 1205 km of 138 kV transmission lines connecting smaller plants and load centers.
The distribution system includes lines from 22 kV to 69 kV, totalling about 3130 km.
There is also a small interconnection with Colombia at 34.5 kV that allows Ecuador to
exchange energy with Colombia.
5.    The degree of electrification in Ecuador (75 percent) is slightly above average for
Latin American countries (70 percent). 95 percent of the urban population and 52
percent of the rural population had access to electricity in 1991. Gross generation has
increased 7.7 percent p.a. during the last decade, but energy sales have only increased
6.6 percent yearly, because power losses increased more rapidly (para. 15). Total sector
sales amounted to about 5410 GWh, representing an annual electricity consumption of
about 540 kWh per capita, which is significantly lower than the average 1034 kWh for
the region. As shown in Figure 2, the composition of electricity sales was 39 percent
residential, 15 percent commercial, 30 percent industrial, and 16 percent other customers
(mainly government agencies). Other sales have grown more rapidly than the rest of sales
during the last decade (about 13 percent p.a.). Total registered customers amounted to



- 8-
1.6 million, of which 1.4 million are           ELECTOTY UUIJ (w)
residential customers, while there are
about 150,000 illegal connections.     :
4 .........................    
The Power System Expansion Plan
6.    INECEL's  expansion   plan
forecasts an average annual growth of 5.4
percent in the most favorable scenario and   .  .                         .
4.5 percent under a pessimistic scenario
for the period 1994-2000. A least cost    E      c                 CM
expansion program  was designed by  Figure 2
INECEL using adequate computer
models. The study assumed a GDP growth between 4 percent for the most favorable
scenario and 3 percent p.a. for a pessimistic scenario. The expansion plan includes the
following main projects:
(a)   the rehabilitation of 112 MW  of internal combustion units, which are
out-of-service for lack of maintenance. This investment is under way and
scheduled to be completed by the end of 1994;
(b)   the installation of gas turbines to be commissioned till December 1995 (80 MW);
(c)   the installation of a 125 MW steam thermal plant to be commissioned in 1997;
(d)   the 130 MW Daule Peripa hydro-electric project is being built by CEDEGE"
with a multipurpose reservoir; the powerhouse is in the initial stages of
construction. Commissioning is programmed for December 1998, but it is
unlikely to occur due to difficulties in obtaining financing from the Government.
(e)   the 230 MW San Francisco hydro-electric project located on the same
river as the Agoyan plant, to be commissioned in 1999. Like Agoyan, it
will be run-of-the-river and should have the same high plant factor.
7.    The power sector investment program designed by INECEL for the period 1993-
2000 amounts to about US$2 billion (an average of US$250 million per year), 58 percent
from INECEL and the remaining 42 percent from the distribution companies. The
program includes generation and transmission projects to be completed after 2000.
About 54 percent of the program is for generation, 17 percent for transmission and sub-
1     Comisi6n de Estudios para el Desarrollo del Guayas.



- 9 -
transmission, 21 percent for distribution and the remaining 8 percent for studies and
other investments. It reflects the current institutional framework of the sector, but it will
be modified according to the scope of the sector reform actually being pursued by the
Government.
Electricity ariff
8.    The Basic Electrification Law entitles INECEL's Board of Directors to approve
retail electricity prices.  The regulatory principle for setting electricity prices was
approved in 1983. In theory, its main objective is to set a price that provides the utilities
with an adequate contribution to investment. The price regulatory principle is based
entirely on accounting cost. In practice, the Government has never designed a price
policy consistent with these provisions and has restrained adjustments. Prices have been
based upon political considerations, and have been set at a level half that required for an
adequate financial rate of return on assets. Except for EMELEC, INECEL's distribution
subsidiaries should legally submit electricity price applications to the Board of Directors
of INECEL for consideration. In practice, this system is not followed; INECEL's board
sets a national electricity price upon the request of the Minister of Energy and Mines,
who normally would act with the approval of the President of the Republic.
9.    During the past decade, electricity            ELECTRCfTY RATEJ
prices have been decreasing, in real
terms, to an unacceptable level, as shown
in Figure 3. In 1991, the average price     .         . .     ..
charged to final customers was about 3.1   . .  . .
UScents/kWh, a 48 percent decrease from      . . .....
the 6 UScent/kWh reached in  1982. m
Prices were increased  monthly at 3
percent from  January 1989 to August           . . . . . . . . . .
1992, except residential and commercial
customers  consuming  less  than  200    oU N E        * 4    N   * * a so  n a 
kWh/month, which were linked to the
increase in the minimum wage. Such low
prices led to INECEL's serious financial Figure 3
problems over the past decade (see para.
16).
10.   In October 1992, the new Government increased the average retail electricity
price by 90 percent and in June 1993 by an additional 35 percent. Currently, the average
electricity price (excluding 15 percent taxes for a rural electrification fund and
municipality fire protection) is equivalent to 6.6 UScent per kWh. This amounts to 88
percent of the expected long-range marginal cost. During the last decade, the difference
between actual tariffs and marginal cost has represented a loss of US$1.0 billion.



- 10 -
Currently, the average price varies from UScent 3.1 per kwh for residential customers
to UScent 7.2 kWh for industrial customers. This tariff level is not yet adequate and real
increases (above inflation) of 24 percent in 1993 and 27 percent in 1994 are necessary
to allow the sector to serve its financial requirements (para. 18).
11.   The present electricity price structure is inappropriate. Consumers are classified
according to their economic activities, while voltage levels, time of day, and load factors
are ignored. The price thus fails to send appropriate signals about cost of electricity and
penalizes (in relative terms) those consumers whose use patterns are better for the
system. A new methodology to set electricity prices following appropriate structure
patterns was developed with the assistance of consultants financed under Loan 2713-EC.
The final report, which is under review by INECEL's Board, defines the level and
structure of the electricity to be applied in the sector. The long-run marginal cost of
service at different system levels in UScent/kWh is as follows:
Generation                      4.6
Transmission                    5.5
Subtransmission (69 kV)         6.4
Distribution (34.5 and 13.8 kV)   6.8
Final low voltage consumer:     7.5
Performance of the Utilities
12.   INECEL's Organization and Management. INECEL faces internal administrative
problems. The organization is headed by a Board with the features of a Council of
Ministers. Decision-making tends to be slow and politically motivated. Furthermore,
the current electricity law vests much power in the Board and little in the managing
directors. Board meetings therefore tend to have an overcrowded agenda and little
efficiency, since many items are sent back to be analyzed by informal study groups.
Internally, INECEL lacks a management information system and has coordination
problems among its six Directorates. The Quito offices are spread over 13 different
locations, which has resulted in a duplication of administrative and financial staff, and
in a slow information flow.
13.    Control of Distribution companies. Distribution companies are not subject to
Central Government restrictions. INECEL's control of its subsidiaries is weak, because
the minority Board members appointed by regional organizations, unions, and local
municipalities often assert a disproportionate weight in decision making, sometimes
introducing political considerations. The largest distribution companies are EMELEC
with about 38 percent of the country's final sales, and Empresa Electrica de Quito (EEQ)
with about 26 percent. That leaves 17 distribution companies covering only 36 percent
of total sales. The volume of sales and number of customers of some distribution



- 11 -
companies are thus limited and do not justify their existence. Reduction in their number
could improve efficiency, service quality, and costs.
14.   Staffing. The sector is overstaffed. In 1992, the labor productivity indicator
measured as the number of customers per employee ratio was 152. Despite the
significant improvement during the last decade (from 92 in 1980 to 152 in 1992), labor
productivity is still low compared to that of more efficient utilities in Latin American
countries (around 200). The sales per employee ratio has also increased, from 343 MWh
in 1980 to 517 MWh in 1992, but this is also lower than the average for the region (906
MWh). The sector has about 10,475 employees, of which 2,475 correspond to INECEL
and the remaining 8000 to the distribution companies. INECEL's staff composition also
reveals serious distortions as the ratio between administrative and technical staff is about
2:1, excluding unskilled workers, which is high for a power sector utility. INECEL's
authorities expect labor productivity to improve in the near future, as the Government
has frozen the hiring of new staff and INECEL is studying a program to provide cash
incentives for early retirement, but there is far less restraint on the growth of staff of the
distribution companies which has steadily increased during the past decade.
15.   Electricity Losses.  Losses have           POWER aECTO -E
steadily  increased  accruing  to  about             ENE3Y LOSSE
US$300 million over the decade (see    m_,
Figure 4). Currently, the total loss level
is 25 percent of net generation due to   .                  . .  . .. ...   l
high technical and non-technical losses.  of             ...               .. l
Distribution companies have on average        .        . .   ..      .. ..
losses of 21 percent. The high technical
losses in the distribution network result
from  inadequacies of old installations.    r    -      i    W-----
The high non-technical losses result from
illegal  consumption,  inefficient               EEI           z .
mechanisms for metering, and inadequate  Figure 4
commercial and customer-related
procedures.   Total losses could  be
reduced to 12.5 percent by 1996 if a distribution loss-reduction project, sponsored by
ESMAP is successful. The total cost of this project is estimated at US$106 million, and
would be partially financed by the Belgium Government (US$45 million) through the
Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento (CAF).
16.   Past Financial Performance. INECEL and its subsidiaries have faced serious
financial problems in the past decade. Due to insufficient electricity price increases, the
sector has been unable to produce a reasonable operating margin nor contribute to the
financing of its investment needs.   These problems became evident with the
Government's commitment to an ambitious investment program of hydro projects in the



- 12 -
early 1980s, and attempt to interconnect      rOURsAND PUCA   OF Fl
the country's regional systems into a     mu n
national power grid.  These programs    an
were mainly  funded with  petroleum      m i                 . .   ........ .
revenues  earmarked  for a  National    400 e              ......... .
Electrification  Fund  (NEF).    The
subsequent decline in oil prices, which
resulted in a reduction of NEF and
Govemment contributions, found  the   .        W   M _       "   M _   MD
sector ill-prepared  to  face  financial                  -
realities. Net cash generation has also   11- OEM                     - a u b. -M GM  o
become increasingly negative because of
low prices. Despite this, the financial
structure of the INECEL group is good, Figure 5
as capital contributions from the NEF and
government contributions have allowed it to limit reliance on borrowing as a source of
funding (see Figure 5). The INECEL group's debt/equity ratio was around 40/60
throughout the last decade. As of Dec. 31, 1992, INECEL's total debt was about
US$1.0 billion.
17.   The distribution utilities have a much smaller debt burden than INECEL.
However, if they have cash flow difficulties, they often fall behind on their payments to
INECEL for electricity. In the past, INECEL has reduced collectibles from the
distribution utilities through an accounting entry to increase its equity capital in the
utilities. As of June 1992, the distribution companies had arrears with INECEL
amounting to Sucres $103 billion (US$52 million).
18.   Future Financial Performance. The present level of the average electricity price
is still insufficient to cover the investment program. During the period 1992-1996,
INECEL's future financial performance could be only improved by raising electricity
prices. If the new electricity prices were maintained in real terms and borrowing were
to finance 50 percent of the investment, internal cash generation would be insufficient
to cover the balance for sector investments. Further price increases would be required
in 1993 (24 percent) and 1994 (27 percent) to eliminate government contributions. It is
estimated that INECEL's medium-term investment program would have to be reduced
from present plans due to financial constraints.



- 13 -
II. MAIN SECTORAL AND POLICY ISSUES
19.   The main issues of the power sector are: (a) a highly politicized approach to
electricity price policy; (b) inadequate financial resources to support investment; (c) lack
of independent roles of the State in the power sector as regulator and operator; and (d)
lack of autonomy and accountability of the power utilities.
Electricity Prices
20.   The Electricity Law provides for prices to be set according to accounting
principles, with an 8.5 percent return on revalued assets. Electricity prices are to be
equitable nationwide; however, they have typically been based on political considerations.
This system thus promotes inefficiencies. Although, electricity prices were sharply
increased by 90 percent in October 1992, and 35 percent in June 1993, they are still
below economic costs. This means INECEL will have to continue to rely on financial
support from Government if prices are not increased by 24 percent in 1993 and 27
percent in 1994.  Additionally, the price structure is inadequate, and residential
consumers have been strongly subsidized by other types of customers.
Finance
21.   During the last decade, the sector's finances deteriorated due to low electricity
prices that only covered sector operating and maintenance expenses. There is no external
financing available for capital expansion projects during 1992 and 1993. Moreover, the
Central Government's fiscal deficit severely limits Govemment financial support for new
projects. INECEL does not collect electricity bills from distribution companies. As a
result, reliability of electricity supply may deteriorate during the next five years and rural
electrification projects may be curtailed.
Legal and Regulatory Framework
22.   The existing legal and regulatory framework, the current organization of the
sector, and the state of the public utilities do not permit a rational improvement of the
efficiency of the sector without a serious and sustained effort towards substantial reforms.
Government intervention, political interference, and financial constraints have reduced
the efficiency and productivity of the sector. The overall efficiency of the power sector
is poor, characterized by INECEL's assumption of both regulatory and operational
activities, inadequate corporate autonomy, low efficiency of public utilities, and
inadequate pricing policies.



- 14 -
23.   The current legal framework does not encourage private participation in the
sector.  Corporate public utilities created by INECEL are mostly owned by the
Government and are subject to the same monitoring and control system applied to public
entities. Additionally, there is no clear definition on the future operation of EMELEC,
whose concession expired in 1985. Private local and foreign investors are negotiating
the purchase of EMELEC's shares, but the Government has not yet defined under what
rules and conditions the concessions would be given to a new operator.
INECEL's Autonomy. Management, and Accountability
24.   INECEL is an integral part of the Central Government and fully subject to the
same bureaucratic controls and restrictions as ministries, the Central Bank, the Secretariat
of Development, the Office of the Controller General, and the General Procurement
Office. It results in inefficiencies, slow acquisition of required goods, and a tendency
to order more than required.  Although, INECEL's subsidiaries are structured as
corporations and are not subject to these controls, INECEL's control over subsidiary
operations carries little weight due to political conditions and lack of expertise of
INECEL's representatives on their board.
III. PROPOSED REFORMS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
25.   The Govemment's program to improve the efficiency and productivity of the
power sector includes: (a) separation of state regulatory and commercial functions,
concentrating on the regulatory function and gradually reducing its participation in
operational business; (b) restructuring INECEL and its distribution companies; (c) setting
prices based on economic cost; and (d) promoting the participation of private investors
in generation and distribution activities. The thrust of this program has been agreed upon
with Government as part of the preparation of a new electricity law, under the Bank
Loan 2713-EC. These main reform lines were agreed upon with the MEM, CONAM
and CONADE. Below are the basic principles of reform.
26.   The reform objectives are to promote secure, timely, efficient and low cost supply
of electricity, in particular to: (a) increase the efficiency of both private and public power
companies as well as ensure the financial autonomy of the latter; (b) reduce the direct
involvement of the Government in commercial power activities and increase the
participation of private investors; (c) establish a transparent, stable and efficient
procedure for regulating electricity prices within natural monopolies; and (d) protect the
environment in all power activities.
27.   The reform strategy consists of: (a) restructuring the legal and regulatory
framework for the electricity sector, including the establishment of a central regulatory



- 15 -
agency, separating the Government's regulatory functions from its role as owner of
public utilities; (b) restructuring INECEL and its subsidiary distribution companies,
promoting decentralization and private participation; (c) establishing pricing policies and
procedures, free from political and other interferences, which would reflect the economic
cost of power production, transmission, distribution, and commercialization, and allowing
for the financial soundness of well-run utilities; (d) promoting energy conservation
through pricing and other measures; (e) revising the Electricity Law, so as to establish
a concession regime for the private sector with defined service responsibilities and
cancellation provisions in case of poor service or other violations of the laws and
regulations, and establish transparent, stable and efficient rules for the calculation of
electricity prices and their adjustment; (f) establishing appropriate regulations for
protecting the environment in all electricity-related activities.
Regulatory Framework
28.   The national Electricity Law requires modification. A draft new Electricity Law
has been prepared which redefines the role of the State in the power sector, clearly
separating its policy/regulatory role from its role as owner of power public utility.
29.   The draft Electricity Law supports the establishment of a regulatory agency aimed
at: (a) approving tariff increases; (b) establishing clear rules regarding the right of private
investors to obtain reasonable retums on their investments in the different sectoral
segments (generation, transmission, and distribution levels); (c) establishing rules for
price setting based on economic principles and clear mechanism for their adjustments;
and (d) setting standards for and controlling the quality of service and for accounting and
financial records of the utilities. The managing team will have a five year term
assignment and they would be ineligible for public elective functions for a period of time
after leaving the service. This agency should have strong power to supervise and
regulate the sector. This Bill was submitted to Congress in June 1994 on a regular
legislative basis. Congress' approval of the Bill is still pending.
Tariffs
30.   The proposed new Electricity Law modifies completely the existing tariff system
moving from accounting to economic principles. Generation will be on a competitive
basis and price of generated electricity will be set by market. Distribution companies and
large customers will be free to negotiate long term contracts with generators. A
secondary market coordinated by a National Dispatch Center will commercialize power
in the short term following principles of marginal cost.



- 16 -
31.   Transmission charges will reflect average costs approved by the regulatory
agency. Access to the transmission system will be open to all generating and distribution
companies, as well as to any large customer willing to use the transmission network.
32.   Distribution companies will charge a tariff defined at the bidding process for
giving concession for services. Instead of existing accounting costs, tariff levels will be
based on estimated cost for a standard utility having adequate efficiency and service
quality.
Institutional Framework
33.   The proposed new structure of the power sector consists of the following:
(a)   Generation,  Competition is introduced in the generation of electricity.
No geographical concession area is defined for the generating companies.
AU new generating concessions will be decided on a competitive basis.
The distribution utilities will be free to contract power supply from the
generation utility that offers the lowest electricity price. The power plants
will be constructed and operated by private investors to sell energy to the
distribution companies on a competitive basis.
(b)   Transmission. The existing transmission system will be vested with a sole
company servicing all interconnected systems. This company will be
owned by investors without any ownership rights in the generating and
distribution companies to avoid hindering competition in the network. This
company will charge a transmission tariff based on average cost per kWh
transmitted in the system. It will allow free access to the system to all
users. It will be responsible for investments in the transmission system.
(c)   Distnrbution.  The distribution companies will operate in a partial
monopoly scheme, responsible for supplying energy in their concession
area. However, any large consumer will be allowed to contract energy
directly from the producers. and use the distribution system with due
payment for it.
(d)   National Dispatch Center (NDC). This center will define the economic
dispatch of power generation aiming at minimizing the production costs
and losses. The power market consists of: (a) a long-term market, in
which participate producers, distributors and large industrial customers
with negotiated contracts for supply of electricity; and (b) a short-term
market, in which distributors buy power or energy in a spot market, i.e.



- 17 -
on an hourly or daily basis at a lower price than negotiated in the long-
term market.
Restructuring of INECEL
34.   In accordance with the institutional framework proposed in the draft Electricity
Law, INECEL will be restructured in smaller corporations. One transmission company,
several generating companies and several distribution companies will result from this
restructuring. The proposed law establishes a timetable for this restructuring to take
place (twelve months after approval of the law), as well as for selling majority of their
ownership to the private sector (30 months after approval).
Private Investors
35.   The Government plans to phase out its involvement in commercial activities in
the sector and promote the participation of private investors in the electricity business.
Doing so would alleviate sectoral competition for public funds. The proposed new
Electricity Law enables participation of private investors as independent generators for
implementing future thermal or hydro installations as well as distributors through
currently owned by INECEL or new ones.
Environment
36.   This project will finance technical assistance, and therefore, no direct
environmental effect will be created. However, in drafting the new institutional
framework for the sector and in the technical assistance for possible privatization of
assets, adequate environmental considerations and safeguards were taken. The proposed
new Electricity Law establishes as a condition for granting concessions the approval by
the Government of environmental studies to be submitted by future concessionaires. It
also establishes that the regulatory agency will have the authority to enforce all
environmental regulations to the power generating, transmission and distribution
companies. The technical assistance for privatizing the existing installations will also
include an environmental audit and the problems eventually found will have to be
addressed by the new owner as a condition of the bidding process.



- 18 -
IV. BANK'S ASSISTANCE TO IMPLEMENT THE REQUIRED REFORMS
Actions
37.   The above reform program calls for the following actions:
(a)   contract technical-economic assistance required for:  (i) proposing a
regulatory structure; (ii) drafting a new electricity law; and (iii) drafting
an outline to restructure INECEL and its subsidiaries. Consultants were
engaged to carry out this technical assistance under loan 2713-EC and
services are concluded;
(b)   contract several individual consultants for preparation of: (i) general rules
for the electricity law and regulatory agency rules; and (ii) regulations on
tariffs, power system operation, quality of service standards, general
commercial procedures;
(c)   contract technical, financial and legal advisory assistance, specialized in
corporatization, investment and privatization business (investment bank),
to:
*     restructure INECEL in business units, separating generation,
transmission, and dispatch center activities, and merge existing
distribution companies in an adequate number of companies;
*     define the commercial value of the business units derived from
INECEL's distribution subsidiaries and propose an action plan to
sell INECEL's participation to private investors;
*     define the commercial value the business units resulting from the
existing generating plants and assist the Govemment in defining a
plan for their privatization;
*     execute the financial engineering of the process of privatization
and promote the business;
*     execute an environmental audit of the installations of the business
unit to be privatized; and
*     prepare the bidding documents for privatizing INECEL and assist
the Govemment in the entire process until the final agreement with
the new owner.
(d)   design a training program for govemment and power officials that would
be assigned regulatory responsibilities, through exposure to well
functioning regulatory agencies in other countries as well as through local
courses and seminars.



- 19 -
Implementation Arrangement
38.   During appraisal it was agreed with the Government that the power component
of the Project will be implemented by an unit coordinated by a General Coordinator
assisted by three specialists: Legal, Technical and Financial. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the General Coordinator would coordinate both electricity and
telecommunication reform groups and that he would report to the President of CONAM.
Among other responsibilities the different sectors of the unit will be in charge of:
(a)   Iegal: Preparing all new legal documents and regulations, conforming the
legal documents and by-laws of the new enterprises resulting from
restructuring INECEL, and draft standard concession contracts;
(b)   Technical: Preparing the regulation for the operation of the National
Dispatch Center, regulation on tariffs, and regulation on standards of
quality of service;
(c)   Financia: Preparing the definition of the business units to be privatized,
dividing assets and personnel from INECEL to the new units, coordinating
the preparation of documents for privatization of the units.
Timetable
39.   The proposed timetable for this assistance is as follows:



- 20 -
IMPLEIENrATION PERIOD
ACTIVITY                              INrrIATED                  Deadlo  for Minum
Acceptable Performance
A. TECHNICAL ASSISrANCE FOR THE REGULATORY BODY                             ___________________
Discussion of the Restructuring proposal                                     June 1994
Draft of the New Electricity law              March 1993                     June 1994
Approval of the New Law by the Congress       As of passage of law           March 1995
Completion and issuance of general electricity  One month after the passage of   No later than three months after
rules and regulatory body rules              the law                         passage of the law
Regulatory Body (Selection of the members,    Two months after passage of    No later than five months after
approval, and initiation of activities)      the law                         passage of the law
B. INDVIDUAL CONSULTANIS                                      ;              _____                            l
Preparation of TOR                            March 1994                     November 1994
Selection of Consultants                      February 1995                  March 1995
Tariff Regulation                             August 1995                    December 1995
National Dispatcher Regulation                August 1995                    December 1995
Quality of Service Regulation                 August 1995                    October 1995
Bulk Power market                             August 1995                    December 1995
Concession regulation                         August 1995                    October 1995
C. TECENICAL, FlNANCIAL AND LEGAL ASSISTANCE                                 :_______________                 l
Preparation of TOR and Bidding Documents     June 1994                       November 1994
Approval of Bidding Documents                 December 1994                  January 1995
Initiation of Bidding Process                 March 1995                     June 1995
Evaluation of Bids                            April 1995                     July 1995
Approval of Contract                          2 months after passage of law  No later than five months after
________________________ _  |passage  of the  law
Consultant engagement and Work                3 months after passage of law  May 1996
Implementation                              l                              l_l
C.I. INECEL's Restructung                   ,
Proposal to restructure INECEL and its       May 1995                        July 1995
subsidiaries
Restructuring process of INECEL and           Six months after passage of law   No later than nine months after
Distribution Companies                                                       passage of the law
Definition of commercial value and Financial  August 1995                    November 1995
engineering of the process                  l_l_l
C.2. Privatizatlo  of Busine  Uni            _                               _______                 _l
Preparation of bidding process and marketing  October 1995                   February 1996
Invitation to bid                             March 1996                     June 1996
Evaluation of bids                            May 1996                       August 1996
D. TRAINING                                   6 months after passage of law  No later thannine mo6usif ater
passage of law



- 21 -
ECUADOR - PERTAL - Project Activities
FINANCING USS'000
MODEI$ZATION OF THE ELECRrY SECTOR
1. MEM
-  Legislation                                     200           100        300
-  Regulations                                     200           100        300
-  Model Concession Contracts                       200          100        300
-  Policy entity set-up                             200          100        300
-  Regulation entity set-up                         400         300         700
Subtotal                                              1,200          700       1,900
2. Modernization of INECEL
-  INECEL and distribution companies reform and   4,000         700       4,700
privatization
Subtotal                                              4,000 I        700      4,700
3. Other Assistance
-  Training                                        200                      200
-  Promotion                                        100                     100
Subtota                                                 300                     300
TOTAL ELECTRICITY SECTOR                              5,500        1,400      6,900
PPFs Refund                                             875           -           -
TOTAL ELECTRICITY SECTOR (net of PPFs)                4,275        1,400      6,025



- 22 -
ECUADOR - PERTAL
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS - (US'000)    _
PROJECT ELEMENT                PROCUREMENT METHOD   TOTAL
ELECTRICITY                                               COSTS
OTHER          NBF
1.  Consultant Services and Training     4,625                -           4,625
(net of PPFs Refund)                 (4,625)                          (4,625)
2.  Counterpart Personnel                                 1,400            1,400
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~___________                           (-)              (-)
DISBURSEMENTS - (US$'000)
CATEGORY                       AMOUNT               PERCENTAGE
1.  Consultant Services and Training     4,625                     100%
2.  Refunding of PPF                       875
TOTAL                                    5,500                     100%
ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS - (US$'000)
FY95                 FY96                 FY97
ANNUAL                          1,500                2,000                2,000
CUMULATIVE                      1,500                3,500                5,500



- 23 -
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM
APPOXIMATE DATES                     ACTIVrrY                     SKILL        STAPF
(#J/y~er)                                                RfiQUIREMENTS    INSU
___ __ __ __ __ __ __ SW
FY 95
Until passage of law          -   Legislation Amendments         _  Power
Engineer
Ten months after passage of   -   Regulations
law                                                              -  Finan.
Six months after passag of    -   Model Concession Contracts    Analyst             30
law
Six months after passage of   -   Regulatory Agency (initial     _  Legal
law                               set-up)                       Counsel
Eight months after passage of   -   INECEL Restructuring
law
FY 96
One year after passage of law    -   Regulatory Agency               As Above       20
(implementation)
Ten months after passage of   -   Regulatory Agency Staff
law                               Training
Fifteen months after passage  -   INECEL Privatization (initial
of law                            steps)
FY 97
Two years after passage of    -   INECEL Privatization               As Above       20
law                               (underway)



- 24 -
OVERALL PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR ELECTRICITY SECTOR REFORM
PROJECT SECTOR         | EVIDENCE OF PERFORMANCE                      B 9EGIN           MONITORING   | DEADLINE FOR I   PERFORMANCE  | MONITORNGN                   fXECUTION
AND COMPONENT                                                         MON GTOR1NG       FREQUENCY        MINIMUM            STANDARDS         fRESPONStBILITY    RESPONS9ILITY
0                   ~~~~~ACCEPT-ABLIE
I                       I______   ______   ~~~PERfORMJANCE    __ _ _ II _                                                     _    _
1. MIMSTRY OF ENERGY AND MlNES tMEM)
Logialotion              Proentation to Congres                                         Monthly          June 30, 1994      As per Contract    A. Araujo or        Congres
acceptable         CONAM
substitute         MEM
Regulation.              10 Months after approval of the Law          As of Passage     Monthly          Jan. 31, 1995      As per Contract    As Above            MEM
of Law
ModL  Concession         6 Months after approval of the Law           As Above          Monthly           Oct. 31, 1995     As per Contract    As Above            MEM
Contracts
Regulatory Agency        I Months after approval of the Law           As Above          Monthly           Sept. 30, 1995    As per Contract    As Above            MEM
INECEL Privotizotlon     15 Months after approval of the Law          As of INECEL      Quarterly         Oct. 31, 1996     As par Contract    As Above            Ministerio de
Restructuring                                                                               Finanzes
2. MODERNIZATION OF INECEL
INECEL and Distrlbumn    8 Months after approval of the Lw            As of PLaw  g     Monthly       DI c 31, 1995         As per Contract  AT  Araujo or         MEM
Conpni-                                                               of Low                                                                    ooptoble
Restructuring                                                                                                                                  s substitute
3. OTHER ASSISTANCE
Training                 1 Month after Regulation Entity is Set-Up    As of              Bi-Monthly       July 31. 1995     As per Contract    As Above            MEM
_____ _____ ____ ___   _ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ __    I Regulatory



- 25 -
Consultants Requirements
Brief Description of Tasks
1)    Technical-Economic Assistance for new Regulatory Structure and Electricity Law.
Consultants for this technical assistance were engaged under Loan 2713-EC and
services are concluded.
2)    Individual Consultants for Preparation of Regulations.
The consultants will prepare the following draft regulations: (a) general rules for
compliance of the new electricity law; (b) functioning of the regulatory agency; (c) tariff
system; (d) rules for granting concessions for generation, transmission and distribution;
(e) operation of the bulk power market and of the National Dispatch Center; (f) quality
of service.
To prepare those regulations the consultants will have to: (i) draft the regulations
for MEM approval; (ii) help the implementation unit during analysis of each regulation;
(iii) help implement the regulatory agency; (iv) help training regulatory agency staff; (v)
help promote the new regulations to the consumers; (vi) prepare reports of their
activities.
3)    Technical-Financial-Legal Assistance to Help Privatize INECEL.
The consultants will: (i) propose the restructuring of INECEL and its subsidiaries
and participate in their implementation; (ii) define the commercial value of each business
unit resulting from INECEL restructuring; (iii) execute the financial engineering of the
privatization process; (iv) execute an environmental audit of installations to be privatized;
(v) prepare the bidding documents for privatization; (vi) promote the sale of each
business unit; (vii) help the Government to analyze the bids received; (viii) assist the
Government in the entire process until final agreement with new owner.



- 26 -
ANNEX3
ECUADOR
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
DETAILED SECTOR REFORMS AND ACTION PLAN FOR THE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
I. BACKGROUND
Sector Organization
1.    Empresa Estatal de Telecomunicaciones (EMETEL) provides local, long distance
and international telephone and telex services to over 95 % of the subscribers.
Additionally, Empresa Publica Municipal de Telefonos, Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
(ETAPA), a corporation owned by the municipality of Cuenca, provides local telephone
services in the city of Cuenca. Law 184 of August 10, 1992 separated the former
Instituto Ecuatoriano de Telecomunicaciones (IETEL) into two entities: the operating
functions were delegated to EMETEL, and the overall Sector supervision and control
functions, including responsibility for allocation and control of the radio frequency
spectrum, were assigned to the Superintendency of Telecommunications. Law 184 gave
the Superintendency IETEL's frequency spectrum staff. However, it still has to recruit
and train qualified staff to perform its new functions. Since Law 184 does not specify
whether the Superintendency reports to the Executive or to the Legislative branch, this
has created a vacuum of accountability, and the Government has had difficulty exercising
its policy decisions. In addition to the public switched network, there are several
dedicated private networks to meet the specialized requirements of private companies,
public sector entitles in the petroleum and energy sectors, and the Armed Forces.
Ecuador has no telecommunications manufacturing industry as such, although some
ancillary equipment, such as small diameter subscriber cables, are produced locally.
Access to Service"
2.    With 550,000 direct exchange lines (DELs) in service, the average telephone
density in Ecuador, is 4.9 direct exchange lines (DELs) per 100 inhabitants. This
compares unfavorably with the averages for other Latin American countries (Colombia
7.4, Venezuela 8.5) and to the average for Latin America as a whole (7 DELs per 100
inhabitants). About 98% of all telephone lines are concentrated in urban areas. Quito
and Guayaquil, with 28% of the country's population, had 77% of the DELs. Rural
1.    Data as of December 31, 1993.



- 27 -
areas, with about 40% of the population, have only public call offices (PCOs) or no
service. Nearly all DELs are served by automatic exchanges, with only 90 lines, in the
rural areas, served from small manual exchanges. There are about 1,000 coin box
telephones and public call offices. Automatic telex service is available to about 3,404
subscribers of whom about 88% were in Quito and Guayaquil.
Usage of Service
3.    Current statistics do not distinguish between residential and business telephones,
nor is there data on the composition of traffic. However, since domestic call prices were
unchanged for 30 years until 1989, the revenue from domestic (local and long distance)
calls per DEL is a good indicator of the usage per line. International traffic has grown
steadily in the past years, and it grew 22% in each of the years 1991 and 1992, while
national traffic grew at a rate of 9% in the same period.
Existing Facilities and Quality of Service
4.    At end 1993, total telephone switching capacity was 912,000 lines and telex
exchange capacity 7,380 lines. (This includes 30,000 lines of telephone switching
capacity provided by ETAPA in Cuenca). Despite a large unmet demand, only about
63 % of the telephone exchange capacity is presently used. This is largely due to under-
utilization of capacity of recently commissioned exchanges which have been placed in
service ahead of expansion of the outside plant necessary to connect it to subscribers.
5.    The quality of service is poor with many outages and long delays in restoration.
Only 50% of faults are cleared within three days. Call completion rate is low averaging
only 35 %. There is also severe congestion on many inter-urban routes during business
hours when the call completion rate is practically zero. The poor quality of service is
primarily due to (a) delayed rehabilitation and replacement of faulty or unserviceable
equipment and cables: (b) equipment imbalance resulting from faulty planning and
delayed investment: and (c) poor maintenance. About 20% of the exchange equipment
needs replacement. Most of these old and obsolete exchanges are situated in the business
areas and serve heavy traffic-generating subscribers. Equipment regrading is overdue
in many of the older electromechanical exchanges. Redimensioning of exchanges and
inter-exchange routes for efficient handling of traffic is also necessary. The cable
network requires replacement in particular sections as well as rejoining where use of
inadequate materials and improper splicing procedures has made the waterproofing
ineffective. This is a particular problem in Guayaquil, where there is a sharp increase
of cable faults during the rainy season. A recent survey of the Guayaquil network
indicated that 20% of the primary and 50% of the secondary cable network needs to be
replaced. This has affected service to about 50,000 subscribers. In addition, lack of free
cable pairs and poor operational practices have often resulted in bypass of the congested
secondary network and direct connection of the subscriber from primary cables. This,



- 28 -
coupled with non-maintenance of updated cable records, has created problems in fault
clearance. A severe shortage of skilled maintenance engineers has further aggravated the
situation.
Demand for Service
6.    The available data on demand is limited as EMETEL does not maintain waiting
lists in areas where exchanges are saturated and in areas where there is currently no
service. Even where waiting lists are maintained, there is significant suppressed demand
as potential customers are discouraged from registering by the current long lead time in
obtaining connections. The historic growth rate in DELs over the period 1990-92 of
about 9% per annum is no indication as it reflects a supply constraint due to
underinvestment in the sector. On the basis of demographic and economic data,
EMETEL estimates the total demand (working lines and unmet demand) at end December
1992, to be 1,000,000. Demand is estimated to grow by 5% per annum over 1992-97.
EMETEL aims to meet 76% of demand by 1997 as against 47% at end 1992.
H. THE ENTITY
Organization and Management
7.    EMETEL, is a government-owned corporation administered by a six-member
Board of Directors, whose chairman is the representative of the President of the Republic
(the Minister of Public Works and Transport). The other members are representatives
from:  the Armed Forces, the National Development Council (CONADE), the
Engineering Association the EMETEL Union, and the consumer associations (unfilled).
The Board establishes policy and approves tariff proposals, budgets and other major
decisions.  Tariffs approved by the Board are subsequently confirmed by the
Superintendent of Telecommunications. The Executive Committee is formed by four
members, and chaired by the Executive President of EMETEL. It supervises execution
of Board's decisions and approves procurement and other operational matters.
8.    The organization is divided into a Corporate Headquarters and two Regions with
regional headquarters in Quito and Guayaquil. In general, the Regions are autonomous
with respect to detailed engineering, operations and maintenance, training and personnel
and control their day-to-day operations within approved budget ceilings. Efforts have
recently been made to improve intra-regional coordination through changes in
organizational structure.



- 29 -
Staffing and Training
9.    As of December 31, 1993, EMETEL's staff totalled about 6,050.  While
EMETEL's staff ratio of 14 per 1,000 DEL's is reasonable, being only 2 times that of
telephone companies in developed countries, staff composition is not in line with the
requirements of the company. Technical staff (engineers, technicians, operators, and
linemen) constitute only 43% of total staff and is less than administrative staff.
Moreover this percentage has declined over the last 10 years while the percentage of
administrative and support staff has increased.
10.   Training of EMETEL staff is provided mainly through the regional training
centers at Quito and Guayaquil, recently combined under a training institute (INCAlTEL)
created by Law 184 under the Superintendency. Direcci6n Nacional de Personal
provides limited training in general and administrative subjects and some specialized
telecommunications training has been provided by equipment suppliers. Training in
EMETEL has been inadequate, and budget allocations for both external and internal
training have been underutilized. The national training unit at corporate staff headquarters
has not played an effective role in coordinating and planning training activities. Regional
training centers are poorly managed, available facilities are not well maintained, and
there is a severe shortage of qualified instructions. EMETEL has taken some measures
to overcome the deficiencies in the more critical areas. Phase 1 of a Swedish technical
assistance program provided training in maintenance of exchange equipment and some
initial assistance with outside plant maintenance. To supplement its own resources
EMETEL is using local private contractors to assist with network maintenance.
Billing and Collection
11.   EMETEL's billing is fully computerized but the Quito y Guayaquil systems are
not compatible. There are marked differences in performance between the Guayaquil and
Quito regions. While bills are issued on schedule in Quito, within 20 days of the end
of the billing period, there have been major delays in Guayaquil.
12.   Collection of accounts receivables needs to be improved in both regions, although
the problem is more acute in Guayaquil. EMETEL has been reluctant to enforce
disconnection policies in the case of state-owned enterprises and in the Guayaquil region
where there are major problems with billing. Measures are being taken to reduce
accounts receivable including revised arrangements for payment of Government bills,
follow up legal action and more vigorous application of disconnection procedures in
respect of overdue accounts.



- 30 -
Accounting
13.   EMETEL's accounting systems placed heavy emphasis on cash budget and
revenues. Cash operating and capital expenditures were approved annually by the
Government and were used as a control tool by EMETEL' management. Commercial
accounts, however, were largely ignored and have been unreliable due to inconsistent
policies and lack of documentation and control. Over the last 6 years, the auditors found
that several accounting procedures were not in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, the most important being, presentation of revenues on a cash basis
and costs on an accrual basis, inconsistent depreciation of fixed assets and inappropriate
recording of some asset and income items resulting on balance in understatement of these
accounts. All these problems were addressed in the recent Coopers & Lybrand study.
A new, commercially oriented accounting system has been installed, modern computers
are being procured, and software is being developed to enable EMETEL to keep their
accounts up to date and on commercial basis.
Audit
14.   EMETEL has been slow in finalizing accounts and having them audited. Also,
the Controller General's Office, which has responsibility for auditing state enterprises
has been very slow in hiring external auditors. This has further delayed availability of
audited accounts.
Sector Reforms
15.         The Government of Ecuador has concluded that efficient and high quality
telecommunication services are essential to the insertion of the country in a modern,
globalized, economy. The Reform Objective is to provide more and better quality
services to the customers at lower costs. It entails the following:
(a)   to improve the quantity of, quality of, and access to, telecommunications
services to business and residential customers through network expansion
and rehabilitation;
(b)   to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of both the existing public
operators and of new private operators;
(c)   to attract private investment to the Sector through a comprehensive
restructuring, opening of the market and tariff re-balancing;



- 31 -
16.   The Reform Strategy consists of:
(a)   restructuring the Sector, by separating the regulatory and operating
functions, once combined in the state monopoly IETEL, assigning the
policy functions to CONATEL, the regulatory functions to Superinten-
dency of Telecommunications, and the operating functions to EMETEL
S.A. EMETEL S.A. will be divided into EMETEL Norte S.A. and
EMETEL Sur S.A.2'
(b)   strengthening the regulatory framework;
(c)   opening the telecommunications market to competition through multiple
operators and licensees in those segments that technology and market
conditions permit, and regulating those services that, for some time, will
continue to be provided by a single operator;
(d)   inviting private capital and management to participate in the two EMETEL
S.A.s and ETAPA through an open, transparent, and fair bidding process,
that specifies the quality of service and investment obligations of the
investors as well as their rights to tariff reviews;
17.   The Reform Implementation consists of the following Action Plan:
Restructuring of the Sector
(a)   Approval of a new telecommunications law, containing the Sector
restructuring principles and providing the legal framework for the reform
(a Telecommunications Bill was submitted to Congress on September 2,
1994);
(b)   Drafting of new regulations for the provision of different services;
Opening of the Market to Competition
(d)   Institutional strengthening of the policy and regulatory entities in the
Government;
(e)   Improvement of the radio spectrum monitoring, control and granting of
radio frequency licenses;
2.    The two new companies will provide service in Quito, the andean and
amazonia regions, and Guayaquil, the coast and Galapagos.



- 32 -
(f)   Review of applications and granting of licenses to new telecommunications
operators;
Steps required for Private Sector Participation
(g)   Preparation of EMETEL financial information and audit;
(h)   Preparation of financial projections for the new entities --the September
1994 Telecommunications Bill envisages splitting EMETEL into two
companies-- for final distribution in the sale prospectus as well as
separation of financial accounts and inventories
(i)   Inventory of labor obligations of EMETEL;
(j)   Preparation of legal documents required in the privatization;
(k)   Selection of qualified operators through a pre-qualification process;
(1l)   Preparation of bidding documents, issue, reception, analysis of tenders
and recommendation to award;
(m)   Contract award, negotiation, and closing the transfer of assets to the new
companies.
(n)   The same activities (g) to (m) for ETAPA.
18.         The Government of Ecuador will engage technical assistance for carrying
out the activities indicated above. Detailed Action Plan consists of:
Supervised by the Government of Ecuador:
(a)   Strategic Plan. The Government of Ecuador already has: (i) assembled
a centrally managed, strong team of experts functioning under the
leadership and supervision of CONAM with a clear mandate for the
change (the "Privatization Team"); (ii) found the substantial financial
resources needed to conduct the necessary analysis, evaluation and
execution; (iii) established a reasonable timetable for the completion of the
project (as proposed in the table of page 36); and (iv) defined the specific
goals for restructuring. The Government now has to define (i) which
services will be offered in full competition, which would be subject to
limited competition (i.e. cellular) and what would be the exclusivity period
of those basic services under monopoly; (ii) what service growth and
service obligations are reasonable to impose on the new companies; (iii)



- 33 -
how much capital investment will be required; (iv) what form of
regulatory oversight is appropriate; and (v) what will be the tariff setting,
re-balancing and review mechanisms.
(b)   Telecommunications Law. A Bill to amend Law 184 to include the
major reforms in the Sector, specifically to allow private sector
participation in EMETEL, to reform the regulation and to specify the
tariff policy was sent to Congress on September 2, 1994. The new
Telecommunications Law will have to be enacted to permit
implementation of the strategic reform plan.
(c)   Regulations.  After the telecommunications law  is approved, the
Government will prepare, with the assistance of consultants, the new
regulations, for (i) basic telephone service; (ii) cellular services; (iii)
competitive services; and (iv) interconnection of operators.
(d)   New Licenses. The CONATEL/Superintendency will grant new licenses
to telephone operators and providers of competitive services. Technical
assistance will be required for the preparation of bid specifications, review
of tenders and negotiation of contracts.
Supervised by the Superintendency:
(e)   Institutional Strengthening. Technical assistance will be required to set
up, organize, train the regulatory agency and its personnel as well as to
promulgate the procedures for the regulatory body.
(f)   Radio Spectrum Management. Technical assistance will be required to
establish a data base of radio frequency licensees, monitor emissions,
control the spectrum and assign new frequencies. Microcomputers will be
required for the data base.
Supervised by CONAM and the Privatization Team:
(g)   Financial Information. Although EMETEL has recently improved its
financial and accounting systems, additional technical assistance will be
required to prepare the financial information in internationally accepted
(GAAP) format, for 1993 and 1994, and in the prospective buyers "due
diligence" of financial information. Financial information must be
prepared separately for each company as per EMETEL's split.
(h)   Financial Projections and separations of rmancial accounts and
inventories (according to EMETEL's separation in two distinct



- 34 -
companies). Financial projections will be prepared for final distribution
in the prospectus. The consultants will also estimate the value of the
companies and set minimum price and terms on the basis of future cash
flows.
(i)   Labor Obligations. EMETEL has recently completed the inventory of
assets. The remaining task will be the inventory of its labor contracts and
obligations. Negotiation of new labor contracts may be required before
closing the transaction. EMETEL will not reduce the overall number of
staff. However, more technical and less administrative staff will be
required. The consultants will also determine the amount of re-training
and re-location of EMETEL staff.
(j)   Legal Documents. The preparation of legal documents includes, inter-
alia: (i) the concession contracts; (ii) sale contracts; (iii) new companies
bylaws; and (iv) employee stock option plans.
(k)   Pre-qualification.  The companies have to be marketed to potential
bidders, usually through an investment banker or other sales agent
contacting the potential foreign investors. The bid process must provide
adequate time for interested bidders to conduct a reasonable "due
diligence" investigation of the company and its potential market
opportunity. Similarly, the country needs a chance to perform a "due
diligence" of the potential bidders. This requires a system for pre-
qualifying serious bidders.
(1)   Bidding. The Government will prepare the bidding documents, with the
assistance of consultants. This documents will detail the rights and
obligations to be conveyed. It should detail the relevant content of
intended statutes which will impose the terms of the operating concession,
operating requirements and scope of regulatory oversight. It should specify
the criteria to evaluate competing bids. The GOE will issue the bidding
documents, answer bidders questions, receive offers and evaluate them to
determine the best offer.
(m)   Contracts. After award, the contracts will be negotiated and signed.
Transfer of the companies to the new owners will complete the operation.



- 35 -
Supervised by the Municipality of Azuay:
(n)   Privatization of ETAPA. Similar to activities described above (g) to (m)
for ETAPA.
19.         Timetable. The proposed timetable for the action plan is indicated in Page
36. It would take approximately one and a half year to prepare the companies for
privatization and bring them to the point of sale.
20.         Technical Assistance Costs. In Table 1, page 37, the costs for the
proposed technical assistance are summarized. They amount to the following:
Total Technical Assistance Cost:     US$5.64 million
PERTA Loan:                             4.36 million
Counterpart Funds:                      1.28 million
A preliminary breakdown of the activities is indicated in Table 1, page 37.



- 36 -
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TIMETABLE
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Deadline for
ACTIVITY                      INITIATED                 Minimum
Acceptable
Performance
New Telecommunications Law          Presented to Congress     March 31, 1995
Regulations                         One month after Law is   July 1, 1995
approved                                        l
Training and TA for                 One month after Law is    December 31, 1997
Superintendencia                    approved
EMETEL Financial Statements         February 1, 1995          June 1, 1995
Audit
Financial Projections and Account    May 15, 1995             August 1, 1995
Separation
Labor Obligations Inventory         February 1, 1995          June 1, 1995
Legal Documents Preparation         May 15, 1995              October 1, 1995
Pre-Qualification and Due Diligence   October 1, 1995         December 1, 1995
Bid Document/ Tenders               September 15, 1995        November 1, 1995



- 37 -
ECUADOR
Table 1: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
PERTAL              GoeImn
Telecom  unications Sector   Governent
l  Staff-    Budget        Budget         Total
l_months         ('000)         ('000)
I.      SECTOR PLAN
1.     Strategic Plan              |           9           180             30 |        210
II. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
2.     New Telecom. Law                        3            60                          60
3.     Regulations                                                          30          30
4.     New Licenses                           45           700             100         800
III.    SUPERINTENDENCIA
5.     Training and T.A.
Tech. Assistance                       13          260                         260
Training                              36           180             100         280
6.      Radio Spectrum T.A.                    15          300             100         400
Microcomputers                                      100                        100
IV.    PRIVATIZATION OF EMETEL
7.     Financial Statements
Preparation and Audit                 24           480             200         680
8.     Financial Projections/Account          15           300             120         420
Separation
200         200
9.     Labor Obligations Inv.
30          600             100         700
10.    Legal Documents
10          200                         200
11.    Pre-qualification
5           100                        100
12.    Bid Document/Tenders
15          300             100         400
13.    Award/Contract/Transfer
Total Base Cost                              210          3,760          1,080       4,840
Contingencies (including privatization                     600            200          800
of ETAPA)
TOTAL (US$, '000)                                 4,360          1,280       5,640



- 38 -
TABLE 2
ECUADOR - PERTAL
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS - (US'000)
PROJECT ELEMENT                   PROCUREMENT METHOD
TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                                        TOTAL COSTS
ICB          OTHER         NBF
1. Consultant Services and              -         3,385                             3,385
Training (net of PPFs refund)                  (3,385)                           (3,385)
2. Microcomputers                       100                                            100
(Superintendency)                   (100)                                          (100)
3. Counterpart Personnel                               -       1,280                 1,280
TABLE 3
DISBURSEMENTS - (US$'000)
CATEGORY                           AMOUNT                  PERCENTAGE
1.     Consultant Services and Training                 3,385                      100
2.     Microcomputers                                     100                      100
3.     Refunding of PPF                                  875
TOTAL                                                   4,360                      100
TABLE 4
ESTIMATED ILBRD DISBURSEMENTS - (US$'000)
FY95                    FY96                   FY97
ANNUAL                               1,360                   2,000                   1,000
CUMULATIVE                           1,360                   3,360                  4,360



- 39 -
TABLE 5: BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM
APPROXIMATE                       ACTIVrrY                     SKILL R BQU           $T APF
DATES                                                                             INPTi
(qua4 dye )  . _ . _ . . . .... _ ___  ___  ___ : . - : ' _ _                        SW
II/94            - Preparation of Strategic Plan                - Telecomm. Econ.      15
HE/94            - Drafting of new Telecommunications Law       - Telecomm. Legal
IV/95            - Granting of new Licenses                     - Telecomm. Engin.
II/95            - Preparation of new Regulations               - Telecom. Econ.      15
- Training and T.A. to the Regulatory Entity   - Telecom Engin.
- Radio Spectrum Mgmt. T.A.                    - Telecom Legal
IV/94 and I/95   - Restatement of Financial Statements and Audit  - Tel.Fin.Analyst   20
II/95            - Financial Projections                        - Tel. Engineer
1/95             - Labor Obligations Inventory                  - Telecom. Legal
11/95            - Preparation of Legal Documents
111/95           - Pre-qualification
HII/95           - Preparation of Bidding Documents
IV/95            - Bidding and Due Diligence



- 40 -
OVERALL PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM
|POJECTi sCTEoUi No    EVIDENCE OF PERFORMANCE             OEOIN                MONIToRNG    PEADUNE FOR    PERFORMANCE             MONrORINNG        EXECVnON
COMPONENT                                                  MONTORING            FREQUENCY       MlIIMUM           STANDARDS          RESPONSISILTY    RESPONsisiUTY
ACCEPTABLE
0            0       0            0 0 0 0   0 0 ~~~PERFORMANCEX                                
1. SECTORFPN PLAN                                                              _                _       _        _                  ____________
Stratep'c Plan         j Approval by Government            July 1, 1994         Monthly         Compl-ted         As par TOR         E. Vidal or       CONAM/EMETEL
I     I                                    I                                   I a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*cceptablb
substitute
2. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK                                   _                    _                                                                               _
NeW                       Presentation to Congress                              Monthly         Presented         As per contrsct    As above          CONAM
Telowimunfotons Law
Ragulatione              90 days after Law is approved    After Law is          Monthly         July 1, 1995      As per contract    As above          CONAWIEMETEL
approved
New Licese               Issuing of licenses                                    Monthly         Several (for      As above          As above           Supy./
________________________                                                        _________ |__ *_ each  servicel                                         Superintendency
3. SUPERINTENDENCIA
TraIning and TA           Improvement of performance       After Law is         Monthly       | January 1,        As above           As above           Superintendency.
approved                             1996
Radio Spectrurn TA       As above                          After low is         Monthly         January 1,        As above           As above          Superintendency
Microconputers                                            approved                              1997
4. PRIVATIZATION OF METEL
FnanciaJ Statsnts        Statements and Audit oompleted    February 1, 1995     Monthly         June 1, 1995      As above          As above           COMOTEL
Preparation and Audit                                                                                            _                  ___________
Financial Proectiow      Projections completed             May 15, 1995         Monthly         August 1, 1995    As above
Account Sepation 
Labor Obligations mryv.  Inventory completed               February 1. 1995     Monthly         June 1, 1995      As above          As above           COMOTEL
Legat Document.           Documents completed| May 15, 1995                    LMonthly         Octobar 1,        As above          As above           COMOTEL
1995
P-ousliftiotln            Pr-qualification completed       October 1, 1995      Monthly         Do mber 31,       As above          As above           COMOTEL
1995
Bid Doourf nui            Bid docurments resdy             September 15,        Monthly         November 1,       As above          As above           COMOTEL
Tandm i       0          I                               1 1995                               1 1995            1                 1                  1



- 41 -
TABLE 7 - CONSULTANTS REQUIREMENTS IN THE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
1. GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR (CONAM)
A. Strategic Plan.           (Completed) To draft a Telecommunications Policy
Paper, summarizing Government objectives in the
Sector. To prepare a detailed financial/economic
model to analyze the Govemment's preferred
structural option, in order to assess its achievement of
the Govemment's objectives and the possible
tradeoffs involved. To prepare an action plan for
restructuring activities and timetable.
B. Telecom. Law.             (In Progress) To support Telecommunications Bill,
submitted to Congress on September 2, 1994.
C. Regulations               To  prepare  new  Regulations for the Sector.
Consultants will be required to start working
immediately after passage of the Law
D. New Concessions           Consultants will be required to assist the Govt. in the
drafting  of  the  concession   contracts  and
interconnection agreements, for competitive services
(cellular, private networks, value added services, data
services, other).
2. SUPERINTENDENCY OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
A. Develop. of Regulation    Consultants will be required to strengthen the existing
regulatory entity.
B. Radio Spectrum            Consultants will recommend new procedures and
specify new equipment for Radio Frequency
Spectrum   Management,  including  allocating
frequencies, updating the data base, monitoring
emissions,  testing  radio  equipment,  solving
interference queries.



- 42 -
3. EMETEL/CONAM
A. Fin. St. and Proj.         Consultants will re-instate EMETEL financials in US
GAAP format, audit them, prepare financial
projections and valuations under different scenarios
for the proposed two companies.
B. Labor Obligations Inv.     Consultant will inventory EMETEL labor obligations
and determine its actuarial value.
C. Legal Docs.                Consultants will prepare  concession  contracts,
sale/purchase contracts, new company bylaws, and
employee stock option fideicommissum.
D. Pre-qualification          Consultants will assist the  Govt. to  prepare
qualification criteria, and assist the Govt. to find
possible investors in the privatization of EMETEL.
Consultants will assist the Government to prepare the
Data Room for EMETEL, and assist investors with
their Due Diligence.
E. Bidding Docs.              Consultants will assist the Govt. in the preparation of
the Bidding Documents for EMETEL privatization.
F. Bidding/Award/Contract     Consultants will assist the Govt. through the Bidding
process and during contract negotiations and transfer
of assets.
G. ETAPA Privatization.       Same as A-F above for ETAPA.



