LOAN NUMBER 3821 EC
Loan Agreement
(Public Enterprise Reform Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 199,5-


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3821 EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     / 1L --      ?L         , 199-   between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORI the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
" (k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "CONADE" means the Borrower's Conseio Nacional de
Desarrollo (National Development Council);


﻿-2-
(b)   "CONAN" means the Borrower's Consejo Nacional de
Modernizaci6n del Estado (National Modernization of the S-ate
Council);
(c)   "EMETEL" means the Borrower's Empresa Estatal de
Telecomunicaciones   EMETEL  Ecuador   (State   Telecommunications
Enterprise);
(d)   "Implementation Letter" means the lettar of even date
herewith from the Borrower to the Bank, containing the timetable
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(e)   "INECEL" means the Borrower's Instituto Ecuatoriano de
Electrificaci6n (State Power Company);
(f)   "MEM" means the Borrower's Ministerio de Energia y Minas
(Ministry of Energy and Mines);
(g)   "Modernization of the State Law" means the Le        e
Modernizaci6n del Estado, Privatizaciones I Prestaci6n de Servicios
Pu'blicos por Parte de la Iniciativa Privada published in the
Borrower's Registro Of icial (Official Gazette) on December 31, 1993;
(h)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
letters (as amended) from the Bank to the Borrower dated March 5,
1992 and July 22, 1994; and
(i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twelve million Dollars ($12,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so


﻿- 3 -
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account either: (i) in
Central Bank of Ecuador on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; or (ii) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank ra commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
anntm on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.


﻿-4-
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. CONAM's Director Eiecutivo (Executive Director),
or any person so authorized in writing to the Bank by said Executive
Director, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
CONAM (in coordination with CONADE and, with respect to Part C of
the Project, also in coordination with MEM) with due diligence and
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and environmental practices and in conformity with the timetable set
forth in the Implementation Letter, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation of its obligations referred to in the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall allocate in each of its
annual budgets, and make available to CONAM promptly as needed, the
counterpart funds (from the Borrower's own resources not emanating
from local or foreign donors or financiers) required for Project
implementation. The funds so allocated and made available for use in
1995 shall be no less than $500,000 equivalent; for each subsequent
calendar year during Project implementation, such funds shall equal
no less than the amount specified in the corresponding annual
operating budget. Each such annual operating budget shall be
satisfactory to the Bank and shall have been furnished to the Bank
by the Borrower no later than October 31 of the year immediately
preceding the year to which the annual operating budget applies.
(c)   The counterpart funds referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section shall be made available by the Borrower to CONAM


﻿-6-
through a checking account opened by CONAM in a private sector
Ecuadorian bank pursuant to the terms of Article 28 of the
Borrower's Public Sector Budgets Law (published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on November 30, 1992) and Article 63 of such law's
regulations (published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
February 26, 1993).
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of coordinating the carrying
out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain,
throughout    the   course    of   Project    implementation,    a
telecommunications sector unit within CONAM which shall be led by a
coordinator    and   shall    include   legal,    technical    and
administrative/financial consultants (which consultants may be
contracted on behalf of CONAM by a non-remunerated contracting agent
following the procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement),
all acting under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   For purposes of coordinating the carrying out of Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, throughout the course
of Project implementation, an electricity sector unit within CONAM
which shall be led by a coordinator and shall include legal,
technical   and   administrative/financial   consultants    (which
consultants may be contracted on behalf of CONAM by a non-
remunerated contracting agent following the procedures set forth in


﻿- 7 -
Schedule 4 to this Agreement), all acting under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)   As part of the institutional strengthening under Part
A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, throughout the
course of Project implementation, a strategic planning unit (for
privatization and divestiture of public enterprises) within CONAM
which shall include consultants with expertise in (i) competition
policy and regulation, (ii) legal aspects of privatization,
divestiture and the granting of concessions and (iii) business
valuation and pricing, all acting under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. If previously approved in writing by the Bank in
each particular instance and if agreements or administrative
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank have been entered into between
the Borrower and such entities or agencies, the Borrower may have
public sector entities or agencies other than CONAM carry out
components of the Project under CONAM's coordination.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
private auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿-8-
(iii)   furnish  to  the Bank   such  other  information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts   are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Modernization of the State Law or any of the new laws
referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect,


﻿-9-
in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying
out of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that tha event specified in Section 5.01 of t'is Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The occurrence of both of the following events
(Event No. 1 and Event No. 2) is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) Event No. 1:
(i)   that at least one of the following two laws shall
have been approved by Ecuador's Congress and
shall have entered into effect:
(A) a new law which amends or supersedes the
current   Special  Telecommunications   Law
(published  in   the  Borrower's   Official
Gazette on August 10, 1992) so as to allow
for    the    privatization       of    all
telecommunication services (which currently
are legally offerable by EMETEL) through
concession arrangements, sale of EMETEL
assets and/or sale of shares (which must
allow managerial control of EMETEL even if
such shares represent a minority percentage)
in EMETEL, as well as to allow for the sound
regulation of the telecommunications sector;
or
(B) a new    law  which:  (I)  allows   for  the
restructuring   of    INECEL    and   other
electricity sector entities as set forth in
Part C.3 (a) of the Project and (II) allows
for the privatization of all electricity
services  (which   currently   are  legally


﻿- 10 -
offerable by INECEL and such entities)
through concession arrangements, sale of
INECEL's and such entities' assets and/or
sale of shares (which must allow managerial
control even if such shares represent a
minority percentage) in INECEL and in such
entities, as well as allows for the sound
regulation and environmental management of
the electricity sector; and
(ii)   that the Borrower's Director General Juridico de
la Presidencia de la Repfiblica (Legal Director
General of the Presidency of the Republic) shall
have furnished to the Bank a legal opinion,
satisfactory to the Bank, indicating that each of
the new laws (referred to in paragraph (e) (i) of
this Section) which is presented in fulfillment
of a condition to the effectiveness of this
Agreement is permissible under the Borrower's
Constitution and is not superseded, in whole or
in part, by any other laws.
(b)   Event No. 2: that CONAM shall have opened the account,
in a private sector Ecuadorian bank, referred to in Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date            I /o Sr-is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas y Cr6dito Pu3blico
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:               Telex:
MINFINANZAS               22358 MINFIN-ED
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/5/-
By                     5. -
4       Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           Z of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Cateiory             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) (a) Consultant               450,000        100%
and training
services
for Part A.1
of the
Project
(b) CONAM                    150,000        100%
incremental
operating costs
(2) Promotional                  100,000        100%
costs under
Part A.2 of
the Project
(3) Consultant and             3,385,000        100%
training services
for Part B of the
Project
(4) Consultant and             4,625,000        100%
training services
for Part C of the
Project
(5) Computer equipment           100,000        100%
for Part B.2 (c) of
the Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Refunding of               1,750,000        Amounts due
Project                                     pursuant to
Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                     of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                1,440,000
TOTAL                12,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (1) through (5) on account of payments
made for expenditures within the twelve months immediately preceding
that date.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above, no
withdrawals shall be made for:
(a)   payments made for expenditures covered by Categories (3)
and (5), unless the new law referred to in Section 6.01 (a) (i) (A)
of this Agreement has been approved by the Congress of Ecuador, has
entered into effect and is supported by a legal opinion which meets
the requirements set forth in Section 6.01 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement; and
(b)   payments made for expenditures covered by Category (4),
unless the law referred to in Section 6.01 (a) (i) (B) of this
Agreement has been approved by the Congress of Ecuador, has entered
into effect and is supported by a legal opinion which meets the
requirements set forth in Section 6.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure (under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower) for
expenditures for: (a) consultant and training services under $75,000


﻿- 15 -
equivalent per contract (in the case of consulting or training
firms); (b) consultant and training services under $30,000
equivalent per contract (in the case of individual consultants or
trainers); and (c) items covered by Categories (1) (b) or (2).
5.    For purposes of this Schedule, the term "promotional costs"
means costs incurred in purchasing advertising space on various
media (e.g., radio, television, newspapers), as well as reasonable
transportation and subsistence costs associated with trips and
seminars, outside of Ecuador, referred to in Part A.2 of the
Project.
6.    For purposes of this Schedule, the term "CONAN incremental
operating costs" means the recurrent costs, which would not have
been incurred in the absence of the Project, incurred by CONAM in
connection  with   the   operation   of  the   unit  (called   the
"Administrative Coordination Group" in the Loan Agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower for Loan 3822-EC), which costs shall not
include the cost of any goods but may include the salary of only one
clerical member of said unit, as well as the cost of conducting the
audits referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's
efforts in: (a) reducing electricity subsidies in a sustainable
manner; (b) reforming the legal and regulatory framework of the
electricity and telecommunications sectors so as to ensure a
complete separation of state policy and regulatory functions from
state commercial activities in such sectors; (c) strengthening (or
establishing and strengthening) the public institutions in charge of
such policy and regulatory functions; and (d) privatizing the
provision of telecommunication and electricity services in Ecuador.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Strengthening of CONAM's institutional capacity to: (a)
coordinate and supervise, as well as promote legal changes required
for, the reform measures covered by Parts B and C of the Project
with respect to the electricity and telecommunications sectors and
the proper utilization of proceeds derived from privatizations in
such sectors; and (b) in general carry out more effectively its
legally assigned function as coordinator of public enterprise reform
efforts in Ecuador.
2.    Development and implementation of promotional campaigns to
highlight the need for public enterprise reform, encourage private
investment in economic activities formerly carried out by public
enterprises and expose key public officials (through trips and
seminars) to the privatization processes which have occurred in
countries other than Ecuador.
Part B:     Telecommunications Sector
1.    Reform of the telecommunications sector policy and regulatory
framework to facilitate properly regulated private sector provision
of telecommunication services in Ecuador.
2.    (a)   Institutional strengthening of the public entities in
charge of policy and regulatory functions in the telecommunications
sector (including the provision of training to such entities'


﻿- 17 -
personnel); (b) granting of licenses to telecommunication service
providers; and (c) improvement of radio spectrum management through
establishment of a radio frequency licensee data base, monitoring of
frequency emissions, improved control of the spectrum and assignment
of new frequencies.
3.    Technical assistance for purposes of preparing for the
privatization of, and actually privatizing, the provision of
telecommunication services which currently are legally offerable by
EMETEL, such privatization to occur through concession arrangements
(which arrangements shall, if legally possible, be accompanied by
sale to the private sector of the assets of, or shares in, EMETEL).
4.    Technical assistance for purposes of analyzing and executing
the possible privatization of telecommunication services offered to
the public by municipalities in Ecuador.
Part C:     Electricity Sector
1.    Reform of the electricity sector policy     and regulatory
framework to facilitate properly regulated and environmentally sound
private sector provision of electricity services in Ecuador.
2.    Institutional strengthening of the public entities in charge
of policy and regulatory functions in the electricity sector
(including the provision of training to such entities' personnel).
3.    Technical  assistance  (including  environmental  technical
assistance) for purposes of: (a) restructuring INECEL (and all other
entities in the electricity sector over which the Borrower, directly
or indirectly, has managerial control) by creating separate
generation corporations, a separate transmission corporation and
separate distribution corporations; and (b) preparing for the
privatization of, and actually privatizing, the provision of
electricity services which currently are legally offerable by INECEL
and said entities, such privatization to occur through concession
arrangements (which arrangements shall, if legally possible, be
accompanied by sale to the private sector of the assets of, or
shares in, INECEL and said entities).
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due              (expressed in Dollars)*
August 1, 2000                          230,000
February 1, 2001                        240,000
August 1, 2001                          245,000
February 1, 2002                        255,000
August 1, 2002                          265,000
February 1, 2003                        275,000
August 1, 2003                          285,000
February 1, 2004                        295,000
August 1, 2004                          305,000
February 1, 2005                        315,000
August 1, 2005                          325,000
February 1, 2006                        340,000
August 1, 2006                          350,000
February 1, 2007                        365,000
August 1, 2007                          375,000
February 1, 2008                        390,000
August 1, 2008                          405,000
February 1, 2009                        415,000
August 1, 2009                          430,000
February 1, 2010                        445,000
August 1, 2010                          465,000
February 1, 2011                        480,000
August 1, 2011                          495,000
February 1, 2012                        515,000
August 1, 2012                          535,000
February 1, 2013                       550,000
August 1, 2013                          570,000
February 1, 2014                        590,000
August 1, 2014                          610,000
February 1, 2015                        640,000
*     The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                       Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                     0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                     0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                       0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                    0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                     1.00
maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
(b)   With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's
prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part B of this
Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for: (i) a first
extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension
exceeds sixty days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid
validity period.
2.    In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    With respect to each contract for goods, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall


﻿- 21 -
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants (to
provide consulting or training services) whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use or cause to be used other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $30,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $75,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 22 -
Section III. Special Provisions
A.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods
referred to in Part A of Section I of this Schedule:
1.    Bids must be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of
each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any
alternative proposals, if they have been requested or permitted,
shall be read aloud when opened.
2.    Foreign bidders must not be required to have a local
representative for purposes of submitting bids, but may be required
to have such a representative upon entering into contracts which
they have been awarded.
3.    Foreign bidders must be permitted to have their financial
solvency certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the Borrower
without recertification by any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian
person or entity.
4.    Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign
sureties approved by the Borrower must be admissible without
recertification or other participation by any Ecuadorian bank or
other Ecuadorian person or entity.
5.    Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider
of services must not be required to be counter-guaranteed by such
supplier or provider in whole or in part. This shall not prevent
purchasers from obtaining other performance warranties from
suppliers.
B.    In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the
following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of
this Schedule:
1.    Foreign consultants must not be required to be locally
registered as a condition of participation in the selection process,
but may be required to be so registered, at the time of contracting,
if the Borrower and the Bank so agree.


﻿- 23 -
2.    Foreign consultants must not be required, either directly or
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting
contracts to any local firm or person, except in connection with a
joint venture arrangement where: (i) a sufficient number of capable
domestic firms or individual consultants exist to allow a foreign
consultant reasonable freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of
either party to the joint venture arrangement will not be
constrained by any prescribed manner or extent of participation; and
(iii) the foreign consultant is not required to associate itself
with any specific named domestic firms or individual consultants.
3.    Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition
to provide services in Ecuador under contracts to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum
capital different from that required for Ecuadorian firms.
4.    Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, providing
services under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall not be required to pay fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants'
Association that are different from those required for Ecuadorian
consultants.
Section IV. Internal Approvals
To the extent any approval of bidding documents or contracts
(with respect to the procurement of goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan) may be required under the laws of the
Borrower, such approval need be given only by CONAM. In addition,
with regard to the employment of consultants to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, any approval of contracts or of consultant
selection processes, required under the laws of the Borrower, need
be given only by CONAM.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule,
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.


﻿- 25 -
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;


﻿- 26 -
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account


﻿- 27 -
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


