                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 29195

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IF-N0380)

                                        ON AN

                             INTERIM TRUST FUND CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR111 MILLION (US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                        FOR A

                   PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                     June 23, 2004




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective : February 2004)

                                       Currency Unit = Taka
                                               Tk 1.00 = US$ 0.017
                                             US$ 1.00 = Tk 59.00

                                      (Exchange Rate at Appraisal)
                                           US$1.00 = Tk 44.55

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                            July 1  -  June 30

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB    Asian Development Bank                       M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
AUEO   Assistant Upazila Education Officer          MoPME    Ministry of Primary and Mass Education
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                  NAPE     National Academy of Primary Education
CELS   Child Education Literacy Survey              NCB      National Competitive Bidding
CFIU   Corruption and Fraud Investigation Unit      NCTB     National Curriculum and Textbook Board
CPEIMU Compulsory Primary Education                 NER      Net Enrollment Ratio
       Implementation Monitoring Unit
DfID   Department for International Development     NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
       (U.K.)
DP     Development Partners                         NORAD    Norwegian Agency for Development
                                                             Cooperation
DPE    Directorate of Primary Education             PEDP     Primary Education Development Project
EFA    Education for All                            PHRD     Policy and Human Resources
                                                             Development Fund (Japan)
EMIS   Education Management Information System      PIMU     Project Implementation Management Unit
ESTEEM Effective Schools Through Enhanced           PMED     Primary and Mass Education Division
       Education Management
GEP    General Education Project                    PSR      Project Status Report
GOB    Government of Bangladesh                     PTA      Parent Teacher Association
GPS    Government Primary School                    PTI      Primary Teacher Training Institute
GTZ    Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit   RNGPS    Registered Non-Government Primary
       (Germany)                                             School
ICB    International Competitive Bidding            SIDA     Swedish International Development
                                                             Association
ICR    Implementation Completion Report             SMC      School Management Committee
IDA    International Development Association        SOE      Statement of Expenditures
IDB    Islamic Development Bank                     SPESP    Second Primary Education Sector Project
IDEAL  Intensive District Approach to Education for TA       Technical Assistance
       All
ITF    Interim Trust Fund                           TPS      Third Party Supervision
KfW    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)     UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
KPIs   Key Performance Indicators                   QAG      Quality Assurance Group
LGED   Local Government Engineering Department



                                      Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                                   Country Director      Christine I. Wallich
                                    Sector Manager       Michelle Riboud
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Hena G. Mukherjee

                                       BANGLADESH
                           Primary Education Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR                                          31
Annex 9. Donor Aided Projects Under PEDP                                         42
Annex 10. Achievements Under Key Policy Framework                                44
Annex 11. Assessments of Student Achievement                                     45

Map: IBRD 29219

Project ID: P009550                                                  Project Name: Primary Education Development Project
Team Leader: Hena G. Mukherjee                                       TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Primary Education Development Project                    L/C/TF Number: IF-N0380
   Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                                         Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (82%); Tertiary education (9%); Sub-national
                            government administration (3%); Other social services (3%); Central
                            government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Access to
                            urban services for the poor (P); Gender (S); Social analysis and
                            monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/14/1994                                     Effective: 07/28/1998                07/28/1998
     Appraisal: 05/29/1996                                         MTR: 05/15/2001                  05/30/2001
      Approval: 04/09/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOB/MoPME
                      Other Partners:      ADB, DfID, IDB, KfW, NORAD, SIDA, UNFPA & UNICEF

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Christine I. Wallich                           Pierre Landell-Mills
Sector Director:                Julian F. Schweitzer                           Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:             Hena G. Mukherjee                              Himelda Martinez
ICR Primary Author:             Irajen Appasamy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background and context. Since 1990 Bangladesh has made substantial progress in increasing primary education
enrollment and achieving gender parity. Nevertheless, institutional capacity was weak, and education quality and
system efficiency remained low as reflected in low student learning achievements and low completion rates. These
conditions called for more proactive government planning and management of the whole primary education
subsector to widen access, and improve equity and quality. On the basis of comprehensive evaluations of
Bangladesh's achievements in primary education and the prevailing issues, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
and Development Partners (DPs), in support of the GOB's Fifth Five-Year Development Plan 1997-2002,
developed a detailed policy framework for a two-phase Primary Education Development Program (PEDP),
1998-2008. Initially, the GOB and DPs were to finance the first phase of the PEDP, 1998-2003, estimated at
US$741.7 million, through a program approach.

Change from Program to Project. However, GOB was not ready to adopt the program approach after the joint
post-appraisal mission in 1996 in favor of discrete projects linked by a common agreed policy framework (Section
7.1). This resulted in the subsector-wide program being split into nine major projects supported by DPs and 18
other smaller GOB projects. The agreed-upon policy framework provided the overall scaffolding for both the
donor- and GOB-funded projects, which pursued the original program objectives with varying degrees of emphasis
(as illustrated in Annex 9, List of Donor-Aided Projects under PEDP). It was agreed and confirmed at negotiations
that the then Primary and Mass Education Division (PMED), now the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education
(MoPME), would be responsible for coordinating the implementation of these discrete projects within the agreed
policy framework, mainly through the joint annual review. For the IDA-supported Primary Education
Development Project, the change from a program approach entailed a reduced scope which, however, was not
accompanied, due to GOB timing constraints, by an appropriate adjustment to the project objectives, design,
qualitative targets, key performance indicators, and intervention modalities. The Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) reflected the situation and was more attuned to a program rather than a project.

Project development objectives. The Project's three main objectives were: (a) to improve school quality and
system efficiency; (b) to establish a sustainable, cost-effective and better managed education system; and (c) to
ensure universal coverage and equitable access to quality primary schooling. They were clear and consistent with
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bangladesh (1995), which was geared towards assisting GOB in
promoting faster and more equitable human development through more effective public sector management and
public sector services. Above all, the objectives set the trajectory towards the Government's EFA goals. However,
the full achievement of the objectives would be assumed to require a longer time-frame than the five-year span of
Project implementation (beyond the first phase). It was recognized already by the supervision mission in January
1999, that the increase in teachers' competencies, change in classroom behavior, and a rise in student achievement
would not be measurable during the life of the Project. Moreover, the Project emerging from the program became
complex to coordinate because of its interdependence with other projects supported by GOB and DPs.

Project design. From the original program coverage of all six Divisions, the Project focused on the three western
Divisions of Dhaka, Rajshahi and Khulna while the Asian Development Bank (ADB) Second Primary Education
Sector Project (SPESP) covered the three eastern Divisions of Chittagong, Barisal and Sylhet. Aside from this
geographical split, the activities of the various DP-funded projects overlapped both geographically and
institutionally.

In the IDA Project, three key aspects of the project design had a major bearing on implementation and project
outcomes. First, linking the main objectives to the key performance indicators (KPIs, Annex 1) provided the
necessary framework for the Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) and the Project Implementation Management
Unit (PIMU) to focus on the project's basic thrust. Second, some outcome targets set for this first phase of PEDP
were unrealistic. For instance, one peer reviewer pointed out that the target for student learning achievement
(whereby 85% of completing students will achieve at least grade 4 level of competencies in literacy, numeracy and




                                                           - 2 -

life skills) was too ambitious, given the prevailing low achievement levels by primary school completers at the
time. Moreover, the issue of responsibility for data collection, analysis and reporting on KPIs was not finalized
among PMED, IDA and other DPs before credit effectiveness. However, recognizing this lacuna, the IDA
supervision team took the lead in refining and finalizing these.

Third, the project design over-estimated the GOB's capacity to plan and manage the project effectively through
coordination and logical sequencing of different activities of all 27 projects in order to avoid overlaps and/or
duplication. This was particularly striking when (i) one of the lessons learned supposedly reflected in the project
design was that implementation capacity had systematically been overestimated in previous IDA experience with
the Bangladesh education sector; and (ii) IDA acknowledged that a significant proportion of the people who had
been involved in implementing the preceding General Education Project were no longer at their posts.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The first phase of the Primary Education Development Program had three main components with a total
investment cost of US$741.7 million (including contingencies). GOB's contribution amounted to US$370.9
million, with the remaining US$370.8 million financed by development partners. Of the IDA-supported Project of
US$183.8 million, IDA financing was US$150 million equivalent. The following description of components
follows that of the PAD which described Program components and included some of the sub-components funded
exclusively by other DPs. This implied that their interventions would contribute to the overall outcome of the
Project.

Component 1: Improving school quality and system efficiency - US$293.9 million (IDA US$63 million)

Component 1 aimed to improve the quality of schooling by implementing actions indicated in the policy
framework and by financing the inputs required for pedagogical improvement at the classroom level with the
following three sub-components: (1.1) Teacher development, school supervision and school cluster-based training;
(1.2) Improving teaching and learning; and (1.3) Strengthening national institutions (National Academy of
Primary Education - NAPE and National Curriculum Textbook Board - NCTB).

Component 2: Strengthening institutional capacity and management - US$53.7 million (IDA US$9.3 million)

Component 2 aimed to: (a) support the development of institutional capacity at PMED, DPE (at central, regional,
Districts and Upazila levels) and at the school level, to enhance the provision of quality primary education; (b)
increase management and administrative efficiency and effectiveness through developing a responsive information
system for policy and management; (c) strengthen the institutional capacity to use system and financial information
for policy, planning and management decision-making; and (d) develop the abilities of educational managers and
school management committees (SMC) to plan school development and monitor performance and quality
improvement, and determine needs and manage block grants. This component consisted of two subcomponents:
(2.1) Strengthening institutional capacity at the national level; and (2.2) Strengthening institutional capacity at the
District, Upazila and school levels.

Component 3: Increasing equitable access to quality education - US$370.6 million (IDA US$77.7 million)

Component 3 aimed to ensure universal coverage and equitable access to quality schooling through: (a)
construction of new schools and additional classrooms in un-served and underserved areas according to the set
criteria applied to Government Primary School (GPS) and Registered Non-Government Primary School (RNGPS)
(no other school within 2 kilometers, a minimum of 150 students and minimum local population of 2,000); (b)
repair and reconstruction of schools and provision of tubewells and toilets on a needs basis; (c) provision of




                                                          - 3 -

stationery to the students from the poorest households; and (d) support of awareness and social mobilization
activities. This component consisted of three sub-components: (3.1) Construction of new schools and additional
classrooms; (3.2) Block grants to schools to support the provision of stationery to the poorest students; and (3.3)
Social mobilization.

The design of all three components was clearly linked to achieving the objectives and based on the Government's
priority areas, especially quality improvement. It also drew on lessons from the previous lending for the sector that
indicated the need for GOB to: (i) improve its capacity for planning and management through implementation of
concrete annual operational plans and systematic annual assessment of implementation progress; (ii) include
District, Upazila and school level teams in the planning and implementation process; and (iii) to ensure that the
inputs provided would improve children's learning. Underlying systematic weaknesses in financial management
and the need to address these were also identified during project preparation. However, the design did not provide
any effective measures to ensure sustainable capacity building of the implementation agency, though efforts are
underway to absorb project personnel into the regular revenue budget.

3.4 Revised Components:

Project components were not revised. Nevertheless, under "Teacher Development" (Subcomponent 1.1), in view of
a substantial delay in teacher curriculum revision under another DP-supported project, and shortage of PTI staff,
training facilities and trainees, the MTR mission decided to reduce substantially the original target for RNGPS
teacher trainees (Section 4.2).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

In 1998, the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated Quality at Entry highly satisfactory, based on: (i) the
development objectives' consistency with the CAS and the Government's ongoing programs; (ii) a well-grounded
approach with emphasis on participation at the local level, focus on capacity, modest objectives and collaboration
among donors; (iii) the appropriateness of project design in relation to the reality of local capacity with the focus
on efficiency and effectiveness; (iv) the participatory nature of project design, involving GOB, NGOs, education,
social and political workers to mobilize the public to support education; and (v) a realistic financing plan with
detailed financial management arrangements.

However, the assessment also pointed out some weaknesses: (a) inappropriateness of risk strategies; (b) inadequate
analysis of possible incentives to promote real improvement when the institutional resistance at the central level
was identified as a risk; (c) lack of clarification on how overall sectoral capacity could be enhanced through
decentralization when the center itself was weak; and (d) the lack of clear guidelines for donors to resolve
cross-cutting or overlapping implementation issues. Considering weaknesses (b) and (c) above as significant
shortcomings, which negatively affected project implementation and outcomes, together with the lack of a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation mechanism right from the outset, the QAG's "highly satisfactory"
assessment appears to have been overrated. The ICR team's assessment is that Quality at Entry was just
satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

As mentioned in Section 3.1 above, the linkages of the project with other PEDP projects made it difficult to assess
fully the extent to which the IDA Project contributed to the outcomes of the first phase of the Primary Education
Development Program. Overall, the project outcome and objectives were satisfactory. The following describes the
significant achievements, weaknesses and challenges (see Section 4.2 for detailed assessments and ratings by
component):

Policy Framework. Substantial progress was made in several policy areas, and the following policy actions were
fully implemented: (a) Teacher Development: (i) serving teachers were provided with greater opportunity to



                                                          - 4 -

participate in the Certificate-in-Education (C-in-Ed) program; (ii) C-in-Ed level teachers are now eligible for
government base salary; and (iii) the average teacher-student ratio was lowered to 1:60 in Government Primary
Schools (GPS), and to 1:40 in Registered Non-Government Primary Schools (RNGPS); (b) Textbooks were
provided free of charge to all GPS and RNGPS students; (c) all primary schools are implementing the national
curriculum; (d) recognized non-government schools received subventions for teacher salaries and supplementary
needs; and (e) provision of additional physical facilties (schools and classrooms) was made on needs basis and
according to set criteria. Other agreed policy interventions were partially achieved (see Annex 10).

Improving School Quality and System Efficiency. Significant progress was made in these areas: (a) The RNGPS
teachers trained under the Certificate-in-Education (C-in-Ed) curriculum have significantly increased the
proportion of adequately trained RNGPS teachers in the project Divisions from 10% in 1996 to 47% (male 49%,
female 43%) in 2002, with improvements in teaching practices observed in a sample of RNGPS; (b) The
decentralized delivery of teacher training through sub-clusters (aimed more at professional development) and
Upazila Resource Centers (URC) for content learning, under various projects, is beginning to show some positive
effects in teaching style and classroom management; and (c) National educational institutions (NAPE and NCTB)
were strengthened under other DP-supported projects.

Student learning assessment was to be undertaken regularly under a PEDP project supported by ADB, with focus
on Bangla and Mathematics in Grades 3 and 5 in years 1, 3, and 5. However, it was not carried out as planned due
to implementation constraints. Consequently, only one sample-based national assessment, performed in 2001,
showed the national average student learning achievement of 47% was higher than the 1996 figure of 40%, but
well below the appraisal target of 85%, which, as indicated earlier, was overly optimistic (see Section 4.2 below,
Sub-component 1.2). Similarly, the average completion rate in project areas was around 56%, and seems to have
deteriorated compared with the 1996 figure of 60% (assuming that this baseline figure was accurate).

On systems efficiency, according to the Effective Schools Through Enhanced Education Management (ESTEEM)
study preliminary estimates, the primary cycle cost appears to have worsened from 7.5 years in 1996 to 7.9 years in
2002 (assuming the 1996 baseline of 7.5 years was accurate). However, given the controversial state of
educational statistics in Bangladesh, the above numbers need to be interpreted with caution. Indeed, while
reviewing this report, MOPME/DPE has pointed out that the primary cycle cost is now lower than 7.5 years.

The average primary teacher absenteeism rate was recently estimated at 15%, with uncertified teachers more likely
to be absent. Whilst MOPME does not consider this excessive, this issue will be discussed further with MOPME
during PEDPII implementation from a broad perspective, including the provision of incentives.

Establishing a Sustainable, Cost-Effective and Better Managed Education System. This objective (which was to
be carried out through multi-pronged interventions by different DPs) was partially achieved with considerable
efforts, particularly in terms of training and information system-building. But the outcome was by and large
sub-optimal. To illustrate, in the Project, the provision of staff training was aimed at laying the groundwork for
strengthening institutional capacity at the national level, but in a few cases there was a mismatch between training
program content and responsibilities and functions of the training participants. For instance, participants were
about to retire from service. Similarly, under the DfID-funded ESTEEM project, activities successfully improved
data collection and enabled EMIS to produce better quality education statistics. However, data on system
performance should have led to a better monitoring and analysis of project achievements. The DPE found it
difficult to ensure regular and timely provision of updated educational data, differentiated by gender and by
Division/District/Upazila as far as possible, to monitor and report on key project outcomes, including student net
enrollment and completion rates. Thus, incomplete information affected the assessment of project progress.
Furthermore, EMIS' strengthened capacity to produce better quality statistics needs to be translated into effective
DPE planning and management of the primary education sub-sector. As interventions in this area would continue
in the follow-up Primary Education Development Program (PEDPII), the desired better-managed education system
is expected to materialize progressively over the PEDPII implementation period.




                                                          - 5 -

Ensuring Universal Coverage and Equitable Access to Quality Primary Schooling. Considerable progress was
achieved in ensuring coverage through the development of physical facilities, block grants to schools and social
mobilization. A significant improvement occurred in the national net enrollment ratios for both boys and girls
from 79% and 77% in 1996 (baseline) to 84% and 86% in 2002, respectively, thus maintaining gender parity
(Child Education Literacy Survey 2002 - CELS-02). These are highly commendable achievements, and represent
concrete steps towards Bangladesh Education for All goals. Achievements of activities under Component 3
collectively facilitated the improved access to quality primary schooling. For example, provision of an additional
toilet reserved for girls, where previously only one toilet was shared by both sexes, encouraged parents to send their
daughters to school; better classroom facilities would encourage better teaching-learning and attract children to
stay in school; and improved PTIs and URCs would result in better-quality teacher training, which would lead to
more effective classroom teaching.

A major factor contributing to increased equitable access to schooling is the proportion of "physically adequate"
schools (i.e. meeting GOB safety and health/environmental standards). With more new and renovated schools and
classrooms provided under the project, the proportion of schools meeting MoPME quality standards has been rising
steadily, and the spill-over effect will be smaller average class size over time. A total of 6,853 GPS, approximately
18% of the current total of 37,511 GPS, have been made "physically adequate" by the project. The Local
Government Engineer Department (LGED) estimates that nationally 23,857 or 64% of the GPS are physically
adequate. Thus, the contribution of 6,853 improved schools in the project Divisions accounted for 28% of total
physically adequate schools, a key factor in improving the quality of the learning environment and expanding
access to primary education. Further, the project contributed to an increase in the proportion of single shift schools
through the construction of 6,000 additional classrooms, which enabled about 2,381 double-shift schools to convert
to a single shift system. This would lead to increased instructional time, more contact hours between teachers and
students, and eventually to better student learning outcomes.

The above achievements were significant under the first phase of PEDP, given the context and underlying
constraints. GOB is cognizant of the remaining challenges, and it has shown a high level of commitment in
addressing them, earmarking them for action under PEDPII, with support from development partners. Such
challenges include the implementation of: (a) a cohesive teacher development strategy; (b) a continuous system of
national assessment; (c) a more effective curriculum development mechanism and textbook production process; (d)
decentralized responsibilities to District and Upazila levels for planning, budgeting and implementation; and (e)
ensuring equitable access to primary education for poorer segments of society in underserved and hard-to-reach
areas.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Improving school quality and system efficiency - US$293.9 million (IDA US$63 million)

The achievement under this Component is rated moderately satisfactory as the output targets under the
component were substantially met. The achievements are summarized as follows:

Subcomponent 1.1: Teacher development, school supervision and school cluster based training.
The original program targeted at providing professional C-in-Ed training for about 52,500 unqualified serving
(mainly RNGPS) teachers. When it became clear that the PTIs were insufficiently staffed and equipped to train
over 10,000 teachers annually, the original target was revised at Mid-Term to about 26,670. The project succeeded
in training 26,267 RNGPS teachers, of whom 7,930 (30%) were female. The Third Party Supervision (TPS)
assessment report indicated improvement in teachers' pedagogical skills and confidence in classroom teaching.
School cluster and URC training were carried out under other PEDP projects.

The aim of in-country training program was to improve and strengthen the IT/technical skills and planning and
management capabilities of senior staff at MoPME, staff in DPE (including the PIMU) and District/Upazila offices.
A total of 545 staff participated in the following training programs: (a) NAPE Foundation Training for 220



                                                          - 6 -

Assistant Upazila Education Officers (AUEOs) in basic strategies in teacher supervision and support services (The
AUEOs are responsible for raising the quality of primary education through academic supervision of schools and
provision of in-service teacher training at URCs); (b) Computer/IT, Procurement Training and Academic
Supervision for 250 central and field staff; and (c) General Management Training for 75 Central and field staff. In
general, trainee responses about in-country training efficacy were positive.

Subcomponent 1.2: Improving teaching and learning. This subcomponent covered the provision of teaching and
learning materials including teachers' guides, supplementary reading materials, teaching-learning aids, and paper
for textbooks, and assistance for national assessment. The project provided 22,200 metric tons of paper for
textbook production (against the target of 22,152 metric tons); 1.7 million teachers' guides; 662,000 units of
supplementary reading materials; and 56,940 units of Teaching/Learning Aids. However, due to NCTB's
administrative delay, 4.6 million teaching guides could not delivered before the Closing Date, and the provision of
686,000 units of supplementary reading materials was cancelled because of a legal dispute.

Under the original Program, DfID was to finance a national assessment of Class 3 and Class 5 student learning
achievement in Bangla, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies in three cycles in Year 1, 3, and 5. The
assessment did not take place as planned because there was no counterpart budget provision in the Government
Project Proforma (PP). When Government funds were finally made available, only one cycle of the planned
assessment could be carried out in November 2001, under the ADB-SPESP, with NCTB as the institutional base.
The assessment covered 327 urban and rural Government and Non-government registered schools. The
NCTB-based Assessment Team was disbanded in 2002 after the closing of the ADB-SPESP. Under PEDPII, there
is provision to establish a National Assessment Cell within DPE. Further details on the national assessment and its
findings, published in June 2002, are given in Annex 11.

Subcomponent 1.3: Strengthening national institutions (National Academy of Primary Education - NAPE and
National Curriculum Textbook Board - NCTB). The Project link to NAPE and NCTB was, respectively, through
the C-in-Ed teacher training, and the provision of paper for textbook production. NAPE, which received support
from the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD) for improvement of academic and library
facilities and staff training, was responsible for training the PTI teacher trainers who carried out the C-in-Ed
training of RNGPS teachers. NCTB, which was strengthened under the ADB-SPESP, was responsible for
curriculum development, and the production of textbooks and other instructional materials.

Component 2: Strengthening institutional capacity and management - US$53.7 million (IDA US$9.3 million)

As this component produced variable outcomes, the objective was only partially achieved. Thus, achievement
under this component was unsatisfactory. The component involved several interventions by different DPs in
concert with the GOB's development programs. As part of the multi-pronged activities, the Project in-country and
overseas staff training programs provided strategic support to GOB's efforts to strengthen institutional capacity at
the national, District and Upazila levels. The achievements are summarized as follows:

Subcomponents 2.1: Strengthening institutional capacity at the national level. Under the DfID-funded ESTEEM
project, selected officers received advanced training in the UK on information systems, school census and surveys
and educational database management and networking. As a result, EMIS was able to produce more reliable
information on student enrollment rates, apparent completion and graduation rates, and teacher statistics, among
other educational data. However, the strengthened EMIS capacity had not been translated operationally into
effective DPE planning and management of the primary education sector. Institutional capacity in the process of
being developed through staff training, was vitiated by frequent staff changes and transfers. Protracted
decision-making at the policy level delayed the publication of the Educational Statistics for 2002 which was due in
mid-2003, but was still unavailable in December 2003. As a result, important statistical data on the project KPIs
were not available on time for the preparation of the ICR.

Overseas training under the project was aimed at providing senior staff the opportunity through study visits and
seminars to renew/upgrade their knowledge and expertise in education sector planning and management as well as



                                                          - 7 -

current theories and good practices in school classrooms. Quantitative targets were largely met. Most of the
training was in the region (India, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Brunei, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand),
and a smaller but no less important part in Australia, the United Kingdom, and the USA. This program provided
15 training/study visit programs in 11 countries for 44 officers, mainly DPE and MoPME senior staff (several of
whom participated in more than one program but made no significant contribution to improving the quality of
education). However, not all participants were relevant to the purpose of overseas training; training completion
reports were unsatisfactory; and there was no dissemination of knowledge gained from the study visits. Only one
District Primary Education Officer (DPEO) and three Upazila Education Officers (UEOs) were included in the
overseas training.

Project implementation was negatively affected by the frequent change of the PIMU Director (five Directors in all)
as well as the high staff turnover. This resulted in sub-optimal coordination between PIMU and DPE's M&E
Division in the collection of data for monitoring the project KPIs. Nevertheless, PIMU was able to produce timely
progress reports, six-monthly plans, and Annual Review Reports, but information on KPIs for 2002 and 2003 was
incomplete, which was due in part to the above-mentioned delay in the publication of the 2002 Educational
Statistics.

Subcomponent 2.2: Strengthening Institutional Capacity at the District, Upazila, and School Level. The
UNICEF-IDEAL project, with support of US$10 million from the IDA Credit, provided training in decentralized
planning, management, and monitoring tools in selected Upazilas in 15 Districts.

Component 3: Increasing equitable access to quality education - US$370.6 million (IDA US$77.7 million)

The objective of this component, which was to provide adequate physical facilities to improve access to schools,
was substantially achieved, and the outcome is clearly satisfactory. The design of the project was appropriate for
achieving the objectives, summarized as follows:

Subcomponent 3.1: Construction of new schools and additional classrooms. Achievement under this
sub-component was highly satisfactory. This objective was fully achieved through: (i) construction of 160
community primary schools, of 6,000 additional classrooms, and of 40 URCs; (ii) repair of 2,000 targeted
government primary schools (GPS), including 303 GPS damaged by the 1998 floods; (iii) reconstruction of 1,560
GPS and reconstruction/repair of 53 PTIs; and (iv) installation of 10,070 toilets, 4,840 tubewells, and 23,240
blackboards. The project also supplied furniture for 2,964 additional classrooms and 2,336 one-shift GPS.


An important element of the civil works program was to provide arsenic-safe water to school children, which
called for regular testing and re-testing of school tubewells. The project tested a total of 3,624 tubewells for arsenic
contamination, with support from the Department of Public Health Engineering. The LGED has established
laboratory facilities at district levels to conduct periodic testing of tubewells, which would facilitate future
tubewells testing.

Subcomponent 3.2: Block grants to schools to support the provision of stationery to the poorest students. This
activity aimed at providing resources, materials and incentives for equitable access to quality education for girls,
tribal populations, and children from poor households. The project provided free stationery (school bag,
instruments, and exercise books) to about 1.5 million poorest children many of whom might otherwise not have
enrolled or attended school. This was found to be beneficial in terms of students' participation, care of textbooks,
and teachers' instructional methods. The full benefits of this activity could have reached a larger number of
children but for the delays in procuring certain items and a legal dispute over the provision of free stationery.

Subcomponent 3.3: Social mobilization. This sub-component, also supported by other PEDP projects, aimed to
support community mobilization, decentralized management and monitoring (tested through a pilot program in
five districts). The sub-component had two main activities: (i) development of mass media and audio-visual
materials, and (ii) national and district level workshops. On the one hand, the production of 39 episodes of a TV
drama series was cancelled because of difficulties in channeling allocated funds to UNICEF, which did not affect



                                                            - 8 -

the outcome because of similar activities under other projects. On the other, the project successfully conducted 41
district-level social mobilization (local level capacity-building) workshops involving head teachers, SMC
chairpersons and PTA members. Also, community participation was encouraged by providing block grants
(Tk.10,000 per school per year) to GPS to take up the responsibility for school maintenance.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional development impact was modest. It helped to improve academic supervision and school
inspection through foundation training of AUEOs in supervision, school management, teaching methodologies and
training skills. The trained AUEOs together with URC coordinators then provided in-service training on school
supervision for head teachers at URCs with a view to increasing head teachers' role in monitoring and supporting
teaching and learning at their schools. A URC Coordinator was appointed under the project to oversee and plan
URC progress across all donor projects. Under the ESTEEM project, district level capacity was improved through
staffing, training, and provision of computer equipment.

Achievements of goals under the agreed policy framework were significant because of the magnitude of effects and
the nature of the changes they brought to the entire primary education system, i.e. C-in-Ed level teachers became
eligible for government-based salary; free textbooks were supplied to all GPS and RNGPS schools; all primary
schools implemented the national curriculum; RNGPS received subventions for teachers' salaries and
supplementary needs; and strict criteria for provision of additional facilities were met and comprehensive needs
analysis was completed prior to the provision of additional facilities.

However, a high staff turnover/frequent transfer of trained and experienced staff, as exemplified by five project
directors during a five-year period, vitiated the institutional development impact. Institutional capacity for
effective planning and management remained weak despite the extensive staff training programs, as evidenced by
the absence of timely decision-making on school selection, the appointment of third party supervision consultants,
and the delivery of free stationery to the poorest pupils. Procurement and financial management capacity also
remained weak over the course of project implementation, as witnessed by the number of misprocurement,
rebidding extensions and delayed procurement activities, and some financial irregularities. For example,
misprocurement of furniture for PTIs deprived them of the opportunity to improve the teaching-learning
environment. As a result, in some cases trainees were compelled to sit five to a three-seat bench in overcrowded
lecture rooms without desks. Maintenance of PTI physical facilities was very poor, the result of using the
maintenance funds for other activities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Two external factors affected project implementation substantially. First, the disastrous flood of 1998 disrupted
program delivery for about six months. The original construction program was modified to attend to rehabilitation
of flood-damaged schools in project areas. In addition, the design of schools had to be changed to make them more
flood-resistant. New designs, developed by LGED in 1998 and approved by then-PMED, were used in the
construction of new schools or renovation of existing facilities.

Second, C-in-Ed training, under the new curriculum, was delayed by poor coordination of inter-related activities
funded by other DPs. Curriculum revision of C-in-Ed training by NORAD and institutional capacity building for


                                                          - 9 -

NAPE by DfID did not become operational until at least one year after Project effectiveness. Institutional issues
related to audit requirements between IDA and UNICEF also caused delays in finalizing the contract and
implementation of the IDEAL project, supported under the IDA Credit. As a result, the scheduled completion of
the contract, planned for December 1998, was eventually finalized in mid-2001.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Insufficient Government commitment to sustainable capacity building affected implementation substantially. For
instance, PIMU was never fully staffed and suffered from frequent transfers of experienced and trained staff. This
resulted in chronically weak project management, procurement, and financial management. As the Government
staffed many of the key positions within the DPE with the seconded staff and the fixed-term staff, the capacity
building and investment in training were further undermined when the experienced seconded staff returned to their
original institutions and contracts of fixed-term staff terminated towards the end of project implementation.

While counterpart funds were provided on time, a number of activities were delayed by relatively slow clearances
and highly centralized decision-making. For instance, the publication of Primary Educational Statistics for 2002
prepared by EMIS was delayed by slow decision-making on its release by MoPME. As a result, already available
statistical data could not inform the formulation of official policies and development of follow-up programs.
Further, despite that in November 2001 IDA first raised the issue of the high level of vacancies of PTI instructors
and administrators, there were still 200 vacant posts for the 51 PTIs in November 2003, reportedly due to slow
decision-making by the Public Service Commission on staff appointments. This issue was never resolved during
project implementation and the capacity of PTIs to conduct C-in-Ed training was severely impaired.

Contrary to the agreed plan, Government's sub-optimal coordination of the many discrete projects led to disjointed
interventions under many subcomponents and serious sequencing difficulties in implementation. For instance,
there was a lack of harmonization between the review of teachers' guidebooks and printing, which resulted in the
failure to print teachers' guidebooks since NCTB was unable to review them on time for printing before project
closing. In addition, poor procurement planning resulted in last-minute cancellations of some project activities, for
example, the delivery of supplementary materials.

A positive aspect, however, was Government's decision to make the C-in-Ed program more attractive by giving
cash allowances to C-in-Ed candidates and by waiving admission tests. These administrative measures helped to
remove the constraints to increasing the number of RNGPS trainee-teachers in the C-in-Ed program.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The following factors had a substantial impact on project implementation and outcome. Weak management
capacity within DPE/PIMU led to inordinate procurement delays and subsequently to serious implementation
problems. For example, the long delay in contracting the TPS to report independently on project performance
resulted in serious difficulties in monitoring and evaluation of project achievements. It was agreed during
negotiations that annual reports of the TPS study would provide the necessary information for monitoring and
evaluating project achievements, and that the contract would be signed no later than December 31, 1998. But the
contract was in fact signed only in the last year of project implementation, and the studies were hastily completed
only two weeks before project closing.

Implementation monitoring, reporting, and planning were improved after the MTR when it was agreed that PIMU
would prepare semi-annual Implementation Plans and Progress Reports for joint PIMU-IDA reviews. Despite high
staff turnover and frequent changes, especially of the Project Director, PIMU was able to prepare these reports in
addition to the Annual Review Reports.

Plans for a number of activities which were to be initiated within DPE itself, were submitted to MoPME for
decisions, but slow decision-making seriously delayed these activities. In many instances, PIMU was not given
adequate administrative discretion in project implementation. Further, coordination between PIMU and DPE was



                                                          - 10 -

weak. For instance, PIMU could not obtain data on KPIs on time from the DPE M&E Division and the EMIS
Unit.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost for the IDA-supported PEDP was estimated at US$183.8 million. Of the original IDA Credit
of US$150 million (SDR111 million), the amount disbursed as of June 16, 2004 was US$90.1 million (excluding
Special Account disbursements) - see Annex 2 for details. DPE submitted two late withdrawal applications
representing final claims of about US$2 million equivalent. However, owing to the absence of proper supporting
documentation, these claims could not be reimbursed from the Credit by accounts closing. A total amount of
US$43.5 million from the IDA Credit was canceled, which did not adversely affect key planned project activities.
This large amount of cancellation can be explained by: (a) mere cost over-estimation by the then-PMED in many
areas (e.g. during negotiations it was decided to increase the Credit amount by US$15 million (from US$135
million) to establish and a project PIMU and to provide for additional classroom construction); (b) the huge effect
of the devaluation of the taka by 27% over time (as originally estimated local costs represented 67% of the project);
(c) the slower than expected pace of implementation, especially in the first two years (in fact, 84 percent of
disbursements were made in the last three years); (d) misprocurement of textbooks (about US$6.5 million) and
furniture; and (e) much lower actual construction costs. It is expected that a final cancellation need to be made for
the residual amount of about US$12.5 million.

Concerning a case of governance, the Bank's Corruption and Fraud Investigation Unit (CFIU) was called upon to
investigate the improper use of a small portion of IDA funds by project authorities. CFIU conveyed its findings to
the Ministry of Finance, which called for a special audit with recommendations for actions on dealing with
financial irregularities and improving financial controls. The concerned GOB authorities followed up the CFIU's
findings, and then PMED took appropriate actions to rectify the situation.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The overall project sustainability is rated as likely. The most important factor is GOB's policy commitment to
overall improvement of the primary education subsector (Annex 9). This includes the strong commitment to
raising the quality of education, enhancing access to schooling, and ameliorating overall management and
oversight of primary education, as reflected in MoPME's Macro-Plan for primary education which was adopted
and endorsed by the Government in January 2003. The Macro Plan outlines the objectives of primary education
over the next six years and provides an overarching policy framework, strategies, and implementation plan, to be
carried out under PEDP II. GOB also recently completed a National Plan of Action for Education for All
2001-2015. Sustainability is likely also because of GOB's financial commitment to education spending which is
currently at 2.2 percent of GDP, representing a relatively large (about 15%) share of total government spending.
About 50% of this spending is directed to primary education. Two-thirds of project costs of PEDPII (US$1,161
million) will be borne by GOB.

However, sustainability is problematic for some of the capacity building and institutional development
interventions of the project, such as in-country and overseas training for MoPME and PIMU staff. The impact of
these interventions has been undermined by high staff turnover, as discussed earlier in Sections 4.2 and 4.5.
Nevertheless, sustainability of other capacity building interventions is likely as these interventions will be
continued and expanded under PEDPII and supported by new policy guidelines. For instance, capacity building of
primary school teachers through C-in-Ed training and in-service training at URCs will be continued and further
supported by a revised salary scale, an incentive system for professional development, and the establishment of a
Primary Education Cadre to provide an appropriate career and promotion structure for primary teachers and others
with primary education expertise and experience. Similarly, local and school level capacity building will be further
supported by continued technical assistance and training of District and Upazila level officers and school level
personnel, including head teachers and SMC and PTA chairpersons.




                                                         - 11 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

PEDPI was envisaged as the first phase of a long-term investment program. A phased preparation and transition
period has been implemented by MoPME/DPE, and DPs to ensure a smooth transition from PEDPI projects into
second phase of PEDP (PEDPII - FY2003-2009). A dedicated organizational unit, Program Steering Committee
will be established and will support DPE, the executive agency, to keep close track of the many activities until they
can be more fully absorbed into the Government's organizational structures and institutionalized as part of routine
service delivery. For monitoring and evaluation, a national monitoring and evaluation scheme will be established
to strengthen both national and local monitoring and evaluation capacity. MoPME/Program Coordination Unit
(PCU) will have overall responsibility, and contributions will be provided by every District, Upazila and SMC.
The existing M&E Division of DPE will be responsible for overall monitoring and evaluation activities internal to
DPE, but independent external monitoring evaluation will be contracted out on a competitive basis to carry out
statistical validation of EMIS/M&E data, and impact studies.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Overall IDA performance in lending was satisfactory. Project preparation was guided by: (a) the ongoing
dialogue with GOB on the primary education sub-sector; (b) the Bank's CAS approved in 1995 and 1998; and (c)
Government's priorities for the sub-sector as identified in the fifth Five-Year Development Plan. In addition,
many feasibility studies in different aspects of educational development, planning, management, and financial
management (financed through a PHRD Grant and DfID), were carried out to inform project design and
preparation. It should be noted that project preparation initially focused on a sequel to the General Education
Project (then known as General Education Project II), before embarking on the Primary Education Development
Program. Hence, the preparation period was lengthy.

Project preparation was comprehensive, as acknowledged by the QAG. The preparation team consisted of
experienced specialists and consultants with the right skill mix in the relevant areas of primary education,
economics of education, teacher training, monitoring and evaluation, institutional development, project
implementation, financial management, and procurement. During preparation, the team worked closely with the
Government, other DPs and other key stakeholders, and developed jointly the policy framework and the first phase
of investment program.

Relevant lessons from previous IDA operations in the sub-sector, and from those supported by other DPs were
incorporated in the project design, such as: (a) District, Upazila and school level teams need to be included in
planning and implementation processes; (b) sustained and comprehensive sub-sector development depends upon
much improved capacity for planning, management, information and monitoring systems, and financial control;
and (c) donor coordination is essential to successful and efficient implementation of PEDP and its ultimate impact.
However, as mentioned under Section 3.1, not enough attention was paid to the weak capacity of MoPME/DPE to
plan and manage effectively a series of concurrent projects within the coordinated framework of the Primary
Education Development Program.

Difficulties arose when mid-way the IDA preparation team recommended that GOB switch from a project to
program approach in order to facilitate the coordination of planned interventions, and build up capacity within
Government agencies instead of setting up parallel structures. Thus, preparation activities henceforth focused
more and more on the development of a holistic primary education program. As appraisal took place during the
tenure of a caretaker government, just before the June 1996 elections, the team took on board the advice of the
review meeting in April 1996 to build possibilities for post-appraisal. Hence, in September 1996, a joint
post-appraisal involving ten DPs took place, during which the subsector approach was agreed based on modalities
of "time-slice" and "discrete project" financing. Thereafter, project preparation, however, slowed down
tremendously due to the difficulty for GOB, IDA and DPs to reach agreement on key policy and other issues before
negotiations, e.g. the finalization of an agreed letter of development policy. Ultimately, a year later GOB



                                                           - 12 -

expressed that it foresaw serious difficulties in adopting a program approach mainly due to inherent risks and its
loss of autonomy, and declared that it would be in its best interests if DPs were to finance discrete projects within
an overall agreed program. Based on GOB's request, IDA responded with a pre-negotiations mission in September
1997 to recast its support from time-slice financing of the appraised program to financing of specific components
within the program.

Reviews of the project appraisal/post-appraisal process indicate mixed Bank performance. On the one hand, the
process was participatory with alternatives for project modality, size, and implementation arrangement being
discussed over considerable period of time and well thought out with the Government and other DPs. Together
with UNICEF, a National Mobilization Plan was developed through a series of workshops involving a wide range
of stakeholders with the aim of mobilizing the entire society towards achieving the quantitative and qualitative
goals of EFA. On the other, in order to increase the chances of success, the program approach ought to have been
introduced more gradually to enable the Government and DPs to familiarize themselves with it, and to allow them
enough time to ponder its merits (even during preparation of the follow-on project, PEDPII, in 2002, GOB raised
questions as to the adoption of the program approach). Indeed, one of the peer reviewers indicated that a program
approach would be premature in light of the prevailing weak institutional and management capacity.

Thus, the longer preparation period needed to make required changes frustrated GOB representatives, who wanted
closure on preparation. Therefore, ultimately in September 1997 the preparation team had to conduct a
pre-negotiations mission hurriedly to take into account GOB's new request for DPs to finance discrete projects. In
the process, the PAD kept the program description, its policy framework and broad financing plan. Accordingly,
just a few changes were made to reflect the IDA-supported project (see Section 3.1). For example, in view of the
programmatic approach, targets under some components (e.g. teacher training) were not adjusted for the project.

7.2 Supervision:

Overall, IDA's supervision performance was satisfactory. Project start-up was successful with a well attended
project launch in May 1998 (800 officials, with most of them from the field). The IDA team responded promptly
and proactively to the flood damage in the first six months of project implementation, and included rehabilitation
and maintenance of flood damaged schools in the project's school construction program.

IDA undertook 14 formal supervision missions from August 1998 to December 2003, including a Mid-term
Review in May 2001. There was good continuity in task team leadership (with only three task team leaders  one
from October 1999 to project closing), and the supervision teams' staff/consultant skills mix was appropriate.
Missions included regular field visits and discussions with concerned development partners. Whilst all along
supervision teams were focused on the achievement of project objectives, initially divergent views of GOB and the
supervision team on the pace of implementation and project rating created a bottleneck leading to a few critical
delays affecting all three components. Since the start of project implementation task teams have flagged generic
issues, including: (a) the need to boost implementation capacity substantially; (b) the need for better planning and
monitoring of project activities; (c) sequencing of curriculum revision with teacher training activities; (d)
difficulties with procurement planning, especially regarding textbooks; (e) frequent changes in key managers and
staff; and (f) delayed school selection for the construction program in underserved areas. The team rated project
implementation as unsatisfactory only six months after effectiveness in January 1999, when project implementation
was seriously behind schedule, due mainly to (i) significant delays in start-up of some DP-supported projects, and
(ii) poor planning, project management, and program coordination.

The December 1999 mission was instrumental in setting the path towards smooth implementation through: (a)
concrete discussions with MoPME/DPE representatives on the objectives of the Project; (b) greater focus on (i) the
implementation issues and (ii) the need for baseline and current data on project monitoring indicators and
coordination of all donor-funded PEDP projects; and (c) frequent follow-up visits by the task team leader in
between supervision missions. However, attempts in adjusting the key performance indicators of the program to a
project did not succeed due to ineffective GOB leadership and frequent transfer of the project director. During the
MTR, the task team recommended that, in order to follow up progress closely, PIMU prepare semi-annual plans




                                                         - 13 -

and progress reports, and review implementation progress monthly with SASHD Dhaka staff. All this was backed
up by substantial management support. While restructuring was difficult to achieve since consensus would have
had to be reached first among GOB and DPs, the MTR mission showed flexibility in agreeing to GOB's request to
finance additional items, e.g. 10 Upazila Resource Centers, and furniture for additional classrooms and PTIs.

The team was also proactive in guiding PIMU in its job and in conducting joint Annual Reviews. Performance
ratings given by missions were realistic, reporting of project implementation progress was adequate, and project
covenants were also followed up closely. The supervision team also paid great attention to the need for providing
arsenic safe water to school children, and worked closely with MoPME and DPHE to ensure regular testing for
tubewell arsenic contamination, and adoption of arsenic mitigation measures. A Quality of Supervision
Assessment carried out in December 2000 by QAG rated supervision as "satisfactory."

The relatively high supervision costs could be justified in light of the need for: (a) close coordination because of
the interdependence of Project activities with those of other donor-supported projects; (b) a continuous team with
good skills mix and close supervision to turn around the project from its unsatisfactory status; and (c) carrying out
the annual review exercise jointly with Government and DPs, as stipulated in the legal covenants. All these
entailed significantly higher transaction costs, which were taken into account in determining the annual
supervision budget allocation for the project.

During the last year of project implementation, the team took a proactive and disciplined approach in the dialogue
with the GOB and DPs to prepare a transition plan focusing on achieving development objectives, and ensuring
continuity of the some key project activities and a good start-up for Phase II of PEDP.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above, overall performance was satisfactory. Throughout project preparation, IDA using technical
assistance and PHRD grants, assisted the Government in areas that needed additional support. Project supervision
in general was carried out satisfactorily by review teams of experienced staff with a well-balanced skill mix.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. The Government for the first time took the initiative
to cost the PEDP program, and took a keen interest in different areas which needed to be addressed, for example,
coming up with a letter of development policy and a framework for primary education. It also took advantage of
all the technical assistance for preparation provided by DPs. It conducted a number of stakeholder workshops on
various topics. Even after opting for discrete projects by DPs, GOB gave the assurance that these projects were to
be implemented according to the agreed policy framework, and indicated that there would be built-in procedures
for coordination, periodic review, adjustments, etc. However, substantial delays occurred when GOB decided to
steer away from the program approach to discrete projects.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Despite the huge commitment by Government in ensuring sound preparation of the first phase of PEDP, its
implementation performance was rather unsatisfactory. Project implementation suffered mainly because of slow
decision-making and the need to take corrective measures promptly. The factors that adversely affected the project
included: (a) the rapid succession of four secretaries of the MOPME during the project period, who were key
decision makers in a predominantly centralized system, disrupted the smooth implementation of the project thereby
causing inordinate delays in decision-making; (b) the parallel rapid succession of five Project Directors and
frequent changes of other key staff exacerbated the situation; (c) decisions to select school locations were long
drawn out, which delayed the construction program substantially; (d) PTI instructors' positions that remained
vacant for over two years weakened the institutional capacity to respond to the teacher training needs; (e) the
URCs, a key element in enhancing local level teacher training, became functional long after their establishment;



                                                        - 14 -

and (f) the Annual Reviews did not take the form discussed and agreed at negotiations, as they lacked a rigorous
critique of implementation activities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

DPE/PIMU's performance was satisfactory despite tremendous difficulties of staffing and high turnover rates, and
the complexity of managing numerous projects. As explained in paragraph 7.5 (a) above, DPE/PIMU did not
have the full independence needed to carry out their tasks effectively. Hence, project management performance has
been uneven. DPE management relied too heavily on PIMU to manage project implementation. Although
considerable training was given to staff in procurement and financial management, these two functions remained
weak throughout the project, partly due to rapid staff turnover. Financial management faced a number of issues
including in the areas of internal control, accounting, and auditing. For example, DPE's Finance Unit was unable
to provide financial information following standardized practices to government agencies and DPs. The M&E
Division and the EMIS were weak in promoting and supporting information-based monitoring and evaluation.
They were unable to prepare semi-annual primary education monitoring reports based on agreed indicators for
program supervision and Annual Reviews.

Notwithstanding the above difficulties, PIMU was able to prepare the requisite reporting on implementation
performance, progress, and plans, and complied generally with credit covenants. In terms of provision of physical
facilities, the performance of LGED, the responsible agency for this part of the project, was highly satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory based on its commitment, ownership and performance
during project preparation, and in implementation of a very challenging PEDP.

8. Lessons Learned

Project preparation:

l    A program approach should ensure that there is sufficient political commitment by the borrower to this
     modality and agreement on development objectives; adequate institutional capacity, especially effective
     planning and management and coordination capabilities; a clear agreement among the development partners
     and between the government and development partners on development objectives and intervention modalities,
     and a strong M&E system.

l    Establishing an agreed set of key performance indicators with realistic targets and a baseline at
     program/project start is vital to the successful monitoring and evaluation of project achievements and
     outcomes.

l    Sufficient resources should be committed for research, surveys and impact studies to be carried out as part of
     its formative and summative evaluation strategies.

l    Appointment of the project management agency and its manager and staff needs to be based on the appropriate
     technical qualifications and experience with terms of reference that ensure the agency's stability for the
     duration of the project.

l    Training institutions (NAPE, PTIs and URCs) should be given appropriate discretionary powers for their
     management and academic development to encourage innovations and development of quality improvement
     interventions. This would also help avoid implementation delays in training and other activities caused by
     tardy approval of these activities.

l    Appointment of personnel for the technical units of DPE should be based on the individual's knowledge and




                                                        - 15 -

     experience in the specific discipline (i.e. teacher training, national assessment, curriculum development, etc).

Project implementation:

l    Overseas training should aim at developing sustainable capacity building of the sector. Therefore, clear
     objectives should be set and plans for knowledge dissemination through workshops and wide distribution of
     training reports should be developed prior to the overseas training. In addition, selection of participants
     should be based on prospects of their contributions to the specific areas of project implementation/management
     and/or the sector. They should be given specific terms of reference for the training and knowledge
     dissemination.

l    To ensure quality and effective management of the staff development and teacher training activities, the roles
     and responsibilities of all the institutions involved (MoPME, DPE, NAPE, PTI, DPEO, URC, Schools) should
     be clearly identified and made transparent to the public regarding: (i) human resource development strategies;
     (ii) provision of administrative support; (iii) provision of academic support; (iv) monitoring and supervision;
     and (v) curriculum development.

l    Success and long-term sustainability of a sub-sector program depend on government's strong commitment,
     ownership, and effective coordination of different activities under the sub-sector projects funded by the
     government and development partners. All aspects of the program should be sequenced correctly and
     coordinated to avoid overlapping and duplication of efforts.


l    Government's commitment to systematic data collection and utilization of data for continuous monitoring and
     evaluation of the system and for timely policy intervention is fundamental for improvement of educational
     quality and system efficiency.

l    It is important not to underestimate the high transaction costs of coordination in implementing discrete
     projects under sub-sector program among all the Development Partners and the Government.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

MOPME has informed IDA on May 16, 2004 that it has reviewed the Draft Implementation Completion Report,
and agreed with its content. Below are MOPME's comments and a brief summary of its contribution to the ICR (a
full assessment is in Annex 8).

The review on the IDA-assisted PEDP for Dhaka, Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions touched upon the objective-wise
performance of the project. The report also covered the related activities of the other PEDPI projects. This ICR
would help to get the idea on the overall performance of the PEDPI. The ICR raised some important issues which
need to be solved for institutional capacity building of DPE; for example, sustainability of skilled personnel,
retention of knowledge, and skills acquired through in-country and overseas training, selection of participants
according to needs. These issues will be considered during PEDPII implementation.

Summary. The objectives of the project were more or less achieved. Many other projects in addition to the
IDA-assisted PEDP contributed simultaneously to uphold the cause of system efficiency, better managed education
system, and access to quality primary schooling. The Project encountered a wide range of challenging
implementation problems relating to high staff turnover, sub-optimal coordination of many discrete projects,
capacity-building, procurement, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation. Four evaluative studies on
C-in-Ed training, PTIs, URCs and social mobilization were completed under the project. Lessons learned are that:
(a) systemic issues (including those in human resources, teacher education system and financial management) have
affected the project adversely; (b) addressing access through improved facilities lead to higher enrolment; and (c)
quality improvements in primary education in Bangladesh, necessitating a coordinated combination of
interventions and greater responsiveness to the classroom circumstances, will take a long time. IDA's performance



                                                          - 16 -

from identification to completion was satisfactory, and supervision was appropriate. Project funds have been used
for the targeted beneficiaries.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

NOTE: As the partners listed in the PAD eventually supported PEDP under discrete projects, they were not
directly involved with the IDA PEDP. Annual Reviews provided the mechanism for MoPME to coordinate
activities under the various PEDP projects.

10. Additional Information

The following persons contributed to the preparation of this ICR: Mr. Irajen Appasamy (Operations Officer), Ms.
Yoko Nagashima (Education Specialist), Mr. Hon Chan Chai (Consultant, Education Quality and Monitoring and
Evaluation); Mr. Mahmudul Alam (Sr. Education Economist), Ms. Rosalynn Khan (Research Associate), Ms.
Bertha Mburugu (Program Assistant), Ms. Nazma Sultana (Program Assistant). We received comments from:
Ms. Shobhana Sosale, Peer Reviewer (Operations Officer, ECSHD); Mr. Alberto Rodriguez, Peer Reviewer (Sr.
Education Specialist, LCSHD), Mr. Dingyong Hou, Peer Reviewer (Sr. Operations Officer/Education Specialist,
EASHD); Ms. Hena G. Mukherjee (Lead Education Specialist, Task Team Leader, PEDP1), Mr Shashi Shrivastava
(Sr. Education Specialist/Acting Sector Manager).




                                                       - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
               Indicator/Matrix                                    Targets                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Project Development Objectives:

 (a) Improve school quality and system            Learning achievement - MTT 60%; EPT 85%         The results based on the only National
 efficiency                                       reaching grade 4 competencies in literacy,      Assessment carried out in 2002 were as
                                                  numeracy and life skills (1996: 40%)            follows.

                                                                                                 l Class 3 mean score (Bangla 57%, Math
                                                                                                   40%, Science 49%, Social Sc. 46%)
                                                                                                 l Class 5 mean score (Bangla 53%, Math
                                                                                                   38%, Science 43%, Social Sc. 46%)
                                                                                                   [For both grades, boys performed slightly
                                                                                                   better than girls in every subject]




                                                  Cycle costs - MTT 7.0 yrs: EPT 6.8 yrs (1996:  l National - 7.9 yrs (2002)
                                                  7.5 yrs)                                       l IDA supported divisions - 7.9 yrs (2002)


                                                  Completion rates - MTT 65%; EPT 72%            l All types of schools Projected completion
                                                  (1996: 60%)                                      (graduation) rates of 1998 cohort - 54 (b-51,
                                                                                                   g-57)
                                                                                                 l All types of schools - IDA supported divisions 
                                                                                                   Ave 56 (b-55, g 57), Rajshahi 57 (b-56, g-58),
                                                                                                   Khulna 61 (b-60, g-62), Dhaka 53 (b-51, g-55)
                                                                                                   (2002) [EMIS/ESTEEM]
                                                                                                 l All types of schools - National 59 (male 61,
                                                                                                   female55); Urban (male 50, female 63); Rural
                                                                                                   (male 61, female 55) (2002)


                                                  Teacher quality (i.e. % with C-in Ed)  (Govt) l In IDA divisions:
                                                  MTT 97; EPT 97% (1996: 94%): (Non-Govt)          GPS 80% (male 83, f 72)
                                                  MTT 30%; EPT 90% (1996: 10%)                     RNGPS 47% (m 49, f 43)
                                                                                                   CS 9% (m 11, f 8) [EMIS/ESTEEM]
                                                  Teacher performance as measured by changes     l Studies on C-in Ed training and URC observed
                                                  in classroom practice                            improvement of classroom practice
 (b) Establish a sustainable, cost-effective and  Preparation of annual operational and          l During project implementation period,
 better managed education system                  expenditure plans                                semi-annual operational plans and semi-annual
                                                                                                   expenditure plans were submitted regularly.
                                                  Expenditures within 5% of annual targets       l This indicator was originally developed for the
                                                                                                   Program (Not applicable for the project)
                                                  Person-month of staff training for managers    l 51 staff completed overseas training (20
                                                                                                   person-months) and 545 staff completed
                                                                                                   in-country training (8 person-months)
 (c) Ensure universal coverage and equitable      Net enrolment ratios - MTT 89%; EPT 95%        l National all area 85 (rural-85, urban-85, boy
 access to quality primary schooling              (both genders) (1996: M 79%; F 77%)              84, girl 86) (2002)
                                                                                                 l IDA supported divisions
                                                                                                  o Rajshahi  all area 84 (rural 85, urban 81)
                                                                                                  o Khulna  all area 88 (rural 88, urban 87)
                                                                                                  o Dhaka  all area 83 (rural 83, urban 86)
                                                                                                  (2002)
                                                  Physically adequate schools by school type and l GPS National - 64%
                                                  location. MTT 85%; EPT 95% (1996: 68%)         l GPS IDA supported divisions
                                                                                                  o Rajshahi 6,128 schools (66%)
                                                                                                  o Khulna 2,680 schools (64%)
                                                                                                  o Dhaka 5,908 schools (60%)
Output Indicators:
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR1                      Actual/Latest Estimate
 (a) Increased enrollments                        Net enrolment ratios MTT 89%; EPT 95%          l See indicator (c) above
                                                  (both genders) (1996: M 79%; F 77%)
 (b) Increased completion rates                   Completion rates MTT 65%; EPT 72% (1996:       l See indicator (a) above
                                                  60%)




                                                                  - 18 -

  (c) Raised learning achievements                      Learning achievement (i) MTT 60%, (ii) EPT          l See indicator (a) above
                                                        85% reaching grade 4 competencies in literacy,
                                                        numeracy and life skills (1996: 40%)
  (d) Improved school management and academic           Person/weeks of training completed                  l See indicator (b) above
  supervision                                           Increased participation in decision making          l This information was expected to be collected by
                                                                                                                the third party SPN (TPS), but the TPS was not
                                                                                                                appointed until June 03.
                                                        Increased ATEO and head teacher review of           l This information was expected to be collected by
                                                        classroom activities                                    TPS, but the TPS was not appointed until June
                                                                                                                03
  (e) Increased instruction time and teacher            Increased instructional time MTT 700 hrs EPT        l Instructional time has been increased (based on
  productivity                                          1100 (1996: 400 (1&2) & 700 (3&5)                       238 school days):
                                                                                                                o 1st and 2nd grades - single shift (774 hrs),
                                                                                                                double shift (595 hrs)
                                                                                                                o 3rd to 5th grades - single shift (1,419 hrs),
                                                                                                                double shift (783hrs)
                                                        Increased teacher productivity                      l This information was expected to be collected by
                                                                                                                TPS, but the TPS was not appointed until June
                                                                                                                03
  (f) Education resources allocated more                Textbook reuse policy for classes 3 to 5            l No textbook reuse for 1&2 grades; 50% of
  efficiently                                                                                                   textbook reuse policy for classes 3 to 5 in place
                                                        Give priority to additional classrooms rather       l A total of 160 CSs was built under the project to
                                                        than building new schools                               increase access to quality education for
                                                                                                                un-served and under-served children. In
                                                                                                                addition, 5,978 classrooms have been
                                                                                                                constructed and 2,000 GPS have been repaired.
                                                        Targeted construction based on needs                l All schools were built based on needs


                                                        Targeted subsidies to increased enrollment and      l 1.5 million children from the poorest upazilas
                                                        attendance of girls and the poor in selected            benefited from the provision of free stationery
                                                        urban areas and underserved rural communities
  (g) Improve institutional capabilities at national    Annual Operational Plans prepared on                l Annual (until the MTR), and Semi-annual
  district, thana and school levels in management,      schedule                                                Operational Plans were prepared on schedule
  implementation, monitoring and information            Timely production of MIS & M&E products             l MIS & M&E products related to PEDP
  analysis.                                             related to PEDP implementation                          implementation were provided by the unit
                                                                                                                responsible; however MoPME's clearance was
                                                                                                                not timely.
                                                        Primary Education Coordination Committee            l PECC and PEIMC did not perform as expected
                                                        (PECC) and Primary Education
                                                        Implementation and Monitoring Committee
                                                        (PEIMC) monitor PEDP progress and make
                                                        information- based decision

                                                        % of annual staff development activities             l 51 staff completed overseas training (12
                                                        completed                                               person-months) and 545 staff completed
                                                                                                                in-country training (8 person-months),
                                                                                                                representing about 90% of training plan

Note. PMED provided baseline data at appraisal; main source used for latest estimates was the Report of Child Education and Literacy
Survey 2002 (CELS-02), CPEIMU, published in May 2003, and from EMIS/ESTEEM (as indicated). The baseline data need to be
interpreted with caution given the controversial state of educational statistics in Bangladesh at the time of project appraisal.




                                                                         - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



                                                Project costs by Component
                                                 (US$ million equivalent) /a


                                                                 Apppraisal                Actual/Latest              Percentage
                                                                   Estimate                 Estimate /a               of Appraisal

Component 1: Improving School
Quality and System Efficiency                                              84.42                    61.17                      72%

Component 2: Strengthening Institutional
Capacity and Management /b                                                  10.3                    15.35                    149%

Component 3: Increasing Equitable Access
to Quality Education                                                       89.09                    52.59                      59%



              Total Project Costs                                         183.81                   129.10                      70%


          Total Financing Required                                        183.81                   129.10




a/ Lower actual costs result from significantly lower construction costs than estimated at appraisal, the effect of Taka
   devaluations, SDR/US$ exchange rate fluctuations, and misprocurement in textbooks (US$6.5 million) and PTI furniture.


b/ Component 2 actual exceeds Appraisal estimates because the UNICEF-ideal contract envisaged at appraisal
   to be only US$5 million, was doubled at negotiations.


Source: Directorate of Primary Education, Ministry of Primary and Mass Education
          World Bank, Project Appraisal Document (March 5, 1998);
          World Bank, Disbursements Reports (Controller) and Procurement Reports (SAP) (April 25, 2004).




                                                                    - 20 -

         Project Costs by Procurement arrangements (Appraisal Estimates)
                                    US$ million

     Expenditure Category      ICB      NCB        Other    N.B.F.    Total Cost

1. Works                         0.00     23.37      35.05      -           58.42
                                (0.00)   (21.74)    (32.59)     -          (54.33)

2. Goods                        23.36     30.58      32.97      -           86.91
                               (15.77)   (22.78)    (24.85)     -          (63.40)

3. Services                      0.00      0.00      25.46      -           25.46
                                (0.00)    (0.00)    (24.50)     -          (24.50)

5. Miscellaneous                 0.00      5.20       7.82      -           13.02
                                (0.00)    (3.12)     (4.69)     -           (7.81)



     Total                      23.36     59.15    101.30       -          183.81
                               (15.77)   (47.64)    (86.63)     -         (150.04)




        Project Costs by Procurement arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
                                    US$ million

     Expenditure Category      ICB      NCB        Other    N.B.F.    Total Cost

1. Works                         0.00     19.88      30.64      -           50.52
                                (0.00)   (19.04)    (27.09)     -          (46.13)

2. Goods                        22.39      0.28      21.71      -           44.38
                               (18.94)    (0.00)     (6.63)     -          (25.57)

3. Services                      0.00      4.63      14.79      -           19.42
                                (0.00)    (4.62)    (13.53)     -          (18.15)

5. Miscellaneous                 0.00      5.36       9.42      -           14.78
                                (0.00)    (0.21)     (0.00)     -           (0.21)



     Total                      22.39     30.14      76.57      -          129.10
                               (18.94)   (23.87)    (47.25)     -          (90.07)




                                             - 21 -

                        Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent) /a

                                           Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest               Percentage of Appraisal
             Component               IDA          GOB        Total   IDA          GOB        Total     IDA          GOB     Total


Improving school quality and
system efficiency                          63.0     21.4       84.4       40.4      20.7       61.2         64%       97%      72%


Strengthening institutional capacity
and Management /b                          9.3        1.0     10.30       10.6       4.7       15.3       114%       471%    149%


Increasing equitable access to
quality education                         77.7      11.4       89.1       39.0      13.6       52.6         50%      119%      59%


         TOTAL                           150.0     33.78     183.8        90.1      39.0     129.1          60%      116%      70%



                                                                           (2.6)


a/ Lower actual costs result from significantly lower construction costs than estimated at appraisal, the effect of Taka
   devaluations, SDR/US$ exchange rate fluctuations, and misprocurement in textbooks (US$6.5 million) and PTI furniture.


b/ Component 2 actual exceeds Appraisal estimates because the UNICEF-ideal contract envisaged at appraisal
   to be only US$5 million, was doubled at negotiations.


Source: Directorate of Primary Education, Ministry of Primary and Mass Education
          World Bank, Project Appraisal Document (March 5, 1998);
          World Bank, Disbursements Reports (Controller) and Procurement Reports (SAP) (April 25, 2004).




                                                             - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

As it was not required for in the PAD for social sector operations to undertake economic costs and benefit analysis
at the time, this was not done for this operation.




                                                        - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              9/11/1993                   4    Task Manager (1);
                                               Princpal Economist (1);
                                               Education Specialist (1);
                                               Program Officer (1)
              10/23/93                    6    Task Manager (1);
                                               Sr. Implementation Spec. (1);
                                               Economist (1);
                                               Human Resource Economist (1);
                                               Program Officer (1);
                                               GEP Program Monitor (1)
              4/26/1995                   5    Task Manager (1);
                                               Principal Economist (1);
                                               Sr. Operations Specialist (1);
                                               Institution Management Spec.
                                               (1); Education Specialist (1).
              8/10/1995                   4    Task Manager (1);
                                               Principal Economist (1);
                                               Education Specialist (1);
                                               RMB (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              5/29/1996                   9    Task Manager (1);
              (Appraisal)                      Principal Economist (1);
                                               Education Specialist (2); Sr.
                                               Operations Officer (1)
                                               Program Officer (1);
                                               Consultants (3)
              9/15/1996                 10     Task Manager (1);
              (Joint Post-Appr.)               Principal Economist (1);
                                               Education Spec. (3); Program
                                               Officer (1); Consultants (2);
                                               Procurement Specialist (1);
                                               Disbursement Specialist (1)
              9/1997                      6    Task Manager (1);
              (Pre-Negotiations                Principal Economist (1);
                                               Team Leader (1);
                                               Principal Education Specialist
                                               (1);
                                               MIS Specialist (1);
                                               Education Specialist (1)

 Supervision
              05/25/1998                  5    Principal Educ. Spec. (1);           S               S
              (Project Launch)                 MIS Specialist (1);
                                               Fin. Mgt. Specialist (1);
                                               Procurement Specialist (1);




                                                - 24 -

                  Education Specialist (1)
08/25/1998     6  Task Team Leader (1);                 S    S
                  Economist (1); Procurement
                  Specialist (1); MIS Specialist (1);
                  Education Specialist (1);
                  Financial Management Spec. (1)
01/31/1999     3  Task Team Leader (1);                 U    U
                  Education Specialist (1);
                  MIS/GIS Specialist (1)
05/31/1999     8  Task Team Leader (1); Lead            U    U
(Draft Aide       Education Specialist (1);
Memoire)          Education Specialist (2);
                  Economist/Finance (1);
                  Procurement Specialist (1);
                  Disbursement Officer (1);
                  Financial Mgt. Special (1)
12/15/1999     8  Task Team Leader (1); Education       U    U
                  Specialist (1); Economist (1);
                  Research Analyst (1); Consultant
                  (2); Procurement Specialist (1);
                  Disbursement Specialist (1)
06/01/2000     10 Mission Leader (1); Economist         U    S
                  (1); Proc. Disb/Audit Mgr. (1);
                  Procurement Specialist (1);
                  Disbursement Officer (1);
                  Financial Mgt. Special (1);
                  Operations Specialist (1);
                  Research Analyst (1);
                  Cons./Plann. & Mgt. (1);
                  Cons./Teacher Develop. (1)

03/18/2001     6  Lead Education Spec. (1);             S    S
                  Sr. Economist (1);
                  Sr. Procurement Spec. (1);
                  Disbursement Officer (1);
                  Research Analyst (1);
                  Fin. Management Specialist. (1);
                  Operations Specialist (1)
5/30/2001      6  Lead Education Spec. (1);             S    S
                  Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                  Sr. Procurement Spec. (1);
                  Sr. Financial Mgt. Spc (1);
                  Research Associate (1);
                  M&E Consultant (1)
11/04/2001     8  Lead Education. Specialist (1);       S    S
                  Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                  Sr. Proc. Specialist (1);
                  Disbursement Officer (1);
                  Fin. Management Specialist (1);
                  Research Associate (1);
                  Consultant (1);
                  Sr. Education. Specialist (1)
06/02/2002     7  Lead Education Spec. (1);             S    S



                  - 25 -

                                            Sr. Education Spec. (1);
                                            Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                                            Sr. Procurement Spec. (1);
                                            Sr. Financial Mgt. Spec. (1);
                                            Research Associate (1);
                                            Consultant (1)
               11/17/2002              7    Lead Ed Spec. (1);                   S    S
                                            Education Specialist (2);
                                            Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                                            Sr. Procurement Spec (1);
                                            Sr. Financial Mg Spec. (1);
                                            Research Associate (1)
               05/21/2003              8    Lead Ed Spec. (1);                   S    S
                                            Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                                            Sr. Procurement Spec (1);
                                            Disbursement Officer (1);
                                            Research Associate (1);
                                            Consultant - M&E, Teacher Ed,
                                            Infrastructure (3)
               10/30/2003              9    Lead Ed Spec. (1);                   S    S
                                            Sr. Education Economist (1);
                                            Sr. Education Spec. (1);
                                            Education Specialist (1);
                                            Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                                            Sr. Procurement Spec (1);
                                            Sr. Fin. Mgt. Spec. (1); Research
                                            Associate (1);
                                            M&E Consultant (1)

 ICR
               12/17/2003             6     Sr. Educ. Economist 1);              S    S
                                            Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                                            Education Specialist (1);
                                            Sr. Procurement Spec (1);
                                            Sr. Financial Mgt Spc (1);
                                            M&E Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             130                              417
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  162                              437
  Supervision                            246                              684
  ICR                                      10                               46
  Total                                  548                             1584




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Associates for Development Services Limited. April 15, 2003. Third Party Supervision: Education Quality under
IDA-assisted Primary Education Development Project for Dhaka, Khulna and Rajshahi Divisions. Inception
Report. Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Development Planners and Consultants. November 20, 2003. Draft Final Report: Study of Impact on C-in-Ed
Training.

Directorate of Primary Education, Primary and Mass Education Division. May 20-21, 2002. Performance of the
Projects under Primary Education Development Program. Annual Review 2002. Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Education for Change. January 2002. Bangladesh: Assessment of Primary Education Development Program
(PEDP). Government of Bangladesh. Ministry of Primary and Mass Education. May 2003. Report of Child
Education and Literacy Survey, 2002.

Engineering and Planning Consultants Ltd. August 2003. Third Party Supervision: Civil Works under
IDA-assisted Primary Education Development Project for Dhaka, Khulna and Rajshahi Divisions. Draft Final
Report. Dhaka, Bangladesh.

ESTEEM Research Series.

Government of Bangladesh. October 2002. Second Primary Education Development Program (PEDPII). Final
Plan.

Government of Bangladesh, DPE. June 2, 2001. Coordination of Training Under the PEDP Related Projects.

Government of Bangladesh, DPE. July, 2001. Report on International Seminar: Improving Quality in Education
System.

Government of Bangladesh, DPE. June 2003. A Seminar Paper on Role of URC for the Quality Development of
Primary Education. Prepared by Dr. Md. Anowarul Aziz.

Government of Bangladesh, DPE. October 2003. Study on Effectiveness of Upazila Resource Centers Under the
IDA-Assisted Primary Education Development Project - Final Draft. Prepared by Social Development Services,
Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Government of Bangladesh, MOPME. May 2003. Annual Review report: Performance of the Projects under
Primary Education Development Program.

House of Consultants Ltd. June 2002. Synopsis of the Draft Final Report on Study of the Impact of Teacher
Characteristics on Student Learning.

Government of Bangladesh, PMED. March 2001. Mid-Term Review Report of the PEDP for Dhaka, Rajshahi
and Khulna Division from July 1998 to March 2001. GOB comments.

Government of Bangladesh, PMED. March 2002. Study on the Primary Training Institute's Efficiency and Uses
Under the IDA-assisted Primary Education Development Project. Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Government of Bangladesh, PIMU Training Division. October 2003. The Report of Progress on C-in-Ed Training
of RNGPS Teachers During 1998-03 Period.

Government of Bangladesh, PMED. May 1999. Report: The Annual Review Meeting on Primary Education



                                                    - 29 -

Development Programs.
Government of Bangladesh, PMED. May 2000. Overview of Projects Supporting the Primary Education
Development Program.

Government of Bangladesh, PMED. May 2001. Overview of the PEDP : A Document for the Annual Review
2001.

Government of Bangladesh, PMED. May 2001. Annual Review report: Performance of the Projects under
Primary Education Development Program.

Government of Bangladesh, PMED. May 2002.      Proceedings of the PEDP Annual Review 2002.

Islam, Md. Riazul & Kabir, Shahnaz. July 2002. An Abstract on The 2001 Class 3 and 5 National Assessment.

Primary School Performance Monitoring Project (PSPMP). December 2001. Primary Education in Bangladesh.
Findings of PSPMP: 2000.

Project Implementation Plan. March 5, 1998. Primary Education Development Project.

UNICEF. June 2003. Vision and Mission of URC and its Operational Strategy  A Road Map for the URC in the
Future.

World Bank. 2000. Bangladesh: Education Sector Review. Volumes 1 & 2.    The University Press Ltd.

World Bank. March 5, 1998. Project Appraisal Document. Primary Education Development Project. Report No:
17271-BD.

World Bank. April 30, 1998. Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement. Primary Education Development
Project.




                                                  - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR




                         Borrower's Contribution

                                           to




                 Implementation Completion Report
                               (IDA-n038 B.D.)




                                        For a

                       Primary Education Development
                               Project (Phase-II)
                                           IN
                     Dhaka, Rajshahi & Khulna Division




                                  May 26, 2004




                                         - 31 -

          BANGLADESH  Primary Education Development Project (N038-BD)
         Borrower/Implementing Agency Implementation Completion Report


1. Background

       All states must perform their commitment to offer free and compulsory primary education in
accordance with their commitments (UNESCO, 2000). The message has also highlighted in the
World Education Forum, Dakar, 2000 that:

       Education is the right of all children and the obligation of all governments.
       Education is a key to the fulfillment of other human rights. It is the heart of all
       development [and] it is the essential prerequisite for equality, dignity and lasting
       peace. Ensuring the right of education is a mater of morality and of justice.

The Constitution of Bangladesh, among others, recognizes this as an inherent right of the citizens of
the country. The government of Bangladesh has taken various steps to provide basic education for
all school-aged children of education. Many epoch-making steps including Food for Education
Programme (1993) and Stipends Program (2002) were also undertaken to accomplish the goal of
EFA.

       As a result, after independence, in the First Five Year Plan (1973-78) and in the Two Year Plan
period (1978-80) the Government of Bangladesh had been alone trying for expansion of primary
education and Universal Primary Education (UPE). Considering local resource constraint and
realizing willingness of the nation for expansion of primary education, international development
agencies specially the World Bank and UNICEF expanded their co-operation since 1980. During the
Third Five Year Plan (TFYP) high priority was also attached to the UPE programme with plan
allocation of TK. 53800.00 lakh which was about 46% of the total education sectoral allocation. The
Fourth Five-Year Plan (1990-95) also accorded top priority to primary education with nearly 50% of
the education sector allocation. Development partners like World Bank, SIDA,
UNICEF,UNDP,ADB,IDB,CIDA, Saudi Government, the Netherlands, Japan, OPEC,EC German
Government and the Govt. of Norway have also come forward to assist Bangladesh to achieve the
goal of Education for All.

       By implementing these projects substantial progress has been achieved in the primary
education sub-sector, as follows:

(a)    Equitable Access: establishment of new schools, construction of additional classrooms,
establishment of community and satellite schools, giving subvention to huge number of teachers of
registered non-government primary schools, giving honorarium to the teachers of community and
satellite schools, recruitment of female teachers. Moreover, Food for Education programme has
been launched to increase enrollment rate and attendance rate.

(b)    Improvement of Quality of Primary Education: Introduction of competency based curricula
and syllabi, revision of new textbooks and supply textbooks to all children of grades 1 to 5, and
expansion of facilities for in-service training of the teachers and training programmes for all
associated with primary education.

(c)    Community Participation, Social Mobilization in Primary Education Management:
Strengthening SMCs, local education committees and PTAs, strengthening social mobilization,
Mother rally, etc.

       The success achieved during the last Five-Year Plans, tempted the government to adopt a
more pragmatic and comprehensive programme for qualitative improvement of primary education
in the Fifth-Five Year Plan. With the assistance of IDA the Government in 1994 established a Project
Preparation Cell (PPC) with Japanese Grant Fund under the Primary and Mass Education Division




                                                   - 32 -

[now the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education (MOPME)], to formulate a broad based
programme for overall development of primary education. Primary education was given top priority
in the Fourth Five-Year Plan. The same priority has been accorded in the fifth Five-Year Plan also.
Besides, Government is committed to eradicate illiteracy and to achieve the goal of the education
for all.

       Based on the PEDP, PAD and loan agreement the Project Concept Paper (PCP) was prepared.
The total cost of the project was estimated at Tk.86929.93 lakh (GOB Tk. 22529.93 lakh and IDA
Tk. 64400.00 lakh). The PCP was discussed in the Pre-ECNEC inter-ministerial meeting held on
12.04.98 and was recommended for approval on certain conditions.

       On the basis of the recommendations of Pre-ECNEC meeting the Project Concept Paper was
recast. The total project cost of the project stood at Tk. 87073.00 lakh (GOB Tk.22673.00 lakh and
IDA Tk. 64400.00 lakh) The recast PCP was considered and approved by the Executive Committee
of National Economic Council (ECNEC) in its meeting held on 24th May, 1998 with some
observations.

       The Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the PEDP was held in May 2001. A number of revisions were
suggested and agreed by the M/OPME. Scope of work and categories of expenditure were
readjusted. Some of the estimated costs were increased while some were decreased. To ascertain
quality of existing primary education some new studies were planned. To incorporate all the
changes in the PP, the PP was recast. The revised PP was prepared for a cost of Tk. 84,323.78 lakh
(GOB Tk. 24,202.65 lakh and IDA Tk. 60,121.13 lakh) and submitted to the Planning Commission. A
Pre-ECNEC meeting was held on 1.12.2002 on the revised PP and the revised PP was recommended
for approval subject to certain modifications. On the basis of the recommendations of the
Pre-ECNEC meeting the Project Proforma has been prepared. The total project cost of the project
now stands at Tk. 83,339.08 lakh (GOB: Tk. 23,217.95 lakh; PA: Tk. 60,121.13 lakh). The revised
PP was considered and approved by the Executive Committee of National Economic Council
(ECNEC) in its meeting held on 16th August, 2003.

2. Project objectives

       The main objectives of the project are to:

      Improve school quality and system efficiency;
      Establish a sustainable, cost-effective and better managed education system; and
      Ensure universal coverage and equitable access to quality primary schooling.

3. Project description

       The project was implemented through three major components while it has several
sub-components. The project covered three western divisions i.e. Dhaka, Rajshahi and Khulna
division. Project also covered all 53 PTIs.

The summary of the components and sub-components are presented below:

Components

 The main components of the project are given below:
1.     Improve school quality and system efficiency

1.1    Teacher Development, school supervision and school cluster based training
q      Review of Teacher Development i.e. C-in-Ed
q      School supervision
q      Upazila Resource Center (in-service training and subject-based training)

    1.2. Improving Teaching and learning
q      Competency based Curriculum



                                                 - 33 -

q      Textbook, Supplementary reading materials and teaching learning materials
q      National Assessment

1.3    Strengthening national institutions (NAPE and NCTB)
q      Strengthening of NAPE
q      Strengthening of NCTB

2.     Strengthening Institutional Capacity and Management
2.1    Strengthening institutional capacity at the national level
2.2    Strengthening institutional capacity at the district, upazila and school level

3.     Increasing Equitable Access
3.1    Construction of new schools and additional classrooms and other civil works
3.2    Block grants to school to support the provision of stationery to the poorest students
3.3    Social mobilization (gender and the Poorest household)

4. Achievement of Project Objectives

      The objectives of the project were more or less achieved. Of course, many other projects in
addition to the IDA-assisted PEDP contributed simultaneously to uphold the cause of system
efficiency, better managed education system, and access to quality primary schooling.

5. Implementation Experience : Output by Component

5.1 Teachers Development i.e. C-in-Ed

      The target for C-in-Ed training was 52,500 teachers from the RNGPS which was revised to
26,674 during MTR. Up to September 2003, a total of 26,267 RNGPs teachers have been trained.
During the targeting stage it was not considered that all the PTIs are not fully operational and
resourced to run the program. Besides, inappropriate furniture and classroom facilities of the PTIs
also discourages the trainees to the training, insufficient space in hostels, inadequate travel
expenses, food and financial support to families also discourage the trainee teacher to participate in
the C-in-Ed training. The enrolment of the teachers was increased since 2001, as the government
increased the kit allowance, monthly allowance and relaxation in admission test. Further, the
successfully trained teachers will be given higher salary subventions.

5.2 School Supervision

      The school supervision program was effective. The AUEO posted in all the Upazilas have been
contributing to the overall student enrolment in the primary school through their continuous
supervision and enhanced relationship with the community. However, the AUEO do not have
appropriate office facilities, which have negative impact on the efficiency and performance.

5.3 Upazila Resource Center

      GoB has decided to establish 481 Upazila Resource Centers (URCs). Till November 2003, 174
have been successfully established by PEDPQI. IDA agreed to finance the construction of 40 URCs.
Although the URCs are established but placement of faculty members took long time to run the
URCs effectively.

      A recent study shows that the URC training is largely effective, however, several academic,
administrative and managerial steps need to be undertaken to make the URC training effective.

5.4 Textbook and Supplementary Materials

      The IDA finance for (a) procurement of wood-free paper for textbooks to all students in
government and non-government schools and introducing a textbook reuse policy. It was reported
that 50% of the book are used for more than one school year, (b) manuals for teachers on the



                                                - 34 -

care, preservation and repair of books, (c) steel cabinets (almirahs) for storage of reusable books
between school year. It is reported that NCTB has supplied books to all students in government
and non-government schools and introduced textbook reuse policy effectively.

5.5 Construction of new schools and additional classrooms and other civil works.

      LGED and EED were responsible for civil works. LGED has completed almost all the civil works
(Table 1). Adequate furniture has been supplied to the newly constructed community primary
schools and the reconstructed govt. primary schools. However, the newly constructed community is
not operational due to non-appointment of teachers.

      The EED implemented repair and renovation of work of PTIs, construction of DPEOs office,
National Academy of Primary Education, Repair of warehouse, DPE office garage, vertical extension
of DPE 5th floor, repair of lift at DPE HQ, construction of warehouse and construction of boundary
walls.

5.6 Block grants to schools to support the provision of stationary to the poorest students

      Targeted programs were to provide resources; materials and incentives to better ensure
equitable access to quality education for girls, tribal population and children from poor households.
The policy to distribute free stationery to poorest 25% of children has been changed. Due to policy
change, procurement and distribution of stationery to the selected students was delayed.

      A total of 1.5 million poor students have been provided with the free stationery in the
undeserved areas. However, the impact of the free stationery supply could not be ascertained.

5.7 Social mobilization (Gender and the Poorest Households.)

      PEDP organized seminars, workshops, published leaflets and brochures for stakeholders on
different aspects to reduce drop-out, increase enrolment, and involve community with primary
education activities at the grassroots level. Child literacy survey has been financed partially by this
project under this sub-component and report has been published.

6. Project Costs and Financing

      The total project cost for the IDA-supported PEDP was estimated at US$183.8 million, while
the actual cost amounted to about US$129 million (70 percent of original estimate). The original
IDA loan was SDR111 million (US$150.00 million equivalent) including US$ 10.00 million for the
UNICEF-Assisted IDEAL project. After cancellation of US$43.5 million, the total figure expected to
be disbursed under the IDA loan is about US$93 million (62 percent of original estimate). Against
the original GOB contribution of US$33.8 million, the actual cost is estimated at US$32 million (95
percent of original estimate).

7. Borrower's Performance

7.1 Implementation Experience

         The Project encountered a wide range of challenging implementation problems and
difficulties which are summarized as follows:

      Despite high staff turnover and frequent changes, especially of the Project Director, PIMU
was able to implement the project, and to produce timely progress reports, six-monthly plans
Annual Review Reports.

      Sub-optimal coordination of many discrete projects led to disjointed interventions under
many sub-components, such as in teacher training curriculum development and monitoring and
evaluation; as a result, serious sequencing difficulties arose in implementation.




                                                 - 35 -

     Despite the extensive staff training programs, the capacity for effective planning and
management has remained weak, as evidenced by high staff turnover. The project had five project
directors over a period of five years.

     Procurement and financial management (FM) capacity remained weak over the course of
project implementation.

     There was a lack of systematic monitoring and evaluation of the PEDP key performance
indicators due to lack of timely and relevant data.

     Institutional development has been undermined by the frequent transfer of trained and
experienced staff.


7.2 The Component-wise Physical and Financial Progress of the Project is given in table-1 below.




                                               - 36 -

Table 1. Component-wise Progress (As per Latest approved PP):
                                                  Target (as per Revised  Actual Progress (as per
        Items of Work (as per PP)           Unit            PP)                approved PP)
                                                   Financial   Physical   Financial       Physical
                                                              (Quantity)                (Quantity)

                     1                       2        3           4           5              6

Construction of Civil Works
Reconstruction of GPS                       No    10,649.16      1560     10,458.07        1558
New Community School                        No     1,181.77      160      1,181.77         160
Additional Classrooms                       No     9,900.00      6000     9,223.54         5978
Repair of GPS                               No     1,997.89      2000     1,751.38         2000
Construction of additional Toilet for rural No     1,961.00     10600     1,737.41        10076
GPS
Additional tube-well for rural GPS          No      550.00       5500      445.36          4824

Additional Blackboard                       No      738.00      28000      511.97         23133
Construction of URCs at Model School        No      320.00        40       300.92           40
Repair of Flood Affected GPS                No      278.03       303       278.05            0
NAPE's Physical Facilities expansion /      No      82.00         1        74.00             0
construction
Repair / Rehabilitation existing ware       No      13.60         8        11.41             8
house.
Construction of new Warehouse               No      213.36        12       201.60           12

Construction of DPE Offices                 No      77.10         2        69.39             2

Construction of Garage at DPE Offices       No      21.50         43       192.87           31
Construction of boundary walls at urban     No      200.00       200       12.35           200
GPS
PTI repair renovation                       No     2,891.24       53      2,805.18           7
Vertical Extension of DPE Building for      No      120.00    5th, 6th &   126.30            1
PIMU / PCC. P&D Finance, CPEIMU etc.

MANPOWER:                                                                     -              0

PIMU                                       Person   126.85        27       116.77           25

DPE-Finance Unit                           Person   44.46         7        27.90             7

DPEOs                                      Person   153.69        43       109.89           42

Additional Teachers
GPS                                        Person  3,487.40      6000     2,572.16         5506
New CS                                     Person   80.42        640       32.40           131
CPEIMU                                     Person   52.17         11       45.55            11




                                                  - 37 -

                                               Target (as per Revised  Actual Progress (as per
         Items of Work (as per PP)       Unit            PP)               approved PP)
                                                Financial   Physical   Financial       Physical
                                                           (Quantity)                (Quantity)

                    1                      2       3           4          5               6


FURNITURE                                                              1,704.90

PIMU                                    Package  12.87     1 Package    12.87             1
DPE HQ                                  Package   2.38     1 Package     2.38             1
District Offices                        Package   8.52    43 Package     8.52            43
PTIs                                    Package  10.50     53Package    10.50            53
URC                                     Package  80.00         40       51.55            24
NAPE                                    Package  16.00         1         2.00
CPEIMU                                  Package   3.48         1
One Shift School                        Package 1,406.31               106.35             0
Additional Classrooms                   Package 1,800.00               882.91             0
EQUIPMENT                                                                       -  0

PIMU (Computer, Accessories,            Package  72.12     1 Package    72.12             1
Photocopier etc)
DPE-HQ (Computer & Accessories,         Package  55.88     1 Package    30.52             1
Intercom, FAX Machine etc)
DPEOs (Computer, Accessories,           Package  151.04   43 Package   151.04            43
Photocopier etc)
PTIs (Overhead Projector & Photocopier) Package  202.55   53 Package   202.55            53

NAPE                                    Package   3.55     1 Package      -               0

CPEIMU (Computer & Accessories,         Package  30.57     1 Package    21.62             1
Photocopier, Intercom etc)
PMED                                    Package   8.70                   8.62             1

TRANSPORT VEHICLE                                                                  0
PIMU
Jeep                                      No     21.40         1        21.40             1

Microbus                                  No     30.00         2        29.43             2
Motor Cycle                               No      0.55         1         0.55             1
DPE District Offices                      No                              -               0
Motorcycle (AMOs)                         No     23.87         43       23.87            43
Jeep (                                    No     113.00        25      112.18             0

DPEO, Thana Offices Motor Cycle           No     439.49       1250     439.49           1250
(AUEOs)
CPEIMU (Jeep)                             No     23.00         1        22.91             1

FREE STATIONARY (Beg ,Pencil ,Eraser,     LS    1,600.00               1,352.24           0
Sharpener, Geometry box, Exercise book)


FREE TEXT BOOK SUPPLY                     MT    8,600.00     22152     8,553.23        22152
(Procurement of Paper
FREE TEXT BOOK SUPPLY(printing,                 8,000.00               6,106.97           0
binding & distribution etc.)




                                               - 38 -

Table 1. Component-wise Progress (As per Latest approved PP):
                                                  Target (as per Revised   Actual Progress (as per
        Items of Work (as per PP)         Unit             PP)                  approved PP)
                                                  Financial    Physical     Financial      Physical
                                                              (Quantity)                 (Quantity)

                     1                      2         3           4            5              6


TEACHING LEARNING MATERIALS                                                    -             0
etc.
Teacher's Guide (Grade 1-5)                       2,000.00     60 Lakh         -             0

Teaching Leaning Aids(Steel Box, Dummy            1,850.00                 1,817.28           0
Wall Clock, Abacus, Compass, Magnet,
Volume & Mass Cube, Geometry Box,
Prototype, Maps, Charts &Guide book,
First Aid Box)

Supplementary Reading Materials                    900.00                      -              0

Printing of student Assessment Forms               280.00                   112.04

PTI (Reference books and Journal )                  58.00                    32.48            0

CONSULTANCY
Third party supervision                            145.00       Block       123.58            0

Study                                      No       72.80         4          48.10            4

URC -Co coordinator                      Person      8.00         1          11.17            1

TRAINING
Local Training (Training on Management    Man      102.62        460         67.45           554
Administration, Audit. Finance, Planning Month
etc.)
Foreign Training                          Man      226.25        30         198.87           50
                                         Month

C-in-Ed TRAINING                         Person   3,500.00      27674      3,470.50         26267

SOCIAL MOBILIZATION                                194.59                   114.52            0
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE                                                        -              0
 PIMU                                              320.00                   192.23            0
DPE (HQ- Field)                                    500.00                   504.39            0
CPEIMU                                             100.00                    90.14            0

CD/VAT                                            4,400.00                 4,145.25           0
Professional Fee                                   800.00                   643.17            0

Unallocated                                      10,026.40                     -              0

                                                                               -              0
GRAND TOTAL                                      83,339.08                63,788.64




7.3. Training:

       Training is universally considered to be the most powerful weapon to address the issue of
quality education. To develop the professional efficiency of the personnel this project has provided a
large number local and foreign training specially officers of DPE, CPEIMU, PIMU and MoPME. A total
of 544 officials of different organization received in-country and 46 officials have participated
over-seas training on management, monitoring & evaluation, procurement and basic computer
training. This project has trained 26,267 registered non-government primary school teachers.
Beside this a large number of newly recruited AUEOs have received foundation training at National




                                                 - 39 -

Academy for Primary Education (NAPE). The trainees are becoming aware about their
responsibilities and contributing to improving quality primary education. Teachers are aware about
of the modern teaching methods.

7.4. Procurement

       The project has procured number of vehicles, equipment, teaching-learning materials.
Procurement of goods and services including preparation of tender documents, award to contracts
etc. frequently take long time to finalize. Project itself examine the procurement guidelines of
developments partner so that indented violation of conditions do not cause any delay and also
ensure that minimum time is spent on finalizing these matters.

7.5 Disbursement

       The disbursement performances of the Project was satisfactory and timely throughout the
entire implementation period. Out of total revised allocation of US$103.65 million to be provided by
IDA for the project, an amount of US$91.6 million was disbursed up to April 2004.

7.6 Performance of Agrani Bank:

       The project operating account was opened in the Agrani Bank, Dilkusha Branch, Dhaka.
Performance of the Agrani Bank was satisfactory. They transferred the fund to local level/Upazila
level account timely. As a result project local level official spent the project fund timely and
smoothly.

7.7. Audit

7.8 General Audit

       The foreign Aided Project Directorate(FAPAD) conducted annually the audit of accounts of this
project. There were as many as 170-audit observations made by FAPAD during the period from
Fy1998-99 to FY 2003-04. Broad Sheet replies of 127 observations were sent to FAPAD with
recommendations and comments of MoPME . Several bilateral and tripartite meetings were held
during the past two years to resolve the observations.16 audit observations have so far been
resolved.

7.9 Technical Assistance:

       One URC coordinator has been deployed by the project for coordination and technical support
to DPE about the establishment and monitoring the on-going activities of URCs under different
projects.

7.10 Evaluative studies:

       The project conducted 4 evaluative studies during the project period. These are:

(1)    Impact study on C-in-Ed Training
(2) Study on PTI efficiency and use
(3)    Study on effectiveness of URCs
(4) Impact evaluation study of social mobilization meeting held between 1999-2001.

8. Lessons learned

       The Project reports confirm several systemic issues including problems and deficiencies in
both human resources and financial management; and systemic weaknesses in the teacher
education system. Access issues revealed evidence of the success of physical infrastructure
development. However, combined EMIS and monitoring systems showed that more and better
facilities lead to higher enrolment. Quality issues found both in the Final Macro Plan and in project




                                                 - 40 -

reports demonstrated that quality improvements in primary education in Bangladesh will take time,
which necessitates a coordinated combination of interventions and greater responsiveness to the
classroom circumstances.

9. Evaluation of IDA's Performance

      The Bank has fielded ten supervision missions and technical supports on procurement and
management from its local office. The missions have identified several implementation problems
and recommend specific tasks to accomplish. A summary was made on the ten aide-memoires
issued and a total of 58 major recommendations were identified for evaluation in relation to
timeliness of implementation.

      Donor's performance from identification to completion of the project was satisfactory. The
donor-borrower relationship was cordial, beneficial, productive during the entire project period.
Supervisory Missions were very professional, objectively oriented and based on understanding of
the Borrower's institutional capabilities and the donor's policies and procedures. During the project
implementation, the donor-borrower relationship was beneficial and productive. Both parties
responded positively to the practical needs that arose during implementation. Implementation
problems were correctly identified and adequately assessed. Necessary advice was given to the
implementing agencies and follow up actions were adequate. The timing of Supervision Missions
was appropriate and time spent for this was sufficient.

10. Utilization of Funds for the interest of the Target Beneficiaries

      The main objectives of the project were to enhance the equitable access for the primary
school going children by constructing additional classrooms, providing other infrastructural facilities
to improve the school environment. The project also supported to enhance the capacity building of
teachers by providing C-in-Ed training. The project has supplied free textbook to all school going
children and teaching-learning materials to the poorest children in the selected area. The project
has accomplished the task successfully. Hence, the project funds have been utilized for the
stakeholders of the project.




                                                - 41 -

Additional Annex 9. Donor-Aided Projects Under PEDP

       Donor/PEDPI Project                           Components/                   Scope/      Time Frame/
        Objectives/Strategy                          Interventions                Coverage     Comments
ADB - Second Primary Education Sector Project (SPESP)
1. To create equitable access to        1.  Civil works/procurement              Chittagong,  July 1997 to
   schooling for primary age            2.  Sub-cluster Training                 Sylhet &     June 2003
   children;                            3.  Textbooks                            Barisal
2. To improve the quality of            4.  Teaching Aids                        Divisions
   education at the primary level;      5.  Research Studies
3. To strengthen the management         6.  Social Mobilization.
   capacity of primary education
   from the Directorate to Upazila
   level.
World Bank - IDA-PEDP
1. Improve school quality and           1.  Teacher training/                    Dhaka,       July 1998 to
   system efficiency;                       supervision/improving teaching and   Rajshahi and December
2. Establish a sustainable, cost-           learning; Upazila Resource Centers   Khulna       2003
   effective and better managed             (URCs) development.                  Divisions
   education system; and                2.  Provision of paper for textbook
3. Ensure universal coverage and            production and teaching/learning
   equitable access to quality              materials for teachers/students
   primary education.                   3.  Administrative (national, district,
                                            upazila) staff training
                                        4.  Civil works (new schools, additional
                                            classrooms, URCs)
                                        5.  Block grants to schools for
                                            stationery to poorest students
                                        6.  Strengthening institutional capacity
                                            (national, district, upazila and
                                            school level)
                                        7.  Social mobilization through support
                                            to Unicef/IDEAL project in 15
                                            districts

DfID - Effective Schools through Enhanced Education Management (ESTEEM)
1. Strengthening the management         1.  Management development               Nationwide   Cost extension
   capacity of the primary              2.  Education planning                                to be reviewed
   education sector at all levels.      3.  EMIS/M&E                                          in December
2. Strengthening the planning           4.  Finance & Accounts                                2003.
   capacity of DPE, CPEIMU,             5.  Policy research
   MOPME, Planning Commission.          6.  Social mobilization
3. Improvement of education             7.  National assessment
   quality through improving
   school management and teacher
   classroom practices.
KfW/GTZ  (1) Primary School and Cyclone Shelter Construction Project.
            (2) Comprehensive Primary Education Project (CPEP)
1. To reconstruct the dilapidated       1.  Infrastructure development.          15 districts April 1999 to
   GPSs as school and cyclone           2.  Provision of furniture and early     of           June 2003
   shelter.                                 warning equipment.                   Chittagong,
2. To supply the necessary                                                       Dhaka,
   furniture and blackboards and                                                 Barisal &
   the necessary early warning                                                   Khulna
   equipment to the reconstructed                                                Divisions
   schools




                                                        - 42 -

        Donor/PEDPI Project                              Components/                    Scope/     Time Frame/
         Objectives/Strategy                             Interventions                Coverage       Comments
 1.  To rehabilitate selected GPSs        1.   Infrastructure development/                         March 1996 to
     and construct new community               procurement                                         June 2004
     schools in unserved areas.           2.   Provision of teaching aids.           Dinajpur,
 2.  To establish URCs; and               1.   Subvention of community teachers.     Kurigram &    This is Phase
 1.  To supply equipment to UEOs &                                                   Bogra         II of the
     URCs/Model Primary Schools                                                      Districts     project
     and furniture to schools.

 NORAD - Primary Education Development Project for Quality Improvement (PEDPQI)
 1.  To strengthen NAPE                   1.   Upgrading C-in-Ed curriculum.         40 districts  June 1997 to
 2.  To improve teacher training          2.   C-in-Ed training of RNGPS             in Dhaka,     June 2003
 3.  To strengthen the institutional           teachers.                             Rajshahi and
     network of DPE with emphasis         3.   Sub-cluster in-service teacher        Khulna        Project
     on the local level.                       training & leaflets development       Divisions     extended to
                                         4.    Training NAPE staff , provision of                  June 2004
                                               improved facilities for NAPE,
                                               library facilities for PTIs.

 UNICEF - Intensive District Approach to Education for All (IDEAL)
 1.  To establish/strengthen              1.   Local level planning                  36 Districts  July 1996 to
     capacity/structures/mechanisms       2.   Learning materials development and                  June 2004
     for local level                           supply
     planning/monitoring of primary       3.   Establishing URCs                                   The project
     education.                           4.   Satellite schools                                   terminal date
 2.  To improve overall quality of        3.   Social mobilization                                 was revised
     primary education through
     improved teacher training.

 Islamic Development Bank - Cyclone shelter
 1.  To reconstruct 200 government        1.    Civil works/procurement              Dhaka (3      July 1999 to
     primary schools.                     2.   Provision of furniture/teaching       districts)    June 2003
 2.  To supply the necessary                   materials.                            Chittagong
     furniture and teaching materials.                                               (2 districts)
 3.  Improvement of the educational                                                  Rajshahi (1
     environment.                                                                    district)
 4.  Expansion of primary education                                                  Khulna (1
     in rural areas.                                                                 district) and
                                                                                     74 Upazilas.
 UNFPA - Food for Education
 1.  Increase enrollment rate                 Food distribution                                   July 2000 to
 2.  To increase attendance rate              Provision of furniture, and                         June 2001
 3.  To reduce dropout rate in the             equipment,
     primary schools of the project           Training
     area, and
 4.  To improve the qualitative
     stands of primary education
 SIDA - Provided funding for Intensive District Approach to Education for All (IDEAL)
 (See IDEAL above)



Source: (1) Annual Review 2002, May 20, 2002; and (2) Annual Review 2003: Final Draft Project Synthesis
(Consultant Report, June 15, 2003).




                                                          - 43 -

Additional Annex 10. Achievements Under Key Policy Framework

                   Policy Framework                   Implemented  Partially                        Remarks
                                                                  implemented
  Component 1: Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Primary Education
  Teacher Development
      All serving teachers have the opportunity for                    X        Over 26,000 teachers received C-in-Ed
      C-in-Ed by 2010.                                                          training between 1999 to 2003
      C-in-Ed level teachers eligible for government      X                     They are eligible for government base salary
      base salary.
      Maximum teacher-student ratio of 1:50                            X        Current ratios: GPS 1:60 and RNGPS 1:40

  Learning Materials
      Textbooks will be provided for use, free of                               Textbooks have been provided for free of
      charge, to all (GPS, RNGPS) students                X                     charge to all (GPS, RNGPS) students
      Introduction of education publication policy to                           It was only partially implemented as results
      ensure the most efficient supply of quality                      X        of: (i) MOE's structural change of NCTB;
      books through open competitive bidding                                    and (ii) GOB's new procurement regulations
                                                                                introduced in 2003
  National Assessment undertaken at regular                            X        Owing to Project Proforma constrains, only
  intervals                                                                     one national assessment was carried out in
                                                                                2001
  National Curriculum
      All primary schools required to implement the                             All formal primary schools are implementing
      national curriculum                                 X                     the national curriculum
  Component 2: Strengthening Institutional and Management Capacities
  Institutional Responsibilities
      Delegate decision making responsibilities for                             Slow progress was made in devolving the
      planning, budgeting, and implementation to                       X        responsibilities to the local levels.
      districts, upazila, and school through block                              Improvements were made regards to URS
      grant activities                                                          training and block grants activities.
  Recurrent Costs related to system maintenance to                              Maintenance funds were provided, but the
  be incrementally transferred to the revenue budget                   X        process of transferring to the revenue budget is
  by the program Year 5                                                         still underway.
  Component 3: Increasing Equitable Access
  Subvention
      Recognized non-Government schools                                         RNGPSs received subventions for teacher
      (RNGPS) to receive subventions for teacher          X                     salaries and supplementary needs.
      salaries and supplementary needs.
  Physical Facilities
      Strict criteria met and comprehensive needs                               Provision of additional facilities (school and
      analyses completed prior to the provision of        X                     classrooms) were made based on needs bases.
      additional facilities (school and classrooms)
      Govt. will support new schools in under-                                  Government supported schools in under-
      served areas for hard-to-reach children                          X        served areas for hard-to-reach children.
      meeting the agreed criteria.                                              However challenges still remain.
  Subsidies  Targeted interventions to be provided                             Government has been providing stipends to
  to most economically disadvantaged students                          X        the poorest 40% students. The project
                                                                                provided free stationeries to about 1.5 million
                                                                                students in the poorest Upazilas.



The table summarizes achievements of policy actions which were reviewed at the joint workshop involving
DPE/NCTB officials in October 2003.




                                                         - 44 -

Additional Annex 11. Assessment of Student Achievement

Student learning achievement is one of the most important indicators of the quality of education. A national
assessment of student achievement was therefore included in PEDP which originally was designed as a primary
education sector investment program in support of the Government's fifth Five Year Plan (1997-2002), but in
reality PEDP became 27 discrete projects. The IDA-supported PEDP covered Dhaka, Rajshahi and Khulna
Divisions, while the ADB-supported Second Primary Education Sector Project (SPESP) covered Chittagong,
Barisal and Sylhet Divisions.

The national assessment, which was to be financed by DfID, would focus on Bangla and mathematics in Grades 3
and 5 in year 1, 3, and 5 of the project. It would be carried out by the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Division
of DPE.

Subsequently it was agreed that the SPESP, in collaboration with the Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) and
the National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) would conduct a sample-based national assessment of
student learning achievement through a systematic random sample of Government Primary Schools (GPS) and
Registered Non-Government Primary Schools (RNGPS) covering the whole country.

For the purpose, the NCTB in 1999 established an Assessment Cell, which developed the assessment instruments
for Class 3 and Class 5 in Bangla, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies. The instruments were a combination
of multiple-choice questions (MCQ) and structured, short-answer questions (SSAQ). It was estimated that 75
minutes were required for each subject, with a total of six hours' testing time spread over two days. The original
plan was to carry out the assessment in 1998, 2000, and 2002. The aim was to provide baseline student
achievement data and periodic indicators of project outcome.

The assessment, however, could not be carried out because there was no budget provision for it in the Government
Project Proforma (PP). Eventually the necessary funds were provided, but only one cycle of the planned
assessment was carried out during November 3-18, 2001 by Associates of Development Services Limited (ADSL),
under the supervision of the SPESP consultants (see Note 1). A National Assessment of Pupil Assessment in
Grades 3 and 5 under SPESP: Final Report, Directorate of Primary Education, Primary and Mass Education
Division, Government of Bangladesh, Dhaka: 18 April, 2002. The Final Report, strangely, does not include the
assessment findings, a summary of which was subsequently prepared by NCTB in July 2002. See footnote 3,
below.    As no follow-up work was scheduled, the assessment team, comprising local staff trained for the purpose,
and the consultants, was disbanded in June 2002. A summary of the results was first presented at the May 2002
Annual Review (see Note 2). "The 2001 Class 3 and 5 National Assessment  A Special Report (Section B 
Student Learning Achievement)" by Dr.`David Carroll and Dr. Merle C. Tan, Academy for Educational
Development, Pathmark Associates Ltd., Dhaka, Bangladesh, June 2002.

        The specific objectives of the 2001 National Assessment were:

    To establish a baseline against which future progress in improving the quality of basic education in
     Bangladesh may be assessed;
    To provide qualitative and quantitative information about student learning achievement and what proportion
     of students have achieved an acceptable level of learning and which competencies appear to be taught well and
     poorly;
    To provide information about the relationship between student learning achievement and a range of input and
     process variables, as a guide to improving educational quality with minimal resource implications; and
    To make quality-focused recommendations for the improvement of curriculum, teacher training and
     assessment (see Note 3).

Management of the Research

A Professional Committee on National Assessment comprising prominent educators was responsible for defining



                                                        - 45 -

the assessment strategy and assuring the quality of the research instruments, data gathering methodology and
analysis. A National Coordination Committee on Primary Curriculum Evaluation and Assessment, chaired by the
Secretary of then-PMED, was established to direct the Professional Committee. As mentioned above, the staff of
the NCTB Assessment Cell, with support from the SPESP consultants, developed the assessment instruments.

Methodology

Qualitative and quantitative data were obtained through a combination of: (a) an interview schedule; (b) an
observation schedule; and (c) a student background questionnaire.

The data were based on standard tests in Bangla, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies. The tests were
constructed according to three criteria: content (to assess the full range of competencies), difficulty (items were
answered correctly by 30%-70% of the sample), and discrimination (as a means of assuring the quality of the
items). The actual samples were drawn from 327 schools (see Note 4) nationwide based on the following criteria:

        School type: Government Primary School (GPS) and Registered Non-Government Primary School
(RNGPS);
        Location: Urban (U) and Rural ( R ); and
        Gender: Boys and Girls.

Findings

The findings, summarized in Table 1 and Table 2 below, showed that:

        In Class 3: only in Bangla was the mean score above 50%; Science and Social Studies were slightly below
50%, while Mathematics was about 40%.

        In Class 5: the mean score in Bangla and Social Studies exceeded 50%; Science about 43%, and
Mathematics was 38%.


  Table 1: Overall Performance in Class 3
  Subject            Marks             Mean               S.D.                Mean %            S.D. %
  Bangla             50                28.343             12.968              56.685            25.935
  Mathematics        34                13.646              7.368              40.134            21.669
  Science            48                23.722              9.782              49.421            20.379
  Social Sc.         48                22.010              9.178              45.854            19.122
  Source: National Assessment Abstract, p. 2.

  Table 2: Overall Performance in Class 5
  Subject            Marks             Mean               S.D.                Mean %            S.D. %
  Bangla             50                26.310             9.959               52.619            19.919
  Mathematics        35                13.363             7.353               38.179            21.009
  Science            48                20.639             7.413               42.998            15.443
  Social Sc.         48                25.224             8.874               52.550            18.488
  Source: National Assessment Abstract, p. 2.

        GPS-RNGPS Differences: Class 3 RNGPS performance was substantially better than GPS performance
in all subjects, except Bangla, in which RNGPS performance was only marginally superior to GPS performance.
At Class 5, the difference between GPS and RNGPS was largely evened out. Table 3 and Table 4 summarize the
differences.




                                                         - 46 -

  Table 3: GPS-RNGPS Class 3 Differences
  Subject                GPS         RNGPS            Difference       T Ratio      P.         Effect Size
  Bangla                 28.172      28.771           -0.599           1.760        >0.050     -0.046z
  Mathematics            15.269      19.810           -4.451           16.343       0.000      -0.427z
  Science                22.953      25.649           -2.696           10.432       0.000      -0.276z
  Social Studies         21.245      23.926           -2.681           11.029       0.000      -0.292z
  Average                                                                                      -0.260z
  Source: National Assessment Abstract, p. 3.

  Table 4: GPS-RNGPS Class 5 Differences
  Subject              GPS          RNGPS          Difference        T. Ratio     P.          Effect Size
  Bangla               26.541       25.729         0.812             2.974        <0.01       0.082z
  Mathematics          15.873       16.960         -1.087            3.731        0.000       -0.105z
  Science              20.395       21.250         -0.855            4.101        0.000       -0.115z
  Social Studies       25.239       25.186         0.053             0.215        >0.200      0.006z
  Average                                                                                     -0.033z
  Source: National Assessment Abstract, p. 3.

         Gender Differences: Boys' performance at Class 3 level was superior to girls' performance by a small but
statistically significant amount across all subjects, especially in Bangla and Mathematics. In Class 5, the
difference persisted. The differences are summarized in Table 5 and Table 6.


  Table 5: Gender Difference in Class 3
  Subject              Boys         Girls          Difference        T. Ratio     P.          Effect Size
  Bangla               29.079       27.596         1.483             4.689        0.000       0.125z
  Mathematics          17.267       15.845         1.422             5.029        0.000       0.133z
  Science              24.141       23.297         0.844             3.276        <0.05       0.087z
  Social Studies       22.307       21.709         0.598             2.399        <0.02       0.064z
  Average                                                                                     0.102z
  Source: National Assessment Abstract, p. 4.

  Table 6: Gender Difference in Class 5
  Subject              Boys         Girls          Difference        T. Ratio     P.          Effect Size
  Bangla               27.578       25.136         2.442             9.362        0.000       0.262z
  Mathematics          17.226       15.215         2.011             6.669        0.000       0.186z
  Science              21.170       20.151         1.019             4.922        0.000       0.138z
  Social Studies       26.307       24.224         2.083             8.775        0.000       0.246z
  Average                                                                                     0.208z
  Source: National Assessment Abstract, p. 4.

         Levels of Achievement

Keeping consistency with curricular demand, three categories of achievement level were defined as (i) Mastery =
achieving 80% or more correct; (ii) Near-mastery = 60% or more correct; and (iii) Non-mastery = achieving less
than 60%. On this basis, about 25% of the students were assessed as having achieved "near-mastery" of the basic
items where "basic" represented the learning defined as a minimal requirement for successful completion of the
primary cycle. Bangla was the only subject in which the proportion achieving mastery of the "basic" items was
above 25%; in Science it was almost 20%. Mastery of the "proficient" items was at a much lower level, where
"proficient" represented the learning defined as desirable for all students to achieve. The proportion of students
assessed as having achieved mastery in Mathematics and Social Studies was less than 10%. Thus, two-thirds or
more of the students in these subjects were defined as "non-masters."




                                                         - 47 -

Notes

(1) A National Assessment of Pupil Assessment in Grades 3 and 5 under SPESP: Final Report, Directorate of
Primary Education, Primary and Mass Education Division, Government of Bangladesh, Dhaka: 18 April, 2002.
The Final Report, strangely, does not include the assessment findings, a summary of which was subsequently
prepared by NCTB in July 2002. See footnote 3, below.

(2) "The 2001 Class 3 and 5 National Assessment  A Special Report (Section B  Student Learning
Achievement)" by Dr.`David Carroll and Dr. Merle C. Tan, Academy for Educational Development, Pathmark
Associates Ltd., Dhaka, Bangladesh, June 2002.

(3) "An Abstract on The 2001 Class 3 and 5 National Assessment" prepared by Prof. Md. Riazul Islam, Member
(Primary Curriculum) NCTB and Ms. Shahnaz Kabir, Research Officer, NCTB; Dhaka: National Curriculum and
Textbook Board, July 2002, p. 1. The abstract evidently was in response to the need for a an official summary of
the assessment findings which the DPE April 2002 Final Report, referred to in footnote 1 above, did not provide.

(4) The original proposed was 320 schools (160 each of GPS and RNGPS) which subsequently were augmented by
a second list of 32 (16 each of GPS and RNGPS). The DPE Final Report listed 352 schools.




                                                       - 48 -

- 49 -

