Report No. PIC3834
Project Name                   Bangladesh-Primary Education      ro) N
Development Program Project
Region                         South Asia
Sector                         Education
Project ID                     BDPA9550
Implementing Agencies          The People's Republic of Bangladesh:
Primary and Mass Education Division
Environment Category           C
Contacts                       Secretary, Primary and Mass Education
Division, Dhaka
Date Prepared                  06/02/97
Board Approval Date            May 6, 1997
Peer Reviewers                 V. Greaney, M. Lockheed
1.   Project Objective:   The objectives of this project are to raise
primary school completion rates and learning achievements; and develop
a sustainable, cost-effective, better managed and equitable primary
education system. The objectives will be achieved by: improving school
quality and efficiency; strengthening institutional and management
capacity at national and subnational levels; and increasing equitable
access for girls and children from poor households.
2.   Project Description:   The project will include the following
components: school-based and local teacher training; textbook revision
and teacher-developed materials; a bi-annual national schools'
performance assessment; staff development and training for managers in
program planning, budgeting and monitoring; targeted classroom
construction, facilities and free stationery to increase school
completion of girls and children from the poorest households.
3.   Project Implementation:   The project will take a sector approach to
support Government's agreed five-year primary education program. the
Primary and Mass Education Division (PMED) through the Directorate of
Primary Education will have overall responsibility for the project.
PMED will work in close partnership with non-government school
authorities and with NGOs providing primary education. PMED will
coordinate donors supporting primary education.
4.   Project Cost and Financing:   Project cost and the financing plan
are to be determined. IDA is considering Credit in the region of US$200
million.
5.   Environment Aspects:   The project would have no adverse effect on
the environment as construction would be limited to a small number of
primary schools. The curriculum and teacher training would continue to
emphasize environmental issues. The project would be a Category C
project.



Contact Point:       Audrey Aarons (Task Manager)
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel. No. (202) 458-0977
Fax No. (202) 522-1772
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 2 -



