Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17271-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED INTERIM TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 111 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FORA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 5, 1998
Education Sector
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Taka
Tk I = US$0.0225
US$1 = Tk 44.55 (08/22/97)
US$1 =  Tk 46.30 (02/02/98)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                         Asian Development Bank
ATEO                        Assistant Thana Education Officer
BANBEIS                     Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Informnation and Statistics
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
C&AG                        Comptroller and Auditor General
DFID                        Department for Intemational Development (U.K.)
DPE                         Directorate of Primary Education
EFA                         Education for All
EMIS                        Education Management Information System
FD                          Facilities Department
FSSAP                       Female Secondary School Assistance Project
GEP                         General Education Project
GOB                         Government of Bangladesh,
GTZ                         Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (Germany)
ICB                         Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR                         Implementation Completion Report
IDA                         Intemational Development Association
IDB                         Islamic Development Bank
ITF                         Interim Trust Fund
KfW                         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LGED                        Local Govemment Engineering Department
M&E                         Monitoring and Evaluation
NAPE                        National Academy of Primary Education
NCB                         National Competitive Bidding
NCTB                        National Curriculum Textbook Board
NER                         Net Enrollment Ratio
NGO                         Non-Governmental Organization
PEDP                        Primary Education Development Program/Project
PHRD                        Policy & Human Resources Development Fund (Japan)
PIU                         Project Implementation Unit
PMED                        Primary and Mass Education Division
PTA                         Parent Teacher Association
PTI                         Primary Teaching Institute
SA                          Special Account
Sida                        Swedish Intemational Development Association
SOE                         Statement of Expenditures
Unicef                      United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA                       United Nations Population Fund
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Pierre Landell-Mills
Sector Manager: Ralph W. Harbison
Task Managers: Himelda Martinez, Audrey Aarons



BANGLADESH
Primary Education Development Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective                                           2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators     2
B. Strategic Context                                                       3
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project                3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                       3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  4
C. Project Description Summary                                             5
1. Project components                                               5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project    6
3. Benefits and target population                                   7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                    8
D. Project Rationale                                                       11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection        11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies                                         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design         12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                      14
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                14
1. Economic                                                         14
2. Financial                                                        15
3. Technical                                                        15
4. Institutional                                                    16
5. Social                                                           17
6. Environmental assessment                                         18
7. Participatory approach                                           18
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                20
1. Sustainability                                                   20
2. Critical risks                                                   21



G. Main Credit Conditions                                                   21
1. Conditions of effectiveness                                       21
2. Other Credit covenants                                            21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                             23
L. Compliance with Bank Policies                                            23
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Fiscal Sustainability
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11     Policy Framework
Annex 12     Institutional Roles and Responsibilities
Annex 13A    Subproject Criteria, Procedures and Mechanisms: Guidelines for
Preparation/Appraisal of Subprojects for Educational Facilities
Annex 13B    Block Grants for District Development Plans
Annex 14     Statement of Primary Education Development P'olicies
Annex 15     Terms of Reference for Third Party Supervision
Map



BANGLADESH
Primary Education Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia
Bangladesh
Date: December 12, 1997                                   Task Managers: Himelda Martinez and Audrey Aarons
Country Director: Pierre Landell-Mills                    Sector Manager: Ralph W. Harbison
Project ID: BDPA9550     Sector: Education               Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: Investment                           Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data                   [] Loan    [x] Credit         [] Guarantee         [] Other [Specify]
For Lcians/Credits/Others:
Amournt (US$m/SDRm): 150.0/111.0
Proposed terrns:                            []  Multicurrency    [    Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          [x] Standard         [    Fixed             [I    LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity:   40
Commitment fee:   0.5%
Service charge:   0.75%
Financing Plan for the First Phase PEDP (USSMillion)
Sourc<2                                               Local                   Foreign                oIQal
Government   (Investment Program)                       370.9                     0.0                   370.9
Cofinimciers   (Investment Program)                     228.2                   142.6                   370.8
Subtotal (Investment Program)            599.1                   142.6                   741.7
Government    Revenue Budget (Recurrent Costs)        1,287.5                    10.3                 1297.
Total -First Phase PEDP                 1,287.5                  152.9
IDA (ITF)                                                                                         150.0
ADB                                                                                               100.0
DFID                                                                                               29.5
IDB                                                                                                10.3
KfW                                                                                                30.0
Norway                                                                                             40.0
Sweden (amount to be decided)                                                                       N.A.
UNICEF                                                                                             11.0
UNFPA (amount to be decided)                                                                        N.A.
Borrower: People's Republic of Bangladesh
Guarantor: Government of Bangladesh
Responsible Agencies: Primary and Mass Education Division (PMED), and its Directorate of Primary Education (DPE); and the
Local Government Engineering Department (LGED).
Estirmated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):      1999      2000       2001       2002     2003     2004
Annual   15.0       25.0       30.0      30.0     30.0      20.0
Cumulative    15.0     40.0       70.0      100.0    130.0    150.0
OSD) PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Primary Education Development Program                                                Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Prjet: Based on a comprehensive assessment of achievements to date and of the issues
currently affecting the school system, the GOB has designed a inam Education Development
Program (PEDP). The first phase of PEDP is to be implemented between 1998 - 2003. The
focus of the program is the improvement of the quality and efficiency of the school system,
while continuing to improve equitable access to schools in those areas that are still underserved.
GOB and the multilateral and bilateral donors supporting the sector have developed a carefully
structured policy framework for the first phase of PEDP (Annex 1 , as well as a detailed
investment program (Annex 2). The program's first phase is estimated to be US$2.04 billion.1
The Government will finance all salaries and a large portion of the incremental recurrent costs.
Government's contribution is estimated to be US$1.3 billion. The investment costs of the
program's first phase are estimated to be US$741.7 million and will be financed by IDA and
donors active primary in education in Bangladesh: ADB, KfW/GT;Z, Norway, DFID, Sweden,
IDB, UNFPA and Unicef. The ITF Credit will finance school construction, teacher training and
textbooks in three divisions: Rajshahi, Dhaka and Khulna.
Project Development Objectives: (see Annex 1 - Program Design Summary) Government's
development objectives for the subsector, to be achieved through irnplementation of PEDP, are
to: (a) improve school quality and system efficiency; (b) establish a sustainable, cost-effective
and better managed education system; and (c) ensure universal coverage and equitable access to
quality primary schooling.
Specifically, Government's objectives for primary education in the next five years are to:
(a) increase net enrollments from 85% to 95%;
(b) increase primary school completion rates from 60% to 70%;
(c) raise learning achievements so that 85% of completing students will achieve at least grade 4
level competencies in literacy, numeracy and life skills compared to 40% in 1996;
(d) improve school management and academic supervision;
(e) reduce recurrent cost per graduate (unit cycle cost) by increasing instructional time and
teacher productivity, and reducing grade repetition and dropout;
(f) allocate education resources more efficiently through textbook reuse, provision of additional
classrooms rather than building new schools, highly targeted new school construction based
on demographic criteria, and targeted subsidies to increase enrollment and attendance of
girls and the poor in selected urban areas and underserved rural communities; and
(g) improve institutional capabilities at national, district, thana and school levels in
management, planning, implementation, monitoring and information analysis.
Progress towards the objectives will be measured by: (a) learning achievement based on national
assessment of Bangla and Mathematics in grades 3 and 5 carried out in years 1, 3 and 5 of the
project; (b) primary school completion rates - total, by gender and location (the poorest 15% of
thanas and wards); (c) teacher quality based on the percent of total primary teachers with
Certificate in Education - total, by gender and school type; (d) teacher performance as measured
by changes in classroom practice; (e) preparation of annual operational and expenditure plans;
The Government's estimate is that the total cost of the PEDP is US$2.7 billion. The multi-lateral and bi-
lateral donors have appraised a first phase. The cost of the first phase is US$2.04 billion.



Pnmary Education Development Program                                                 Page 3
(f) expenditures within 5% of annual targets; (g) numbers of months of staff development and
training for school managers (total, by gender and location - poorest 15% thanas); (h) gross
Enrollment Ratios (total, by gender and location - poorest 15% of thanas); (i) cycle costs; (j)
physically adequate schools - by school type and location.
B:: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex
1):
CAS document number: 14998-BD, update:R96-220, IDA/R96-177
Date of latest CAS discussion: November 26, 1996 (update discussion).
Thne project is fully consistent with the CAS for Bangladesh discussed by the Executive Directors
oi November 26, 1996 as well as with the March 5, 1998 CAS to be discussed on March 31,
1998. Promoting faster and more equitable human development is one of the priorities of
the Bangladesh Country Assistance Strategy. The proposed project supports this
olbjective. The project aims at improving quality and efficiency of the primary education
suibsector in Bangladesh and at improving access to primary education for disadvantaged
communities and girls in particular. Moreover, the project also supports the CAS objective of
promoting better public sector management and improved public sector services. A main
objective of the project is strengthening management of the national and local level institutions
that are responsible for education services in Bangladesh.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues: Bangladesh has made substantial progress in increasing enrollment in primary
education since the early 1990s and, more recently, in secondary education, and in achieving
parity in enrollment of girls in primary schools. But the quality of education at all levels remains
low, resulting in poor learning achievements. The government of Bangladesh is allocating
substantial resources (16% of budget) to the education sector, but the resource use is poor at all
levels. The low efficiency of expenditures is reflected in high dropout rates as well as low
completion rates. The institutional capacity to prepare, implement and monitor programs and
projects is weak throughout the system. The education system in Bangladesh is characterized by
the large role of the non governmental sector: communities and NGOs at the primary level,
private-sector-run schools at the secondary level, and religious institutions at both; in primary
e ducation, 40% of students are in these non government institutions, in secondary education it
reaches 97%. The quality of education varies a great deal among these institutions as does the
quality of teachers and their remuneration. The role of Government in financing and regulating
the overall sector needs improvement (Education Expenditure Review, Report No. 15521 -BD,
July 1996, Public Expenditure Review (PER), Report No. 15909-BD, July 1996, and PER:
FY96/97 Update, July 1997).
13overnment Strategy: Government strategy as articulated in the Fourth Development Plan
( FY91-FY95) and in the draft Fifth Five Year Plan 1997-2002 (June 1997) gives priority to
expanding access and increasing quality of primary education; at the secondary and higher
levels, the emphasis has been on construction to expand the system rather than on academic
improvements. A major initiative, started a few years ago, is a stipend program to attract and



Primary Education Development Program                                             Page 4
retain girls in secondary schools. The Government investment program for education reflects
these priorities with 50% of resources going to primary education,
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will support the Government's strategy for improving primary education as the
subsector that will have the largest impact on poverty reduction. The Government's Primary
Education Development Program is described in the Statement of Primary Education
Development Policies (Annex 14). A strategic choice taken early in project preparation by all
the donors interested in primary education was to build on their cooperation under the General
Education Project (ICR Report no. 16729, June 19, 1997) and to prepare jointly with the
government a subsector-wide program for primary education. From that flowed the decision to
focus on the three issues of quality, efficiency and equitable access as well as improvements in
the institutional framework and capacity for the subsector. These issues and strategic options
had been identified in the above-mentioned Bank sector work, a DFID-funded review of
Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) and over 20 reports prepared under a PHRD grant for
program preparation.
Low Qualitv The low quality of primary education is evidenced by the poor learning
achievements mentioned above. Ninety percent of non-government teachers are not trained for
theirjob; teachers are poorly supervised, and teaching and learning materials are in short supply.
T1he strategic choices were to focus on improving outputs and outcomes, i.e. the increase in
completion rates and in improved learning achievements as measured by periodic national
assessments.
Low Efficiency: The efficiency of resource use is constrained by wieak institutional and
management capacity. The Government's Program includes components to strengthen all levels
of management in the primary education system (national, district, thanas and school); decisions
on resource use will be devolved to the local levels through a system of block grants for purchase
of school supplies and materials. Specific policy measures have been taken to improve
efficiency of resource use on three major expenditure items: (a) teachers will be deployed
according to the target teacher:student ratio of 1:45 per shift; (b) construction of
schools/classrooms will be based on school mapping and in line with the policy that no child will
be more than 2 km away from a school; and (c) while the distribution of textbooks will remain
free to all children, Government will phase in a reuse policy.
Inequitable Access:. About 15% of the 6-10 years age group do not enter primary school (3
million children), and about 40% of recent entering grade cohorts dropped out before
completion. The majority of those not attending primary schools come from the poorest
communities in both urban and rural areas. The Government's Program includes a large school
construction program to cover underserved areas of the country. The ITF credit finances
targeted subsidies for stationery and school supplies to attract and retain these children by
reducing direct costs of schooling.
Imyrovements in the Institutional Framework: Capacity within Government to address
sectorwide issues is weak: The Primary and Mass Education Division (PMED) and the
implementing agencies DPE, National Academy for Primary Education (NAPE) and field level
units have suffered from poor planning, compounded by weak data, highly centralized decision
making and, as a result, overload, poor implementation and supervision capacity, as well as
inadequate monitoring. The Government's Program will address these issues at the level of



Primary Education Development Program                                              Page 5
PMED and the implementing agencies. Unicef will continue to assist the Government with local
level planning and with community mobilization. The program will also address the issue of the
respective roles of Government and non-governmental agencies in primary education. The
imbalance in teacher training will be reduced over time, learning materials will be distributed
more equitably, and the subventions to private sector schools will be linked to teacher
qualifications and school performance.
C: Project Description Summary
To address the issues affecting primary schools, the Government of Bangladesh has developed a
comprehensive Primary Education Development Program (PEDP) for the period 1998-2003.
This program is based on a carefully structured policy framework developed in close cooperation
with government agencies responsible for its implementation. Policies for quality enhancement,
including teacher development, provision and distribution of teaching materials, national
assessments and institutional strengthening at the central and local levels, have been agreed with
government and with all multilateral and bilateral institutions that will be financing the program.
The policy framework is in Annex 11, and the Statement of Primary Education Policies signed
by the Minister of Education is in Annex 14.
1. Project Components
In addition to the policy framework, the PEDP has an appraised five year investment program
with activities grouped in three main components: (a) improving school quality and system
efficiency, (b) strengthening institutional capacity and management; and (c) increasing equitable
access to quality education. The total cost of the five year PEDP investment program is US$
741.7 million. The Government's contribution amounts to US$370.9 million, with the remaining
US$370.8 million financed by donor agencies. IDA will finance US$150.0 million, as shown
below. A detailed description of the program components is in Annex 2, and a detailed cost
breakdown indicating the financing sources is in Annex 3.



Prlmary Education Development Program                                                             Page 6
First Phase PEDP
Component                  CategQry    Invest        - OA yCos       ID        % ofID
Contingenciel    Total   financin      angin
_ _ _      _      _       _      _         ~~~~~UJS$M)   _         fUS$M)f      _
1. Im=roving School Quality and System                   293.9         39.6       63.0          8.5
Efficiency
a. Teacher Development              Institution          90.4         12.1       13.0          1.4
Building
b. Curriculum Improvement           Policy              191.4         25.8       50.0         6.7
c. Strengthening National Institutions for  Institution  12.1          1.6       0.0          0.0
School Quality - NAPE, NCTB    Building
II. Strenaening Institutional Capacity and                53.7          7.2        9.3          1.3
Manag e
a. Strengtiening Institutional Capacity at  Institution  26.1          3.5       4.3          0.6
the national level               Building
b. Strengthening Institutional Capacity at  Institution  27.7          3.7        5.0         0.7
the field level (Ideal Proiect - Unicef)  Building
111. Increasing Equitable Access to Ouality              370.6         50.0       77.7         10.5
Education
a. Construction of Schools and      Physical            334.2         45.1      63.6          8.6
Classrooms
b. Block Grants for Stationery and  Policy               31.4          4.2       9.1           1.2
Materials
c. Social Mobilization/ Community   Policy                5.0          0.7        5.0         0.7
Participation (Ideal Project - Unicef)
CD-VAT                                                    23.61         3.2
Total      741.7        100.0      150.0         20.3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.
The Government's PEDP encompasses a comprehensive set of policy and institutional reforms,
set forth in detail in Annex 11, in three general areas. To improve he quality and efficiency of
dim=y schooling, GOB will: (a) ensure that all serving teachers are appropriately trained and
that average class size does not exceed 45 students; (b) provide a better balance of student
textbooks and supplementary reading materials and teachers guides free of charge to all schools
while containing the public cost of provision through instituting nationwide a book reuse
program in grades 3-5; (c) introduce a national assessment of learning achievement of the
national curriculum in grades 3 and 5 every other year; (d) increase instructional time (thereby
enhancing learning and reducing repetition) by raising both student amd teacher attendance and
teachers' time on task during the school day. To strengtheninstiutional and management
capacities, GOB will: (a) delegate responsibilities for planning, budlgeting, and implementation
to districts, thanas, and schools; (b) incorporate all schools (whether public, private, NGO,
community, etc.) in all data collection and management information systems; (c) prepare annual
«operational and expenditure plans, linking each department's key programmed activities and
achievements at national, district, and thana level; (d) transfer all recurrent costs of operating the
system to the Revenue Budget by the close of the project. To increase equitable access to
cducatiMn, GOB will: (a) extend and improve the network of school facilities only on the basis
of strict efficiency-based criteria; (b) ensure both that all registered non government schools
receive subsidies for teacher salaries and supplementary needs and that targeted subsidies are
provided to the most economically disadvantaged students, especially girls, hard-to-reach, and
tribal populations.



Primnary Education Development Program                                             Page 7
3. Benefits and target population:
Eonomic Benefits: The economic benefits of primary education are well established and
reflected in the priorities the government gives to primary education (Education Expenditure
Review, 1996). There is overwhelming evidence that sustained economic growth is not possible
without universal access to primary education of adequate quality. The increase in quality of
primary education which PEDP aims at will benefit all children attending primary school. The
increase in access to primary education combined with higher completion rates resulting from
quality improvement would result in a NER of 95% by 2003, i.e., 14.2 million children of the 6-
10 year age group would attend primary schools, 1.5 million more than without the program.
PEDP is thus expected to make an appreciable contribution to a better educated labor force. In
addition, the 80,000 untrained teachers in non government schools will be better trained for their
work and over time qualify for higher earnings.
PEDP is also expected to increase the internal efficiency of the primary education system. The
primary education cycle cost is projected to decline from 8.7 years currently to 6.7 years in
21003, as a result of lower drop-out rates.
Fiscal Im,t: As shown in Annex 4, the investment cost of the project can be accommodated
in the Government's development program. Estimates of budgetary resources available for
investment in primary education amounts to US$1,255 million over the project period. On-going
projects outside PEDP, which are small and will be completed in FY99, require USD$12 million
of funding. The agreed priority PEDP amounts to USD$742 million and is fully funded from
government and donor resources. The balance of US$513 million in the expenditure framework
swould be available for funding the second phase of PEDP, the Government's Food for Education
P'rogram which currently absorbs about $80 million per year and additional projects/programs as
they are prepared.
The rcurrent  st implications of the project also can be accommodated within the projected
revenue budget for primary education, as shown in Annex 4. The gains in internal efficiency
would allow the phasing of phase in higher subventions for non government teachers as they
receive training and qualify through accreditation. Projections for current expenditures for
primary education over the project period amount to US$1,298 million, compared to a budgetary
firamework of US$1,553 million (see Annex 4).
:Social Benefi: The social benefits of primary education, particularly for girls, such as healthier
and smaller families, are expected to be sizable from a program of countrywide coverage. Hiring
of female teachers in government schools will increase employment opportunities for women.
As a result of higher school completion rates, literacy will improve especially among the poor
and underserved areas. The participation of parents and communities in the program design and
implementation would ensure greater client-orientation.
Insitution Building: The project would improve the capacity of PMED and implementing
agencies at all levels to manage the subsector, thus contributing to realizing the efficiency gains
mentioned above and expanding the capacity to implement a sizable investment program on
schedule. The improvements in various departments of DPE with respect to planning,
programming, and monitoring would be important contributions to strengthening the capacity in
the overall education sector. The PEDP would also enhance the government partnership with
private sector educational institutions.



Primary Education Development Program                                             Page 8
Poverty Focus/Target Population: The project addresses poverty reduction in two ways: (a) It
has specific mechanisms for targeting the poorer students by providing block grants for
stationery and school supplies and by locating schools in underserviced areas; it also provides
access to training for poorer teachers in non government schools and enhances their earning
capacity; and (b) The poorer segments of society will benefit more from broadening access to
schools and increasing completion rates, as children not attending school now or dropping out
tend to be from poorer households.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements: (see Annex 12 for Management Roles and
Responsibilities)
The first phase of the Government's Primary Education Development Program will be
implemented between 1998 and 2003. The executing agencies are the Primary and Mass
Eucation Division (PMED) which will implement the program through the Directorate of
primay Education (DPE), and the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED), which
will be responsible for school construction. The National Curriculum and Textbook Board
(NCTB) will continue to publish the textbooks and the Facilities Department (FD) of the
Ministry of Education will be strengthened so that it may, in the future, assist in school
construction in urban areas. Annex 12 has details on roles and responsibilities.
(a)    Irstitutional arrangements
(i) PMED is responsible for policy and planning, donor coordination and coordination
with other Govermnent and non-Government agencies. A Primary Education Coordination
Committee, chaired by the Secretary, PMED will be responsible for: coordinating program
activities among PM15D and donors; reviewing and approving sector policy adjustments;
monitoring progress of the annual expenditure plans; and reviewing and approving annual
operational plans. The committee will meet quarterly and consist of representatives from
PMED, DPE, the Planning Commission, NCTB, LGED, Implementation Monitoring and
Evaluation Division, Ministry of Finance, Economic Relations Division, Ministry of
Establishment, and the Facility Department of the Ministry of Education.
(ii) DPE will implement the Primary Education Development Program. DPE will
prepare annual operational and expenditure plans for the primary education program including
all donors financed sub-projects; monitor and report on progress towards policy objectives; and
account for expenditures in the subsector. A Primary Education Implementation and
Management Committee, chaired by the Director-General, Primary Education will meet
quarterly and be responsible for providing direction, guidance and coordination of activities. The
Director General for Primary Education will chair the meeting of the committee. The committee
will consist of representatives from all divisions in DPE and representatives from NCTB and
PMED.
(iii) Day-to-day implementation of the program at the national level will be the
responsibility of the DPE directorates: Administration, Training and Finance Unit (to be
established); as well as the National Academy for Primary Education (NAPE); LGED and
NCTB. A small Project Management Implementation Unit will be established in DPE to
coordinate all activities during project implementation. DPE will coordinate with donors on the
technical and operational aspects of program implementation. NAP]E will be responsible for



Pnrmary Education Development Program                                              Page 9
teaicher training policies and plans. NCTB will be responsible for textbook procurement. LGED
will implement the Civil Works component of the project. The Facility Department will be
strengthened so that it might be responsible for school construction and renovation in urban
areas.
(b)    Program Monitoring and Supervision
(i) It is anticipated that all development partners supporting primary education will
participate in the joint annual PEDP review process. A joint mid-term review will be carried out
in the third year of the program. Effective implementation of the program will be ensured by
monitoring the implementation of policies and strategies against quantitative, qualitative and
financial indicators. (ii)To assist Government and development partners to prepare for the
annual reviews, an independent external monitoring team will perform third party supervision
that includes independent physical, financial and qualitative reviews, validating monitoring data
and compliance with agreed implementation plans. Program implementation and supervision
therefore are expected to take a comprehensive subsectoral view and to maintain consistency
among various elements of the program. During Negotiations the Government gave assurance
that it will hire an independent external monitoring team to perform third party supervision
fillowing TOR 's acceptable to IDA. (iii) Procedures for joint annual reviews: Each year DPE
will prepare a detailed costed operational plan for all activities to be carried out in the primary
education subsector in the following year, no later than May 31 each year. This will cover
revenue and development expenditures. The Government will meet with development partners
to jointly review and agree on the annual operational plans, its financing and expenditures. The
joint annual review process will provide a mechanism for dialogue between government and
development partners so that the primary education program can be adjusted based on need,
progress and experience. During Negotiations the Government gave assurance that it will
organize annual reviews of implementation progress with allfinanciers. These joint reviews will
take place every year not later than May 31 of each year.
(c)    Financial Management
(i) Accounts. financial and auditing arrangements. Accounting, financial reporting and
auditing systems will follow the operational policies OP 10.02, dated August 6, 1997. Special
attention is being given to assure that the financial management system currently under
,development in DPE will have the elements needed to provide accurate and timely information
regarding project resources and expenditures. Lessons learnt from the General Education Project
(GEP) (Credit 2118-BD) fed into project design. The project has a strong subcomponent of
institutional capacity building at DPE in financial management with technical assistance to be
provided by DFID (UK). This is linked to an ongoing DFID supported project of interministerial
financial management strengthening activities and systems. Under project preparation a
customized computerized accounting system was developed for DPE and seven staff trained in
its use. Developmental activities are continuing with assistance under a PHRD Grant until such
time as the DFID (UK) financed components become effective in 1998. For the civil works
component, LGED will keep accounts and be responsible for financial reporting and for audit
reports.
(ii) Staffing.of the Finance Unit at DPE responsible for financial management will be
strengthened under the project to be able to carry out the necessary internal controls, accounting
and reporting responsibilities. DPE staffing requirements and a financial management plan are



Primary Education Development Program                                             Page 10
spelt out in detail in Govermnent's Project Implementation Plan. DFID will provide technical
assistance for continued development of this unit during project implementation and Third Party
Supervision (TOR Annex 15) will include an independent accountant auditor. Staffing of the
unit in a manner that is satisfactory to IDA is a condition of effectiveness.
(iii) Accounting. LGED has adequate accounting systems. With assistance from
specialized consultants, the Finance Unit of the DPE is in the process of establishing accounting
and internal control systems that are acceptable to IDA (see above: Financial Management). By
project effectiveness, these systems will be in place and will: (a) reliably record and report all
assets and liabilities and financial transactions of the project, and (b) provide the information
required for monitoring project activities. The accounting structure will reflect the relevant
expense accounts, broken down into the types of expenditures for the project for all project
components. The accounting system will also be fully integrated with all other financial
management systems of the government: the budget and the treasury accounts.
(iv) Financial Reporting. DPE and LGED will prepare interim quarterly reports and
annual financial statements of the project. A standardized reporting format is being developed.
Financial reports will show: (a) Financial Statements with a summary of project financial status
that includes actual and budgeted costs for each quarter, for 'year to date' expenditures and
'cumulative costs of the project to-date'. They will also include a cost variance report by project
activities, a project 6 month forecast, and a special account statement; (b) summary of project
status and explanation of variances in key project indicators, and (c) procurement management
reports. The specific formats for these reports are being prepared with assistance from the
finance unit in the Bank's Dhaka office, and will be included in the "PIP. The system will be in
place by May 1998. Establishment of the Financial Reporting System in a manner satisfactory to
IDA is a condition of effectiveness, expected to take place by July I1998.
(v) Audits, The Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG), through the Directorate of
Foreign Aided Projects carries out the audits of foreign aided projects. Annual audited reports
will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition to
the C&AG audits, the PEDP accounts will be audited on an interim basis and interim reports will
be sent to IDA. C&AG, through the Directorate of Foreign Aided Projects, is participating in the
project preparation process and will review the audit program described in Government's Project
Implementation Plan. Additionally qualified accountants in DPE will monitor and resolve any
audit observations of significance outstanding from the General Education Project, as well as
those that arise in the new project. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it
will hire qualified accountants for all implementing agencies on terms satisfactory to IDA.
(vi) Special Account. To facilitate the implementation of the project, the Borrower will
open and maintain two Special Accounts (SAs) with an acceptable commercial bank in
Bangladesh, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. DPE will manage one SA; the other SA
will be managed by LGED (Local Government Engineering Departnent). The authorized
allocation for the DPE Special Account will be US$4.0 million, for the LGED SA it will be
US$6 million. At the start of the project the SA deposit will be limited to US$2.0 million in the
DPE SA and US$3.0 millon in the LGED SA. The remaining portion of the authorized allocation
for the different SAs could be requested only after cumulative disbursements reach US$21
million for the DPE SA and US$27 million for LGED SA.



Prinmary Education Development Program                                               Page 11
(vii) Disbursements. Withdrawals will be made in the form of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) specifying disbursement categories and total eligible expenditures. Prior
Reviews: IDA would require full documentation for prior review for those cases where contracts
for civil works and goods exceed US$200,000 equivalent; US$100,000 for consulting firms or
US$50,000 for individual consultants. Full documentation would be required. As soon as the
Guidelines for the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) have been approved by the
Board, disbursement under the Credit will follow those guidelines. Under this project there is no
joint cofinancing with other bilateral or multilateral donors and IDA will not be administering
funds on behalf of others.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a)    Subsector Prograrm
Alternative rejected: Program approach with time-slice financing. Although several donors
preferred this approach which would provide greater flexibility in resource allocation during the
irmplementation period, Government was reluctant to adopt time-slice financing and requested
donors to finance discrete components within the sector program.
Alternative selected: A sectorwide program in which components are financed by individual
donors or government and which are linked by a common policy framework, expenditure and
financial plan and whose implementation will be coordinated and monitored through joint annual
reviews of implementation, as well as through joint supervision missions of the donors
concerned. Government has accepted this alternative and sees it as a viable alternative to
achieve its objectives. Government will take the lead in coordinating donor support for its
program.
(b)    Larger Primary Education Development Program
Alternative rejected: Government had proposed an investment program for primary education of
$1.1 billion (excluding Food for Education) including a much larger school construction program
and hiring of additional teachers. The alternative was rejected because: (a) the need for
additional schools, beyond the component included in the program, was not evident given that
the school age population is declining; and (b) the implementation capacity does not exist.
Alternative selected: The PEDP option selected includes all the priority components to improve
quality, efficiency and equitable access with a financial framework that appears feasible (cf
Annex 4). If the implementation capacity improves and if other priorities are justified and well
prepared, the Government of Bangladesh will be able to expand the size of the PEDP to cover
additional school construction, and additional teachers in line with improved school completion
rates.
(c)    Project Implementation Units
Altematives rejected: (i) a separate PIU for each donor financed component: rejected because it
creates costly parallel structures and does not build up capacity within Government agencies; (ii)



Prmary Education Development Program                                                  Page 12
manage implementation of the entire program through Government agencies: rejected because
implementation capacity needs to be strengthened over time and does not exist for some
components.
Alternative selected: Combination of implementation through Government agencies and PIUs:
program implementation will be managed as much as possible by Government agencies,
supplemented by PIUs for the projects with large construction components for which capacity
does not exist in sector agencies. A strong and well defined technical assistance component will
strengthen capacity of government agencies to complete parts of the project. Small PIUs will
manage those components for which there are no government agencies.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing andplanned):
Sector issue                 Project               Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development Objective
Progress (IP)            (DO)
Bank-financed
Low enrollment, quality    Cr. 1054-BJ  Primary       Satisfatctory      Satisfactory
and efficiency of primary   Education Project         [US$10.8 million out
education. Low literacy    (closed, 1987)             of US$40 million
rates.                                               cancelecil
Cr. 1574-BD Second          Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Primary Education Project    [US$6.8 million out of
(closed, 1991)              US$78 million
canceledi
Cr. 2118-BD General         Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Education Project           [US$36 million out of
(closed 12/20/96)           US$159.3 million
canceled]
Cr. 2822-BD Non formal      Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Education Project
(ongoing)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
The main lessons learned from fifteen years of lending for the sector in Bangladesh are:
(a) District. thana. and school level teams need to be included in planning and implementation
processes if the inputs provided are to make a difference to children's learning. Although a
national infrastructure is in place to deliver primary education services, a decentralized system



Pimary Education Development Program                                               Page 13
wiill enable greater involvement of communities in both public and private schools improvement,
of educators to better design teacher training and teaching and learning materials to fit the needs
of'their students, and of local managers to allocate resources equitably for quality improvement.
However, to facilitate the degree of institutional and behavioral change required it is necessary to
adequately prepare stakeholders for the proposed changes.
(b) Sustained and comprehensive subsector development depends upon much improved
capacity for planning, management, information and monitoring systems. and financial control.
Medium to long range strategic plans as well as concrete annual operational plans and systematic
anmual assessment of implementation progress are not yet standard practice in Bangladesh.
There is no tradition of decision making informed by reference to a solid base of empirical
performance data, or of institutional learning. While skills and practices are gradually
irnproving, the underlying systemic weaknesses in educational and fiscal management remain
and must be addressed.
(c) Donor coordination is essential to successful and efficient implementation of PEDP and to its
ultimate impact. Given the multiplicity of development partners, and of discrete domestically-
finded (as well as donor-assisted) investment projects, both efficient resource use and ultimate
development effectiveness can be obtained nliy if all parties -- GOB and donors -- operate under
an agreed policy framework, within a realistic and transparent resource envelope, and on the
basis of subsector-wide annual operational and expenditure plans. Government will take the
lead in donor coordination. It has produced the policy framework and plans. The development
partners have agreed to this framework and will participate with Government in joint annual
reviews of progress.
(d) Implementation capacity has systematically been overestimated. Past experience in the
lBangladesh education sector suggests that the time horizon for accomplishment of any given
activity, especially those involving IDA-mandated or other procedures which are new to the
administrative cadre, is longer than anticipated at the outset. Implementation capacity develops
more slowly than expected, especially early in a project cycle, and is not always carried over
from one project to another. Indeed, a significant portion of the people who were involved in
iimplementation of GEP are no longer at their posts; with many new officials at many levels, the
learning process will have to start afresh.
Government's PEDP -- and the ITF-financed portion of it -- incorporates strategies and activities
whose design benefits from these experiences. Local level planning and resource management is
to be tested by awarding block grants to thanas and School Management Committees (SMCs).
'Training in local level information use and planning will precede the awarding of the grants. A
comprehensive strengthening of management capacity throughout the subsector will include
developing rationalized information and monitoring systems and a financial management
capacity in DPE. Implementation targets, especially for civil works, have been kept modest by
comparison to the need and to Government desires. The development partners, often with staff
based in Dhaka, are working closely together to plan and deliver their implementation support.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Approximately 50% of the education budget is allocated to primary education. The compulsory
primary education act of 1990 has been actively implemented in the'past six years with matching
budgetary support. Government recognizes the role of the private sector (non government
schools, religious schools and NGOs) in achieving universalization of primary education and



Prlmary Education Development Program                                             Page 14
supports registered non government schools through teacher subventions, grants and textbooks
supply. The policy framework of the 1998-2003 program supports quality, efficiency and access
in both the public and private sectors, directly targeting support towards improving educational
opportunities for girls and children from poorer households. Government remains committed to
girls education and to relieving poverty: Bangladesh has one of the highest female participation
rates for primary education in the region. The GEP supported a scholarships program to attract
and retain girls in secondary schools. The Female Secondary School Assistance Project
(FSSAP) developed and expanded the program further and it has now become a nationwide
scholarship program. In targeting the illiterate poor with the Non-Formal Education program
Government has set ambitious targets to improve the literacy of the work force.
Government has for the first time prepared a detailed costed five year program for the entire
subsector. The program, prepared with technical assistance from the PHRD trust fund, was
presented to donors as the basis for discussion with cofinanciers. Project planning mechanisms
set up during program preparation have been institutionalized within DPE, the line agency which
will be responsible for program implementation. Government will contribute from its own
resources all recurrent costs and 50% of the investment costs of the total five year subsector
program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
For the past 15 years, IDA's education strategy in Bangladesh has focused on increasing access
to basic education and establishing an education infrastructure. IDA.'s participation in this
project will build on the achievements under the multi-donor financed GEP which closed on
December 20, 1996. These include greater participation of females, NGO and community
participation in school provision, curriculum and textbook reform and classroom and school
construction. IDA assisted Government to take a subsector wide approach that: (i) moves away
from system expansion to address issues of quality and efficiency; (ii) introduces fnancial
Sustainability; and (ii) bases the entire expenditure program explicit]ly on Government policy
objectives and reforms. A critical contribution of IDA's continuing involvement in the subsector
is its participation in the policy dialogue between Government and its development partners.
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
lx] Other
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
For three subcomponents of the PEDP - teacher training, textbooks and school construction - the
cost-effectiveness of several options was assessed in the background work for the Education
Expenditure Review (1996) and updated during project preparation. These components account
for 84% of program cost.
(a) Teacher Training: Under PEDP, 80,000 teachers from non government schools (i.e. 50% of
them) are to get training to obtain a Certificate in Education. The following three options were
considered for non govermment teachers:
(i) Full-time residential education in a Primary Teacher-Training Institute (EW for one
year, which is the prevailing training option for government teachers. The cost of this training
module is US$325 per non governmental teacher.



Primary Education Development Program                                                Page 15
(ii) Part-time subcluster (thana) level training provided by the Assistant Thana
Education Officers over 18 months combined with 2 months of PTI training. The cost of this
training module is US$106.5 per teacher.
iii) Part-time distance education of two years linked to existing school cluster training:
Experience with this kind of training in other countries suggests that the dropout rates for this
mnodule could be as high as 50 - 60%, if the training is not well supported by visiting tutors. The
Cost per graduate is estimated at US$141.
The teacher training program is currently being re-designed with assistance from Norway and
DFID. All three options mentioned above are being considered, because a large number of
teachers need to be trained quickly.
(b) Textbook Reuse: Two scenarios of introducing a textbook reuse policy were compared to
the current situation:
(i) Under the current system, each student in grades I and 2 receives three books per
Year; students in grades 3-5 are issued six books per year. The cost of this policy is high,
.umounting to US$160 million over the project period; and it would be difficult to absorb annual
expenditures of US$30 - 34 million into the revenue budget on a sustainable basis.
(ii) At the other end of the spectrum, the option of using all books for three years was
considered. The cost of this option is US$65 million over the project period.
(iii) The option selected consists of phasing in the reuse policy for classes 3 - 5, starting
with reuse of 30% of the books in the first year of the project, and increasing by 5% p.a. to 50%
reuse by year 5 of PEDP implementation. The cost of this option is US$113 million during the
project period; annual costs of this option, fully implemented, are 63% of the costs of textbooks
under option 1).
(c) Construction: two options were compared for the additional classrooms to be
constructed over the project period:
(i) Construction of new community schools would be done at a cost of US$5,262 per
classroom or a total cost of US$36 million for 6,750 classrooms.
(ii) Construction of additional classrooms in existing schools could be done at US$3,912
per classroom, i.e. 26% lower than the cost of new schools. IDA only finances the construction
of additional classrooms and only a limited number of additional schools in remote areas.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):
See above under Fiscal Impact (page 8)
3. Technical:
The PEDP is designed to work with Government systems to strengthen existing technical
weaknesses. These weaknesses include: (a) lack of policy, planning and implementation
capacity resulting in the inability to determine investment priorities; (b) a piecemeal (project-



Primary Education Development Program                                               Page 16
driven) approach to subsector improvement; and (c) weak management and poor linkages
between managers and service delivery institutions evidenced by centralized top-down control
that does not encourage variance in behavior and a continued emphasis on administrative
procedures rather than on educational services - conformity is more highly valued than
creativity, and by an under utilization of resources due to insufficient internally set performance
targets.
PEDP assists Government in addressing these issues in the following ways:
- It is subsector-wide in scope. The program addresses all Government objectives and covers
all relevant policies and projects within the subsector in a coherent five-year program. This
reduces the risks associated with a continued piecemeal approach in which fragmentation of
planning and implementation have reduced system efficiency or output.
- It provides a coherent subsector policy framework. The PEDP policy framework is the
foundation of the subsector investment strategy. All planned expenditures will be assessed
according to the extent that they support the overall subsector policy framework. Until
articulation of the PEDP, the policy framework for primary education lacked a clear and
coherent system of objectives, performance standards and means for assessment, and there was
no provision for the development of detailed planning targets for program implementation.
- It involves local stakeholders in needs assessment planning and ianagement of service
{delivMv. District, thana and school level stakeholders are to be trained and subsequently more
substantially involved in the determination and meeting of local needs. Control over resources
will be extended to local stakeholders through a system of block grants.
- There is strong donor coordination. Annual operational and expenditure plans will drive donor
investment in the subsector. Considerable effort has been invested by donors to ensure that
PEDP is focused on priority activities which improve quality and efficiency of primary education
and exclude parallel and non-essential (non-policy-referenced) activities.
Technically, PEDP will build on existing capacities and resources, using dialogue with donors to
ensure that policy reforms and program implementation conform with acceptable standards. A
comprehensive and carefully crafted program of technical assistance financed by ADB, DFID
and Norway, will provide Govermment the means to ensure that there is ongoing and progressive
institutional capacity development in PMED, throughout DPE and at the school level. The
technical assistance program focuses on improving the quality of services delivered, the
efficiency with which they are delivered and access to those services.
4. Institutional:
Although the program will be implemented by DPE, NAPE, NCTB, LGED, local education
committees, SMCs and a number of NGOs, the majority of responsibilities will rest with DPE
and LGED. DPE will (a) monitor program progress, costs and program accounts for all donors;
(b) administer technical assistance contracts; (c) prepare reports on program implementation; (d)
arrange and facilitate the auditing of accounts; and (e) prepare annual operational plans and
budgets for program implementation. NAPE will coordinate all teacher training. NCTB will be
responsible for the textbook component and LGED will implement all civil works. A Project



Primary Education Development Program                                                Page 17
M:anagement Implementation Unit will be set-up in DPE to coordinate with all implementing
agencies.
PEDP will bring about a fundamental shift in the delivery of education services through its
emphasis on quality and the need for ongoing monitoring of performance against program and
plan. This will require that DPE pro-actively begin to manage service delivery against agreed
performance targets and to evaluate success on a routine basis. This will place greater demands
onl the management structure and processes within DPE and on the skills of the senior staff
charged with planning, implementing and reporting. In facing these challenges, DPE, as part of
the civil service, has a number of strengths: there is a structure in place with established
administrative procedures and rules and regulations; there are information flows; and the
organization is headed by a well respected Director General supported by a small group of
knowledgeable senior staff.
However, the organizational culture within DPE values administrative compliance and is input-
focused rather than being reliant on managerial initiative and bring results orientation. Decision
making processes are reactive with senior officers being reliant on intuition, experience and
anecdotal evidence. There is no "business cycle" of planning, monitoring, evaluating and
reprioritizing resource allocations to achieve predetermined standards of service. Expected
perfornance levels are quantified in terms of inputs and are not expressed as quality outputs.
The essential building blocks to ensure that the program is well managed are presently
insufficiently developed, and need to be strengthened if DPE is to implement successfully the
PEDP. The priorities for change are in three areas: (i) upgrading the critical management
f.1unctions of planning, monitoring and human resource development; (ii) creating an information
system to support analytically based decision making; and (iii) improving skills to carry out
these functions and tasks. The sector approach, implicit in the PEDP design, provides the
iframework in which the capacity building efforts will be structured. The requirements on DPE
to prepare annual operational and expenditure plans and to complete annual reviews (in
partnership with the donors) will provide the vehicle to help upgrade functions and to enhance
management skills. DFID will finance the technical assistance required to bring about these
changes in DPE.
5. Social
In the 1980's Bangladesh still had one of the lowest literacy rates and one of the lowest school
attendance rates in the world. Illiteracy was particularly high among women. About 70% of the
females 15 year and older could not read and write. Illiterate parents for the most part did not see
the value of sending their children to school. The net enrollment rate for the 6 to 11 year olds
was below 50%.
Between 1990 and 1997, social mobilization has made a significant contribution to raising
primary school enrollment rates and raising literacy. Government, the private sector, NGOs and
donors have been actively involved in raising school enrollment through a variety of formal and
non formal education programs. Achievements have been impressive. Net enrollment rates are
about 85%. However, there is widespread agreement that there is a risk in sustaining high
enrollment if quality and relevance are not increased. For this reason, the focus of the social
mobilization tasks in Bangladesh now need to be geared towards enhancing the demand for
quality education. Children, parents, teachers and education personnel are currently being



Primary Education Development Program                                              Page 18
motivated to develop inspiring and exciting learning environments so that children want to attend
school and so that learning is enjoyable and meaningful.
The prospects for achieving the desired social mobilization goals and for reaching the enrollment
and quality targets of the PEDP are encouraging. GOB has actively embraced the objectives of
the Education For All movement agreed in the World Conference on Education (Jomtien, 1990).
In 1990 the Government passed the Compulsory Primary Education Act and beginning in 1993
the Government has been implementing a nation wide, compulsory primary education plan. By
1995 enrollment rates had increased significantly and the literacy programs were rapidly being
implemented countrywide. In more recent years GOB has continued to show its determination in
eradicating illiteracy and achieving high enrollment and high school completion rates. Social
mobilization has been at the heart of this endeavor as described in the participation section
below. Using this experience, and after assessing the gains and issues to be resolved, in 1997 the
GOB has prepared a National Policy for primary education and has placed it at the center of its
development and investment plans. Recognizing this commitment to mobilizing the entire
society to eradicate illiteracy and provide education for all, the donor community has agreed to
continue financing primary education including the social mobilization and the advocacy
campaigns required to achieve the objectives of the PEDP.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category  [ ]A   [ B   [x] C
The project would have no adverse impact on the environment as construction would be limited
to small primary schools. The curriculum and teacher training would continue to emphasize
environmental issues.
7. Participatory approach
With Unicef assistance, a National Mobilization Plan has been developed through a series of
participatory initiatives involving Government, NGOs, education, social and political workers.
The aim has been to mobilize the entire society towards achieving the quantitative and
qualitative goals of EFA. In quantitative terms the success of this effort is evident today. Gross
enrollment has gone up from 73% in 1990 to more than 100% in 1996 (net enrollment is about
85%), with girl's participation achieving parity with boy's. The EFA logo is visible throughout
the country in windows, walls and in most government and non-government institutions.
The success of the National Mobilization Plan is laudable and has been possible by promoting
local level accountability and empowerment, with three areas of intervention: (a)
decentralization and community participation, (b) broadening partnerships between govermment
and non government institutions and (c) mass media advocacy campaigns targeting specific
audiences to create demand for quality primary education for all children.
Decentralization and Community Participation. With Unicef assistance, district and thana level
social mobilization plans have been drawn up and implemented on a pilot basis, reviewed
periodically and modified according to results produced. Community surveillance of school
enrollment, attendance and completion rates has been promoted providing parents the
opportunity to interact with teachers and school managers and to know what their children are
expected to learn in school and what constitutes effective learning. Feedback from children
themselves has been another source of valuable information. Children's views on what they
would like to see improved in their schools is discussed with central and local level education



Primary Education Development Program                                                Page 19
authorities and children have been actively involved in making schools more friendly and
attractive.
The School Management Committees and the Parent Teacher Associations are becoming more
active and are beginning to develop a new sense of ownership of the schools. The myth that
parents are too poor to participate is being overcome and it has been demonstrated that even the
poorest are willing to participate provided they feel a sense of meaningful involvement.
Broadening Partnerships. Strategic partnerships are being developed and strengthened. NGOs
play an important role in Bangladesh in piloting innovative approaches and in the provision of
schooling opportunities in underserved areas. Several NGOs have been particularly successful in
developing new and appropriate school strategies for underserved areas. The Government has
been increasingly supportive of NGOs and has accepted them as partners in achieving the goals
of EFA. A particularly successful partnership has emerged in recent years between the
government and the garment manufacturers for the education of working children. About 35,000
children in cities who were working in the garment industries are being provided with
educational opportunities.
Mass-media and grass-roots advocacy. It is recognized that to sustain what has been achieved
and to increase the demand for quality schooling, advocacy at the grass roots level and mass
media campaigns have to be further strengthened. Advocacy is needed to raise parental
awareness of the value of raising school attendance and completion rates, aiming at higher
learning standards. Moreover, local government officials, district level officials and teachers
have to be motivated to create favorable learning environments, to raise children's interest in
attending school and raise the quality of the interactions at the classroom level. The school grants
provided by the project will be a vehicle for improved advocacy at the grass-roots level. SMCs
-will be actively involved in the selection of activities required at the school level, in procuring
them and in monitoring achievement of the school enhancement goals that these grants are aimed
at.
Continuation of the Social Mobilization campaigns is of critical importance for the success of the
P'EDP. The emphasis on demanding quality services for the children is essential to maintain the
enrollment rates and to achieve the quality and efficiency gains proposed for the PEDP. The
project includes assistance to expand the Unicef activities to all districts in the country.



Primary Education Development Program                                                Page 20
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Two aspects of Sustainability are:
(a) Institutional viability. The PEDP includes a major effort in institution capacity building.
Government ownership is already well established through PMED's five-year subsector program
preparation. At the national level, officials from all key implementing agencies participated in
program preparation and Government conducted frequent donor coordination meetings during its
preparation. Developing institutional capacity in a phased manner during implementation will
increase involvement and ownership at the district, thana, school and community levels.
Implementation capacity will be strengthened by locating the prograrn directly in the DPE and
through staff training in management, planning, information analysis and monitoring, to be
financed by DFID.
(b) Financial viaility . The project is designed to ensure longer-term financial viability in terms
of govermment budgetary expenditures through policies that result in efficiency gains described
above. The savings associated with the planned policy measures are reflected in Annex 4.
Taken in conjunction with the decline in the school-age population due to the successful
population program of Bangladesh, the savings will offset the increased current expenditures
resulting from the project, i.e. higher subventions for non government teachers.



Pnrnary Education Development Program                                                                    Page 21
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                         Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
(a) Insufficient institutional capacity to implement a  moderate to  Key institutions have been involved in program
sector program successfully; planning is not information  high   development and are aware of program demands.
based, the system is poorly monitored, financial                  There is a commitment to the delivery quality
management, reporting and auditing are weak.                      services.
Program includes a substantial component that
targets institutional development.
Third party supervision and a priority of technical
assistants will assist Government to monitor the
program and to benefit from information systems
and best practices.
(b) Poor macroeconomic and fiscal performance may     moderate   A program to meet the reform objectives has been
adversely affect the financing of primary education               prepared and costed-out. Development partners
expenditures.                                                    are assisting in its financing.
(c)l Unsuccessful decentralization of responsibilities and  moderate   Extensive efforts will be made to facilitate a
actions to the district, thana and school level units.           gradual decentralization of selected decision
making processes and a comprehensive training
program will prepare local level stakeholders to
participate in educational planning and resource
allocation.
(d) Government's steadfastness in channeling donor    moderate   Policy dialogue has continued throughout
support to agreed policies.                                      program preparation and has resulted in
commitment from Government to new policies
for the program period. Each annual operational
review will assess progress towards policy
implementation.
(e) Government could react hastily to pressure from non  low     While the program places emphasis on improved
government teachers for changes in subventions and               registration criteria for non govermment schools
support, undermining the linking of improved conditions          that include a demand for better qualified teachers
of service to school performance.                                 and local accountability for teacher and student
performance, it also includes incentives for non
government teachers who gain recognized
teaching qualifications.
Overall Risk Rating   moderate   _
IRisk Rating: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G(: Main Credit Conditions
1. Conditions of}Effectiveness:
Staffing of the Finance Unit at DPE and establishment of the Financial Reporting System
in a manner that is satisfactory to IDA;
2. Other Credit Covenants:
D)uring Negotiations the Government gave assurance that:



Priary Educaton Development Program                                            Page 22
(a) it will organize annual reviews of implementation progress with all invited
cofinanciers. These joint reviews will take place every year not later than May 31 of each
year, in accordance with implementing policies outlined in Annex 11;
(b) it will carry out a mid-term review and by April 10, 2001 prepare a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities of the projiect. The report will be
reviewed with IDA by May 15, 2001;
(c) it will hire, no later than December 31, 1998, an independent external monitoring
team to perform third party supervision following terms of reference acceptable to IDA;
(d) civil works will be undertaken after IDA has reviewed and approved the criteria,
procedures and mechanism for the school maps and district construction plans as outlined
in Annex 13; and,
(e) teacher training will be undertaken after IDA has reviewed anid approved the proposed
teacher training plans.



Primary Education Development Program                                                 Pap 23
H. Readiness for Implementation
The project will be ready for implementation when:
(a) The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
(b) Detailed teacher training plans agreed with other donors are available.
(c? The project Management Implementation Unit has been established and the finance with the
Directorate of Primary Education has been adequately staffed.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
TIask Managers: Himelda     uXre     y Aarons
Country Director v ierre Landell-Mills



Annex I
Project Design Summary
Bangladesh: Primary Education Development Program
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
CAS Objective:                                                                        (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Poverty reduction through    Improved access to and      Annual review of government  Government management and
human development and        quality of basic social services  statistics            implementation capacity are
economic growth.                                                                      improved; population growth
rate continues to decline;
economic growth accelerates
and is broad-based.
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                             (Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve quality of basic     - Raised learning           Periodic national assessments,  Improved implementation
education and its access     achievements of primary     special studies, and DPE MIS   capacity of PMED/DPE.
particularly for girls and the  education;               and M&E.
poor.                        - reduced cost per graduate for  Statistics and monitoring;
primary education;          evaluation reports
- increased net enrollment
ratios;
- maintained parity of girls in
access to basic education.
Project Development
Objectives:                                                                           Assumption
(a) Improve school quality and  *  Learning achievement  * National assessment of     1. PEDP is implemented as a
system efficiency           (i) MTT 60%; (ii) EPT       Bangla and math in years     five-year subsector program
85% reaching grade 4        1, 3 and 5                   designed to meet national
competencies in literacy,    *  Special studies of poorest  goals.
numeracy and life skills    15% of thanas and wards
(1996: 40%)                                          Risks
1. There may be pressure to
*  Cycle costs              * DPE MIS & M&E                 move outside the agreed
MTT 7.0 yrs; EPT 6.8yrs     Special studies of poorest   program to facilitate
(1996: 7.5 yrs)             15% of thanas and wards      politically driven agenda.
*  Completion rates         *  DPE MIS & M&E            2. Poor macroeconomic and
MTT 65%; EPT 72%         * Special studies of poorest    fiscal performance will not
(1996: 60%)                 15% of thanas and wards      adversely affect the
financing of PEDP.
*  Teacher quality (i.e. %  * DPE MIS & M&E
with C-in-Ed).           *  Special studies by NAPE
MTT 97; EPT 97% (govt.)  *  3rd Party Supervision
(1996: 94%)
MTT 30%; EPT 90%
(nongovt) (1996: 10%)
*  Teacher performance as   * Annual Operational and
measured by changes in      Budget Review
classroom practice
MTT: Mid Term Target
EPT: End of Project Target
P:\BANGLAD\EDU\PMBD\PAD\APD_NEG.doc                                                                         3/6/98



AnnexI: Project Design Summary                                                                              Page 2 of 5
_Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation        Critial Assumptions
* Preparation of annual      *  Annual Operational and
operational and              Budget Review
expenditure plans
(b) Establish a sustainable,  *  Expenditures within 5% of  *  DPE MIS & M&E
cost-effective and better    annual targets            *  Special studies of poorest
managed education system                                   15% of thanas and wards
*  Person/mths of staff      *  DPE MIS & M&E
training for managers     *  Special studies of poorest
15% of thanas and wards
(c) ensure universal coverage   *  Net enrolment ratios    *  DPE MIS & M&E
and equitable access to      MTT 89%; EPT 95% (both  *  Special studies of poorest
quality primary schooling.   genders)                     15% of thanas and wards
(1996: M 79%; F 77%)
* Physically adequate
schools - by school type
and location.
MTT 85%; EPT 95%
(1996: 68%)
Project Outputs:                                                                        Assumptions
(a) Increased enrollments     *  Net enrollment ratios (see   *  DPE MIS & M&E          1. Participating donors will
above)                    *  Special studies of poorest    assist in integrating and
15% of thanas and wards      coordinating PEDP.
(b) Increased completion rates   * Completion rates        *  DPE MIS & M&E             2. Absorptive capacity will
(see above)               *  Special studies of poorest   increase.
15% of thanas and wards
An increase in teachers'
(c) PRaised learning          *  Learning achievement (see  *  National assessment of       competencies will increase
achievements                 above)                       Bangla and math in years      student achievement.
1, 3 and 5
*  Special studies of poorest   Risks
15% of thanas and wards    1. There may be pressure to
move outside agreed
program to facilitate
(d) Improved school           *  Person/weeks of training    *  DPE M&E                     politically driven agenda.
management and academic      completed
suapervision                                                                        2. It will be difficult to
establish a critical mass of
*  Increased participation in    *  3rd Party Supervision     appropriate skills in
decision making             special studies                agencies essential to
PEDP's success.
*  increased ATEO and head   *  3rd Party Supervision     3. It will take time to increase
teacher review of            special studies              teachers' competencies and
classroom activities                                       to change classroom
behaviours, changes in
student achievement may
MTT Mid Term Target
EPT: End of Project Target



Annexl: Project Design Summary                                                                            Page 3 of 5
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
(e) Increased intructional time   *  Increased instructional  * DPE MIS & M&E             not be measurable during
and teacher procuctivity    time MTT 700 hrs EPT      *  Special studies of poorest   PEDP.
1100                        15% of thanas and wards
(1996: 400 (I & 2) & 700    3rd Party Supervision    4. Decentralisation of
(3 to 5)                    special studies              responsibilities and
accountability to districts,
*  Increased teacher        *  3rd Party Supervision        thanas and schools will
productivity               special studies              improve system
performance and the quality
(f) Education resources      * Textbook reuse policy for   *  DPE MIS & M1&E              of service delivery.
allocated more efficiently  classes 3 to 5
*  Give priority to a dditional  *  Special studies of poorest
classrooms rather than      15% of thanas and wards
building new schools     * 3rd Party Supervision
special studies
*  Targeted construction    *  Special studies of poorest
based on needs.             15% of thanas and wards
* 3rd Party Supervision
special studies
* Targeted subsidies to     *  Special studies of poorest
increase enrolment and      15% of thanas and wards
attendance of girls and the
poor in selected urban
areas and underserved
rural communities
(g) Improve institutional    * Annual Operational Plans   * Annual Operational and
capabilities at national,   prepared on schedule        Budget Review
district, thana and school
levels in management,    * Timely production of MIS   * DPE MIS & M&E
implementation,             & M&E products related    *  Annual Operational and
monitoring and information  to PEDP implementation      Budget Review
analysis.
*  PECC and PEIMC monitor  *  3rd Party Supervision
PEDP progress and make      special studies
information based
decisions
*  % of annual staff        * DPE MIS & Mg&E
development activities
completed
Project Components/Sub-
components: (see Annex 2 for
project description)
Project Components:                                                                   Assumptions
1. Improving School Quality    * Access to C-in-Ed (and  * Government policy          1. Planning is information
and System Efficiency        salary equivalence) for all  *  Annual Operational Plan  based and there is adequate
a) Teacher development       teachers by 2010             and Budget Review            monitoring, reporting and
and school cluster based                            *  3rd Party Supervision        financial management.
MTT: Mid Term Target
EPT: End of Project Target



Annexl: Project Design Summary                                                                           Page 4 of 5
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
training                                               special studies
b) Improving curriculum                                                            2. Absorptive capacity will
c) Strengthening national                                                              increase.
institutions (NAPE,    * Access to academic         *  Annual Operational Plan
PTIs, NCTB)               supervision for all teachers  and Budget Review       3. There will be adequate
*  DPE MIS & M&E                incentives for teachers and
civil servants to participate
* High quality textbooks    *  Government policy            in training and change
(efficient and cost      *  annual operational plan      activities.
effective-production        and review
through open competitive   *  3rd Party Supervision  4. Best practices are learned
bidding)                    special studies              and applied.
*  DPE MIS & M&E
*  Revised curriculum for all                           5. There will be an equitable
schools supported by a                                   distribution of resources.
better balance of        .  Government policy
textbooks, supplementary   .  3rd Party Supervision  Risks
reading materials and       special studies          1. PEDP is complex and has
teacher guides           * DPE MIS & M&E                 challenging targets: pressure
to spend may determine
*  Increased instructional  *  Government policy            program priorities and
time                     * 3rd Party Supervision         mDFIDlities.
special studies
* DPE MIS & M&E             2. Existing hierarchical
structure may be too rigid to
2. Strengthening Institutional  *  improved capacity in  * Annual Operational and         accommodate flexibility
Capacity and Management     PMED' s to develop policy    Budget Review                required for PEDP planning
a) Strengthening                                                                       and implementation.
institutional capacity at   * Improved capacity in DPE   .  Annual Operational and
the national level        to (a) implement PEDP,      Budget Review             3. The creation of PCUs/PIUs
b) Strengthening             (b) prepare AOPs and     *  3rd Party Supervision         will undermine the capacity
institutional capacity at  AORs, (c) monitor          special studies               building at DPE.
the field level           implementation, (d)      * DPE MIS & M&E
c) Strengthening school      prepare physical and                                  4. It will be difficult to
management and            financial reports                                         establish a critical mass of
administration                                                                      appropriate skills in
*  Improved information     * Annual Operational and        agencies essential to
systems and institutional   Budget Review                PEDP's success.
capacities to use system  *  DPE MIS & M&E
and financial information                            5. There will not be an over
dependence on TA. TA will
*  Resource allocation both    *  Annual Operational and    perform a training and
planned and monitored at    Budget Review                facilitating role rather than a
all levels               *  3rd Party Supervision        dominant role in
special studies              management, planning and
*  DPE MIS & M&E                program implementation.
*  Person/weeks of          .  DPE MIS & M&E
educational manager
training completed.
3. Increasing Equitable      *  Construction of new      *  DPE MIS & M&E
Access                      schools and additional   *  3rd Party Supervision
Mrr: Mid Term Target
EPT: End of Project Target



Annexl: Project Design Summary                                                                            Page 5 of 5
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring andl Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
a) Construction of new       classrooms in under- and     special studies
schools and additional    unserved areas
classrooms
b) Block grants to school    * Repaired/reconstructed  * DPE MIS & M&E
support the provision of  schools and provision of    *  3rd Party Supervision
stationary to the poorest  tubewells and toilets on a  special studies
students                  needs basis only
c) Social mobilisation
* AU teachers trained to a  * DPE MIS & M&E
minimum standard
* All students provided with   * DPE MIS & M&E
textbooks                *  3rd Party Supervision
special studies
* All schools provided with   *  DPE MIS & M&E
appropriate reading      *  3rd Party Supervision
materials                   special studies
*  Provision of subventions    * CPE
to registered non-
government schools for
teacher salaries and
supplementary needs
*  Registration criteria for  *  Government policy
non-government schools    *  CPE
reflect new teacher      *  DPE MIS & M&E
qualifications, schools'  *  3rd Party Supervision
accountability for student  special studies
and teacher performance
and their ability to provide
five teachers
*  Increased number of      * CPE
registered schools       *  DPE MIS & M&E
*  Provision of block grants   *  3rd Party Supervision
to SMCs for school          special studies
maintenance, stationery  *  Special studies of poorest
and learning materials      15% of thanas and wards
MTT: Mid Term Target
EPT: End of Project Target



Annex 2: Primnary Education Development Program Project Description          Page 1 of 9
Annex 2
Primary Education Development Program
Project Description
Bangladesh: Primary Education Development Program
Introduction
1.    Bangladesh has made substantial progress in expanding primary education. After stagnant
primary school enrollment for almost thirty years, net enrollment in the formal school system rose from
55% in 1985 to 63% in 1990 and it is currently around 85%, (Gross enrollment rate is over 100%).
Efforts to get girls into school, including emphasis on hiring female teachers and locating schools near
their homes, have been very successful, and enrollment rates for girls is now the same as for boys. The
reduction in fertility and the smaller population growth rates have eased the task of enrollment expansion.
2.    One special characteristic of the school system in Bangladesh is the presence of a large number
of NGO and community managed schools. About 40% of primary school age children are enrolled in
nongovernment schools managed by corporations, religious bodies, and community organizations.
Nongovemment schools are partially financed by Government on the basis of school registration and
eligibility for subventions to cover partial costs of teacher salaries. Grants to nongovernment schools are
also made for repair of school buildings and students in both government and non-government schools
receive free textbooks. Innovative approaches and teaching methods that are responsive to children's
needs have been successfully developed by NGO's.
3.    The recently completed General Education Project contributed to expanding capacity of the
government system as well as the NGO managed schools, in improving the quality of education through
curriculum revision, textbook distribution and school-base inservice training. However, the quality and
education efficiency of the system remain low. Only 60% of students complete primary school, at a cycle
cost of 7.5 years. Their literacy and numeracy even after seven years of school is at a second grade
competency level. These poor outcomes reflect managerial and school organization problems: low
attendance by teachers and students (a daily average of 60%), and the fact that teachers use less than
50% of available instructional time for actual teaching. Unsatisfactory outcomes also reflect an
inequitable deployment of teachers, inadequate supervision and managerial problems at the thana and
district offices responsible for managing schools.
Program Objectives
4.    Based on a comprehensive assessment of achievements to date and of the issues currently
affecting the school system, the Government and donors have agreed that PEDP will focus on improving
the quality of and increasing efficiencies in primary education over the next five years, while continuing
to improve equitable access. PEDP has seven specific outcomes. These are:
(a) increasing net enrollments from 85% to 95%;
(b) increasing primary school completion rates from 60% to 70%;
(c) raising learning achievements so that 85% of completing students will achieve at least grade 4 level
competencies in literacy, numeracy and life skills;
(d) improving school management and academic supervision;
P:\BANGLAD\EDU\PMEDIPADIAPD12_17.doc                                    3/6/98



Annex 2: Primary Education Development Program - Project Description         Page 2 of 9
(e) reducing cost per graduate by increasing instructional time and teacher productivity, and reducing
grade repetition;
(f) allocating education resources more efficiently - to include textbook reuse, the provision of additional
classrooms rather than new schools, basing construction of new schools on demographic criteria,
targeting subsidies to increase enrollment and attendance of girls and the poor in selected urban areas and
in underserved rural communities;
(g) improving institutional capabilities at national, district, thana and school levels in management,
planning, implementation, monitoring and information analysis.
5.    PEDP has three components: (a) improving school quality amd system efficiencies; (b)
establishing a sustainable, cost-effective and better managed systern; and (c) ensuring universal coverage
and equitable access to quality primary schooling. Policies and activities that support these components
cover both government and nongovernment schools. The policies are described in detail in annex 11 and
the three components are described below.
Project Components
Component 1> Improving School Quality and System Efficiency - US$293.9 million (total cost of
component)
6.    This component will improve the quality of schooling by inmplementing actions indicated in the
policy framework and by financing the inputs required for pedagogical improvement at the classroom
level. There are three subcomponents.
7.    Subcomponent 1. 1: Teacher development, school supervision and school cluster based training
The purpose is to support teachers in their daily school work, increase their knowledge of contents and
how to teach these more competently to further children's learning. A core of expertise on best
classroom practices for primary level will be established at the National Academy for Primary Education
(NAPE) and in the 53 Primary Teaching Institutes (PTIs) where inservice training is provided to primary
level teachers. Priority for obtaining the Certificate in Education through one year residential training in
the PTls will be given to the non-government school teachers that have had no opportunity for post-
secondary level education. At the thana (sub-cluster) level all teachers will have opportunities to work
together in sub-clusters (5 to 6 schools) to plan lessons, develop materials, discuss learning problems of
children and learn from each other's experiences. Subcluster training methods are based on a successful
inservice training program developed by Unicef and already under implementation in selected thanas in
36 districts in the country. Training in the subclusters will be provided by Thana Level Education
Officials (Assistant Thana Education Officers, ATEOs), who in turn will receive continuous inservice
training in the PTIs and in NAPE. Support will also be provided by the project for the improvement,
further development and testing of training materials. Head teachers will be provided additional inservice
training to enable them to meet their responsibilities as the principal academic supervisor for their
schools. ATEOs will continue to be responsible for the quality of teaching and learning across schools.
8.    Detailed financing plans by donor are spelled out in Annex 2. Strengthening of NAPE and
training in the PTIs will be financed by Norway. Sub-cluster level training will be financed by ADB,
DFID, Unicef and Sweden. ADB and DFID's assistance for subcluster training will be targeted at Thana
and sub-cluster levels in Barisal, Chittagong and Sylhet divisions. Unicef and Sweden will continue to
finance sub-cluster level training in each of the 5 districts where Unicef is implementing the IDEAL
project and later on in other selected districts and thanas. It is expected that by year 3 of the program all
subclusters in all thanas will be receiving assistance required to provide all teachers with inservice



Annex 2: Primary Education Development Program - Project Description         Page 3 of 9
traLining opportunities, and, by the end of the project all teachers in non government schools will have had
opportunity to obtain a Certificate in Education.
9.    Subcomponent 1.2: Improving teaching and learning. A thorough curriculum revision took place
in recent years and new textbooks for all primary grades were developed. The new curriculum is
competency-based and the new textbooks are conceived as tools to be used by teachers at the classroom
level to introduce the new curriculum content and make it possible for teachers to use active teaching and
learning methods. The new textbooks are now being used in schools throughout the country and it is
envisioned that revisions will be required in the coming years so that they are more effective classroom
tools. Additionally, through student assessments and through monitoring and classroom observations,
information on achievement levels will be available by the third year of the program and will be used to
further improve textbook designs.
10.   Substantial assistance was provided to NCTB when the new curriculum was developed so that
schools could contribute to the social goals of empowering women, lowering fertility, improving health
status and protecting the environment. A Women Development Unit (WID) was established in 1991 in
NCTB and this unit has revised the primary curriculum and textbooks to remove gender biases. A
population and health unit in NCTB has also been established in recent years to introduce population,
health and nutrition messages in the curriculum and in the textbooks and supplementary materials. A
WID checklist has been developed and will be used in coming years to monitor and evaluate the
curriculum revisions and the development and purchase of supplementary materials, and a monitoring
scheme is in place to monitor the teaching and learning of population, health and nutrition concepts.
Additionally, environmental awareness and sustainable development concepts have also been introduced
in the new curriculum and will be monitored and evaluated before textbooks are revised.
11.   Textbook Supply. The PEDP will finance: (a) provision of textbooks to all students in
government and non government schools, introducing a textbook reuse policy when feasible so that by
the year 2001 50% of the books are used for more than one school year, (b) manuals for teachers on the
care, preservation and repair of books, (c) steel cabinets (almirahs) for storage of reusable books between
school years, (d) studies on the use of textbooks in the classroom.
12.   Using current paper specifications l and printing services provided by about 4000 small private
printers who use simple printing equipment and techniques2, the average cost per textbook is quite low at
about Tk 10 (US$0.24). ADB will finance textbook supply in three eastern divisions of the country
(Barisal, Chittagong and Sylhet) and IDA will finance the supply in the western divisions: Raj shahi,
khulna and Dhaka.
13.   Supplementary Materials. To complement the textbooks, reinforce literacy and encourage pupils
to read and research on their own, PEDP will support the supply of teaching and learning materials and
supplementary readers for all schools. The materials will be selected to meet agreed standards of quality
in content and presentation, gender criteria, durability and suitability for classroom use. Special teaching
and learning materials for tribal communities will be developed.
IWoodfree white printing paper, 60 grms, in 20" by 30" sheets.
2 Manual offset printers and manual collating and binding.



Annex 2: Primary Education Development Program - Project Description         Page 4 of 9
14.   ADB will finance the materials for schools in the three eastern divisions: Barisal, Chittagong and
Sylhet, including the materials for tribal groups, and IDA will finance the supplementary teaching
materials and readers for schools in the remaining three divisions.
15.   Assessments. PEDP includes a national assessment of schools focusing on Bangla and
mathematics in grades 3 and 5 in each of project years 1, 3, and 5. This assessment will be carried out by
DPE's monitoring and evaluation unit. Additionally the Assessment Cell in NCTB will be strengthened to
carry out continuous assessment of textbook usage in classrooms. DFID will finance the national
assessment. ADB will finance the assessments of textbook usage in the three eastern divisions and IDA in
the central and western divisions.
16    Subcomponent 1.3: Strengthening national institutions (NAPE, and NCTB) NAPE will be
strengthened to become the lead academic and professional agency in DPE's program to ensure quality
primary education and teacher training.3 PTIs will be strengthened through staff development and
upgrading of physical and academic facilities.
17.   NCTB will be strengthened by restructuring and rationalizing its publishing role and
responsibilities, and by strengthening its procurement and distribution services. The publishing
department will be strengthened by: (a) recruiting and training specialized editors that can ensure that
writing is logical, lucid and interesting and (b) by enhancing the capacity to select and develop authors
and graphic designers. The production department will be strengthened by: (a) improving the capacity to
procure textbooks printed for NCTB, (b) improve the procurement of printing services and (c) enhance
the capacity to distribute textbooks and printed materials to schools. Cost-effectiveness of textbook
distribution will be enhanced through better stock management and reduction of wastage. International
and domestic consultants will help NCTB prepare an implement improved publishing management
structures including a staff development plan with emphasis in the training of editorial staff. Training
will also include training in graphic design and classroom level evaluation of existing textbooks.
Consultants will also help improve the financial management systems.
18.   It is expected that by the end of the project all existing textbooks will have been evaluated and
textbooks for grades 1 and 2 will have been redesigned, piloted in schools and ready for nationwide
usage.
19.   Norway will finance the restructuring of NAPE and ADB and DFID will finance the restructuring
and strengthening of NCTB.
3Norway supported technical specialists and a review committee will examine NAPE's roles and
functions, its governing and academic structures, existing staff and future requirements, links with PTIs,
potential links with external training partners and physical and equipment requirements and prepare a NAPE
Medium Term Development Plan.



Anmex 2: Primary Education Development Program - Project Description         Page 5 of 9
Component 2: Strengthening Institutional Capacity and Management - US$53.7 million. (Total cost
of'the component)
20.   This component will support the development of institutional capacities at PMED, DPE (at
central, regional, district and thana levels) and at the school level, so that those responsible for primary
education management and for implementation of PEDP can adequately plan for, implement and facilitate
the provision of quality primary education. To increase management and administrative efficiency and
effectiveness activities the project will: (i) strengthen PMED's and DPE's capacity to implement PEDP
by preparing annual subsector operational and expenditure plans that cover the entire primary program,
monitoring program implementation and preparing physical and financial reports; (ii) with Unicef
assistance strengthen the district and thana level's capacity to develop and implement annual construction
plans, school improvement plans as well as community mobilization activities; (iii) develop a responsive
information system for policy and management and the institutional capacities to use system and financial
information for policy, planning and management decision making; and (iv) develop educational
mnanagers and school management committees' abilities to plan school development and monitor
performance and quality improvement, determine needs and manage block grants. There are two
subcomponents.
21.   Subcomponent 2. 1: Strengthening institutional capacity at the national level The need to
institutionalize annual operational and expenditure planning provides the foundation on which improved
mianagement skills, information systems and informed decision making will be developed. Activities will
focus on strengthening management skills and practices appropriate to planning, implementing,
facilitating and assessing progress and performance of the PEDP. Priority will be given to rationalize
existing MIS and monitoring functions to better provide accurate, relevant, high quality informnation. In
addition, an accounting function will be established within DPE so that it is able to account for, and report
on, the costs of the PEDP. Staff will be trained in planning and budgeting. The implementing accounting
and auditing abilities will be enhanced. This subcomponent will be financed by DFID.
22.   Subcomponent 2.2: Strengthening institutional capacity at the district, thana and school level. To
strengthen capacity to plan and implement programs in a decentralized manner, PEDP will introduce the
preparation of a bottom-up approach to planning which will include the preparation of school maps and
district and school level plans. These school level maps and plans will be used as tools required to
channel money to districts and schools for the financing of the required activities. Training will be
provided to education managers at field offices to increase management and financial awareness and
capacity, and to enhance their capacity to promote community participation.
23    All construction and maintenance activities will require the preparation and approval of school
maps and district construction plans. These plans will be prepared at the thana level in accordance with
agreed guidelines and will be appraised and approved at the district level. (Detailed guidelines for
preparation and appraisal of these grants is in Annex. 13). At the school level the role of the school
management committees and PTAs will be enhanced through the provision of school grants to be used
ifor school maintenance, for additional books and learning materials. Detailed guidelines for the
preparation of school grant requests have been prepared and will be piloted in a few districts before they
are used at the national level.
'Financial and technical support for this subcomponent will be provided by ADB in the eastern divisions
and by IDA in the western divisions. Unicef will continue to provide technical support to selected
districts for the preparation of the district plans. The IDA (ITF) credit includes US$5 million that will be
implemented by Unicef for this component.



Annex 2: Primary Education Development Program - Project Description        Page 6 of 9
Project Component 3 Increasing Equitable Access - US$370.6 million. (Total cost of component)
24.   To better ensure universal coverage and equitable access to quality schooling, PEDP will: (a)
build new schools and additional classrooms in under-served and underserved areas; (b) repair and
reconstruct schools and provide tubewells and toilets on a needs basis; (c) provide students from the
poorest households with the stationary and (d) support the awareness and social mobilization activities
required for project sustainability. There are four subcomponents as described below.
25.   Subcomponent 3.1: Construction of new schools and additional classrooms. New schools and
additional classrooms will be provided in under-served areas for hard-to-reach children according to set
criteria (no other school within 2 kilometers, a minimum of 150 students and a minimum population of
2,000 - exceptions will be made where natural barriers or high population density exists - this applies
especially to the provision of additional classrooms to peri-urban government schools). These criteria
will apply to govermment and all nongovemment schools. In addition, classrooms, furniture, toilets and
tubewells will be added or repaired at government and nongovernment schools. A community based
school maintenance program will be introduced. To ensure that expansion is appropriately focused on
marginalised population in terms of increasing their access to schooling, school maps and local level
needs analyses will be completed prior to the expansion of facilities. All primary schools, under different
school management, will be monitored for minimum facility standards. (See Annex 13A).
26.   Feeder schools (satellite schools and NGO schools offering only the first two or three years of
primary education) would be established only in under-served areas and would be converted to full
primary schools in areas where the school age population would ensure a continued minimum enrollment
of 150 children. All schools will have tubewells and male and female toilets by the end of program. DPE
will introduce a community-based school maintenance program that includes an increased grant to
government and registered schools for annual maintenance (on the basis of 3% of capital costs).
27.   Subcomponent 3.2: Block grants to schools to support the provision of stationery to the poorest
students . Targeted programs will provide resources, materials and incentives to better ensure equitable
access to quality education for girls, tribal populations and children from poor households. The poorest
25% of children will receive free stationery. The School Attractiveness Program will continue.
28.   Subcomponent 3.3: Social mobilization (Gender and the Poorest Households). Support to Details
of the Unicef supported community mobilization and decentralized management and monitoring
program- to be finalized later. Unicef has supported piloting the IDEAL project in five districts. Under
the project it will expanded to all districts in the country. (see Unicef below) Financial and technical
support for Component I will be provided by ADB in the three eastern divisions, by KfW in 3 districts of
Rajshahi Division, and by IDA in the other districts of the three western divisions.
Donor's' Contributions By Component.
29.   ADB has already approved a loan to the GOB for a Second Primary Education Sector Project to
be implemented between 1997 and 2002. The project is a follow up to the ADB assisted Primary
Education Sector Project which was implemented in Chittagong division and closed successfully in
December 1996. The project was conceived within the framework of the PEDP and will support the
agreed policy framework and investment plans. ADB financing will cover all required assistance to
NCTB, the provision of textbooks and school construction in three divisions (Barisal, Chittagong and
Sylhet):



Annex 2: Primary Education Development Program - Project Description           Page 7 of 9
(a) ADB will will finance quality and efficiency improvements by:
(i) developing the institutional capacity of NCTB to provide quality textbooks more cost-effectively,
through restructuring of the publishing department and improvement of its editorial services, improving
textbook procurement and distribution, as well as improving stock management;
(ii) supporting the provision of textbooks and other teaching/learning materials to all primary school
students in the three eastern divisions of the country: Barisal, Chittagong and Sylhet, and by funding the
preparation of a teachers manual on the care, preservation and repair of books, provision of storage
cabinets to store books in schools, and by funding studies on textbook usage.
(iii) strengthening the student assessment system by strengthening the assessment cell in NCTB,
imiproving the examinations administered by the Thana Education Committees (TECs), and through a
sample testing of children in grades 3 and 5 carry out a national assessment of mathematics and bangla
language achievements; and
(iv) supporting sub-cluster inservice training in Barisal, Chittagong and Sylhet Divisions.
(b)The project will support improving management by: (i) strengthening local planning
management and monitoring and (ii) supporting the institutional development of DPE (see DFID support
below).
(c)The project will support increasing equitable access by: (i) providing additional classrooms,
school repairs and rehabilitation in the underserved areas of 166 thanas in the three eastern divisions:
Barisal, Chittagong and Sylhet, (ii) supporting a community and school-based preventive maintenance
program, and (iii) providing school of supplies to the poorest students. Preparation of construction and
maintenance plans for each thana will be required before construction is undertaken. ADB is piloting a
decentralized planning, management and monitoring system at the thana level.
30.   The Second ADB Primary Education Sector Project is estimated to cost US$160 million, out of
which ADB will finance US$100 million, DFID will finance US$ 30 million and GOB will finance about
US$30 million.
31.   DFID assistance will cofinance the ADB project and will focus on strengthening management at
the central and district levels. Specifically DFID will finance: (a) support the improvement of
management practices in DPE at all levels and at PMED; (b) rationalize and institutionalize information
systems and informed decision making processes to planning and resource allocation; (c) improve
financial management systems in DPE; (d) assist DPE to introduce quality academic supervision to
teachers and ATEOs through PTIs and locally-based subcluster training; (e) develop a core of expertise in
academic supervision at NAPE and at selected PTIs; (f) finance the sample surveys necessary to ensure
that agreed systemic indicators are measured annually; and (g) finance the national assessment of schools
in program years 1, 3 and 5.
32.   Norway has now appraised a project which supports the policies and investment plans of the
PEDP. Norway's financing will support quality improvement activities. Specifically it will: (a) provide
local and overseas training for staff from PMED, DPE, NAPE, PTIs and to ATEOs; (b) support inservice
training through the development of TRCs following an experimental piloting period beginning in 1997;
(c) strengthen NAPE through staff development, technical assistance and improved facilities following
tlhe drafting of development plans for NAPE and teacher training that will be completed in year 1; (d)
support the CinEd program for the training of 50,000 untrained teachers mainly those of the non-
government schools; (e) support subcluster training; (f) improve libraries and library facilities in NAPE



Annex 2: Primary Education Development Program - Project Description         Page 8 of 9
and PTIs. Additionally Norway will also provide support for textbooks by partially financing the paper to
be used in textbook production. The Norway financing will amount to US$ 40 million.
33.   Unicef has been fnancing the Intensive District Approach to Education for All (IDEAL). This
project started in 1996 and has been very successful in introducing decentralized planing, management
and monitoring tools in selected thanas and districts. It is envisioned that these or similar tools will be
used by thana and district officials during the implementation of the PEDP. The IDEAL project has three
components:
(a) Sub-national planning, management and monitoring. This includes: (i) improved local level planning
by supporting community mobilization, community involvement iin educational mapping, and in school
location planning; (ii) support for non-formal schools in disadvantaged areas, (iii) management
improvements at the district, thana and school levels, and (iv) data collection to enhance monitoring
activities.
(b) School quality improvements by: (i) building cooperation between the schools and the communities,
(ii) broadening the curriculum activities to meet new needs identifi'ed at local levels, (iii) adopting new
teaching styles including child to child approaches and support for materials development.
(c) Social Mobilization. This component includes: (i) community participation in the decentralized
planning, community surveillance of school enrollment, community surveillance of school quality and
learning achievement, feedback from children, (ii) broadening the partnerships between GOB and NGOs,
communities and the private sector, and (iii) advocacy for the achievement of high quality schools for all.
34. The original budget for this project was US$42 million. Unicef is financing US$11 million and it
is envisioned that Sweden will now finance US$20 million. The IDA projects will complement the
required financing for the decentralized planning in their districts, (US$5 million) and for social
mobilization (US$5 million).
35.   UNFPA will continue to provide assistance to NCTB for the continous reviews and revisions of
the curriculum materials and textbooks and the training of teachers in support of Bangladesh's population
and health strategies.
36.   KfW/GTZ assistance has also been conceived in support of'the objectives of the PEDP and will
be targeted to one geographical area: the 33 thanas of 3 districts (Rajshahi, Bogra and Dinajpur) of the
Rajshahi Division in north west Bangladesh. The project finances: (a) construction of 50 new schools and
reconstruction of 200 schools, (b) repair of 120 existing schools, (c) construction of 320 additional
classrooms in existing schools, (d) construction of additional rooms in central schools in 33 thanas for the
thana resource centers, (e) provision of latrines and tubewells. Additionally, to support the quality and
efficiency objectives of the PEDP the KfW will finance: (f) assistance to design and implement a local
and decentralized in-service teacher training program, (g) teaching materials for all schools, (h) assistance
in developing management of education at the school, thana and district levels and (i) assistance to
develop and implement strategies which strengthen community participation in th
e management and provision of education through the school management committees. Particular
attention will be given to strategies to benefit girls and women. Three experts will be assisting project
implementation: one engineer and two GTZ educators. The total cost of the KfW project is US$30
million.



Twale
D18060k   Total Forlg.
{  t   {                           _                     Fint B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hac   Tr4.~c    Tivllmi, _                           . d
_   _-_  _ -                                                 T.0bk 8   O.c.II PEDP   FEDr'    Pr, odo           F Projer      IDA         ADS        KrW        IDB      DRFID     Norwvy    S-d.l'   VUNFPA          Uv icW    ORmuk.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__ __ __ _                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r._.  l
Im ho rol v     u.ity md larmc i.g Effickrc                            S      261.6   S   293.87  S    93.74  S      200.12  S   84.42  S   50.44  S    1.27  S  0.22  S           S   35.90 S            S t         S   27.80
A 5.or¢he _ r,rooo.ooiI)ood,, l rea                                S     104.40  S    90.35  S    21.37  S       680.9   S   14.95  S   12.26  S         S         S          S   22.09  S           S    S           19.69
it m'a,4,.,ommi   or,ev.1                                               1JJ.69  S   191.43  S    68.75  S       122.67  S   69.47  S   33.611  S    1.27  S  0.22  5          S   10.00  S           S     .    S      .12O
C .           Nwi-gNododIxa&,iofi ..(nO4PE a NCThJ                 S      12.54  S    12.09  S     3.62  S        t.47  $     -    S    4.51  S          S   :    S         -S    3.09  S       -    S           - $3
11.  trrotwtdvo t-Ituduat6a 4 M-L"vq nsC   oky                          S      84.34  S    53.67  S    (2.73) S       56.4   S   11.30  S    4.72  S   U.08  S  0.12  S   29.50  S    2.14  S             S           S    S.75         .t
A              ..VtAiogIa ain i-loIC .,pa.ry W ikz,w ole-rL.I-,  21  S    37.67  S    26.16  S    (2.73) S       28.79  S    5.30  S    4.52  S   0.36  S  0.12  S   15.27  S    0.39  S        -    S           S    2.84                                                C
It Bse.1k -Mxg It.len       c4lyo ts6 XF2d L.-I.          22      S      46.67  S    27.61  S     Uutl S        27.61  S    9.80   S    0.19  S   0.92  S   .    5   14.23  S    1.75  S            S           S    5.92                                                0
_II. 1e' an oE         Amlo     t. Quality Ldocoti.-                    S     7KJ.OS  S   370.57  S   143.t9  S      226.67  S   89.09  S   82.58  S  27.89  S  9.44  S            S    5.60      =       S           S   12.U7                                                3
A Cioo.ucC Mo.{.5!rAo 6tssreerns                           31      5    692.18  S   334.17  S   134.W4  S       20tl.lJ  S   72.69  S   79.0K  S  27.89  S  9.44  S           S           S          S           S  11.02          ._
_   R6.  ,fo.9  $.oio.o    .d M.o nlM r6                   32      S      7N.10  S    31.38  S    10.90  S       20.48  S   11.38  S    3.50  S           S   .    S    -    S    5.60  S            S           S     .
C .TiV.1AlbMitiS.ete,Vo.i. Partien                         33      S      13.7  S       .02 5    (11.05) S        6.07  S    5.2  S      -    S          S        S -    5   S      -               $           S S  lS
£ vj3 Yo    i    n     . IDAo aimi8l                                             $    126K  $      4.74  $        7.94             S    3.82  S   0.23                        S    3.20                          S    0.70
C-_ wlr.l ioo   looo,rwrok DA                                                   S ohol  S    1092       S       11192             S    3.82  S   4S6  $  11S1               $    1.74
rTaw Parly Do    pmru lp_                                          S   1130.e2  S   741.71  S   239.65  5       592.6   S  183.81  S  145.37  S  35.13  S 10.28  S   29.5   S   4S.65  S             S           S   4932
Of wbich Earcl esrca.                                                           II  370.82  S        -   S      370.82  S  £50.04  S  11.80  S  30.00  S  10.21  S  29SI)  S   40.00  S                          S   11.00
_  Of wkbh Loca Rmort_                                                           S  370.e9   S   239.. S        131.24  S   33.77  S   45.37  S5J3  S             .           S    8.65  S                       S  31.31  Add'tioaI Ruoorca
_   ff                                                I          I             I S 741.71                 S   131.24                                                              -          -                 1bsUalrU
o
0
P:                    FI~~~~spl_7.X4



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      Page I of 1
Annex 3
Primary Education Development Program
Estimated Project Costs of IDA (ITF)Credit
(in US$ million)
%      % Total
Foreign    Base
Local     Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs
A. Improving Quality and Efficiency
1. Supporting Teacher Development and Subcluster Training    12.01       0.44     12.45          4        8
2. Improving Curriculum Text and Materials                   34.35      22.54     56.89         40       37
Subtotal Improving Quality and Efficiency                      46.35      22.98     69.33         33       46
B. Improving Institutional Management Capacity
Institutional Capacity Building of Central Govemment /a       3.013      1.41      4.49         31        3
Institutional Capacity Building of Thanas and School Districts  5.00        -      5.00          -        3
Subtotal Improving Institutional Management Capacity            8.08       1.41      9.49         15        6
C. Improving Equitable Access
Construction of new Schools & Classroom to underserved Areas  37.7:2    21.50     59.22         36       39
Stationary targeted through School Block Grants               5.48       3.77      9.25         41        6
Social Mobilization (Gender and the Poorest)                  4.50       0.52      5.02         10        3
Subtotal Improving Equitable Access                            47.70      25.79     73.49         35       48
Total BASELINE COSTS                                           102.14      50.18    152.31        33       i00
Physical Contingencies                                        8.17'      4.88     13.05         37        9
Price Contingencies                                          13.68       4.77     18.45         26       12
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            123.98      59.83    183.81        33       121
The total project cost is estimated at about Tk8,087.62 million or US$183.81 equivalent. The total base cost is estimated at
US$152.31. Physical contingencies are estimated at US$13.05 million and price contingencies at US$18.45 million. Total
contingencies represent 21% of base cost. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$59.83 million including
contingencies or about 32% of total project cost. Project cost were estimated at September 1996 price levels and include physical
contingencies of 10% for all expenditure accounts



Annex 4: Fiscal Sustainability                                                   Page 1 of 3
Annex 4
Primary Education Development Program
Fiscal Sustainability
1. Assumptions for the Macroeconomic Framework:
We used a base-case scenario with rather conservative assumptions to assess the consistency of the Primary
Eclucation Development Program with the macroeconomic framework of Bangladesh. The scenario assumes a
GDP growth rate of 5% p.a. in real terms and uses a GDP deflator of 5% p.a. This implies that Government
maintains sound macroeconomic management and proceeds with implementing the reform agenda, albeit at a
lower pace than the high-case scenario used for the Annual Economic Update (September 1997). The GDP
growth rate used is higher than the 4.1% real GDP growth p.a. achieved over the last five years.
Government budgetary expenditure is assumed to be a slightly higher share to GDP than past performance:
overall budget outlays are projected at an average 17.5% of GDP, slightly above the 17.3% in FY97, with 9% of
GDP allocated to current expenditure and 8% to the development program (the balance is other capital
expenditure and net lending). These expenditure projections are consistent with revenue projections of around
12.5% of GDP and a budget deficit of 5 % of GDP on average, i.e. at an achievable level.
Within this budgetary framework, Government expenditure for education has been projected as shares of current
and development expenditure, again using percentages that are in line with performance in recent years: 18.3%
for current expenditure and 13.5 % for development expenditure. The outlays for primary education have been
pnrojected as constant shares of the respective education budgets, again in line with past shares: 40.5% of the
recurrent expenditure in education and 50% of the education development budget are assumed to be allocated to
primary education. The resulting numbers are shown in the attached table.
2. Comparison with PEDP Requirements for Current Expenditures:
Estimates show that the resource envelope for current expenditure for primary education during the project
implementation period amounts to about US$ 1,553 million. The projections made for current expenditure
requirements from the Government's revenue budget result in outlays of US$ 1,298 million over the same
period. The expenditure requirements include the impact of efficiency increases, e.g. reflected in lower drop-out
and repetition rates, better teacher deployment, as well as increasing subsidies for nongovemment teachers.
lThese expenditure requirements can be accommodated within the framework, leaving a substantial margin. This
margin will allow Bangladesh to address other education priorities in the near future. An increase in teacher's
salaries could be considered.
3. Comparison with PEDP Requirements for Development Expenditures:
The resource envelope for development expenditure during the project period is US$ 1,255 million. The
requirements for completing ongoing projects in the ADP4 which are not part of PEDP are small: US$ 12
million in FY98 and 99. Funding requirements for the priority PEDP are estimated at US$ 742 million for FY99
- 03 with funding committed. Hence, the resource envelope for primary education derived from the
macroeconomic framework can accommodate the PEDP.
4 ADP: Annual Development Program.
I'-\BANGLAD\EDU\PMED\PAD\APD_NEG.doc                                         3/6/98



Annex 4: Fiscal Sustainability                                         Page 2 of 3
Within this resource envelope, US$513 million would be available to fund additional programs, as for example
the Government's Food for Education program (which is currently under review), additional items Government
had proposed for inclusion in PEDP or new projects as they are prepared. If, for instance, Government wants to
continue the Food for Education Program at the level of its FY98 allocation of US$75 million, then the room for
other investment expenditure over the next five years is reduced to US$ 138 million.
In sum, the proposed PEDP expenditure is feasible within the macroeconomic framework and, given the
margins, can be protected from cuts in case of budgetary constraints.



PEDP: Public Expenditure Framework, FY97 - 03
(Tk, million)
FY1997       FY1998        FY1999        FY2000        FY2001       FY2002        FY2003
GuP at market prices,                      . _r_r.                                                                                       >
nominal (5% real growth, 5%                               1
inflation p.a.)                1,402,580    1,541,800     1,695,980     1,865,578    2,052,136     2,257,349     2,483,084
GVT budgetary expenditure             I             I             I             I
- % of GOP                _    17.3%    ~    17.5%         17.5%         17.5%1        17.5%         17.5%         17.5%
- Taka million               242,400       269,815       296.797       326,476      359,124       395,036       434,540
Current expenditure                 II_I_                                      1__                         _
- % of GDP                       8.9%1        9.0%          9.0%1         9.0%          9.0%          9.0%         9.0%
- Taka miilion                124,830      138,762       152,638 1     167,902       184,692      203,161       223,478
-°i of GDP                  _   7.9%          7.9%1         8.0%io        8.0%          8.0% 8.0%
.  ._      _ _ _ _ _ .   .  _ __   . _ _ _ _ _
- Taka million                110,804      123,344 1     135,678       149,2461      164,171       180,588      198,647
-Other cap. and net lendn                  _       I          _              
°/O of GDP P               0.5%          0.5%          05           0.5%          0.5%          0.5%          0.5%
Ote cap. an net ledn                                                             ____ _ _______
_ _  _       _  _       I _                          ___ _                      _   _         _   _._
GTV Education Expenditure                                           _                                         _
Current              e ________                                                                            _
-of GVT current expendit      18.3%         18.3%         18.3%1        18.3%         18.3%         18.3%        18.3%
- Taka million                 14,959       25,393        29                          33,799        37,179       40,896
ADP_                     _       .           _                                 _____._       , _      .____
--%ofGV/TAOP       _ r          13.5%j       13.5%         13.5%|        13.5%         13.5%         13.5%         13.5%
- Taka million         r       14,9591      16,651        18,3171       20,148        22,163        24,379       26,817
Prlmary Educatlon Expenditure          j _*_ _                            _.__           _  .                 _    _,
Current                J                           [ _            _            _                           _    _    _
_-  ofccurrent education ex    41.1%         40.5%1        40.5%1        40.5%f        40.5%         40.5%(       40.5%
Takamillion          1        9,456        10,2891       11,453        12,4441       13,688       15,057        16,563
ADP  ______j____I                                                I            j             |_j
- °ie of education_ADP _50.6°%/              46.4%1        .50.0%I       50.0%1        50.0%1        50.0%         50.0%
-Taka million                  7,567 |       7,721         9,158        10,074        11,082        12,190        13,409
fjg
0
p.a
p:\bd-ed\pmed\padXanx15.xls



Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               Page 1 of I
Annex 5
Primary Education Development Program
Financial Summary for IDA (ITF)Financed Project*
Years Ending
(US$ million, base year 1998)
Inplementation Period                       Operational Period
1998    1999   2000   2001   2002      2003      2004    2005     2006      2007
Project Costs
Investment       33.05   33.06  36.25  34.64   33.75          0       0       0         0        0
Costs
Recurrent Costs    1.16    1.84   2.55   3.32    4.15      4.15    4.35    4.55       4.75     4.96
Total         34.21   34.90  38.80           37.90       4.15    4.35    4.55      4.75     4.96
Financing Sources
(% of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA       27.28   29.24   31.75  30.95    30.78 0.0         0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
TOTAL    27.28   29.24   31.75  30.95    30.78 0.0          0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
Total cost including IDA (ITF) credit and Government counterpart funds.
P:\BANGLAD\EDU\PMED\PAD\APD_NEG.doc                                                3/6/98



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                            Page I of 8
Annex 6
Primary Education Development Program
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
under IDA (ITF) financed Activities
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.    The Primary Education Progranm in Bangladesh was selected for funding through an Interim Trust
Fund Credit (ITF). Procurement under the IDA (ITF) Credit will follow Guidelines: Procurement under
LBRD Loans and IDA Credits [January 1995, revised January and August 1996] and, Guidelines: Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency [January 1997] in all
respects, except, that countries that are ineligible to borrow from IBRD or IDA and that do not participate
in financing of ITF will be ineligible sources. For Government expenditures to be eligiblefor
reimbursementfrom the IDA (ITF) Credit, the IBRD/IDA procurement guidelines will apply.
2.     Table A shows the project items to be financed by the IDA (ITF) Credit and the proposed
procurement methods. Amounts in parenthesis show the amounts financed by the IDA (ITF) Credit. The
procurement plan reflects the decentralized nature of the activities. Many of the procurement actions in
support of project work do not lend themselves well to aggregation for bidding as large single contracts.
(Civil works, for example, is dominated by the small-scale: (i) Construction of about 300 new rural schools:
(ii) Construction of about 5000 one-classroom additions; (iii) repairs of about 70000 schools; and (iii)
construction of 7000 toilets and tubewells. Likewise, the purchase of consumables, education and teaching
materials amount to about US$48.9 million in aggregate, but over 60% of it is comprised of small scale
purchase of easily acquired local materials for both new and existing schools.
3.    Civil Works (US$57.98 million). Over sixty percent of civil works would be for small, scattered
construction of school classrooms, for classroom rehabilitation and repair, toilets and tubewells, with an
average estimated base cost per primary school site of US$4,000. All these activities will be carried out
using one of the following three methods: (i) community construction; (ii) lump-sum fix price contract with
solicitation of price quotations from at least three qualified bidders eligible under the guidelines; or (iii)
Force Account as a last resort, and usually in the case of repairs to existing facilities.Community
construction will be limited to 10% of total works. Lump-sum fix price contracts estimated to cost equal or
less than US$20,000 per contract, will not exceed US$28.38 million. Force Account will be limited to an
aggregate ceiling of not more than US$4.7 million which is roughly 10% of all civil works cost.
Civil works estimated to cost more than US$20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate not to exceed
US$18.92 million will be carried out through NCB procedures. All supervision of these constructions
would be carried out by supervisors hired (under terms of reference acceptable to IDA) by LGED.
Additionally, a consultant firm will be hired to carry out third party supervision and to provide reports on
the implementation of civil works. These reports will be provided to IDA every 6 months to be used by the
IDA supervision missions in their review of civil works for NCB procurement, the implementing agency
(LGED) will use the SBDs for works, prepared by the Bank's Bangladesh Dhaka Office (BDO).
4.    Goods (US$85.1 million). (a) Goods purchased through the project cover office equipment,
blackboards, paper for textbooks/supplementary reading materials, teachers guides, teaching aids and
vehicles. All these items will be purchased throughout the life of the project in accordance with the
phasing in of different project policies (e.g. textbook reuse etc.). For contracts less than US$30,000, up to
an aggregate not exceeding US$25.5 million, goods will be procured through national shopping with
P:\BANGLAD\EDU\PMED\PAD\APD_NEG.doc                                          3/6/98



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                            Page 2 of 8
solicitation of price quotations from at least three qualified companies eligible under the guidelines.
Procurement of goods estimated to cost more than US$30,000 but less than US$200,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate not exceeding US$21.4 million, will be carried out through NCB procedures.
Textbooks/supplementary reading materials will be purchased from NCTB which will procure the different
textbooks/reading material packages from different printshops. For NCB procurement, the implementing
agencies (DPE, NCTB, LGED) will use the SBDs for goods and works, prepared by the Bank's Bangladesh
Dhaka Office (BDO).
5.    Paper (US$29.2 million) for the production of textbooks and other reading materials with a contract
value less than US$200,000, up to an aggregate not exceeding US5.8 million, will be procured through
NCB. Paper contracts with a contract value of more than US$200,000 will be procured through ICB
procedures.
6.    Services (US$25.5 million). (a) National Training Programs are outlined in the Project
Implementation Plan and have an aggregated amount of US$ 12.17 rnillion. Implementation would be
subject to IDA prior review. Training expenditures would be based on agreed annual rates or unit costs
covering expenditures for course operation, trainee stipends, travel and lodging and for monitoring
activities. Training activities could also cover inter-institutional seminars and visits. List of seminars,
workshops and expected costs, would be reviewed annually. (b) Consultant Services through national
consultants, has an aggregated amount of US$3.3 million. The Quality- and Cost-Based Selection Process
(QCBS) will be used, with prior review for all contracts costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or more.
Quality-Based Selection (QBS) will be used with prior IDA agreement; and Least Cost Selection will be
used for individual consultant contracts estimated to cost US$10,000 or less per contract. All selection
processes will be in accordance with the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers", January 1997. (c) Social Mobilization. GOB will contract with Unicef the local
level planning and the social mobilization activities. This contract is valued at US$10.0 million and will be
procured through Single-Source Selection. Prior review by IDA is required for this contract.
7.     Miscellaneous. Recurrent costs covering incremental salaries and operation & maintenance
directly related to the development program have an aggregated amount of US$13.0 and will be financed
through the IDA (ITF) Credit on a declining scale (FY 99: 100%, FY 2000,FY 2001: 70%, FY2002,
FY2003: 30%).
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
8.    IDA (ITF) Review Requirements. The first three NCB contracts for Works and the first three NCB
contracts for Goods irrespective of value and any contract exceeding US$200,000 will be subject to prior
IDA review. All other contracts for Works and Goods will be subject to selective post review by IDA. All
ICB contracts will be subject to prior IDA review. For Services all consultancy contracts for firms with a
value of more than US$100,000 and for individual with a value of more than US$50,000 million will be
subject to prior IDA review. Any single source contract will be subject to prior IDA review.
9.    Other Bank Assistance. To facilitate efficient project implementation, Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) for goods will be provided to the implementing agencies. For procurement through NCB the
Borrower will use the Standardized Bidding Documents especially designed by the Bank's Bangladesh
Dhaka Office (BDO). The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form for Goods and Works (April 1996;
modified by BDO) would be used.



Armex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                Page 3 of 8
1 Cl.   Procurement Capacity Development. Procurement capacity of the DPE is weak and has to be
developed. Within the program design adequate funds have been allocated to ensure management training
in different areas including procurement.
11.   Notifications. A 'General Procurement Notice' (GPN) containing information about bidding
opportunities for procurement on the basis of ICB will be published in the 'Development Business'
immediately after negotiations in accordance with para 2.7 and 2.8 of IBRD Guidelines. Specific
Procurement Notices (SPN) will also be published, as appropriate, in Bangladesh newspapers having wide
national circulation.
Fiinancial Management
12.   Accounts, financial and auditing arrangements. Accounting, financial reporting and auditing
systems will follow the operational policies OP 10.02, dated August 6,1997. Special attention is being
given to assure that the financial management system currently under development in DPE will have the
elements needed to provide accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures.
Lessons learnt from the General Education Project (Credit 211 8-BD) have been fed into project design. The
project has a strong subcomponent of institutional capacity building at DPE in financial management with
technical assistance to be provided by DFID (UK). This is linked to an ongoing DIFD supported project of
interministerial financial management strengthening activities and systems. Under project preparation a
customized computerized accounting system was installed at DPE and seven staff have been trained in its
use. Developmental activities are continuing with assistance under a PHRD Grant until such time as the
DIFID (UK) financed components become effective early in 1998. For the civil works component LGED
will keep accounts and be responsible for financial reporting and for audit reports.
13.    Staffing of the Finance Unit at DPE responsible for financial management will be strengthened
under the project to be able to carry out the necessary internal controls, accounting and reporting
responsibilities. DPE staffing requirements and a financial management plan are spelt out in detail in the
Government's Project Implementation Plan. During negotiations, the Government will present the new
staffing plan for this unit with the proposed qualifications for the staff to be recruited for the unit. DFID
(UK) will provide technical assistance for continued development of this unit during project
ijmplementation and Third Party Supervision (TOR Annex 15) will include an independent accountant
auditor. Staffing of the unit in a manner that is satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness.
14.   Accounting. The Finance Unit of the DPE is in the process of establishing accounting and internal
control systems that are acceptable to IDA (see above: Financial Management). By project effectiveness,
these systems will be in place and will: (a) reliably record and report all assets and liabilities and financial
transactions of the project, and (b) provide the information required for monitoring project activities. The
accounting structure will reflect the relevant expense accounts, broken down into the types of expenditures
for the project for all project components. The accounting system will also be fully integrated with all other
financial management systems of the government: the budget and the treasury accounts.
1 5.   Financial Reporting. DPE and LGED will prepare interim quarterly reports and annual financial
statements of the project. A standardized reporting format is being developed. Financial reports will show:
(a) Financial Statements with a summary of project financial status that includes:, actual and budgeted costs
for each quarter, for 'year to date' expenditures and 'cumulative costs of the project to-date'. They will
also include a cost variance report by project activities, a project 6 month forecast, and a special account
statement; (b) Summary of project status and explanation of variances in key project indicators, and (c)



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement ArTangements                            Page 4 of 8
procurement management reports. The specific formats for these reports have been prepared and are
included in the PIP. The system will be in place by effectiveness.
16.   Audits. The Comptroller and Auditor general (C&AG), through the Directorate of Foreign Aided
projects carries out the audits of foreign aided projects. Annual audited reports will be submitted to IDA no
later then six months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition to the C&AG audits, the PEDP accounts
will be audited on an interim basis by an independent accounting firrn whose appointment and terms of
engagement are acceptable to IDA and to C&AG. C&AG, through the Directorate of Foreign Aided
Projects, is participating in the project preparation process and will review the audit program described in
Government's Project Implementation Plan. The Comptroller and Auditor-General (C&AG) will inform
IDA by letter of their ruling on any audit observations of significance outstanding from the General
Education Project.
Special Account
17.   Special Account. To facilitate the implementation of the project, the Borrower will open and
maintain two Special Accounts (SAs) with an acceptable commercial bank in Bangladesh, on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. DPE will manage one SA; the other SA will be managed by LGED (Local
Government Engineering Department). The authorized allocation for the DPE Special Account will be
US$4.0 million, for the LGED SA it will be US$6 million. At the start of the project the SA deposit will be
limited to US$2.0 million in the DPE SA and US$3.0 million in the LGED SA. The remaining portion of
the authorized allocation for the different SAs could be requested only after cumulative disbursements
reach US$21 million for the DPE SA and US$27 million for LGED SA.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
18.   Table C shows the allocation of IDA (ITF) Credit proceeds and the financing for the various
categories of expenditures. Preparation of disbursement applications will be the responsibility of the DPE
and of LGED.
19.   The proposed project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five years. The closing date of
the project will be June 30, 2003. Disbursement estimates from the II)A (ITF) Credit over a five year
period are presented on page 2 of the PAD.
20.   Withdrawals will be made in the form of Statement of Expenclitures (SOEs) specifying
disbursement categories and total eligible expenditures. IDA would require full documentation for prior
review for those cases where contracts for civil works and goods exceed US$200,000 equivalent;
US$100,000 for consulting firms or US$50,000 for individual consultants. As soon as the Guidelines for
the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) have been approved by the Board, disbursement under
the Credit will follow those guidelines. Under this project there is no joint cofinancing with other bilateral
or multilateral donors and IDA will not be administering funds on behalf of others.



Armex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Anrangements                                            Page 5 of 8
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
for IDA (ITI) financed Activities
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
International    National         Other          Total
Competitive    Competitive
Bidding        Bidding
A. Civil Works
Schools                                              -         20.14            30.21        50.35
(18.73)         (28.10)      (46.83)
Toilets & Tubewells                                  -          2.80             4.20         7.01
(2.61)          (3.91)       (6.52)
Other Construction/Rehabilitation                    -          0.43             0.64         1.06
(0.40)          (0.59)       (0.99)
eB. Vehicles                                                      1.60             0.15        1.75
(1.39          (0.14)       (1.53)
C. Goods
Office Equipment                                                   -             0.15         0.15
(0.09)      (0.09)
Blackboards                                          -          1.34             2.01         3.34
(0.80)          (1.21)       (2.01)
Teaching Equipment/Materials                         -          5.69             6.51        12.19
(4.55)          (5.25)       (9.80)
Paper for Production of Books                    23.36          5.84                -        29.20
(15.77)        (3.94)                      (19.71)
Student Reading Material                             -          9.86            14.79        24.65
(6.68)         (10.02)      (16.70)
Teacher Guides                                       -          4.22             6.33        10.55
(3.80)          (5.70)       (9.49)
Teaching Learning Aids                               -           1.07            1.61         2.69
(0.86)          (1.29)       (2.15)
Reading Material                                     -          0.96             1.43         2.39
(0.76)          (1.15)       (1.91)
D. Services
1. Consultant Services                                             -             3.27         3.27
(3.26)      (3.26)
2. Training                                                        -            12.17        12.17
(11.22)     (11.22)
3. Ideal Program [Unicef]                                          -            -10.02       10.02
(10.02)     (10.02)
,E. Miscellaneous
Operation & Maintenance                              -          5.20             7.83        13.02
(3.12)          (4.69)       (7.81)
T'otal                                             23.36          59.15          101.32       183.81
(15.77)       (47.64          (86.64)     (150.04)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         Page 6 of 8
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                 Contract Value               Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category                    (Threshold)                  Method                 Prior Review
1. Works
Civil Works            a) Civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$20,000 or less per
contract may be executed by:
(i) Community construction methods (up   Direct contracting  Post review only
to an aggregate of 10% of civil works);
(ii)lump-sum fix price contracts, up to an  Solicitation  Post review only
aggregate not exceeding US$28.38           of
million, on the basis of comparison of  three bids
price quotations obtained from at least
three qualified contractors eligible under
the guidelines; or
(iii) by Force Account, up to an aggregate   Force Account   Post review only
not exceeding US$4.7 million, usually in
the case of small repairs, and as a last
resort.
b) Civil works estimated to cost more     NCB         First three contract regardless of
than the equivalent of US$20,000 per                  value and all contracts equal or
contract, up to an aggregate amount of                more than US$200,000 by prior
US$18.92 million                                      review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines. All other by
selective post review.
.2. Goods
(a) Office Equipment   (i) For all contracts equal or less than   NS         Post review only
Blackboards            US$30,000, up to an aggregate not
Teaching Equipment and  exceeding US$25.6 million equivalent
Materials           (ii) For all contracts estimated to cost   NCEI       First three contracts regardless of
Textbooks/Reading      more than US$30,000, up to an aggregate               value and selective post review
Material, Vehicles  not exceeding US$21.4 million
(iii) For all contracts estimated to cost  ICB        Prior review
more than US$200,000
(b) Paper for Textbooks  (i) For all contracts equal or less than  NCEB      First three contracts regardless of
US$200,000, up to an aggregate not                    value and selective post review
exceeding US$5.8 million equivalent
(ii) For all contracts estimated to cost  ICB         All contracts
more than US$200,000
3. Services
(a)Training            (Normal Government procedures for         N.A.        N.A.
National Level     travel and per diem allowance for
Training, Teacher    individuals and incidental expenses
Training and sub-   associated with the training being
cluster Training    conducted. Estimated aggregate amount
US$11.0 million equivalent - primarily as
TA/DA expenses.)



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                           Page 7 of 8
Expenditure                  Contract Value               Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category                     (Threshold)                  Method                 Prior Review
(b) Social Mobilization  Single Source contract with Unicef for  Single Source   Prior review
and Local Planning    aggregate contract amount of estimated
not to exceed US$10.0 million equivalent
(c) National TA        For all contracts estimated to cost more    QCBS.       Same prior review limits as
(1) Supervision of Civil  than $50,000                       (Short List       indicated in paragraph 3(b)(2)
Works                                                     Comprising        above
Domestic Firms
only applies for
contracts less than
US$200,000).
(2) Independent Civil  For all contracts estimated to cost the  Either QBS or  Post review only
Works supervision    equivalent of US$50,000 or less per  Single Source
contract                             Selection
(3) Individual         US$10,000 or less per contract        Hiring of         Post review only
Consultants                                               Individual
Consultants -
(applies to
individual
consultants for
institutional
strengthening
procured in
accordance with
paragraphs 5.1
through 5.3 of the
Consultant
guidelines.)
List of Countries Ineligible for Procurement Under Interim Trust Fund (ITF) Administration
Last Update: April 28, 1997)
The Bahamas                         Oman
Bahrain, Barbados                   Qatar
Brunei Darussalam                   Singapore
Cyprus                              United Arab Emirates
Israel                              United States of America
Kuwait



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                              Page 8 of 8
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in              Financing Percentage*
US$ million
A. Civil Works                             53.9        90% of all expenditures
B. Paper for Textbook, Textbooks,          59.5        100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
Office Equipment, Furniture,                        local expenditures (ex-factory costs)
Educational Materials and Vehicles                  and 85% of local expenditures for items
[including Motorcycles]                             procured locally
C. Services
a) Consultants' Services [including     14.0        100% of all expenditures
professional fees and management
fees] and Training
b) IDEAl Program [Unicef                10.0        100% of all expenditures
Contract]
D. Operating Costs                          5.1        100% of all expenditures in year 1
70% of all expenditures in year 2 and 3
30% of all expenditures in year 4 and 5
E. Unallocated                              7.5
Total        150.0
- Financing for all expenditures net of taxes and duties.



Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule                                  Page I of 1
Annex 7
Primary Education Development Program
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                           Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
not available          US$762.000
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Tiime taken to prepare the project (months)            n/a                 36 months
First Bank mission (identification)                 9/11/1993              9/11/1993
Appraisal mission departure                         5/29/1996              5/29/1996
Negotiations                                           NA                  2/10/1998
PLanned Date of Effectiveness                          NA                   7/1/1998
Prepared by: Government of Bangladesh, Primary and Mass Education Division
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant for project preparation.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                              Specialty
1. Aarons, A                     Education Specialist
2. Ahmed, M.B.                   Program Officer
3. Bendokat, R.                  Principal Economist
4. Fatima, Zeeshan.               Sr. Staff Assistant
5. Haque, A.                     Procurement Specialist
7. Korb, H.                      MIS/GIS Specialist
8. Latif, M.                     Education Specialist
9. Martinez, H.                  Principal Education Specialist
10. Saadat, 0.                   Senior Operations Specialist
11. Sayeed, M.                   Disbursement Officer
13. Sinclair, G.                 Senior Implementation Specialist
14. Zannath, S.                  Financial Management Specialist
P:\BANGLAD\EDU\PMED\PAD\APDNEG.doc                                             3/6/98






Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                   Page I of 2
Annex 8
Primary Education Development Program
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft under preparation
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Background papers for the Education Expenditure Review.
C. Other
GOB PMED Working Group. Planning Tasks Guidelines. July 5, 1994.
GOB PMED. GEP II Preparation Document. October 24, 1994.
GOB PMED. Primary Education Management Information System, Six Year Development
Program. March 29, 1995.
GOB PMED. Document for Pre-Appraisal Mission of GEP-I follow-on project (Primary
Education Development Project memo dated July 7, 1997.
Khan, Abdul Haque. A Study on Teaching Staff Development of Primary Education. August
1995.
Jabbar, Mohammad Abdul. Information for Policy and Planning: A Strategy to Incorporate
Monitoring & Assessment and Management Information System in PEDP (draft report).
August 1995.
Haq, Muhammad Shamsul. Report on the Study of Organization and Management of Primary
Education in Bangladesh at the Local Level. August 1995.
Khan, Abdur Rashid. Report on the Study of School Supervision of Primary Education in
Bangladesh at the Local Level. August 1995.
Barkat, Abul, Rahman, M. & P.B. Chakma. Headteacher Tables Set: 1. August 16, 1995.
GOB PMED. Educational Construction Programme for Primary Subsector. August 29, 1995.
Avalos, B. Teacher Education, Training Staff Development. September 10, 1995.
Kemerer, F. Incentives in the Primary Subsector. September 10, 1995.
Swamy, R. Construction and Maintenance of Schools and the Block Grant System Approach
September 11, 1995.
Monan, M. Curriculum Improvement 1996/97 to 2000/01. September 11, 1995.
Cresswell, A. & J. Strudwick. Information Policy and Planning. September 11, 1995.
P:\BANGLAD\EDU\PMED\PAD\APD_NEG.doc                                           3/6/98



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                    Page 2 of 2
Baccchus, K. Teacher Education in Bangladesh. September 11, 1995.
GOB PMED. Workshop Output - Initial Output from PEDP Workshop held at PMED, June 1995
(used as input to the PEDP Pre-Appraisal Document. September 13, 1995.
GOB PMED. GEP II Preparation - Progress. September 25, 1995.
GOB PMED. Workshop Output - Initial Output from PEDP Workshop held at PMED, June 1995
(used as input to the PEDP Pre-Appraisal Document. October 29, 1995.
Ahmed, Sirajuddin. National Policy and Plan of Action for the Advancement of Women in
Bangladesh (draft). November 1995.
Cresswell A. & J. Strudwick. Information for Policy and Plannin. December 16, 1995
Khan, Nurual Islam. Review of Health Education and Development Contents in NCTB
(Primary) and NGO Education Curricula and Use of Child-to-Child Approach in Government
Primary Schools and by Select NGOs. April 1996.
PPE. Organizational Options for DPE Executive Summar. November 9, 1996.
PPE. Organizational Options for DPE. November 10, 1996.
Financial Management and Primary Education Sector Projects in Bangladesh (draft version). Not
dated.
*Including electronic files



Generated: March 6,1998
Status of Rank Group Operations in Bangladesh
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 162
Active .Loas
BD-PE-40713   IDA30040       1998   GOB                               SILK DEV PILOT PROJ.              0.00      11.35            0.00         11.22        0.00       0.00
BD-PE-44789   IDA29950       1998   GOB                               PRIV SEC INFR DEVT                0.00     235.00            0.00        227.90        0.00       0.00
BD-PE-40985   IDA29220       1997   GOB                               POVERTY ALLEVIATION               0.00     105.00            0.00         77.41        1.80       0.00
BD-PE-9482    IDA29260       1997   GOB/DWASA                         DHAKA WATER/SAN. IV               0.00      80.30            0.00         66.54        7.13       0.00
BD-PE-9518    IDA29270      1997   GOB                                2ND RURAL RDS & MRKT              0.00     133.00            0.00        111.90        5.44       0.00          0
BD-PE-9484    IDA28150      1996   GOB                                AG. RES. MANAGEMENT               0.00      50.00            0.00         41.80       23.12       0.00          CD
BD-PE-9545    IDA27910       1996   GOB                               RIVER BANK PROTECTIO              0.00     121.90            0.00         47.60       26.17       0.00           X
BD-PE-9549    IDA27830       1996   GOB                               COASTAL EMBANKMENT R              0.00      53.00            0.00         35.23       30.63        0.00
BD-PE-9560    IDA28220       1996   GOB                               NON-FORMAL EDUCATION              0.00      10.50            0.00          8.60          .90      0.00
BD-PE-9496    IDA27350       1995   GOB                               NUTRITION                         0.00      59.80            0.00         51.81       10.00       0.00
BD-PE-9533    IDA27200       1995   GOB                               GAS INFRASTRUCTURE                0.00     120.80            0.00         74.55       37.36         .32
BD-PE-9465    IDA26380       1994   GOB                               2ND ROAD REHAB & MAI              0.00     146.80            0.00         17.90      -31.85        0.00
BD-PE-9509    IDA25690       1994   GOB                               JAMUNA BRIDGE                     0.00     200.00            0.00         24.77          .30     -8.08
BD-PE-9555    IDA24690       1993   GOB                               FEMALE SECONDARY SCH              0.00      68.00            0.00         37.71         9.71      7.15
BD-PE-9470    IDA23970       1992   GOB                               FOREST RESOURCES MGM              0.00      49.60            0.00         20.81       10.80        0.00
BD-PE-9559    IDA23930       1992   GOB                               TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              0.00      25.00            0.00          7.04        4.06       0.00
BD-PE-9516    IDA22330       1991   GOB                               AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI              0.00      35.00            0.00         14.00       14.31       0.00
BD-PE-9529    IDA22590       1991   GOB                               POP. & HEALTH IV                  0.00     180.00            0.00         12.69        4.26    -11.94
BD-PE-9540    IDA22320       1991   GOB                               INLAND WATER TRANSP               0.00      45.00            0.00         28.13       23.90       0.00
BD-PE-9542    IDA21290       1990   GOB                               RURAL ELECTRIF. III               0.00     105.00            0.00         20.91       11.79       0.00
BD-PE-9506    IDA20160       1989   GOVT. OF BANGLADESH               POWER DIST. (16 TOWN              0.00      87.00            0.00         16.26       12.29      10.86
BD-PE-9467    IDA19300      1988   GOB                                URBAN DEV. I                      0.00      47.60           16.95          4.05       20.49       3.72
Total                                                                                                   0.00   1,969.65           16.95        958.83      222.61       2.03
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 949.52            4,955.70            5,905.22
of which has been repaid:                   0.00             337.54              337.54
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,952.70            4,385.38            6,338.08
Amount sold                      :                0.00                  .37                .37
Of which repaid               :                0.00                 .37                 .37
Total Undisbursed                :              958.83               19.91              978.74                                                                                       hd
OQ
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.                                                                                      0
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U e unsatisfactory, HU N    highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                      Page 2 of 2
Bangladesh
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portlolio
As of 3 1-Jan-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
lFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1980                  IPDC                    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00
1985/95               IDLC                    0.00     .15    0.00    0.00    0.00    .15    0.00    0.00
1991                  Dynamic Textile         2.18    0.00    0.0C0    1.74    2.18    0.00    0.00    1.74
1996                  ICT-B                  15.00    0.00    0.0C0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  ICT-W                   0.00     .38    0.00    0.00    0.00    .01    0.00    0.00
1997                  DBH                     0.00     .66    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   17.18    2.24    0.00    1.74    2.18    1.21    0.00    1.74
Approvals Pending Commitment
Lan   Equity  Quad   Partic
1997                  BLCL                    3.50     .46    0.0cl   3.50
1997                  DBH                     2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  JALALABAD               0.00   15.00    0.00,   0.00
1997                  SCANCEM                11.00    1.25    0.00    0.00
1997                  WATERGARDEN             6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment           23.00   16.71    0.00,   3.50



Annex 10
Page'1 of 2
Bangladesh at a glance                                                                 8/15/97
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              South    Low-
Bangladesh       Asia  Income       Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        121.6      1,264    3,229                Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                               260       380      500    I
GNIP 1996 (billions USS)                               31.6       481    1,601                       T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          1.6        1.9      1.7    i GNP                              Gross
Labor force I(%)                                        2.1        2.1      1.7      peprmy
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailable since 1989)                              1 capaa                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount Index (% of population)               48
Urban population (% of total population)                 18        26       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         58        61       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 77        75       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)                67
Access to safe water (% of population)                   96        63       53
Illiteracy (% of populafion age 15+)                     62        50       34                 Ba       h
Gross primary enrollment (%A of school-age population)   92        98       105                 anglades
NMale                                                  98       110      112                 Low-income group
Female                                                 86        87       98
KE'Y ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratfoe
GDI (billions US$)                            14.3     15.7       29.1     32.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  6.1     12.9       16.6     17.0             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              2.9      7.4       14.2     14.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     0.9      2.0        8.3      7.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     4.9      9.6       13.1     11.9
Current account balance/GDP                   -4.3     -3.9       -3.5     -5.1
Interest paymentslGDP                          0.1      0.6        0.6      0.6     Savings                      Investment
Total debtUGDP                                13.0     43.9       56.2     53.2
Total debt service/exports                    23.4     22.5       13.3     11.6
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..       31.4
Present value of debVexports                    ..       ..    166.7                            Indebtedness
1975-86  1986-96     1995      1996  1997405
(average annual growth)                                                                 -      Bangladesh
GDOP                                 5.0       4.2      4.4        5.3      6.0
GNIP per capita                       2.4      2.4      2.8        3.2      7.3                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        6.0      15.0     34.6       11.4      7.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(%6 of GDP)                                  1975     1985       1995     1996      Growth rates of output and investment(%)
Agricuiture                                   62.0     41.8       30.9     30.0     30 T
Industry                                      11.6     16.0      17.6      17.7     2r-.
Manufacturing                                7.0      9.9        9.6      9.6
Services                                      26.4     42.3       51.5     52A .       4
I  
Private consumption                           95.9     90.6      77.9      79.1       90   91   92   93   94   95   96
General govemment consumption                  3.2      7.3      13.7      13.7   IGDI                      CGDP
Imports of goods and services                  8.1     18.3      22.5      23.9                    G         G
1975-85  ig86-96      1995     1996 
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agricuiture                                    3.5      1.8       -1.0      3.7     so
Industry                                       4.7      6.5       8.4       5.3
Manufacturing                                2.9      5.9        8.6      5.3      25
Services                                       6.8      5.2       6.9       6.5
Private consumption                             ..      1.4        0.6      5.2           o       |5"
General govemment consumption                   ..      3.9        5.3      7.2                         93          95   95
Gross domestic investment                      8.4      7.9      28.2      10.9    -29 i
Imports of goods and services                  7.9      7.0      37.7      16.2                -Exports       imports
Gross national product                         4.9      4.3       4.4       4.7                    E
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 2 of 2
Bangladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995     1996      I
Domestic prices                                                                     ! nflation I%)
(% change)                                                                           10
Consumer prices                                21.9     10.7        5.2      4.1
ImplicitGDPdeflator                              ..    11.1         8.7      5.6       t
Govemment finance
(% of GDP) o
Current revenue                                  ..      8.5       12.1     11.5       90   91    92    93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                           ..      1.3        3.3      2.8                 -GDP def.   CPi
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..       ..       -6.8     -5.7
TRADE
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                              ..      940      3,473    3,882      7,500
Leather                                        ..       70        202      213
Frozen food                                    ..       87        299      315
Jute goods                                      ..     358        319      330      5,00Q
Garments                                       ..      116      1,980    2,548
Total imports (cif)                              ..   2,647       5,834    6,881               *       *     *l
Food                                           ..      607        476      586      2,500
Fuel and energy                                ..      359        383      456           i     J1
Capital goods                                  ..      691      1,688    1,918           _  ____ _          _+        _-
Export price index (1987=100)                    ..       74       186       194            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                    ..      104       127       130    |rExports    oimports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                         ..      71        146      150
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP ratio 1%)
Exports of goods and services                  427    1,162       4,130    4,508    1
Imports of goods and services                 1,459    2,864      6,545    7,614
Resource balance                             -1,033   -1,702     -2,415   -3,106        |
Net income                                       -6      -90       -41        -6
Netcurrenttransfers                            417    1,178       1,426    1,475       +
Current account balance,
before official capRtal transfers            -621     -613     -1,030   -1,637    |6
Financing Rems (net)                           666       536      1,304      575
Changes in net reserves                        -45        77       -274    1,062     -B
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)            148       356      3,070    2,018
Conversion rate (localJUS$)                     8.9     26.0       40.2     40.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Comiposition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          1,861    6,874     16,370   17,070
IBRD                                          55       55         55        46                   F        A A
IDA                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~244206  55
IDA                                          295    2,021      5,638    5,713    |
Total debt service                             105       356       729       687                                     B
IBRD                                           0        3          8         8                                    53
IDA                                            2       22         83        92           E
5533
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              315      472        890       678
Official creditors                           576      563        849       766
Private credRors                              -3        -3       -72       -25                                  C
Foreign direct investment                      0         0         2                                            622
Portfolio equity                               0         0        67       -14                     0
4072
World Bank program
Commitments                                  205       398       356       168      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 91       288       197       278      B-IDA    D-Othermultilateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                           0         6        46        55      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     91      282        151       223                                                1
Interest payments                              1        20        46        45
Net transfers                                 90      262        105       178
Development Economics. 1996 extemal debt and resource flows data are staff estimates (preliminary).                     8/15/97



Annex 11: Policy Framework                                                                    Page I of 6
Annex 11
Policy Framework
Component 1: Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Primary Schooling
Objectives                     Policies              Strategic Interventions        Outcome Indicators
1.  Higher levels of student   A framework for teacher
achievement. (85% of     development                  i)  DPE will maintain and     *   A unified teacher
completing students will   1.  All, teacher training       follow a three-year           development program.
achieve at least grade 4     (initial, inservice) will be  rolling plan for teacher
levels of competencies in    part of a comprehensive       development.
literacy, numerically and    teacher development
life-skills.)                program that allows all
2.  Increasing the primary        serving teachers the     ii)  A revised C. in Ed.      *   Revised C. in Ed.
school completion rate to    opportunity to gain a C.      program  will be              program (content,
70%.                         in Ed. by 2010 and to         produced in two               duration of studies, mode
improve the quality of       alternative modes:            of delivery and sequence
their classroom teaching     regular and distance.         of training activities).
and school management
capabilities.
2.  All teachers, once       iii) PTIs. will be            *   Improved staff profile,
qualified at the C. in Ed.   strengthened in staff         libraries and teaching
level or equivalent will     capacity, and physical        facilities and numbers of
be eligible to receive a     and academic facilities.      trained teacher output.
salary equal to the
Government base salary.
3.  Maximum teacher-         iv) NAPE will be              *   a) Revised mission
student-ratio of 1:50 per    strengthened to become        statement and
class (1: 100 in two         the lead academic and         organizational structure.
staggered sessions).         professional agency in        b) Improved staff profile.
Government's program         c) Curriculum revision.
to ensure quality primary    d) Teacher & school
education and teacher        focused research output.
training.                    e) Relevant and
comprehensive programs
of professional
development activities
for PTI instructors,
DPEOs, TEOs, ATEOs.
v)  Qualified teachers will be  *   a) A career ladder for
provided opportunities to    primary school teachers
compete for career           and ATEOs.
advancement.                 b) Qualified teachers
gaining advancement.
vi) Recruitment and career    *   a) A career ladder for
opportunities will be        primary school teachers
created for female           and ATEOs.
teachers.                    b) Qualified female
teachers gaining
advancement.
vii) Sub-cluster training will   *   Extensive, high quality
be strengthened - an         in-school academic
P:\BANGLAD\EDU\PMED\PAD\APD_NEG.doc                                                                3/6/98



Annex 11: Policy Framework                                                                  Page 2 of 6
adequate number of           support for teachers and
ATEOs will be                improved subcluster
appointment and trained     training.
in academic supervision.
viii) Schools will be grouped    *   An efficient and cost-
based on enrollment and      effective teacher
physical facilities to       deployment system..
facilitate efficient and
cost-effective teacher
deployment within
schools
Learning materials.
1.  Govenment will ensure   i)  NCTB's prime              *   High quality manuscript
that high quality            responsibiliities will be    development for
textbooks and other          manuscript development       textbooks and learning
learning materials are       and related research.        materials.
produced in an efficient
and cost effective-
manner.                  ii)  DPE's responsibilities  *   An efficient and cost
2.  Textbooks will provided      will include procurement      effective procurement
for use, free of charge, to  and ensuring the supply      and distribution system
all students.                of textbooks to schools.     for textbooks and
3.  The number of textbooks                                    learning materials.
distributed free to each
child annually will be
gradually reduced to    iii) All schools will receive    *   Adequate learning
about 50% by continuing      learning materials and       materials and teaching
the book reuse policy in     teaching aids.               aids in all classrooms.
classes 3 to 5.
4.  The curriculum content,
its objectives, scope and   iv) Government will pilot  *   Demonstrated local
sequencing of subject        block grants for learning    autonomy and use of
matter will be evaluated;    materials to schools in      block grants to secure
and after evaluation, an     each of the five IDEAL       locally selected learning
achievable curriculum        districts during program     materials.
will be determined and       years I to 3.
be supported by a better
balance of textbooks,
supplementary reading    v)  All students; will receive   *   Textbooks provided to all
materials and teacher        free texts.                  students.
guides.
5.  Introduce an education
publishing policy to     vi) All schools, PTIs and    *   Learning materials
ensure the most efficient    TRCs will receive            received by all
supply of quality books      teachers guides.             institutions.
through open competitive
bidding.                                                  Plus
*   Cost-effective reuse
program in operation at
all locations.
a   Evidence of production
and distribution of better
quality textbooks by
2000.
National Assessment
1.  A national assessment of  i)  A national assessment of   *   a) Informed curriculum



Annex 11: Policy Framework                                                                Page 3 of 6
schools will be             schools will be              development
undertaken at regular       conducted in project         b) National assessment
intervals to monitor        years 1, 3 and 5 and will    data available for system
system performance.         focus on grades 3 and 5.     monitoring and
evaluation.
Grade Promotion
1.  Grade promotion        i)  A policy of grade        *   a) Reduction in repetition
between all grades will     promotion between           rate.
be introduced to reduce     grades will be introduced    b) Reduction in drop-out
repetition to 1% by 2001.   in project year 1.           rate.
2.  Increase instructional                                   c) Improved cycle cost -
time by raising student                                  higher percentage of
and teacher daily                                        graduates.
attendance to 90% and
increase teachers time-                              *   Student and teacher
on-task during the                                       attendance at 90%.
existing school hours.
* Better utilization of
teaching time.
National Curriculum
1.  All primary schools will  i)  By the end of project  *   All schools using
be required to implement    year 3, all schools will be  national curriculum in
the national curriculum     included in programs to      year 4. Meeting of
enable them to              incremental targets in
implement the national      years I to 3.
curriculum (free
textbooks, subcluster
training, teacher
upgrading, curriculum
dissemination courses,
_ __________________________                    __         etc.).
Component 2: Strengthening institutional and Management Capacities
Institutional Responsibilities
1.  Government will define   i)  EMIS, monitoring,      *   a) Demonstrated patterns
the roles and               financial and accounting     of informed decision-
responsibilities of         and data-based planning      making and planning and
Government institutions     functions will be            efficient and cost
in the subsector so that    institutionalized            effective resource
they can better facilitate  throughout the subsector     allocation throughout
the delivery of quality     to support decision          DPE and in PMED.
primary schooling in        making and resource          b) Demand for
both public and private     allocation at all levels.   Information products.
schools.                    The functions of the
2.  Staff recruitment and       EMIS Unit and the
staffing patterns in        CPIEMU will be
Government institutions     rationalized during the
in the subsector will be    life of the program
adjusted to accommodate
the development of a
sustainable, cost-      ii)  TA and staff            *   Routine and ad hoc tasks
effective, equitable and    development programs         being efficiently and cost
better managed primary      will be targeted at          effectively completed by
education system.           producing a competent,       better trained in PMED,
3.  Delegate decision-          technically skilled          DPE and in co-operating
making responsibilities     management and               Boards and Agencies.
for planning, budgeting     administrative workforce
and implementation to       in PMED, DPE and in
districts, thana and        co-operating Boards and
school: (a) increase SMC    Agencies.



Annex 11: Policy Framework                                                               Page 4 of 6
role through an expanded
block grant for decisions
on school maintenance,   iii) DPE's capacity as a   *   Full range of population
books and iearning          facilitator of the          subgroups receive better
materials; (b) block        provision of primary        access to an improved
grants to thana for local   education services will be  primary education
planning decisions on       enhanced through            system, resources and to
school rehabilitation and   training and TA to better   quality schooling.
physical facilities.        promote and serve
4.  Register schools (feeder    private providers of
and full primary) in all    primary education and
management systems          disadvantaged
(Ebtedayee, NGO,            populations (especially
private, government) in    females, hard to reach
order to maintain           and tribal groups).
performance standards
and provide trained
teachers, books and     iv) A selected delegation of   *   Demonstrated local
materials where schools     authority over resource     autonomy, decision
meet location criteria for  allocation will be made     making, resource
under-served areas.        to local agencies and        allocation and
5.  Establish an Annual        related accountability       accountability at the local
Operational and             parameters for schools',    level.
Expenditure Plan format    teachers' and students'
to link each department's   performance established.
key activities,             (to be pilot tested in each
achievements,               of the five IDEAL
expenditures and            districts during program
performance targets         years I to 3.)
6.  All managers, from the
assistant director and
above have an active and   v)  Expert advice and    *   Original and updated
results oriented            consultative workshops      plans with accompanying
management                  on objective setting and    variance analyses, action
development plan            performance                 planned, and outcome
7.  Managers will have          management; consensual      reviews.
direct and timely access    development of common
to evaluation reports       format and rieview
about their area of         system.
responsibility.
8.  Establish standardized
financial and accounting   vi) Provision fcir a     *   Original and updated
procedures.                 management                  plans including data on
development unit to         activities and
assist in individual and    accomplishment of
team development.           personal development
objectives.
vii) Improve the EMIS and    *   Routine reports which
ensure respcnsive to the    provide necessary data
management needs.           concerning the managers
key results areas.
viii) Improve financial     *   Production and use of
management and              comprehensive quarterly
accounting capacities to   financial reports
ensure responsive to the



Annex I1: Policy Framework                                                                  Page 5 of 6
management needs.
Recurrent Costs
1.  Costs related to system  i)  Government will pilot    *   a) System maintenance
maintenance (salaries,       'block grants' for           costs will be transferred
subventions, operation       physical facilities and      to the revenue budget by
and maintenance of           maintenance at the           year 5. Meeting of
infrastructure - including   district, thana and school   related targets in years 2
schools) will be             level in each of the five    to 4.
incrementally transferred    IDEAL districts during       b) Local accountability
to the revenue budget by     program years I to 3.        for facilities
I    the program year 5.                                        maintenance.
Component 3: Increasing Equitable Access
1. A more equitable primary   Subventions
education system.         1. Recognized non-Govt.     i)  Registered/accredited     *   a) Improved accreditation
2. Broad-based access to        schools to receive            non-Government schools        standards.
primary schooling            subventions for teacher       will receive subventions     b) Increased numbers of
salaries and                 for teachers based on         registered and accredited
supplementary needs.         schools' meeting of           schools over the life of
2. Registration/accreditation    accreditation criteria.       the program.
criteria will be adjusted                                  c) Registered/accredited
over the program period to                                 schools receiving
reflect required teacher                                   redefined subventions
qualifications and schools'                                (adjusted to reflect
accountability for student                                 numbers of newly
and teacher performance.                                   'salaried' qualified
Government will register                                   teachers and teacher
non-government schools                                     deployment criteria).
on the basis of no other
school within 2
kilometers, a minimum of
150 students and a
minimum population of
2,000 (exceptions are to
made where natural
barrier or high population
density exists) and the
ability to provide a
minimum of four teachers.
Physical Facilities
1.  Strict criteria must be met  i)  Planning will be focused   *   a) Strict application of
and comprehensive needs      on local rather than         physical facilities
analyses completed prior     national needs               development criteria.
to the provision of          assessment.                  b) Locally determined
additional facilities                                     needs being met.
(schools and classrooms).
Government will support
new schools in under-    ii)  Government will pilot   *   Demonstrated local
served areas for hard-to-   'block grants' for            autonomy and use of
reach children meeting       physical facilities and      block grants to meet local
the criteria of no other     maintenance at the           determined needs and to
school within 2              district, thana and school   maintain physical
kilometers, a minimum       level in each of the five     infrastructure.
of 150 students and a        IDEAL districts during
minimum population of        program years I to 3.
2,000 (exceptions are to
made where natural
barrier or high population  iii) Increase grants to
________________________        density exists).             government and



Annex 11: Policy Framework                                                                 Page 6 of 6
2. Feeder schools to be          registered schools for
converted to full primary    maintenance annually on
schools where the school     the basis of 3% of capital
age population would         costs.
ensure a continued
minimum enrollment of
150 children. Guidelines
will be developed for
'feeder' schools offering
only the first two or three
years of primary
education, e.g. satellite
schools and some types of
NGO schools; and the
criteria used to assess their
eligibility for financial
support.
3. New feeder schools
(satellite schools,
community and NGO
managed schools) to be
established only in under-
served areas, where there
is no other school within 2
km or some natural barrier
exists.
4. A community-based
school maintenance
program will be
introduced.
5.  All primary schools,
under different school
managements, will be
monitored for minimum
facility standards.
Subsidies
1.  Targeted interventions    i)  Free stationary will be  *   a) Increased enrollment.
will be provided to the      made available to            b) Reduced drop-out
most economically            economically                rates among
disadvantaged students,      disadvantaged students.      economically
particularly girls, hard to                              disadvantaged students.
reach and tribal
populations.
ii)  All schools will have  *   a) Increased enrollment.
tubewells an,d male and     b) Reduced drop-out
female toilets by the end   rates.
of program year 5.          (Among females in
particular.)
iii) The curriculum and      *   a) A broadening of
teaching/ learning           awareness of gender
materials will be            issues and the need to
modified to reflect a        educate females.
sensitivity to gender and   b) Reduction in the drop-
the role of females in       out rate among females.
society.



Annex 12: Institutional Roles and Responsibilities                                   Page 1 of 2
Annex 12
Institutional Roles and Responsibilities
Naltional level institutions                         Essential Roles and Responsibilities
PMED Secretariat             *   Program policy, planning and monitoring.
*   Donor coordination.
* Coordination with Government and non-Government organizations, agencies and Boards.
*   Submission of the Annual Operational Plan.
CP]E, Director General       *   Oversee registration of nongovernment schools.
*   Oversee awarding and distribution of subventions to registered nongovernment school.
*   Work with DPE MIS and DPE monitoring to ensure subsector CPE activities are
adequately monitored and reported.
DPE, Director General and    *   Promote the provision of quality primary education services through public and private
Project Implementation and       providers.
Management Unit (PIMU)       *   Ensure that disadvantaged populations (especially females, hard to reach and tribal groups)
receive quality services.
*   Monitor delivery of primary education.
*   Coordinate technical assistance to DPE and monitor DPE's institutional development
program.
*   Prepare Annual Operational and Expenditure Plans.
*   Prepare Annual Operational Reviews.
*   Oversee the national assessment of schools
DPE, Administration Division    *   Oversee all establishment matters: recruitment, posting, transfer, promotion, etc. of DPE
staff and Government primary school teachers.
DPIE, Planning and           *   Work with the DG, PMED and other DPE Division Directors to formulate Annual
Development Division             Operational and Expenditure Plans.
*   Preparation of ADP proposals.
*   Assist PMED in liaison with donors.
*   Facilitating the supply of textbooks to schools.
DFPE, Training Division      *   Produce framework for teacher development.
*   Maintain a three-year rolling plan for teacher development.
*   Coordinate and monitor the teacher development program.
*   Develop distance education materials for teacher training (with NAPE).
*   Develop, coordinate and monitor school and subcluster based teacher training.
*   Develop, coordinate and monitor (with PTI and NAPE staff) the training of ATEOs for
subcluster training and academic supervision
*   Procurement of training materials.
DP'E, Monitoring and         *  Coordinate programn implementation and performance monitoring (based on agreed
Evaluation Division              indicators).
*   Serve as clearing house and dissemination center for monitoring reports and studies.
* Prepare semi-annual primary education monitoring reports (based on agreed indicators) for
program supervision and Annual Operational and Expenditure Plan review purposes.
*   Monitor and assess impact of primary education equity programs.
*   Determine textbook needs, monitor textbook supply, stock and delivery to schools.
*   Promote and support information based monitoring and planning functions as they are
institutionalized throughout the subsector.
*   Prepare reviews of Program Implementation.
DPE, Finance Unit            *   Maintain a centralized program expenditures reporting system that includes all
development and revenue expenditures.
* Providing financial information to government agencies (IMED, PMED, ERD, CA&AG)
and donors in standardized formats following standardized reporting practices.
* Facilitate program planning, management and monitoring, and annual external audits of
__________________________     development and revenue accounts and expenditures.
DPE, EMIS Unit               *  Develop and maintain a rationalized primary education EMIS that integrates the activities
of the DPE MIS and the CPEIMU, and links with MIS and information analysis activities
in PMED, DPE Monitoring and BANBEIS.
_   Promote information based monitoring and planning functions as they are institutionalized
P:BANGLAD\EDU\PMED\PAD\APD_NEG.doc                                                           3/6/98



Annex 12: Institutional Roles and Responsibilities                                            Page 2 of 2
National level institutions                          Essential Roles and Responsibilities
throughout the subsector.
*   Maintain a Management, Monitoring and Information Technology Training Center within
DPE.
*   Conduct subsector sample surveys as required.
National Academy of Primary    *  Develop and implement a medium- to long-term institutional improvement plan.
Education (NAPE)             *   Develop and conduct professional development activities for PTI staff as determined by
needs assessment.
*   Design and conduct research related to primary curriculum, teaching and teacher
education, system administration and school management.
*   Monitor and guide curriculum development (with NCTB).
*   Become a center of expertise in academic supervision.
*   Support and guide subcluster training programs (with PTIs).
*   Develop training materials as required by NAPE programs.
National Curriculum and      *   Manuscript development.
Textbook Board (NCTB)        *   Textbook related research and development.
*   Monitor and guide curriculum development (with NAPE)
*   Procurement of paper for textbooks.
*   Procurement of printing and binding services.
*   Textbook distribution.
Primary Teacher Institutes   *   Teacher, head teacher and ATEO training.
(PTIs)                       *   Support and guide subcluster training programs (with NAPE).
*   Conduct research on teaching and learning at the school level (action research).
*   Monitor experimental schools.
TEOs and Pilot Thana Resource  *   Serve as centers for ATEOs and resources for academic supervision activities and
Centres (TRCs)                   subcluster training.
*   Serve as a location for books and AV teaching resources that are accessible to teachers and
ATEOs.
*   Serve as training centers for teachers, head teachers and SMC members, etc. and for
L  _       _  __   _  IDEAL project activities.
LGED and FD    X                 Implement civil works.
Local level institutions
District Primary Education   *   System information reporting.
Office                       *   District level needs assessment and planning for facilities development and maintenance.
*   Managing block grants for school material and supplies.
Thana Education Office       *   Teacher deployment.
*   Subcluster training.
*   Administrative inspection.
*   Academic supervision.
*   Record keeping and system information reporting.
*   Local level needs assessment and planning for facilities development and maintenance.
*   Managing block grants.
*   Social mobilization
School Management            *   Overseeing school development
Committees                   *   Local accountability for school, teacher and student performance and teacher and student
attendance.
*   Local level needs assessment and planning for targeted subsidy programs.
*   Managing block grants for school material and supplies.
*   Social mobilization



Annex 13A: Guidelines for Preparation/Appraisal of                       Page 1 of 3
Sub Projects for Educational Facilities
Annex 13A
Subproject Criteria, Procedures and Mechanisms:
Guidelines for Preparation/Appraisal of Subprojects for Educational Facilities
(to be implemented by LGED)
1.    Collection and Analysis of Basic Educational Demographic and Institutional Data in each
Thana Concerned.
(a)    The following will be collected and analyzed:
(i)    Socio-economic data on primary school-age and total population; percentage of
school population below the poverty line; number of illiterates and literate by
gender in the Thana concerned; relevant institutional data, e.g. rural/urban
primary schools; number of primary schools (government, private and NGO) and
corresponding total enrollment by gender in classes I to V; number of teachers
by gender.
(ii)   Survey of physical facilities of selected school/institution concerned, furniture,
equipment and supply of consumables, etc.
(b)    A thana map showing selected Project school locations will be prepared based on a copy
of existing map, if available and will be placed in the computerized Geographic
Information System.
:2.    Criteria for Selection of Schools for Facilities Development
The following guidelines will be adopted by the Thanas and LGED in the selection, preparation
and appraisal of the schools to be included in the Thana subproject under the Primary
Education Development Program.
(a) New Schools
(i)    availability of land (either Government owned or donated by the community)
which is free from encumbrances, has a minimum area of 0.33 acre, located in an
environment conducive to teaching and learning and located at an elevation
which is above the average annual flood level in the area concerned.
(ii)   absence of another primary school and presence of prospective pupils living
within two kilometers distance from the site of school with exceptions to places
having natural barriers or high population density;
(iii)  presence of a large primary school age population (at least 150 students in grades
1-5), especially girls in the catchment area of the school;
(iv)   a population of at least 2,000 in the catchment area; and
(v)    demonstrated community interest involvement.
P:\BANGLAD\EDU\PMED\PAD\APD_NEG.doc                                          3/6/98



Annex 13A: Guidelines for Preparation/Appraisal of                             Page 2 of 3
Sub Projects for Educational Facilities
(b)    Additional Classrooms in Existing Schools
(i)    No other school with surplus capacity within a distance of one (1) kilometer (if a
feeder schools) or two (2) kilometers (if complete five-year primary school) with
exceptions to places having natural barriers or high population density;
(ii)   Population profile projection of the catchment area shows consistent size of
school-age cohort over the following three years.
(c)    Repairs and Renovation of Existing Schools
(i)    Eligible for repair or renovation when the cost of required work will be more
than thirty percent (30%) but less than seventy percent (70%) of the cost of a
new building [reconstruction].
3.    Following the above criteria, selection of new or replacement of primary schools will be made by
the Thana Education Committee (TEC) in close consultation with and participation of the School
Management Committee (SMC), and local community leaders.
4.    Cost Estimates
Cost estimates of an individual district subproject will be prepared on the basis of approved
relevant building designs and estimate of quantities of items of work considering bid prices
prevailing in the Project area. Physical contingency at 10 percent and appropriate price escalation
as a percentage of the base cost will be added. Land acquisition cost will not be included in the
cost estimate. Land should be provided by the SMC and the local community at suitable
locations. A time-phased distribution of the cost estimate or project schedule of implementation
and disbursement will be presented.
5.    Appraisal Report
Each participating Thana will prepare a plan for facilities upgrading of its schools and each
participating district will prepare a plan for facilities upgrading of its schools. A brief appraisal
report for each thana subproject containing specific technical, financial and institutional data will
be prepared by TEC and submitted by PIMU to PMED for approval. PIMU will submit the first
five district Subproject Appraisal Reports for each of the three divisions covered under the
Project, for Bank review and endorsement. Subsequent subproject appraisal reports will be
submitted to IDA for information only. A typical outline of the appraisal report is given in the
following paragraphs.



Annex 1 3A: Guidelines for Preparation/Appraisal of                               Page 3 of 3
Sub Projects for Educational Facilities
5.     Typical Outline of Subproject Appraisal Report
The following outline is given as a guide:
(a)    Introduction
(i)    Brief background of social and economic development activities in the area of
the thana;
(ii)    Educational development in the area concerned - give educational statistics of the
thana for the last three years including analysis of population data by gender and
relevant age group; and
(iii)   Economic status of the area concerned.
(b)    The Project Area
(i)    Location; thana map showing Project schools with village, thana boundaries to
the extent possible;
(ii)    Enrollment and drop-out rates in different grades (I to V), number of teachers by
gender at the Project schools;
(iii)   Justification regarding including of the above schools in the Project.
(c)    The Subproject
(i)    Objectives and Scope;
(ii)    Description of specific components for each category of schools;
(iii)   Cost estimates (with table) for the subproject and also unit costs for each school,
with reference to the agreed upon base costs given in the Project Appraisal
Report including physical and price contingencies; and
(iv)   Implementation Schedule in the form  of a simple bar chart indicating the
timeframe;
(d)    Project Justification
Analysis of educational and other specific needs in the Thana/City/Town concerned to
be identified and discussed in the light of the educational needs.



Annex 13B: Block Grants for District Development Plans                       Page 1 of 1
Annex 13B
Block Grants for Thana Development Plans
In conjunction with the Subprojects for Educational Facilities (Annex 13a) a pilot will be
conducted initially in one district and ultimately in a total of five.districts to establish procedures and set
up a financial management and planning system for DPE to allocate and monitor disbursement of block
grants to be provided to thanas for school materials and supplies.
In the first year of project implementation, DPE will prepare for IDA review a plan that will pilot
the allocation of block grants to a thana for school materials and supplies. The plan will:
*  set out the mechanisms to be used by DPE to allocate a block grant to district administrations for
distribution to thanas against their approved costed plans for school materials and supplies;
*  describe the procedures for financial and physical accounting, reporting, and auditing of the
district block grant and its distribution to thana administrations;
*  provide a schedule and details for a training program in finamcial management to be carried out at
the district level to ensure that procedures are established prior to the piloting of the district block
allocation in the second year of project implementation.
Training in financial accounting, reporting and auditing at the district level would be supported
by technical assistance under the DFID and the Unicef IDEAL components of the project.



Annex 14 Guidelines for Preparation/Appraisal of                       Pagm I of 7
Sub Projects for Educational Facilities
Annex 14
Statement of Primary Education Development Policies
A .S. H. K Sadique
Minister
inisz;y of 9ducaion,
Pnimary & Mass Eduaican Division
and Ministry of Science & 7echnology
Governmentl of Bangladesh
No. P1vED/P/PEDP-PolicyI2G6/96/244                               Date: 2 June, 1997
Dear Mr. WoLfcnsohn,
Subjec:      Primary Education Development Progrnune
Statement of Primary Education DeveIcpment Polides.
The purpose of this letter is to provide the World Bank with details of the Govenment of
BangladesWhs positdon in respect of their Primary Educion for the 1997 to 2002 period and to
info= you of our policy decisions and measures tha are either in effect or will be implemented
ii short-to medrum-tp.m As.you are  rc the Prmar and Mass Educatio  Division (PNE))
is charged with tairino the lead role ian implementing Governments commineat to uivrsia
primary educaton-'
Intxoduction
Thae Gove-mea: of BEanladesh reoanises that education is a prereq fisoe for ensuring
sustainable development and promoting qulity human resources and has intemsified its efforts to
g:;-cnt  education for alL Government is commited to ensure Ci) tha no child be deprived of
an education for lack of a tzacher, ln   ma       or ade      space, CSI) that no chid be
subject to disparities of access to primary education arising from gender, age, income, family,
culin-al or' ethnic difference zad geogaphic remoteness, aud (Iii) the quaLity and relevance of
priMary education programmes by intensif'ing efforts to improve supply, raining and
conuioasn of teachers, to improve learning conter a2nd materials, to enh=zce phlicarfaci1fries
and to caary out necessary reforms in the prmary education system.
This; s=maent of PoLicy briey reviews the curremt stams of the subsector, then. summarzes the
Govenmen's objectves for primry  education, and describes the policies ad. prorams
adopted by the Governmen. for 1997-2002 to achieve thee objectives.
G-overnment's Goal
The Govement of Bangladesh in; ds to provide all.primary school age children (6 to 10
years) in Banlcadesh with access w a qualiy primay education and to provide an eavironment
sufficient to eacourage thcn to attend schLool r:gularly and to successfizfly complete ag Eve year
prmary education cycle.
Page - 1/7



Annex 14: Statement of Primary Education                                   Page 2of7
Development Policies
The Current Status of-Primar-. Educadon
Duria 1990-1996 substantial proess h2s be= made in pro-ed.¢i pr-L=arV educa c- The Scoss
and net enrolment subsatizdlly increased, and itopour an.d gender disparity reduced. The
Goven entJs commi:= to providmig eaLftable access to p; .ar  e-ucaroa is reflected in the
inrodcion of Comlso.   Pmj Educaion (ofCovapu ia 68 than(s in 1992 an-d in all thanas in
1993.
To i;apl-entz compulsory primay educarca the measures that contributed include - (a)
Iacreased access to prmary schooaig throgh. : estblishme-= of new schools and additional
classroom; seL-, up of comm  ir'saL' schooJa   provison of subvendons tO a Larg nIuber
of res-.ered non-govemen schools; cormniry schools and Ebtedayee MadrasaH to suppor.
t-chi.er saiaa-ies; reruitme  of female teachers; a Food for Educzton Prog--mxne Linked to
school attendance. (b) Improved qualIy of primary educaLon mrough: ntocunon of a
competency-based cnticuIum; provision o free tetbooI; to all student in gades I to 5; and
introducton of a broad prorame of inservicc reacher tr-nimi. (c) Increased comnmtrnir;
particiation in educronal manag:entt and delivery of services through: schooI =znagem=nz
comm=itees, local educaion commit ees aad parent teacher association; and social mobilization
and morhees meetngs.
Additionally, community p2rddiPZon in educaional MnaeeLMent and deivery ofservices have
been in-toduced through school m geme  cOMMittees, 1ocal educazon committees and parent
teacher associations.
Over tLe same period,, Governent has also increased budgetary a2locations for primary
education 12-13% in real te2s per an;tnum- The shre, of primary educaion irL the education.
budge Ai4g these ye'r was be-ween 49% and 54%/.-
With ='creased gross enrollments in recent years, Govermment faces a aumber of obstacles to
providing q  ality pr;mary edurcation. Due to imaerdeveloped instonal capacty, the
management of primary educairon has been unable to effec   y bring about desired cange in
the sLbsector, responsliitity and acepun,aihity for actons throughout the subsectr re ofren not
recoized; insitutons and schools have not beneffted sUicitntly from supervision received,
there is aczae shortge of teahers in m=y schools; some tez&=e.s are ill-prepared for their task,
schools and studentas lak suacient leamin;g mzterials; physicaL faciities are inadequate for the
number of sarde= reu     access to schiooling and; instucIonal time is insuffcin
Resource costraints have limited C-ovemernts abiity to deliver primary education to all school
age children. There are stilL many underserved and uaserved areas. Further, due to the existance
of widespread poverr manystudert drop outtfom pimary SchooL
Page - 27



Annex 14: Statement of Primary Education                                  Page 3 of 7
Development Policies
The Primary Education Programme (1997-2001)
Programme Objectives
Gove-n=:cs mlan in resmez. to unk.-a  educ 'o  e -- s'Z -7 z   c.=e-- an    -     i-
-wicbL the follo=ing -findzmen=I goals c  be met over the ei -term:
eznsure tha- aNER of9S% foLr =rUmlI t is reached by 2000,
a. N    increase the primary education cycle compledon rate to 70% by 2000,
iLii.  improve the length, conEnt and methods of classroom ins-ucion,
iv.   improve tae cumcultmn, learnin materials and teachinglaring aids,
;r.   improve the quility of teacher, throu  cve teacHer training
;rL   improve schools mana-emem and academic sup endvsion,
ii.      ngrhe the primary education ina astructre by improving the instintioal capabilities
in  ma-n-.a-ent, man.gemnent information  analysis  (N.IS), prora:me  and
implenen=ton,
ViiL   I=mpro-v-- Drogtamme delivery by monitoring iputs and pzocess and outout evahiaz"on,
and
ix_    develop a national research nd develcoment capacity to support the in;oducrion and
tesing of innovatiorLwithin the subsector,
x.    provide adeca  physical facilitLes Lnchdung - addton omore cdss rooms.
xd.   recruit adecuate tnuber o teachers to meet the xistn   d a owin  ne:d.
)ai.   iculcre moral values.
Nhnile much could be included in the 1997 to 2002 primary education prmmeg, the
Gove.'meat :wil focus its interveations to address tLe most =ircal of probIems faced inEve
areas  (i) providig additional physical facitates and also taches ni imDrovng 'qai  of
primazy schooang Cii providng equitable access, (rv) improving efficiency of primary
education, and (v) improviag managemeat planning, monitoring aad evaluation throughou the
subsector. Additionally, the Government is also commried to itcoducing and tetng icnovation
hxrough research and developmient
I'he QuaIty of Primary Education
Ihe main emphasis of ow primary educd-on program for the next five years will be on
improving school quality along with provision of addfionat ctas rooms and teachr for
equitable acess. T6 that, and keeping in mind the fnancing conscmints, we have adopted the
following policies.
(a)    Curriculum    AIl primary schools will be required to implement thLe national
cuiculum. The cumc:ukum coztent im objectives, scope and sequencig of subject
matter wil be evaluated. After evalution an achievable curriculum will be deteanined
and supported by a betr balance of tvrabooks, supplemntay reading materials and
teachers' guides The supply of stationery and readinag mateials fbr sniden= Mill be
increased. Textbooks will be offered free of charge to all sden.
Page-17



Annex 14: Statement of Primary Education                                   Page 4 of 7
Development Policies
(b)   Teachers: Ar importar thrust is on sxqpp+ of addition:a teachers as well as on teacher
development A planned approach is bein; adopted to prvide all. teacher nation1aUy with
the CrtLicate ia Educatioa' throu:E di5erent tcnI-, modes i"ciiz ism-ce
educzaion. Th'e content aud deiveery of teacher educaZcn 'will be reviewed to exDlore
alt- enave modes for pr-eservice and imervice teacher education as well as school based
trainLg. -All quali9ed and rained teachers will be r:zaea±: based on naional suvply
requirements, teacher: stude:a ratios aad as per policy for subveations to ptivate schools.
AI t:eacher recrr:=ent will be subjec, to a standard, crizeria ad prrocedre to *ensure
soundness of basic Imowledge:.
(c)   Tustructional time will be increased by raising teach-: and student daily aendance ;rom
60% currently to 80% in 2000 and by increasing teachers time-on-task during the
exsting school hours. Once these targ5e are achieved the curriculium Wil be revised and
sns rc; onal time wiIl be increased sacdually fLom 2.5 hours to 3.5 hours in g-ades 1 and
2 rrom   hours to 5.5 hours in gades 3 to 5. The mzrim= teacher studecz ratio will be
1:40 per ciass (Ce. 1:80 in wvo stagaered shiftS).
(d)   Academic supervision: eadmasrezs will be the priacipal academic sunervisor in the
schools. All our efforts will be made to  nhance the professional competence and
ckaability of headma.uers for such 2='Clnic leaders-hin. Assistant Thana Educadon
Ofices and others will continue t be reponsible for the quality of teachiasr and
leaing across schools by asisting with teacher denelopment and monitor in school
pe:or=ance.
(e)    Qualirt assessment: The outome of the quality improvement measures will be
assessed through conducting a national school performance assessment as a baseline in
1997 and repeated every two years-
Providing Equitable Acces to Quaity Schoolin-
There are a number of areas in Bangladesh which. stil remain. tnder-schooLed and unserved. To
help ensare tha eqitable access o qualit schooling is available to aIl children, esmblishment of
new schools and classrooms will be itreted to under-schoolcd and usmerved areas.
(a)'   New schools will be established in underserved areas meeting the cntena of no other
school within 2 l= a minimum of 150 sxdeats and a. minimum population of 2000.
E-xceptions are to b- made -where naz-ral baniers or hig. population deasiry eists. These
critera apply to new guevmez a, non-goverent primary schools and to community
and NGO managed feeder schools.
(b)   Ckassrooma,  rnriture, tol1es and tabewells will be added to or repaired at governmn=t
and restered non-govnmeat schools and a communiay based school mainnae
prcz=  will be intoduced.
Page - 47



^Iu1C.V I't: aretriIen-t of Primary Education                              Page 3 of 7
Developmenr Policies
(c)    A prop-ammed expansion of facilities and hiring of cn-o1ieachers and deploy;nt
of cZ tachers wil be zaDroDdateiy targeed to ensure that no se=ent of the population
is =rn-sinli-zed in ternas or access to oualityprMary education
(d)   R;istazion r citera for non-zoverment  prmary schoots wiLl be adjusted over the ners
five vears to reflect new teacher cualifications, schools' accountaility for student and
teacher peformance aad their abilty to provide a mnim-u  of five teachers. Rehstered
non-sovernment schools will rec-ive subventions for teaci-r salaxies and supptlem-eary
needs.
(e)    Target:d progr=s will provide resources, mat-rials and incenives to disadvantaged
children to enroll in, remain in and complete their primary schoolng. Tre School
A-uac-nveess Promam and female teacher reCrirMent oa the basis of 60:40 will
continue to address gender imbalance. Tae poorest 25%  of side= will receive fret
stationery. The ongoing Food for Educadion subsidy aimed at ncreasing erollments and
armeadnce of children from the poores- families will continu  subjec: to enloring other
alternatves to meet the same educational ends.
Management aud Organization of Pmary Education
Gove:ment will improve the delivery of qulity primary schooling in botb govement- and
non-zovemrn.ent schools and wil focus on the development of a sustainable cost effectve and
better mrnaged scnool systm..-
(a)    Responsiblitr : Tre Prinary and Mass Education Division, dtrough the Directorate of
Primary Edz~aio  wil be responsible for primary education- The Prim2ry and Mass
Education Division wil be resDonsible for policjr planning coordinatdon with
govar en  and non-vtCment agences and donor coordination. The Drectorate of
=^Ptim*azy- Eration will be responsible for prm  planning, implemeataTion and
moniring and be responsble for facilitnat-n resource flowS to implementig zagecies.
(bD)   Pragmaxic plannin  and biteme monitoring will ensure relevance, quality and
CXcOlence I; pnmary educaton- -Annual review of e pragrzmmes andproject wilfOjbcs
on acbievemetas, expeaditnies and p;bformancc targets. Standardized finmncial and
accotmtingprocedures will imvrove fnancial management and accountabiity.
(c)    The management.and administration of piary education will be enhanced by
developing and i2iornalln  local and national manage=ent infobmaion and
monitoring systems. The Directozate ofPrimary Education will be strengthened with an
associat:ed ddlegation of selected decision making authoriry to the field offices. Disticats,
thnas and schools wil be ivea more decision makng, responsibility for plann;ng
budgeting and iraplementaion to make the most effective use of human, fiancial and
paysical resources. Capacities of School Maagement Cormitees and local unaion and
ward committees will be strengtbened through taining programs and maaagement of
block Srse to schools for matei-als
Page - 517



Annex 14: Statement of Primary Education                                Pagc 6 of
Development Policies
(d)   Efficiency: Primary educzaion will be made more efL5cieut by rzdonaliz-=C operaions to
reducc overiap in func-onar uniz and tbrou.ch proscas of staff development and
=Lninz Thae system will be more ccst efective as a result of these measur%s  (i)
improved reaching and bemer Lue of leaing tme 1iIl reduce gade repetiton. to the
mimum by 2001 ; (ii) the e%istidn policy on reuse of t=-tbooks wil be e=anded
gracually so that by 1999 reuse of 50% of textbooks and a three year book- ife spaa is
possible; Cii) educaional publishing will be revieweid to esure quality, durability and
cost e-Fiency of books and materials; (iv) to reduce zhe sress on the primany education
system, baby class programs wMIl be independent of the formal schood prorazz and
mana=ged separately by School Manageent Committees, other co    y  goups or
NGOs.
Financin  the Primary Education Programme
Tae policies descdbed above will be implemeated over the next five years and reflected in our
revenue and development budge,t for the PEDP (I997 to 2002). The total PEDP is estimated to
cost USS 3.142 billion wrth the revemue budget estmated at USS 1.456 billion and development
budget esti=ted at USS 1.636 billion. This include the Fooeffor  u.caon (FEE) component
esrimazed at USS 375.00 m. Tae development budget crcuding the FFE component is estsmated
att USS 1_24S billion. The FTh component will be evalutd by a. iandependent body and further
decisions relating to the implementa2ion will take into account t  recommendains of the
independeit body-
Monitoring
The primazy educ:on piogramme will be closely monitored thmugh the joint aonrm  review
process, drawing on DPE EMIS and monitoring nfoation products, reseacih completed under
the programme and the naional issessment of schools. During annual reviews, Govemment will
mcakee orr to relate progess to agred monitormg imncators to, address both Govermenies and
developme*panme    tqantaive, qualitarive and finanil bormation reTir       Te set
of indicators to be used are:
o     Achievemen - national assessment of schools, grads 3 and 5.
o     Completion raze.
o     Teachcr qualty - percen with Certificate in Eduion
o     Teacher peormanc' - changes in classroom practices.
O     Instimtional capacity - number of months of staf development (training)
o     Coverane - gross enrollment rate (GER) and net enroUment rate (NER).
O     Cycle cost.
o     Ade=aate schools - perceit of sttuctures that are physically adequate.
Monitoring performance will serve to improve the targeting of project inputs. Base}ine da fbr
each iadicator prior to impleme oa wile zaefid to reder the monitoring mwg&bzgL.
Page - 6/7



Annex 14: Statement of Primnary Education                                 Page 7 of 7
Development Policies
C!overnmrnt attaches high priorty to the implementaion of fve year prtarr educaricn
deve&opment prp-cmme particuWarly'in the contet of sigLf cant progress made in this arx
during the past years as wetL to consolidate and sustami the momentum in the coming years,.
Governent hope to implement the five year Primary Educion Development Pros-n=m  wit.
this end in view, government has also identfied priority reas/acti:vities to be fincd to achieve
(a) qunrrftcttve =ansion alon wibh imrroved qualik an3d s-se- s-y 'r-'
insdtional and manragement capacrty, and (c) incraming equitable access to quality education
for girls and children fim poor households. Additional furLdine -wi be used to =pand the scope
of someproject activities to meet the ervegrowing demand of the primary edu=oan System cz
Bangladesb
I have noted with particalar sadsfacdon the cooperation between International Development
Agency and the Govemrent of Bangladesh in the field of primary education in the past yean,
and I hope that this cooperaon wilI be fimhier strengthened with the launchig cf -his project-
Sincerely,
(A S. E K Sadique)
Mr. lames D. Wolfensohn
Presidem World Ban1c
(6:D\Z?OUCTrDOcq
Page - V7






Page 1 of 2
Annex 15
Terms of Reference for Third Party Supervision
(draft)
An independent external monitoring team will be contracted to assist with project
supervision. This Third Party Supervision team will provide additional capacity in program
monitoring and reporting and feed into the joint review processes. The team will work with
Government to prepare for joint reviews of annual operational and expenditure plans, the bi-
annual supervision missions, mid-term review and project completion activities.
Objectives: The Third Party Supervision will review business practices, validate data
and compliance with agreed policy implementation and report to Government and development
partners on progress of project activities. The team will also advise on problem-solving for
issues arising during implementation.
Tasks:. The team will conduct independent financial, physical and institutional audits;
review procurement procedures and outcomes; monitor compliance with agreed procedures and
progress in program implementation; and provide quality control for and validation of DPE
internal monitoring. Based on the supervision, the team will propose to Government and
development partners actions to address problems identified through the project monitoring and
supervision.
Requirements: The core team will consist of: (a) an independent team of chartered
accountants/auditors to carry out audits (see Annex 6); and (b) a team consisting of a
procurement specialist, education policy planning specialist and primary education
imaplementation specialist to carry out physical and institutional audits. Other specialists may be
identified where the need arises. Specific termns of reference for each of the consultants will be
dr,awn up in consultation with IDA and the development partners supporting primary education.
Time Frame: The firm selected to carry out Third Party Supervision is required for the
fill five years of the project. Third Party Supervision will carry out project supervision prior to
the joint missions and will assist Government to prepare for (a) the joint annual review of the
primary education operational plans and expenditures to be held in February each year (to fit in
with the Government's budget planning cycle), (b) the joint bi-annual supervision missions in
August/September each year, (c) the mid-term review in 2000; and (d) project completion
requirements during the last six months of the project cycle.
Schedule: Prior to the joint Government/development partner missions the Third Party
Supervision team will carry out a review of implementation of all components of the primary
education program including its management and institutional arrangements. The guiding
principles in supervision are based on the agreed policy framework and monitoring indicators set
out in the PAD (Annex 1). The team will prepare a supervision report to be distributed to
Government and to development partners two weeks prior to the annual review mission, bi-
annual supervision missions and at the time of mid-term review. The team will participate in the
joint missions. Six months prior to project closing, the team will prepare a draft Implementation
C'ompletion Report.



Annex 15: Terms of Reference for Third Party Supervision                  Page 2 of 2
Management and Reporting: The consultant firm will be under contract to the
Government of Bangladesh. The firm will report to the Primary Education Development
Program Steering Committee, Chaired by the Secretary, Primary and Mass Education Division.
Development partners supporting the subsector will have prior review of the firms' TOR and will
review short listed firms. They will also advise Government on a change in specialist skills mix
if a need arises during implementation.
Costs and Financing: An estimated 45 months of consultant time for the five year project
is required. This is estimated on the basis of three persons times 2.5 months per annum for
supervision activities, report writing and participation in missions. This will be financed by
Government from the Credit.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29219
0
BANGLADESH
to\ >                           -<EN S PRIMARY EDUCATION
JThskuraewr               t>  _ > \                                     DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
5f                    N       il phsn  Nt.- 
0' i  ~  *U: i  a -   °@P>,  % {                 SHADED AREAS COVERED UNDER THE IDA PROJECT
\   °Dinotpur   .   R7II' ngp5JR   Y S ; R S            - - -  DISTRICT  BOUNDARIES
-~v -~ < DIVISION BOUNDARIES
,   x   . GbSibEn                                     -*-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
i    * ..OG.O - DJoypwIc at y;        D)Se-rpo    >      p                   Sunrnnon; D    (      
. J   R  AJ S  HA H    I                                               "Oort          SUx RtsK    LNAMC-AN,  SYhT     %
)   ,d oRAJSHAH   o                             P                          O 3as'    Netrokono  °Sylhe,tr  05.~           S
½     Noogoon;           D  no                                                         c  y '-iP'o
(0                               .                                                                 MoW, Be Or 
RASHAHI           <    eeg  D           D         1iD,ogsp1                                        
INSDIA                                      ICb\ ,                             rONC 'P n  OGD,zp
INDIA
i herpdw                    0. ,>y
AE                 Chhe J  Cop lo0jr
(-  .'S ,¢E         ts,i r    '    ''Na RP'       w     Cheeepsr                       .('NAOEAGRCHH,Rr
0Stkr  ,,HU L'R ENP           /9'                                                   Khogron  rJi
20                                                                                         '
--OM.d.,ipal SPN 
the Mop I)esig,r Unit ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~CKHU 
on this mop do notth,,
il   o,  n ise: por.t  of AZR   
onyYO cdpnen on thn le el
seotos ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~tC  1998y eritr
I I 1~-11I                                                   BAY u  OF BENGAIL
I-dciAi                                                                                                                      NABl
LIKA
MARCH 1998



