Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N038 BD
Interim Fund  
Development Credit Agreement
(Primary Education Development Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
interim trust fund established with funds contributed by 
certain members of International Development Association 
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors 
of International Development Association
Dated April 30, 1998
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N038 BD 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator 
(the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;  
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Kingdom of 
Norway (Norway), acting through the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation 
(NORAD) a grant (NORAD Grant) to assist in financing part of the PEDP on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the NORAD Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Norway;
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland (United Kingdom), acting through the Department for International 
Page  2
Development (DFID) a grant (the DFID Grant) to assist in financing part of the PEDP on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the DFID Grant Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the United Kingdom; 
(E)
the Borrower has obtained from the Government of the Federal Republic of 
Germany (Germany), acting through the Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische 
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) and the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), grants (the GTZ 
Grant and the KfW Grant, respectively) in the respective amounts of DM 43,000,000 and 
DM 5,000,000, to assist in financing part of the PEDP on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the GTZ Grant Agreement dated September 30, 1996 and the KfW Financing 
Agreement dated May 23, 1996, respectively, entered into between the Borrower and 
Germany; 
(F)
the Borrower has obtained from the United Nations Children’s Fund 
(UNICEF) a grant (the UNICEF Grant) in an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 to assist 
in financing part of the PEDP on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the UNICEF Grant Agreement) dated March 18, 1996 entered into between the Borrower 
and UNICEF;
(G)
the Borrower has obtained from the Asian Development Bank (the ADB) a 
loan (the ADB Loan) from the ADB’s Special Funds Resources in various currencies 
equivalent to $100,000,000 to assist in financing part of the PEDP on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADB Loan Agreement) dated July 25, 1997 
entered into between the Borrower and ADB; (H) the Borrower has obtained from the 
Islamic Development Bank (the IsDB) a loan (the IsDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to 
$10,300,000 to assist in financing part of the PEDP on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the IsDB Loan Agreement) dated November 27, 1996 entered into 
between the Borrower and IsDB; and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement", "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account", 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
"15.
"Participating Country" means any country that meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as determined by 
the Administrator as of the date on which the Interim Fund Credit was approved 
pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution; and "Participating Countries" 
means, collectively, all such countries; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
Page  3
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations." 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for 
a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time 
the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit during the procurement or the execution 
of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action 
satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) 
after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account, the Administrator may, by 
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"DPE" means the Directorate of Primary Education of the Borrower; 
(b)
"DPE Special Account" means the separate special deposit account for DPE 
referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement; 
(c)
"FD" means the Facilities Department of the Ministry of Education of the 
Borrower; 
(d)
"FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower for the period beginning July 
1 and ending June 30 each year; 
(e)
"IDEAL" means the Intensive District approach for Education for All 
program being carried out by the Borrower; 
(f)
"LGED" means the Local Government and Engineering Department of the 
Borrower; 
(g)
"LGED Special Account" means the separate special deposit account for 
LGED referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement; 
(h)
"NAPE" means the National Academy of Primary Education of the Borrower;
(i)
"NCTB" means the National Curriculum Textbook Board of the Borrower; 
(j)
"PEDP" means the Primary Education Development Program of the Borrower;
(k)
"PTI" means a Primary Teaching Institute of the Borrower; and 
(l)
"Special Accounts" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; and "Special Account" means each such account individually. 
Page  4
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred and eleven million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 111,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may open and maintain in dollars two separate special 
deposit accounts in the Bangladesh Bank, one for the purposes of Part C.1 of the 
Project which will be carried out by LGED (the LGED Special Account), and the other 
for the purposes of all other Parts of the Project (including those Parts of the 
Project to be carried out by the FD and NCTB) which will be carried out by DPE (the 
DPE Special Account), all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2008 and 
ending March 1, 2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on\0b
March 1, 2018 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
Page  5
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semi-annual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Administrator adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for, and in connection with, the carrying out of the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
Page  6
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; 
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts and 
a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
and the Administrator
Section 5.01. (a) (i) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional event is specified, namely, that subject to paragraph (ii) of 
this Section: (A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or 
loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or (B) any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Administrator that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(b)
The NORAD Grant Agreement and the DFID Grant Agreement, or any of them 
shall have failed to become effective by December 31, 1999, or such later date as the 
Administrator may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph 
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator 
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources 
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: any event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph 
(a) (ii) of that Section, or any event specified in (b) shall occur. 
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination 
Designation of Administrator 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions namely that the staffing of the Finance 
Unit at DPE has been completed in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary/Joint Chief, or any Deputy Secretary/Deputy Chief, or any Assistant 
Secretary/ Assistant Chief/Research Officer of the Economic Relations Division of the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ K. M. Shehabuddin 
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established 
with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu 
Regional Vice President 
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
39,870,000
90%
(2)
Paper for textbooks,
44,030,000
100% of foreign
textbooks, office
expenditures, 100%
equipment, educational
of local 
expenditures
materials and vehicles
(ex-factory cost) 
and
(including motorcycles)
85% of local 
expendi-
tures 
for other items 
procured locally
(3)
Services:
(a)
Consultants’
10,370,000
100%
services (including
professional fees and
management fees) and
training
(b)
IDEAL program
 7,400,000
100%
(UNICEF Contract)
(4)
Incremental
 
 3,780,000
100% for FY 1999 
operating costs
70% for FY 2000 and
2001 30% for FY 2002 
and
2003 
(5)
Unallocated
 5,550,000
    TOTAL
     111,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  9
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the cost of additional 
expenditures for operation and maintenance of: (i) the Project implementation 
management unit; and (ii) schools under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) under Category (3)(b) unless 
and until the Borrower has entered into a separate contract with UNICEF in respect of 
expenditures for social participation and local planning towards the implementation of 
the IDEAL program; and (b) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,220,000 may 
be made out of the proceeds of the Credit in respect of Categories 1 through 3 on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1998.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) services of individual consultants 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iv) all training and 
incremental and operating costs.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in carrying out the 
Primary Education Development Program (PEDP) in order to: (i) improve school quality 
and system efficiency; (ii) establish a sustainable, cost-effective and better managed 
education system; and (iii) ensure universal coverage and equitable access to quality 
primary schooling.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improving School Quality and System Efficiency
1.
Teacher Development, School Supervision and Subcluster Training: Carrying out of 
a program of teacher training, revision of teacher education curriculum and materials 
and upgrading of the facilities at NAPE and PTIs.
2.
Improving Teaching and Learning: (a) Carrying out of a bi-annual national 
assessment of learning achievement, including monitoring of school attendance and 
school completion, for the purposes of information for revisions to curriculum, 
textbooks and teacher training.
(b)
Supplying of student textbooks, teachers’ guides and supplementary 
reading materials to schools.
3.
Strengthening National Institutions: Provision of training for staff of NAPE and 
PTIs to improve design and delivery of teacher training programs; restructuring of 
NCTB and staffing rationalization to better reflect its publishing role; and training 
of NCTB staff in management and procurement to improve textbook procurement and 
distribution services.
Part B:
Strengthening Institutional Capacity and Management
1.
Strengthening Institutional Capacity at the National Level: (a) Strengthening 
DPE’s system of review and monitoring and its capacity to: (i) prepare annual 
operational and expenditure plans for the primary education program and for each 
subproject; (ii) monitor and report on progress towards policy objectives; and (iii) 
account for expenditures in the subsector;
(b)
training of staff at DPE in planning and budgeting, management skills and 
school monitoring; the establishment of a finance unit at DPE and the training of 
staff in financial management and reporting; and preparation, as necessary, of studies 
for future projects; and
(c)
strengthening of the implementing agencies and department’s accounting 
and auditing abilities through the provision of staff training and the introduction of 
adequate accounting and auditing systems under the Project.
Page  10
2.
Strengthening Institutional Capacity at the District, Thana and School Level: 
Training of staff at the district, thana and school levels in school management, 
academic supervision and methods of community participation; preparation of school 
maps and district school construction plans based on needs-based criteria agreed with 
the Administrator; and carrying out of a pilot program to channel money to thanas and 
schools for financing school maintenance, additional books and learning materials in 
selected schools in the poorest thanas.
Part C:
Increasing Equitable Access 
1.
Construction of new schools, additional classrooms, toilets and tubewells based 
on needs-based criteria and assessment of thanas development plans. 
2.
Carrying out of a pilot program of provision of block grants to thanas for free 
stationery to students in 25% of the poorest school communities. 
3.
Carrying out of social mobilization campaigns to increase school enrollment and 
daily attendance, and training of school and thana education committees in school 
management and monitoring and community participation. 
*       *       * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $30,000 but less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $21,400,000 equivalent, and civil 
works estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $18,920,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
Page  11
aggregate amount not to exceed $25,600,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $4,700,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Administrator’s 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines. 
4.
Community Participation
Works required for Part C of the Project up to an aggregate of 10% of the total 
works may be carried out through community participation in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Administrator. 
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost equal or less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $28,380,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed price contract awarded on the basis of quotation obtained from three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first three contracts for goods and the first three 
contracts for works procured under national competitive bidding procedures and 
thereafter each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost- based selection of consultants. 
Page  12
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for social mobilization and local planning 
and supervision of civil works, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Quality-Based Selection
With the prior agreement of the Administrator, Consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality-based 
selection of consultants. 
3.
Single-Source Selection
Services for social mobilization and local planning under the IDEAL program 
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may, 
with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured from UNICEF in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  13
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions 
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only firms that are registered or incorporated in, and individuals and personal who 
are nationals of, Participating Countries shall be eligible to compete for services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about April 10, 2001 a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by May 15, 2001, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on the matter. 
2.
The Borrower shall, not later than May 31 in each year, review the progress made 
in implementation of the Project in accordance with a policy framework agreed with the 
Administrator and shall ensure that all financiers of the PEDP are invited to review 
meetings. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the Borrower 
shall, under terms of reference acceptable to the Administrator, retain no later than 
December 31, 1998, an independent external monitoring team for the purposes of third 
party supervision of the implementation of the Project. 
4.
The Borrower shall undertake the construction of the schools under the Project 
in accordance with criteria, procedures and mechanism acceptable to the Administrator.
5.
The Borrower shall undertake such teacher training programs under the Project as 
shall have been approved by the Administrator.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Category (1) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Part C.1 of the Project 
and Categories (2), (3) and (4) set forth in said table in respect of all other Parts 
of the Project;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
Page  14
in respect of the LGED Special Account and an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 in 
respect of the DPE Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 in 
respect of the LGED Special Account and an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 in respect 
of the DPE Special Account until (i) in respect of the LGED Special Account, the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account allocated to 
Category (1) plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part C.1 
of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 16,000,000, and (ii) 
in respect of the DPE Special Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account allocated to Categories (2), (3) and (4) plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for all Parts of the Project other than Part 
C shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 20,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account under the respective eligible Category or 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
Page  15
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Category or Categories for  the respective Special Account, minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the relevant Parts 
of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible 
Category or Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Administrator 
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
