Page  1
February
13, 1998
The Secretary
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
The People
’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Dear Sir/Madam:
Re:
BANGLADESH: Japanese Grant for Primary
Education Sector Development Program
Grant TF027053
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(IDA)
to
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a
grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred fifty thousand United States dollars
(US$ 550,000) (the Grant) to the People’s Republic of Bangladesh (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out 
the activities described in paragraph
1
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Owaise Saadat
for Pierre Landell-Mills
Country Director, Bangladesh
South Asia Region
AGREED:
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
/s/
Chowdhury M. Mohsin
Date:
February
14,
1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in completing the 
preparation of its Primary Education Sector Development Program and to finalize
arrangements for its implementation. The technical assistance activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
A.
Conduct a Baseline National Student Performance Assessment, and, to that end:
(i)
carry out workshops to develop tests in mathematics and language for 
Grades
3
and
5;
(ii)
prepare trial test materials and trial administraive manuals and 
protocols for conducting the tests;
Page  2
(iii)
conduct pilot tests in the field and mark, analyze and record results;
(iv)
carry out further field work to revise tests, test materials and 
administrative manuals and protocols for conducting the tests; and
(v)
assist officials of government and non-government schools in analyzing 
the data collected, standardizing procedures and finalizing test materials in order to
prepare for the larger assessment program.
B.
Install a Computerized Public Financial Management System for the Directorate of 
Primary Education and Train Appropriate Staff in its Use, and, to those ends:
(i)
install software packages to facilitate planning and implementing 
business processes, inlcuding accounting and auditing for public sector development
programs and foreign aid management; and
(ii)
train local staff in the use of computer software, analysis of data and 
planning and implementing the financial management system.
C.
Install a Computerized Management System to Prepare Sector project Monitoring 
Data, and, to that end:
(i)
train local staff in computerized program planning and program monitoring 
areas, including teacher training, school management, curriculum, learning materials
and national assessment; and
(ii)
prepare baseline monitoring data surveys for the primary education 
subsector, including classroom observations and teacher performance behavior.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants
’
services required for the
Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities with the concurrence and on behalf of the 
Recipient.
The Recipient shall cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit
IDA to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results
of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities,
except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or
external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by September 30, 1998.
After that date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA
and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof)
in connection with the
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or
(b)
the right of the Recipient, or any
other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the
Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with IDA shall
have been suspended.
8.
IDA is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that  is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
Page  3
