CIRCULATING COPY                                 #3
Report No. 359a-RO                               m   BE REURNE   TO REPORTS DESK
Appraisal of the                                                                 RETURN TO
Otelinox Special Steel Project   REPORTS CS{
Romania                                                                             ONE WEE,s -
May 21, 1974
Industrial Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group aijthorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



G CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Except where otherwise indicated,
all figures are quoted in Romanian
Lei. For all calculations, the
following conversion rate has been
used:
US$1           Lei 20
Lei 1      =  US$0.O5
Lei 1,000  =  US$50.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
All units are metric.
1 metric ton        = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 metric ton        = 2,204.6 pounds
1 kilometer (km)   - 0.62 miles
1 cubic meter (m3) = 35.32 cubic feet (cu.ft.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AISI                       - American Iron and Steel Institute
HSLA Steel                 - High-,Strength Low-Alloy Steel (High
Tensile Steel)
_B                         - Banca De Investitii (Investment Bank)
IPROLAM                    - Institute for Eagineering of Rolling
Mills
METAROM                    - Equipment Export-Import Agency under
the Ministry of Metalbrghical Industries
NB                         - Banca Nationala a Republicii Socialiste
Romania (National Bank)
Otelinox, the Enterprise,
the Project               - Second Stage of TirgoviFte Alloy Steel
Complex
Fteel Central              - Centrala Industriala de Prelucrari
Metalurgice
Tirgoviste I               - First Stage of Tirgoviste Alloy Steel
Complex
TPY                        - (Metric) Tons Per Year
ROMANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Industrial Projects Department
March 11, 1974



ROMLANIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
OTELINOX SPECIAL STEEL PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................*...  i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .....................    1
II.   THE ENTERPRISE ...................                            1
A.   Background ...............      .......................    1
B.   Enterprise .........       .............................    2
C.   Relationship with Government Agencies ....      .......    2
1.   Steel Central ......                               3
2.   IPROLAM and METAROM ...... ....... ..........      3
3.   Investment Bank - The Borrower ....      .........    3
4.   National Bank ...................................  4
D.   Management ................4..... ....    ...........*    4
III.   THE MARKET .                                                  5
A.   Introduction ..... .........................  ..         5
B.   Overall Market .......................                   6
C.   Market for Otelinox Products   ....................      7
D.   Production of Special Steels ............ ..........    8
E.   Product Mix .......................................      9
F.   Imports and Exports                    ........         10
G.   Steel Prices ..............................................  11
H.   Location, Distribution and Transportation *..*..*   11
IV.   THE PROJECT .................... ,...                         12
A.   Physical Description of Project .................   12
B.   Processes to be Utilized ........................   13
C.   Project Execution--Division of Responsibilities .   13
D.   Staffing .........   ..............                     14
E*   Ecology ......... *6...... .*..**..........    14
F.   Future Expansion Plans   ..........................   15
This report was prepared by Messrs. W. P. O'Neil, S. P. Nayar, Y. T. Shetty
and Miss Judith Graves.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.   CAPITAL COST AND FINANCING PLAN  ......................   15
A.   Project  Cost   . ...................................  15
3.   Working Capital ............ ............   17
C.   Financing Plan .................................... 0......   17
VI.   ALLOCATION OF BANK LOAN, DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT    18
A. Allocation of Bank Loan . ........  18
B.   Disbursement . ................ ...................   19
C.   Bidding Procedures ...............a.... *. ....   19
D.   Bidding Consortia  ......*............. ...    19
E.   Local  Supply   ............... * .................... * * * * * * * *,   20
F.   Procurement Responsibilities .......... ..........   20
G.   Implementation Schedule ...... #  ..................   20
VII.   RAW MATERIALS, PRODUCTION COSTS AND REVENUE ........ ..   21
A.   Raw Materials and Utilities ................... .  .   21
B.   Production Costs  ..................... ........    21
C.   Revenue ......................    22
VIII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................. ..   23
A.   Romanian System                     ..............   23
B.   Profitability ...................... 23
C.   Allocation of Benefits              .     .........   24
D.   Financial Position ......       ...             ...   24
E.   Reporting Requirements ...      .......................   25
F.   Auditing Requirements ...........................   25
G.   Financial Rate of Return ........................    25
H.   Break-even Points ... ........ ..... ........   26
IX.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ..      .................. .    , ,  26
A. Economic Rate of Return                .       .         26
B.   Foreign Exchange Rates                    ..........   26
C.   Sensitivity Tests and Risks ...........   27
D.   Competitiveness ...#, .... .................o...   28
E.   Employment .. ...... ...  -.ooooo, ... .... ..   28
F.   Estimated Foreign Exchange Effects                     28
G.   Transfer of Technology       .................         28
X.   AGREEMENTS               .............    29



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1    Description of Technical Terms
2-1 Organizational Chart and Functions of the Ministry of
Metallurgical Industries
2-2 Role of the Enterprise, Central and Ministry
2-3 Enterprise Management and Organizational Chart
3-1 Market for Steel in Romania
3-2 Special Steel Prices
4-1 Types and Grades of Special Steel to be Produced
4-2 List of Basic Facilities
4-3 Description of Processes and Processing Sequences
4-4 Process Flow Charts for Cold Mill and Bar Mill
4-5 Employment and Training
4-6 Ecology
4-7 Long-Range Planning and Future Expansion
5-1 Capital Cost Estimates
5-2 Working Capital Requirements
5-3 Investment in New Projects
6-1 Equipment and Services to be Financed by the Bank
6-2 Estimated Disbursement Schedule
6-3 Implementation Schedule
7-1 Raw Materials
7-2 Production Cost Estimates
7-3 Romanian Pricing System
7-4 Revenue Forecast
8-1 Cash Flow and Allocation of Profits
8-2 Projected Income Statements
8-3 Sources and Application of Funds Projections (1974-1984)
8-4 Balance Sheet Projections
8-5 Major Accounting Practices
8-6 Control and Audit System
8-7 Financial Rate of Return
8-8 Break-Even Point
9-1 Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Tests
9-2 Foreign Exchange Savings
MAP
IBRD - 10895






ROMANI-A
APPRAISAL OF THE
OTELINOX SPECIAL STEEL PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the proposed Otelinox Special Steel Project,
the independently-managed second stage development of the Tirgoviste Alloy
Steel Complex, located some 80 km northwest of Bucharest, the Romanian capital.
The project will include a cold-rolling mill, the first of its kind in Romania,
to produce 30,000 tons per year (TPY) of stainless steel sheet and strip, and
a bar mill to make 120,000 TPY of rod and bar products. The main raw material
for the cold mill (40,500 TPY of hot-rolled coils) will be supplied from the
country's largest integrated steelworks at Galati (capacity: 7 million TPY
by 1980), and the main input for the bar mill (146,500 TPY of billets) will
come from the adjacent Tirgoviste (Stage I) alloy steel plant, which by 1975 is
expected to have a capacity of 600,000 TPY. Total financing required for the
project, including interest during construction and working capital, is nearly
Lei 3.7 billion (US$185 million equivalent), of which the foreign exchange
component is about 52%.
ii.       The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million equivalent will be made to
the Investment Bank, which is involved in the preparation and execution of all
industrial projects in Romania. The beneficiary of the loan will be Otelinox,
the Enterprise that is to carry out and operate the project. Another industrial
project for the production of fertilizer has recently been presented for Board
review (Report No. 459-Ro). The loan will be for 15 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the prevailing interest rate of 7-1/4% plus a guarantee fee of 1-3/4%,
bringing the total cost to the Enterprise to 9%. The Bank loan will cover about
38% of the total financing required for the project, with the rest -- U.S.t115.3
million equivalent including US$25.8 million in foreign exchange -- to be provided
by the Government in the form of interest-free advances.  The Government wqill also
cover any cost overrun, operational losses, and working capital requirements as
and when necessary.
iii.      The loan will cover the entire cost of competitively bid equipment
and spares, including technical assistance, know-how and engineering, (US$40
million) of the cold mill and 65% (US$30 million) of such costs of the bar
mill, as well as the foreign exchange cost of foreign consultant services
for the project. Tenders are intended to be issued for two large equipment
packages, one for each mill, including the technical assistance, know-how and
engineering; procurement will follow Bank guidelines. While no Romanian sup-
plier is expected to be prequalified as consortium leader for any of the two
contracts, it is possible that a Romanian firm might become a member of a
consortium as a sub-supplier for the bar mill. Civil construction will not
be part of the bid packages; it is to be carried out by a specialized Romanian
construction firm on the basis of fixed unit prices. Implementation of the
project is about to commence and production is to start early in 1978 with
full capacity to be reached in 1980.



- ii -
iv.       The project is crucial for the development of a wide range of indus-
tries including engineering and metal-transforming, industrial consumer goods
and chemicals. Engineering and metal-transforming industries are among the
fastest growing sectors in Romania with a substantial export orientation.
They grew at an impressive rate of close to 16% annually between 1966 and 1970
and, during the current Five-Year Plan (1971-1975), are planned to expand at
15% a year. The performance of the first half of the current Plan indicates
that this target is likely to be reached. In 1972, machinery and equipment
exports accounted for about 25% of the country's total export earnings of
US$2.6 billion equivalent. Next to machinery and equipment, the leading
exports of Romania are industrial consumer goods and chemicals which together
accounted for about 27% of total exports in 1972. Exports in general expanded
by 23% in 1972 compared to about 13.5% in each of the preceeding two years.
Romania has also succeeded in diversifying its markets abroad while maintain-
ing a high export growth. For example, in 1972 the share of its total exports
to outside the COMECON countries was nearly 53% compared with 44% in 1966.
V.        The Otelinox project is primarily oriented towards the domestic
market for substituting for importg. Nevertheless, exports may reach a maxi-
mum of 7,000 tons annually during the early operating years, until local demand
will have caught up with production. However, the overall surplus available
from Otelinox for exports would be hardly 5% of its production and although
no specific plans exist yet as to where these exports will go, no major problem
is foreseen in disposing of this moderate amount. The domestic market to which
the bulk of the project output is to be directed, appears assured mainly be-
cause of: (i) expected continuing high growth of the major special steel con-
suming industries; and (ii) increased local supply of special steel will help
meet the existing latent demand on account of current foreign exchange con-
straints. Also because of the modern technology used in the project, an effi-
cient and hard-working labor force, low wage costs and labor incentives in
Romania, Otelinox is expected to be able to produce special steel competitively
with industrialized countries elsewhere.
vi.       Otelinox has been established and its General Manager has already
been appointed and recruitment of other key personnel is underway. In addition
to him, the management of the Enterprise will consist of the Workers' General
Assembly (includes all employees), the Working People's Committee, and the
Management Committee. The Working People's Committee will be the decision-making
body of the Enterprise on general matters, while the General Manager, who will
be chairman of both committees, will make all day-to-day decisions on their
behalf. This decision-making process allows a satisfactory implementation of
the project and its subsequent operation. No difficulties are foreseen in
obtaining adequately trained manpower, in part because it will be drawn from
other existing steel mills in the country and in part due to the specific
training that forms part of project execution.
vii.      The financial results of Otelinox are expected to be satisfactory
after the first year of operations (1978) when the Enterprise will incur losses.
However, the usual Bank standards to measure the Enterprise's financial via-
bility have limited significance in the Romanian context because all fund flows



- ili -
in and out of the Enterprise are handled and controlled by the Government and
all inputs and outputs are traded at prices also set by the Government. The
financial rate of return, which is 13%, is, therefore, not a guide to investment
decisions. The economic rate of return -- probably the most meaningful indicator
of the soundness of an investment decision in Romania although rather difficult
to determine - is fairly high for Otelinox; it would exceed 14% and the proba-
bility of its falling below 10% is low under moderately adverse conditions.
Net foreign exchange earnings and savings to the economy at full production are
estimated at US$59 million equivalent, offsetting in less than two years the
project's entire foreign exchange cost. Further, the project would provide
direct employment to about 1,600 persons, while opening up many more job oppor-
tunities indirectly in the special steel consuming industries; these industries
are expected to grow at a faster rate than if dependent on controlled and re-
stricted imports of special steel.
viii.     The project was appraised prior to the recent sharp increase of
petroleum prices in the world. However, this increase in fuel prices is not
likely to affect Otelinox financial results to an appreciable extent not only
because of the administered prices of all goods and services in Romania but
also because the country's dependence on petroleum imports is low (20%) and,
if necessary, local production could be stepped up. Therefore, with respect
to fuel costs and, possibly, availability, Otelinox will enjoy a significant
advantage over most European and Japanese special steel producers as long as
the present level of oil prices persists. As for meeting oil-induced future
increases in imported equipment prices, adequate price contingency provisions
have been made.
ix.       There is no other country in which the Bank has lent for industry
where the Government has such a direct and major influence on the conception,
preparation, financing and operations of industrial projects as in Romania.
However, while investment decisions are seemingly made primarily to meet pro-
duction targets, economic considerations are also taken into account when
determining the scope, size and location of industrial enterprises and so
are social factors. Romania has succeeded in developing its industry in a
reasonably efficient manner and in locating it fairly evenly throughout the
country rather than have it concentrated only in major population centers.
But with so different an approach to industrial planning and project execu-
tion from what Bank staff had been accustomed to and with all its ramifica-
tions on such matters as the industrial structure, management, the control
mechanism, financial accounting and auditing, there had first to be establish-
ed a common basis for concepts and words that often have meanings in Romania
different from those in market economy countries. Still some gaps in the
Bank's knowledge of the working of the complex decision-making process and
planning mechanism in Romania's industry remain and will need to be closed
as the Bank does more industrial lending in the country. While meeting
foreign exchange needs on a long-term basis, Bank lending to industry in
Romania would also help adopt modern technologies, improve product quality
and make better use of factors of production.
x.        Based on the agreements reached on necessary conditions for the loan as
summarized at the end of this report, the project is suitable for a Bank loan
equivalent to US$70 million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises the proposed Otelinox Special Steel Project
at Tirgoviste, an industrial town (population: 35,000) located some 80 km
northwest of the capital city of Bucharest, Romania (Map IBRD-10895). The
project, an independent enterprise within the new Tirgoviste Special Steel
Complex, will have (1) a cold-rolling mill--the first of its kind in Romania
-with an annual production capacity of 30,000 tons of stainless sheet and
strip; and (2) a bar mill with an annual capacity of 120,000 tons of alloy
rod and bar products. Construction of the project is about to begin and
would be completed in early 1978.
1.02      Total financing requirements of the project, including interest
during construction and working capital, are estimated at about Lei 3,706
million (US$185 million), of which Lei 1,729 million (US$86 million)
would be the cost of imported equipment and spares, and foreign technical
know-how and training. The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million would cover
about 73% of the project's total foreign exchange requirements. This loan
would result from the first Bank appraisal initiated in Romania, which became
a member of IBRD in December 1972. The borrower would be the Investment Bank
(IB) which is involved in the preparation and execution of all industrial pro-
jects in Romania (para. 2.08).  The loan would be guaranteed by the State, which
controls all enterprises in the country.
1.03      The project is considered vital for the development of a broad
spectrum of special steel consuming industries whose projected annual growth
rates exceed 15% for the near future. Currently, the country's entire
requirements of stainless sheet and strip and part of its needs of alloy rod
and bar products are met from imports. The project would help Romania
achieve self-sufficiency in these products by 1980, thus easing the burden
of the country's scarce foreign exchange resources.
1.04      The project was identified in March 1973; in August 1973, a mission
assisted the Romanian authorities in preparing the project, followed by an
appraisal mission in November 1973 consisting of Messrs. O'Neil, Nayar, Shetty
and Miss Graves of the Industrial Projects Department and Messrs. Shields and
Gibbs, Consultants. Technical terms used in this report are explained in
Annex 1.
II. THE ENTERPRISE
A. Background
2.01      The project represents the second stage of the Tirgoviste Special
Steel Complex. Work on Stage I - the so-called Tirgoviste I - which con-
sists mainly of a plant to produce 600,000 tons per year (TPY) of raw
alloy steel, was begun in 1971 and part of the plant started production in



-2-
late 1973, slightly ahead of schedule. Otelinox will receive its principal
raw material--semi-finished steel--from two sources:  Tirgoviste I will supply
146,500 TPY of billets across the road to the project's 120,000-TPY alloy
bar mill, and the Galati Steelworks will supply about 40,500 TPY of hot-rolled
bands to feed Otelinox's 30,000-TPY stainless sheet and strip mill (cold mill).
The Galati Steelworks, which is some 270 km away, is the country's largest
integrated plant and is expected to have an annual production capacity of about
7 million tons of raw steel by 1980.
2.02      Under the Romanian system, a project becomes the State Plan for execution
only after financing arrangements are completed and the final technical and
economic study of the project is approved by the Council of Ministers, the supreme
administrative body in the country. This study which is prepared after receipt
and evaluation of equipment tenders and subsequent award of contracts, is ex-
pected to be completed by early 1975. However, the Romanian authorities have
accelerated this procedure for this project and the implementation of the project
is underway on basis of a preliminary technical and economic study approved by
the Council of Ministers.
B.   Enterprise
2.03      The Enterprise has been established, and although it is part of the
Tirgoviste complex, is planned to be a separate, autonomous entity, at least
initially. This is intended to give the new plant particular management attention
and facilitate project implementation and control as well as loan processing.
The possibility of a future merger of Otelinox with Tirgoviste I, however, can-
not be precluded. Although such a merger in the context of the Romanian centrally-
planned economy, may not have the same significance as in most other Bank member
countries, the Bank wishes to be assured that such a merger would not adversely
affect the project.   Moreover, agreement has been reached that the Enterprise
will not be dissolved without the prior consent of the Bank.
2.04      Otelinox, as all enterprises in Romania, will be essentially a pro-
duction-oriented organization whose principal function is to meet the output
targets set in the annual plan. Any major changes in production volume, product
mix, organizational structure and enterprise's investments have to be approved
by higher authorities. Furthermore, an enterprise's financial requirements
are met from State funds and its net benefits (net profits after statutory and
other allocations) are, in turn, transferred to the State Budget. In short,
an enterprise has only limited independence.
C. Relationship with Government Agencies
2.05      Various government bodies are concerned with the development and
coordination of industry in Romania. In the case of Otelinox, the Ministry
of Metallurgical Industries is the main authority. A detailed description
of the organization and functions of this Ministry is given in Annex 2-1.



- 3 -
The main agencies of that Ministry concerned with the project are the Steel
Central, IPROLAM and METAROM. Other organizations actively involved in the
implementation of the Otelinox project and its operations are the Investment
Bank and the National Bank. The role of these various organizations is ex-
plained below.
1.   Steel Central
2.06      Otelinox falls under the Steel Central which is the planning, coor-
dinating and supervisory agency and thus, in a sense, the holding company
for all steel plants in Romania. The responsibilities of the Steel Central
are given in Annex 2-2. It has competent and experienced management experts,
engineers, scientists, technicians and other specialists to perform those
services including research and development, which the seven individual
enterprises belonging to the Steel Central cannot efficiently support by
themselves. More recently, the Steel Central as well as Centrals for other
industries have gained in importance, thus reducing somewhat the detailed
control that the technical ministries concerned have traditionally exercised
over the member enterprises. Usually, the General Manager of the Central is
also the General Manager of the largest enterprise under it. The Steel
Central coordinates the annual production plans of its members, monitors
their performance and, after consolidation, forwards their annual financial
statements to the Ministry of Metallurgical Industries and the Ministry of
Finance. Although it deals with all matters of the steel sector as a whole
and is thus involved in major facility planning decisions and supervision of
enterprise operations, the Steel Central does not play a significant role
in the physical execution of projects.
2.   IPROLAM and METAROM
2.07      IPROLAM, the Institute for Engineering of Rolling Mills and one of
the design institutes of the Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, has pre-
pared the basic engineering designs for the project, and will act as Otelinox's
technical consultant. METAROM, the Ministry's equipment import and export agen-
cy, will deal with commercial aspects relating to the import of equipment for
the project on the basis of instructions received from Otelinox and IPROLAM.
3.   Investment Bank - The Borrower
2.08      The Investment Bank is the channel for all sources of major domestic
investment financing including (a) budget allocations; (b) depreciation funds;
and (c) the share of earnings of enterprises allocated for investment.
Recently, IB has also started to make credits on its own, though funds avail-
able for this purpose are still relatively small. However, IB administers and
controls all investment funds of the State Budget (except for agriculture and
food processing) and acts as the main fiscal agent of the Government. The
President of IB reports directly to the Ministry of Finance which has compre-
hensive authority in the planning and financing of all projects.



- 4 -
2.09      The Investment Bank is a competent organization and has wide-ranging
responsibilities in the implementation of projects. It plays a key role in the
preparation, evaluation, procurement, execution, disbursement of investment
funds and supervision of all enterprises (para. 2.08). For all projects, IB
reviews the technical and economic study before submission to the Council of
Ministers for formal approval. Thereafter, IB ensures that the project is
executed according to the approved plan. In the case of Otelinox, it will check,
with the assistance of IPROLAM and METAROM, all orders for equipment--domestic
and foreign--before they are placed, will comment on any change in contracts, and
can impose penalties on defaulting parties. Its inspectors check the appropriate-
ness of equipment deliveries and whether the projects are progressing according
to schedule. All local project-cost financing is channeled through and author-
ized by IB which also keeps complete accounting records for each project until
completion and which is therefore well suited for reporting to the Bank on the
progress in the implementation of Otelinox Project.
2.10      During the operational phase of a project, IB's functions are limited
to checking whether the enterprise is meeting the targets set in the Investment
Plan. IB has no legal authority to bring its views to bear directly on the
management of an enterprise.  In practice, however, IB can recommend necessary
operational action to the Ministry of Finance, which, in turn, can act through
the Ministry concerned with the project. It is for reason of the important
and broad role that the Investment Bank is playing in the industrial field,
particularly in the project's implementation, that it has been chosen as the
Borrower of the Bank loan.
4.   National Bank
2.11      The National Bank (NB), which combines the functions of a Central
bank and a commercial bank, is responsible for planning, coordinating and
meeting the working capital needs of enterprises once they go into operation.
Every operating enterprise maintains its current accounts with NB and is re-
quired to do all transactions through these accounts. Each year, enterprises
have to negotiate with NB their working capital needs for the coming year.
D.   Management
2.12      The management of Otelinox will consist of the Workers' General
Assembly, the Working People's Committee, and the General Manager who will
be assisted by a Management Committee composed of three to seven key personnel
of the Enterprise. The Workers' General Assembly, which will include all the
workers of Otelinox will meet twice a year to examine the operating results
of the Enterprise and review the performance of the Working People's Committee,
which will consist of 13-15 members of whom 4-5 will be elected by the
Assembly and the rest will be those who hold specific positions within the
Enterprise. The Committee will be the decision-making body of the Enterprise
on general matters. The General Manager, who will be chairman of the Committee,
will make all day-to-day decisions. For details of management responsibilities
see Annex 2-3.



-5-
2.13      In Romania, General Managers are usually appointed by the Ministers
of the relevant Technical Ministries for an indefinite period. In the case of
Otelinox, the Minister of Metallurgical Industries appointed Mr. Constantin
Gingarasu, 42, as General Manager in 1973. A graduate in mechanical engineer-
ing of the University of Bucharest, Mr. Gingarasu has had about 15 years
experience in steel plant operations. For the eight years prior to his new
assignment, he was Plant Manager of the Heavy Plate Mill of the Galati Steel-
works. He is well-trained and experienced and is considered capable of
managing Otelinox efficiently.
2.14      Most of the key personnel to support him are expected to be drawn
from the existing steel plants under the Romanian system of transferring
selected employees from existing to newly-created enterprises. The Romanian
authorities have confirmed that they will appoint well-qualified personnel
to fill these other key positions according to a time schedule which is
satisfactory to the Bank. No problem is foreseen in getting adequate trained
manpower for the project.  During project implementation, the primary respon-
sibility of the General Manager is to coordinate the functions of IPROLAM,
local contractors, and other entities involved to ensure the plant's proper
and timely execution. After the commissioning of the plant, his major concern
will be to provide operating management under the guidance of the Working
People's Committee to see that Otelinox meets the production and efficiency
targets set in Romania's annual plans.
II. THE MARKET
A.   Introduction
3.01      The Romanian steel market and prices are described in detail in
Annexes 3-1 and 3-2. This chapter deals with these subjects only insofar as
they specifically relate to the types of steel to be produced by Otelinox,
i.e., stainless steel sheet and strip and alloy steel rod and bar products.
The main consumers of these products encompass a broad range of industries
such as producers of equipment for food processing, chemicals, paper, glass
textiles, ship-building, power distribution as well as industries producing
cutlery, domestic appliances, machine tools, motor vehicles, farm implements
and tractors, railway rolling stock, electronic and electrical equipment,
precision instruments, construction machinery and cranes. These industries
have been growing rapidly--at over 13% a year on average--during the past
two decades (1950-1970) and are planned to maintain the momentum.
3.02      Certain heavy consumers of special steel, with a substantial export
orientation primarily towards the COMECON countries, are targeted to expand
at an accelerated pace. For example, during the current Five-Year Plan
(1971-1975), machine tool production is to grow at an average rate of 32%;
electrical equipment, at 27%; precision instruments, at 39%; and chemicals,



-6-
at 16-18%. Engineering and metal-transforming industries as a whole are
planned to expand at about 15% a year compared to about 15.8% per annum during
1966-1970. At the halfway point of the current Plan, indications are that the
above goal will be met. For example, engineering and metal-transforming
industries actually exceeded the targets in 1971 and 1972 by growing at 15.9%
and 16.1% respectively. These industries have attained high significance both
as domestic capital goods suppliers and as earners of foreign exchange
through exports.
B.   Overall Market
3.03      Romania is one of the fastest growing economies in Eastern Europe
and is likely to remain so in the near future. Per capita steel consumption
(in crude steel equivalent), which may be considered as an indicator of the
economic advancement of the country, has increased from 132 kg in 1960 to
318 kg 1/ in 1970, reflecting an annual growth rate of 11%; it is projected
by the Romanian authorities to reach the high level of 682 kg in 1980, com-
parable to the U.S. consumption in 1969. This is an ambitious target but,
considering the rapid pace of industrial development in Romania, that level
may be reached. If so, total steel consumption in crude steel equivalent
would rise to 15.8 million tons in 1980 from about 7 million tons in 1970.
During the same period, crude steel production is planned to jump from 6.5
million tons to 17 million tons, with Romania becoming a small net exporter
of steel.
3.04      Total consumption of special steels (in crude steel equivalent) grew
from about 238,000 tons in 1965 to 668,000 tons in 1970, or by about 16% per
year. Further, with industrialization, the share of special steels in total
crude steel consumption in Romania increased from 5.8% to 9.1% during1965-
1972, when total steel usage nearly doubled. In 1980, special steels are
expected to account for about 2 million tons or about 12% of total crude
steel consumption. Due to differences in the classification standards for
special steels in various countries and their very wide variety, inter-country
comparisons of special steel consumption are difficult. However, the pro-
jected proportion of special steels in total steel consumption in Romania
in 1980 appears to be more or less in line with that at present in the U.S.
but lower than that in Sweden. In terms of finished products, domestic
special steel consumption is likely to reach about 1.37 million tons 2/, with
high-alloy steels (including stainless) and high-strength low-alloy (HSLA)
steels each accounting for about half.
1/   U.N. figures.  The Romanian authorities estimate is 348 kg.
2/   Assuming 1.46 tons of crude steel is required to produce 1 ton of
special steel products.



-7-
3.05       Special steels can be divided into two broad categories:  (1)
stainless steels; and (2) alloy steels. In 1970, total consumption 1/ of
stainless steel in Romania was about 17,700 tons, entirely imported. Con-
sumption rose significantly during the next three years, by about 15%
annually reaching 26,600 tons in 1973, i.e. 1.25 kg per capita. This is
still a relatively low consumption compared to recent levels of about 4 kg
in Italy and over 20 kg in Sweden. 2/ In the developed countries as a
whole, the average present per capita consumption is estimated at around
5 kg.
3.06       Consumption of stainless steel in the world is increasing at about
8-10% a year and of special steel as a whole at a lower rate of 5%. However,
in countries such as Romania with low current consumption levels and in the
process of rapid industrialization, consumption can be expected to grow sig-
nificantly faster. In Romania it is forecast to increase by an annual rate
of 19.5% during the current decade reaching 104,000 tons in 1980; however,
this seems somewhat optimistic judging from the actual growth rate of 15%
during 1970-1973. In the case of alloy steels, Romanian authorities have
projected that consumption would increase by 15% annually, in line with the
expected expansion rate of the engineering and metal-transforming industries,
the main consumers of alloy steels; this appears realistic.
C.    Market for Otelinox Products
3.07       As mentioned previously, Otelinox is to produce stainless sheet
and strip 3/ (30,000 TPY) and high-alloy (110,000 TPY) as well as RSLA
(10,000 TPY) rod and bar products. The following table shows the past and
projected trend in consumption (1968-1980) of Otelinox's products:
Consumption of Products of the Type to be Made by Otelinox, 1968-1980
(in 000 tons)
1968     1970      1973      1980 /a   Growth Rates (x)
actual              Proj.     1968-73  1970-80
Stainless Sheet and
Strip                3.9     4.7        8.7      23.0         17.5      17.0
Rod and Bar Products:
- High alloy
(incl. stainless)  43.0    52.0        73.0     209.0         11.2      15.0
- Low Alloy (HSLA)   32.0    35.0        49.0      211.0         9.0      19.5
Total             78.9    91.7      130.7     443.0
% of All
Special Steel           n.a.   27%        28%        32%
/a    By the Romanian Ministry of Metallurgical Industries.
1/    The past consumption trend in Romania does not reflect actual demand,
mainly because of restricted imports due to foreign exchange difficulties.
However, with increased local production, the consumption will be gradually
freed from the foreign exchange constraint.
2/    It is one of the major exporters of industrial goods containing stainless
steel.
3/    Up to 3 mm thickness.  Stainless plates will be produced at the integrated
Galati Steelworks.



-8-
3.08      Total consumption of stainless sheet and strip in 1973 was about
8,710 tons, representing some 32% of total consumption of stainless steel pro-
ducts that year. During the last five years (1968-1973), consumption of
stainless sheet and strip, based entirely on imports, increased at an annual
rate of 17.5% and even at 22% between 1970 and 1973 and thus considerably
faster than stainless steel as a whole in spite of the general foreign ex-
change constraint. Still, the consumption level is low compared to that in
developed countries. In the future, because of the rise in domestic production
and thus increased availability of such products, consumption could be expected
to grow at a faster rate than in the past; however, the Romanian authorities
have assumed that the future rate would be more or less in line with the past
rate and that consumption, therefore, would reach about 23,000 tons in 1980.
Considering the Romanian record of exceeding planned targets, particularly
in the stainless steel consuming industries, it is likely that the requirements
for stainless sheet and strip will grow at a higher rate of 19-20%. On this
basis, total consumption of such products in 1980 might be expected to range
between 27,000 and 29,000 tons, i.e. 4,000 - 6,000 tons above the Plan projec-
tion.
3.09      In the case of high-alloy rod and bar products, demand is projected
by the Romanian authorities to increase, during the present decade, in step
with the production growth envisaged in engineering and metal-transforming
industries, i.e. at 15%. As for HSLA rod and bar products, total consumption
is forecast to rise at an annual rate of 19.5% which appears high when com-
pared to the 9% annual rate during 1968-1973. However, any shortfall in domes-
tic demand for HSLA steels is not expected to have much of an adverse impact
on Otelinox due to its small share in the domestic market (about 5%); good
demand prospects internationally; and export incentives that the State would
be prepared to give, if necessary. Furthermore, it must be realized that any
temporary demand shortfall in special steels can be countered by shifting
production of certain special steels away from the less efficient Romanian
producers to Otelinox and, in extreme situations to even roll ordinary carbon
steels.
D.  Production of Special Steels
3.10      Otelinox would be the first and only producer of stainless sheet
and strip in Romania and, since its production is expected to cover demand
through the early 1980's, no further capacity is planned to be added for the
time being. For alloy rod and bar products, however, there are already three
other producers in existence and new production capacities, besides that of
Otelinox, will come on stream as shown in the following table:



-9-
Production of Alloy Rod and Bar Products in Romania
(tons)
Year of Start of
Plants                1970         1977        1980 /1    Alloy Steel Production
Resita               21,000        25,000      25,000(20,000)         1913
Cimpia Turzii         22,000       30,000      30,000(26,000)        1956
Braila                10,000       20,000      20,000(17,000)         1968
Tirgoviste I            -         143,500     190,000(105,000)        1975
Otelul Rosu             -          30,000      35,000(33,000)         1977
Otelinox                -            -        120,000(10,000)
Total           53,000     248,500      420,000(211,000)
/1    Shown within brackets is the quantity of HSLA steel variety in the total.
3.11       In conceiving the Tirgoviste complex, i.e., Tirgoviste I and
Otelinox, several other alternatives for expanding special steel capacity
were considered, including the possible expansion of Galati and other existing
steel plants having production facilities for special steels. However, it
was found preferable to establish a new, large, modern and efficient mill at
Tirgoviste because of good location with respect to its proximity to principal
markets; good rail and road connections to the rest of the country, and other
suitable infrastructure facilities; and the availability of trained manpower
in the area. Otelinox would primarily produce high-alloy grades, accounting
for about 53% of Romanian production of these grades in 1980, and together
with Tirgoviste I would contribute nearly three-fourths to Romania's total
production of alloy rod and bar products. There will be very limited com-
petition among the special steel producers not only because their production
is fully planned but their product mix and dimensions largely differ, with
Otelinox concentrating on the smaller, and thus more difficult to produce,
dimensions of higher-grade steels.
E. Product Mix
3.12       In the case of stainless sheet and strip, Otelinox's product mix
appears at variance with that commonly used in industrialized countries. For
example, in the U.S., the most popular grade of stainless steel is AISI 304, 1/
while in Romania it is envisaged to be AISI 321, a higher-quality product,
which at present sells for about 35% more than the former. Other high-value
grades also seem to have been given more emphasis in the product mix than is
usual in other countries.
1/    Grade numbers as given by the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI).



- 10 -
3.13      Therefore, Otelinox intends to employ metallurgists with experience
in product applications to review the proposed end uses and advise the
Enterprise on the appropriate grades for production from both technical and
economic consideration and will submit to the Bank a report on the principal
findings of the metallurgists by March 1976. It should be noted that any
resulting modification in the Otelinox product mix will have no effect on
equipment selection of the project and only a minor impact on its financial
and economic viability, but may avoid the use of higher grade, and therefore
more expensive, steels where lower grades would suffice.
3.14      The product mix of the Enterprise's 120,000 TPY alloy rod and bar
mill output in 1980 is projected as follows:
Product Mix of Otelinox Rod and Bar Mill
tons           %
High-Alloy Steels
Alloy Steel for Machine building                    48,340         40.0
Ball bearing steel                                  26,300         22.0
Spring steel                                        23,300         19.5
Tool steels                                          8,300          6.9
High-speed steels                                    2,550          2.1
Stainless and heat-resistant steels                  1,210          1.0
HSLA Steels                                              10,000          8.5
120,000       100.0
This product mix is based on the input requirements of the engineering and
machine-building industries and appears realistic.
F.   Imports and Exports
3.15      As already noted, the Romanian demand for stainless sheet and strip
is at present met almost entirely from imports and this situation will con-
tinue until 1978, when Otelinox goes into production. In 1972, the import
of such products reached 8,120 tons and is forecast to nearly double by 1977.
However, with the commissioning of Otelinox, Romania is expected to become a
net exporter of stainless sheet and strip from 1979 to 1982, with net exports
peaking at 7,000 tons in 1980--equivalent to about 23% of the Enterprise's
planned stainless steel production -and tapering off thereafter. It is not
yet clear where these exports would go, especially in the face of possible
keen competition from Japan, France, Sweden and Italy. Furthermore, Otelinox
will have no control over such exports; they will be handled by Metal Import-
Export, a government agency in charge of foreign trade in semi-finished and
finished metal products. However, these exports are not a major factor in
the project as at most they would account for only 5% and 14% of Otelinox's



- 11 -
total volume of output and net sales revenue respectively in 1980 and would
by mid-1980's be fully absorbed by increasing domestic demand. Moreover, the
exportable surplus may be lower than projected by the Romanian authorities
as their domestic demand projections for stainless sheet and strip appear to
be conservative (para. 3.09).
3.16      In the case of the alloy rod and bar products, net imports are ex-
pected to rise from 51,000 tons in 1972 to 100,000 tons in 1975, but decline
gradually during the following years with the commissioning of Tirgoviste I,
Otelul Rosu and Otelinox until 1980 when Romania will have reached self-suffi-
ciency in these products. It is likely that a small part of production will
be available for exports (para. 3.10) while some quantities of specific alloy
rod and bar products, which cannot be produced economically in the country,
will be imported. The Ministry of Metallurgical Industries has agreed to
carry out a study of the export potential for Romanian special steel with a
view to developing an export strategy in market economy countries and submit
a report to the Bank by March 1976.
C.   Steel Prices
3.17      In Romania, steel products are sold at constant prices fixed by the
State. Prices are established by type, grade, shape and dimension of the
products. In addition, there is an extensive system of additional charges
for special characteristics such as heat treatment, higher strengths, degree
of finish, and packing. In fixing prices for steel products, consideration
is given to production costs and economic benefit (profit) levels as recom-
mended by the Steel Central.
3.18      The established prices for alloy rod and bar products have remained
virtually unchanged since they were fixed in the mid-1960's. In the case of
stainless sheet and strip, which are not yet locally produced, comprehensive
prices were set only in 1973, when IPROLAM prepared its feasibility study for
the Otelinox project. In establishing these prices, the Romanian authorities
have used the actual import prices (c.i.f. Romanian border) of early 1973,
when steel prices in general were rising steeply and exporting countries were
charging export premiums because of steel shortages in many parts of the
world. As a result, compared to 1973 listed basic domestic prices in Western
Europe and the U.S., the Romanian prices 1/ for stainless sheet and strip are
considerably higher and those for alloy rod and bar products are considerably
lower than in Western Europe, Japan and the U.S. Details are given in Annex 3-2.
H.   Location, Distribution and Transportation
3.19      Tirgoviste is in a favorable location with respect to major indus-
trial centers such as Arad, Bucharest, Brasov, Braila, Constanta, Craiova,
Jassy, Ploiesti and Timisoara among others. Most of Otelinox products are
expected to be marketed within a radius of 200 km, and most of the transporta-
tion to consuming industries is expected to be by rail. According to the
1/   Based on a conversion rate of Lei 20= 1 US$.



- 12 -
distribution system in Romania, consumers are obligated to take deliveries
from steel plants in accordance with predetermined quantities established by
advance contracts and to maintain on the average, a two-week inventory. Any
consumer failing to accept delivery in time is liable for penalties.
3.20      There are, at present, no warehouses or service centers for special
steel products. However, for efficient distribution and service, the establish-
ment of warehouses-some with shearing and finishing equipment--for Otelinox
products and possibly others, near major centers of consumption may become
advisable. Further, it is to be noted that Otelinox tentatively plans to
ship 50% of its stainless flat products and 58% of its alloy rod and bar
products in the form of coils, with the rest in cut lengths. In the absence
of intermediate warehouses or coilhandling facilities near consuming industries,
it may be necessary to ship more of Otelinox products in the form of cut
lengths than is currently foreseen. This aspect and the future establishment
of intermediate warehouse facilities will therefore be examined in detail
by the Steel Central and Otelinox with prospective technical know-how suppliers
before equipment orders are placed (para. 4.03).
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Physical Description of Project
4.01      The project consists of two rolling mills with related finishing
equipment and support facilities designed to produce 150,000 TPY of finished
products. Otelinox will not be an integrated steelworks; it will receive
semi-finished products (billets and hot-rolled coils) from other enterprises
and will roll these semis into finished steel products for sale. The project
consists basically of two separate plants which will operate independently:
a cold mill to produce annually 30,000 tons of stainless steel sheet and
strip; and a bar mill to produce 120,000 tons of alloy rod and bar products
per year. 1/ The types and grades of steel to be produced are shown in
Annex 4-1.
4.02      The cold mill consists of a coil preparation line, pickling and
annealing facilities, a grinding line, a Sendzimir-type cold reduction mill,
and a two-high temper mill. The bar mill consists of one 70-ton/hour billet
reheat furnace, one single-strand continuous two-high hot-rolling mill with
up to 28 stands, cooling beds, coilers, and equipment for heat treatment. In
addition, the project will have grinding, polishing, slitting, shearing,
levelling, inspection, packaging and shipping facilities. Suitable support
facilities, including offices, maintenance shops, laboratories, roll shops,
utilities and transportation will also be provided. A more detailed list of
processing equipment in each plant as well as general facilities is given in
Annex 4-2.
1/   The basic rolling mill will be scheduled for effective operation for only
6,000 hours/year in the operating plan for the project as against about
7,000 hours/year ultimately attainable, indicating that additional poten-
tiai capacity does exist for increased production.



- 13 -
B.   Processes to be Utilized
4.03      The basic processes selected for Otelinox in the course of studying
its feasibility are judged to be efficient, modern and economically competi-
tive among world producers of special steels; they will not be altered except
that specifications of some equipment may be modified after the selection of
equipment and technical know-how suppliers to take advantage of the latest
technological improvements. A detailed description of the processes and pro-
cessing sequences selected for both mills is given in Annex 4-3 and process
flow charts are shown in Annex 4-4.
C.  Project Execution - Division of Responsibilities
4.04      Although responsibilities for the execution of the project will
largely be delegated to various Government bodies, the Enterprise will have
overall responsibility for the coordination of the project and related activ-
ities of the other agencies and for ensuring an acceptable plant from the
operational viewpoint. The Enterprise will also be responsible for review
and approval of final acceptance tests and commissioning of the plant, in
addition to its subsequent operations.
4.05      The principal organizations responsible for project implementation
will be IPROLAM and METAROM, two agencies of the Ministry of Metallurgical
Industries, working closely with the Ministry of Industrial Construction and
the Investment Bank. The basic division of their functions in project exe-
cution is described below: IPROLAM acts as a technical consultant for the
project and as such is responsible for general process engineering, detailed
civil engineering, engineering for part of the local equipment and for support
(including infrastructure) facilities, preparation of bid documents and techni-
cal aspects of bid evaluation. It will coordinate construction and erection
schedules, and carry out technical supervision through start-up and follow-up
until production targets are achieved. It will also supervise the progress
of civil works and equipment supply. Inasmuch as IPROLAM has the right to make
certain changes in project design in consultation with the Government, it was
agreed that major design modifications can be made only with the prior consent
of the Bank; METAROM is responsible for the importation of machinery and
equipment. It also looks after commercial aspects of bid evaluation and
contract negotiations with foreign suppliers; the Ministry of Industrial
Construction or the Ministry of Metallurgical Industries will be in charge
of plant construction and erection in accord with the contracts; the Investment
Bank (the Borrower) will provide the accounting functions for the project,
arrange for funds for project completion and supervise disbursements and
utilization of project funds in line with their broad role described in
para. 2.08.
4.06      The above agencies are staffed with adequate, qualified and experi-
enced personnel to carry out these responsibilities within the established
organizational framework and have done so on numerous previous occasions.
Overall, the arrangements are adequate to assure satisfactory project imple-
mentation.



- 14 -
D.   Staffing
4.07      The Otelinox plant is expected to employ about 1,612 persons, of
whom 625 will work in the cold mill, 673 in the bar mill and 314 in plant
management and services common to both plants. More detailed manning tables
are given in Annex 4-5. The above staffing proposed by the project sponsors
appears to include a rather generous workforce compared to similar plants in
Europe and it may be possible to eventually reduce this level by approximately
20%. But even if such a reduction were not made, economics of the project
would not be significantly affected since prevailing Romanian wage scales are
low. However, as labor costs increase in the future, this factor could become
more important.
4.08      The project is in a favorable position with respect to staffing and
training due to: (1) existence of a large, relatively experienced industrial
work force in Romania, especially in the basic steel/metal processing fields;
and (2) the Government practice of transferring skilled and experienced per-
sonnel from existing enterprises to new plants as required. Otelinox may,
therefore, be able to achieve a somewhat faster production buildup than other
similar new steel plants in the less developed countries. Training and
recruitment plans have already been worked out in some detail; they are de-
scribed in Annex 4-5. Personnel selection for management positions has also
started: many key managers will be hired by the end of 1974.
4.09      Specific training arrangements have been worked out.  Training
activities both in Romania and abroad and their proper coordination will be
included in the scope of the technical assistance and know-how to be provided
by one or more foreign operating steel companies as a part of major equipment
supply contracts. The training program will cover all operations at Otelinox
including specialized operating and maintenance techniques and standard prac-
tices, training at selected facilities at Galati and Trigoviste (to assure
maximum and most efficient utilization of the project's rolling mills) and
the supply of training manuals, standard practice manuals, and a continuing
interchange of information. Operational assistance is expected to last for
at least five years after project completion. In general, the plans for
staffing and training are considered satisfactory.
E.   Ecology
4.10      Otelinox, being a rolling operation, presents fewer ecological
hazards than an integrated steel plant. However, Otelinox does have pickling
operations which result in effluents containing sulfuric, nitric and hydra-
fluoric acids. Acids released by pickling will not be regenerated as in some
larger operations, but will be neutralized in a special facility built for
that purpose. Liquid effluents will be treated for removal of oil, grease,
suspended solids, and scale prior to dumping. A description of these facili-
ties and their expected costs, along with pertinent ecology legislation, is
contained in Annex 4-6.



- 15 -
4.11      The plan to neutralize and treat pickling line effluents and, other
liquids is generally acceptable. However, the release of neutralized acids
with fluorine compounds may still pose some health hazards including toxic
side effects. Since the final selection of processes for the project has
not yet been made, additional review will be necessary to evaluate the over-
all ecology aspects, particularly the reasonableness of the existing standards
and degree of compliance thereto. Assurances were obtained, that Otelinox
carry out such additional review and take whatever subsequent action is
necessary to comply with environmental requirements.
F.   Future Expansion Plans
4.12      The Bank is satisfied that the project sponsors have carefully
considered the relationship between the present project and subsequent expan-
sion stages, thus providing for economic expansion in the future. The basic
plan is to double the capacity of the bar mill and to increase the flat pro-
duct capacity by about 30% in the second stage of plant development, probably
in the early 1980's. Additional details on long-range facility planning are
given in Annex 4-7. These plans appear to be technically sound. However,
Otelinox will exchange views with the Bank prior to any expansion of its plant.
V. CAPITAL COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A.   Project Cost
5.01      Capital costs of the project, detailed in Annex 5-1, are summarized
below:



- 16 -
Summary of Capital Cost Estimates
Lei Million                US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total   Local    Foreign  Total   %
Equipment & Spares /1      381.6  1,247.5  1,629.1   19.1        62.4    81.5  46.8
Engineering, Know-How and
Technical Assistance    122.2    102.8    225.0    6.1          5.1    11.2   6.4
Construction and
Installation             905.7         -    905.7   45.3          -    45.3  26.0
Supervision and
Start-up                  33.5         -     33.5    1.7          -      1.7   1.0
Preoperating Expenses       14.1       4.0      18.1    0.7       0.2      0.9   0.5
Sub-total           1,457.1  1,354.3  2,811.4   72.9        67.7   140.6  80.7
Contingencies:
Physical                138.4    149.0    287.4    6.9         7.4    14.3   8.2
Price                       -    225.2    225.2        -      11.3    11.3   6.4
Total Fixed Assets 1,595.5  1,728.5  3,324.0   79.8         86.4   166.2  95.3
Working Capital
Requirement              156.3       3.7    160.0    7.8        0.2      8.0   4.7
Total Project Cost 1,751.8  1,732.2  3,484.0   87.6         86.6   174.2 100.0
Interest During
Construction /2           38.5    183.4    221.9    1.9         9.2    11.1
Total Financing
Required          1,790.3  1,915.6  3,705.9   89.5        95.8   185.3
/1   CIF plant site.  This project will be exempted from all duties on
imported equipment and spares.
/2   Entirely attributable to the Bank loan.
5.02      The original capital cost estimates prepared by IPROLAM in mid-1973
on the basis of preliminary discussions with prospective equipment suppliers
were revised upward by the Bank in early 1974 anticipating the expected price
level of late 1974 to arrive at the above estimates; they reflect consultation
with prospective suppliers and evaluation of the capability of Romanian
equipment manufacturers. Local equipment as well as civil construction and
installation costs are based on Romanian estimates prepared by using published
fixed prices.  Local cost estimates in Romania are usually very accurate, not
only because they use fixed prices, but also because the volume of civil works
and the materials used are assessed in great detail. While in the case of
this project, such detailed assessment will only be made at the time the
final technical and economic study is prepared (i.e., in early 1975), they
are sufficiently accurate now to serve as a basis for a reasonably firm
estimate of costs. Costs of technical assistance, know-how and engineering
are based on U.S. and European experience, and supervision, start-up and
preoperating expenses reflect past experience in Romania on similar works.



- 17 -
5.03      A physical contingency of 10% has been added to total fixed cost,
and a 10% per year price escalation is included in the foreign exchange costs
of equipment and technical assistance. Compared with past Bank practice,
this is an unusually high price escalation provision but is considered justi-
fied in view of expected added cost increases due to some delayed effects of
the higher energy costs, and also near-full order books of steel equipment
manufacturers.  No price escalation has been added to local costs, since they
are based on fixed prices. In all, the contingency provisions - accounting
for 15% of total project cost - are considered adequate and the capital cost
estimates realistic.
5.04      Of total financing required for the project of about Lei 3.7 bil-
lion (US$185 million), nearly Lei 1.9 billion (US$96 million) -- about 52%
of the total - is in foreign exchange, including about Lei 183 million (US$9
million) for interest during construction. Project costs are about equally
divided between the cold mill and the bar mill.
B.   Working Capital
5.05      Permanent working capital requirements (Annex 5-2) are estimated at
Lei 160 million (US$8 million), of which only about Lei 4 million would be
needed in foreign exchange. They are comparatively low partly because de-
livery of raw materials and finished products is strictly planned and coordi-
nated by the State and partly because funds are required only for operational
and not for commercial needs. Moreover, since the National Bank, which on
behalf of the State is in charge of working capital financing for industry,
provides prompt credits to cover accounts receivable, no provision for such
credits has been made in the above calculation. Adequate funds for working
capital will be made available by the State as and when required.
C.   Financing Plan
5.06      The financing plan is as follows:
Financing Plan
Lei million                   US$ million
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Loan Funds
IBRD                     -   1,400.0  1,400.0          -    70.0       70.0
State Funds for:
Fixed Capital       1,595.5    328.5  1,924.0    79.8       16.4       96.2
Working Capital       156.3       3.7    160.0      7.8      0.2        8.0
Interest during
Construction         38.5    183.4    221.9       1.9      9.2       11.1
1J7903. :1,915.6  3,705.9    89.5       95.8      185.3



- 18 -
5.07      The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million equivalent will be made to
the Investment Bank (para. 1.02) and guaranteed by the State. The loan will
be for 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the prevailing interest rate
of 7-1/4% per annum. Otelinox will receive the loan proceeds at a cost of
9% and on otherwise identical terms, with a guarantee fee of 1-3/42 accruing
to the State.
5.08      The Bank loan would cover about four-fifths of total foreign exchange
requirements of the project. The rest of the foreign exchange and all the
local financing requirements would be met by the State by way of budget allo-
cations and in the form of interest-free advances. Details on the type of
financing and the procedures used in making it available for investments in
Romania are given in Annex 5-3. All funds for fixed investments for projects
are channelled through the Investment Bank and those for working capital
through the National Bank. Any funds, whether in foreign exchange or local
currency, needed to (1) complete the project; (2) cover any possible cash
losses in the initial operating years; and (3) provide adequate working capital,
will be met promptly as needed by the State.
VI. ALLOCATION OF BANK LOAN, DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT
A.   Allocation of Bank Loan
6.01      The project is to be bid in two large single-responsibility packages
-- cold mill and bar mill -- with the engineering, know-how and technical as-
sistance, including training, attached to them (para. 4.09). The Bank loan
is to be used to meet the costs of a major portion of equipment (mostly im-
ported) and engineering, know-how and technical assistance, including training,
of these two packages and the foreign exchange component of foreign consultant
services. Detailed information on the specific equipment packages and other
items to be financed by the Bank is given in Annex 6-1 and summarized below:
Allocation of Bank Loan
(US$ million)
Cold Mill     Bar Mill      Total      %
Equipment and Spares                    26.2           23.5       49.7    70.0
Engineering, Know-how and
Technical Assistance                   4.1 /1         0.8        4.9      7.0
Contingencies                            9.5            5.9        15.4    22.0
Total                              39.8          30.2        70.0   100.0
Z of total internationally bid
packages /2                          100%            64.8%      73.1%
/1   Includes consultant services for procurement (para. 6.06).
/2   Excludes the foreign exchange component of working capital and interest
during construction.



- 19 -
6.02      The Romanian authorities have requested the Bank to finance 100%
of the cost of the internationally-bid cold mill package with the balance of
the loan to be utilized for the bar mill package. With respect to the latter,
the Bank loan would finance 65% of the cost of internationally bid equipment
and spares, technical assistance, know-how and engineering. All foreign pro-
curement for both mills will be in accordance with Bank guidelines. While
no Romanian supplier is expected to participate in the cold mill package, local
sub-supply in the bar mill is possible.
B. Disbursement
6.03      The Bank loan would be disbursed against the cost of eligible
categories of the cold and bar mill packages as mentioned above (para. 6.01).
A schedule of estimated quarterly disbursements is given in Annex 6-2. Although
the current cost estimates indicate that the proceeds of the Bank loan will be
fully needed for these eligible categories, it was agreed that any undisbursed
loan portion, on account of cost savings, could be used for interest during
construction on the Bank loan. Also, in order to avoid any delays in the exe-
cution of the project the Bank has agreed to disburse up to US$3 million for
downpayment on each of the two contracts but make subsequent disbursement con-
tingent on the formal approval of the final technical and economic study (para.
2.02).
C.   Bidding Procedures
6.04      As noted above, only non-Romanian Consortium leaders are expected to
be pre-qualified for the two mill packages although there may be some additional
Romanian sub-supplies in the bar mill package (para. 6.02). A modified two
stage bidding procedure will be utilized for the two packages: initially,
preliminary technical offers are to be submitted and discussed at pre-bid
meetings; subsequently, firm technical proposals and separate price bids will
be submitted followed by consultation and modification of the technical bids
to achieve reasonable uniformity among the final technical bids; and finally,
(and only at this stage) will the original price bids be opened accompanied,
where necessary, by supplemental price bids to reflect the technical changes.
Any Romanian equipment which is to form part of these two mills but which
will not be included in the two foreign bid packages will be prescribed to all
foreign bidders alike.
D. Bidding Consortia
6.05      Each bidding consortium will be asked to supply a complete equip-
ment package together with detailed engineering, process know-how, and technical
assistance and will be composed of one or more suppliers of major equipment
associated with a suitable operating steel company. The bidder will also
supply supervision during equipment manufacture and erection, and provide
performance guarantees for at least one year after the commissioning of the
plant. Responsibility for supply and performance guarantees will fully rest



- 20 -
with the consortium leader. Although this procedure is satisfactory, there
is a likelihood that the number of bidders will be low because of the stringent
guarantee requirements in Romania coupled with the higher cost of preparing
single-responsibility bids on account of a high degree of engineering work
required to prepare bids of this type and the current uncertainties in the
equipment supply market.
E.   Local Supply
6.06      Local equipment 1/, unless forming part of the internationally bid
packages, will not be financed by the Bank nor will civil works and building
construction which will be executed by the Ministry of Industrial Construction
or the Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, the latter having accumulated
highly specialized experience in the construction of metallurgical industries.
The Bank is satisfied that the type of equipment specified to be supplied
locally can be produced in Romanian shops and within the time required, and
that the quality of civil construction is adequate.
F.   Procurement Responsibilities
6.07      As mentioned earlier (paras. 4.05 and 4.06), responsibility for
procurement will rest with IPROLAM for technical aspects and METAROM for
comnercial aspects under the supervision of Otelinox's General Manager.
In view of the past experience of the agencies involved in procurement, these
arrangements are generally sound. However, since the cold mill will be the
first of its kind in Romania involving the production of light gauge flat-rolled
stainless steel products, additional specialized expertise may become neces-
sary to assist IPROLAM in ensuring optimal design and equipment selection.
Since the need and extent for such additional expertise cannot be determined
until the technical offers are received, an understanding was reached that con-
sultants will be employed for this purpose, unless the Borrower and the Bank
agree that such assistance is not needed.
G.   Implementation Schedule
6.08      The expected timing of key events in project implementation is
given in Annex 6-3. It calls for the receipt of initial technical offers
in September 1974, with the award of contracts to begin in March 1975 and
mechanical completion of the project in the second quarter of 1978.
1/   Foreign engineering required for local equipment as well as Romanian
components included in foreign bids woild be financed by the Bank.



- 21 -
VII. RAW MATERIALS, PRODUCTION COSTS AND REVENUE
A.   Raw Materials and Utilities
7.01      At full production, the project would require about 40,500 TPY of
hot-rolled coils (from Galati) and about 146,500 TPY of billets (from Tirgo-
viste I). Otelinox is well assured of these two main raw materials and their
quality is to be controlled through adherence to strict standards with tech-
nical assistance to be supplied, as needed, by the same firm giving such assist-
ance to Otelinox (para. 4.09).
7.02      Most of the auxiliary materials such as chemicals, refractories and
rolls, which are required in small quantities, will be procured locally and
no problem is foreseen in their availability. Further details are contained
in Annex 7-1. The necessary infrastructure facilities -- principally elec-
tricity, natural gas, water and transport -- have already been installed as
part of the development of the Tirgoviste complex, with the exception of the
steam supply which needs to be expanded.
B.   Production Costs
7.03      Production cost estimates are based on an overall material yield
of 74% in the cold mill and 82% in the bar mill. These assumptions should be
conservative, in the light of experience in similar plants in Western Europe
and the U.S., as well as the skilled labor force availability in Romania.
The following table summarizes the direct production cost for the cold mill
and the bar mill as given in Annex 7-2.
Otelinox - Direct Production Cost at Planned Capacity /1
Otelinox Total
Cold Mill          Bar Mill    (Weighted Average)
(Lei/T)        (      TT7       (%) (Lei/T)         (%)
Main Raw Materials   25,263         82.1   5,353    85.8   9,335          83.8
Auxiliary Materials   2,280          7.4     141      2.2     569          5.1
Labor                    723         2.4     198      3.2     289          2.6
Utilities                767         2.5     170      2.7     303          2.7
Maintenance            1,730         5.6     380      6.1     650          5.8
Total            30,763      100.0   6 242 1000                     100.0
US$ Equivalent         1,538           -     312        -     557            -
/1   At assumed product mix.  Excludes depreciation, overheads and financial
charges.



- 22 -
7.04      In both mills, material costs would account for about 90% of total
direct production costs - the high percentage level being a particular fea-
ture of special steel rolling mills. Labor costs as a percentage of total
production costs are low in both mills partly due to the nature of proces-
sing - only rolling operation - and partly due to low direct wage costs in
Romania. Overall, Otelinox direct production costs per ton of products are
comparable to similar plants in Western Europe and the U.S. and reflect a
modern operation. The above production costs are those presently in force
(May, 1974) with the exception of labor costs which have been escalated by
7% per year between 1973 and 1980 to reflect increases in real wages.
C.   Revenue
7.05      All prices -  of both input and output -  are set and controlled
by the Government and reflect the average cost of production of all units in
a particular industry plus a margin of profit 1/ which is determined by the
State.  Details of how these prices are determined are given in Annex 7-3.
Some price revisions are scheduled before the end of 1975 to reflect: (1)
recent technological innovations and productivity increases which have led to
cost reductions; (2) possibly higher costs of energy; and (3) elimination of
relative price distortions among various commodities (Annex 7-3).
7.06      However, it is not known at this time what new level of prices will
be set by the Government and which prices will be affected. Therefore, in
the financial projections, the presently established prices for Otelinox
products have been used. For Otelinox these prices are the same for domestic
and export sales, with the State either gaining from or subsidizing export
prices, as the case may be, depending on the differential between domestic
and export prices at a given time and the exchange rates applied by the
Government. Whatever adjustments in Otelinox input and output prices may be
made, these should not affect the financial viability of the Enterprise in
view of the procedure of considering costs of production plus a reasonable
profit in fixing prices and the expected efficiency of Otelinox production
relative to other existing producers.
7.07      Revenue forecasts are based on completion of the project in the
first half of 1978 and gradual production build-up until full production is
reached in 1980, when total revenue is estimated at about Lei 2.22 billion
(US$111 million). To this revenue, based on the proposed product mix, the
cold mill would contribute 56% and the bar mill 44% (Annex 7-4) despite the
fact that the tonnage output of the bar mill would be four times that of the
cold mill. This reflects the great difference in raw material costs and sel-
ling prices between the two mills.
1/   This varies from industry to industry and is a function of capital
intensity.



- 23 -
VIIIo FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Romanian System
8.01      Under the Romanian system, targets are set in the Plan for each
enterprise with respect to annual production volume, revenue, production
costs, and benefit (profit) along with those for allocations of an enter-
prise's earnings (Annex 8-1). As a result, the primary responsibility of an
enterprise is to meet these targets and operate in such a way as to optimize
utilization of resources. This includes achieving the planned benefit, any
upward deviations from which reflect higher than normal efficiency of an
enterprise's operations. Generally, enterprises in Romania have limited
scope to change the product mix to maximize benefits and benefits are not a
guide for future investments, which are determined by the State. As all
investment financing and key operational decisions are centrally coordinated
and necessary funds are provided by the State or other sources of financing,
the financial viability of a Romanian enterprise cannot necessarily be
judged by its benefits. Consequently, the usual conventional financial
ratios as applied to Romanian enterprises have limited significance.
B.   Profitability
8.02      Detailed income and cash flow forecasts through 1984 are given in
Annexes 8-2 and 8-3 respectively. Selected items are summarized below:
Otelinox - Selected Income Statement Items
(Lei million)
1978       1979         1980      1984
Capacity Utilization (X)                   40%         93%        100%       100%
Net Sales                                 631       2,030       2,221      2,221
Benefits                                  -99         257         350        350
Benefits after financial charges         -162         135         237        271
% of net sales                          -25.7         6.7        10.7       12.2
7 of production cost                    -22.0         7.6        12.6       14.4
Cash Generation /1                        -14         311         413        447
/1   Depreciation plus benefits after compulsory deductions.
8.03      Net benefits after compulsory deductions as a percentage of net
sales are expected to increase from a loss in 1978 to 10.7% in 1980 and then
increase gradually because of reduced financial charges. Cash generation
does not actually reflect the funds available to the Enterprise because the
depreciation allowance automatically goes into a depreciation fund held by
the Investment Bank, and even the remaining net benefits are distributed
according to predetermined criteria set by the State (para. 8.04). The funds
actually available to an enterprise are the amounts predetermined in the
allocations for so-called non-centralized investments 1/ and for the reserve
funds.
1/   Mainly for repairs and replacements.



- 24 -
C.   Allocation of Benefits
8.04      Allocation of benefits is planned on the following basis and in
the following order of priority as explained in detail in Annex 8-1: (i)
mandatory allocation to the State budget (10% of total planned benefits);
(ii) bonus payments to employees, up to 2% of the actual total wages and
salaries; (iii) repayment of short-term loans; (iv) allocation to centralized
investments approved by the State; (v) allocation to non-centralized invest-
ments 1/; (vi) allocation to reserve funds; (vii) certain appropriations to
the Central; and (viii) the remainder is allocated to the State budget.
During the actual allocations, obligations to the State - items (i) and
(viii) -- have first priority and are based on the planned benefits ir-
respective of whether an enterprise actually realizes them or not. The
mandatory depreciation remittances and annual benefits will be sufficient
to cover the payments of interest and principal on the Bank loan.
8.05      In the early years of operations (1978 and 1979), profitability is
expected to be negative or low and funds available to the Enterprise from
operations may not be adequate to meet all its cash, including debt service,
obligations (para. 8.04). Therefore, as also mentioned in para. 5.08, agree-
ment was obtained that the State will provide funds necessary to cover any
shortfall and maintain an adequate level of working capital.
D.   Financial Position
8.06      Balance sheet projections put into the usual Bank format are con-
tained in Annex 8-4 and are summarized below:
Otelinox - Selected Balance Sheet Items
(Lei million)
1978      1979      1980       1984
As of December 31:
Net Working Capital                            -         45.6      51.0       17.8
Equity /1                                  2,021      1,995     1,941      1,755
Long-term Debt                             1,351      1,248     1,137        606
Ratios:  Current Ratio                          1.1       1.4       1.5        1.1
Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio       40:60     38:62      37:63     26:74
Debt Service Coverage                          -          3.2       3.0        2.8
/1   All State funds (interest free) to the Enterprise are considered as
equity.  The drop in equity is because the initial advances for the
project are recouped through depreciation.
8.07      The above ratios, based on the Bank's usual standard measurements,
are satisfactory except during the first two years of operation when they are
low or even inadequate. However, since the State will guarantee to provide
1/   Mainly for repairs and replacements.



- 25 -
Otelinox sufficient cash to allow it to meet its obligations at any time (para.
8.05) and all funds required for the Enterprise's operations are provided by
the State, there is no danger of financial stringency.
E.   Reporting Requirements
8.08      Romanian enterprises in general have elaborate reporting requirements
including weekly, monthly, quarterly, and annual reports to their respective
Centrals and the National Bank and the Investment Bank. On the whole, these
reports provide adequate information except that, as explained in Annex 8-5,
funds on the liability side of the balance sheet are identified by their
applications rather than by sources. Therefore, for the Bank to keep abreast
of the financial position of Otelinox, it is necessary for the Enterprise to
submit balance sheets in sufficient detail giving a breakdown of liabilities
by major sources and type of funds, e.g., credits from the National Bank and
the Investment Bank, State advances, the Bank loan and other borrowings.
Types, formats and frequency of reports were agreed upon with the Guarantor
and the Borrower.
P.   Auditing Requirements
8.09      Romania has a fairly elaborate control and audit system as detailed
in Annex 8-6. The primary objective of these audits is to ensure that the
activities of commercial enterprises dovetail into the national plan and are
in conformity with the set targets and allow any deviations to be brought to
the attention of the appropriate authorities. Nevertheless, the information
provided in the audit reports (submitted quarterly) is adequate for Bank
purposes. The Enterprise's financial statements will be periodically audited
by the Steel Central, the Ministry of Metallurgical Industries and the
Ministry of Finance. There is no separate organization as such for auditing
although the Court of Superior Control established in May 1973 may perform
this function in the future. The audits performed by the Steel Central and
the Ministry of Metallurgical Industries may not be completely independent
as they are also responsible for operations of the enterprises. The Ministry
of Finance which monitors activities of all Ministries and their enterprises,
is in a better position to conduct an impartial audit. Therefore, it was
agreed that the annual audit and report on the accounts of the Enterprise
be carried out by the Ministry of Finance.
G.   Financial Rate of Return
8.10      All the projections are based on constant prices as is the normal
practice in Romania. Thus, in constant value terms, the project provides a
suitable financial return of about 13%. Details of assumptions used are
given in Annex 8-7. The financial rate of return for the cold mill separately
would be somewhat higher and for the bar mill slightly lower than the overall
return. For reasons stated earlier (para. 8.01), the rate of return calcul-
ations in the Romanian context are no guide for investment decisions among
various projects. Therefore, no sensitivity tests have been made for the
financial analysis.



- 26 -
H.   Break-Even Points
8.11      The profit break-even point in 1980, after reaching full production,
would be at about 62% of the effective capacity of the plant. Considered
separately, the break-even point for the cold mill would be at 55% and for
the bar mill at 73%. The comparatively low break-even for the cold mill is
partly due to the fact that the fixed cost for the cold mill as a percentage
of its revenue is only 15% and thus lower than for the bar and partly due to
relative price distortions between the products of these two mills (para. 3.18).
Further details on break-even are provided in Annex 8-8.
IX. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.   Economic Rate of Return
9.01      The economic rate of return for the cold mill is about 14.9%, slightly
higher than that of the bar mill - approximately 14.3%. As a result, the
rate of return for the project as a whole is satisfactory at about 14.6%
Prices used for this calculation and the economic sensitivity analysis as
well as the basis for calculation of input costs and revenues are given in
Annex 9-1. International prices (CIF Romanian border) for 1972, when the
strong upswing in steel prices had not yet started but prices had recovered
from the slump of 1970 and 1971, have been used as the base for calculating
the accounting prices for valuing Otelinox inputs and outputs. As for labor,
no shadow rate has been assumed because the share of labor cost in total
operating cost is insignificant (para. 7.04).
9.02      The effect of the recent upward movement of petroleum prices on
the project is limited because: (a) Romania is relatively independent
of petroleum Imports (imports account for only about 20% of consumption) and
is in this respect more favorably placed than other major special steel
producers in Western Europe and Japan; (b) it can be assumed that prices of
special steel, the production of which is concentrated in developed countries,
will eventually reflect such increases in input costs; and (c) the fact that
even if one were to assume that energy costs would go up to the same extent
as the recent petroleum price hikes (i.e., by three times), Otelinox's direct
production costs would not increase by more than 4%.
B.   Foreign Exchange Rates
9.03      The official rate of Lei 4.97 US$1 is used only for accounting purposes.
Since 1970, the rate frequently used for invisible and capital transactions has
been Lei 14.38 per US$1. Under a new system introduced in January, 1974, the
prices of all traded goods are converted at a uniform rate of Lei 20 per US$1.00,
a rate which is considered by the Romanians as being representative of the cost
of convertible foreign exchange. For imported goods, the domestic Lei price
is found by adding to the converted foreign price a tariff rate which varies



- 27 -
for different types of goods. The rate of Lei 20 per US$1.00 has also been
used to convert national income statistics from Lei to dollars. Consequently,
this rate has been used as the base rate for calculations in the appraisal.
Sensitivity analysis has been conducted on the conversion rate by also using
a rate of Lei 25 - US$1.00. If this higher rate is used the economic rate of
return for the project increases to about 18% from 14.6%.
C.   Sensitivity Tests and Risks
9.04      The economic rates of return are higher than the financial rates
for both cold and bar mills because the prices for major inputs and outputs
fixed by the Romanian authorities are at variance with the world prices as
shown in Annex 3-2. Sensitivity tests have been made to determine the effects
of various events on the economic rates of return; they are shown in Annex
9-1 and are summarized below:
Sensitivity Tests on Economic Rates of Return (%)
Case                 Description                               Rate of Return
1.   Base Case                                                     14.6
2.   Sales Revenue Decrease 5%                                      11.7
3.   Operating Cost Increase 10%                                   10.3
4.   One Year Project Delay plus 15% Cost Overrun                   8.8
5.   Sales Revenue Decrease 5% and Operating
Cost Increase 5%                                             9.8
6.   Project Cost Increase 10% and Operating Cost
Increase 10%                                                 9.2
9.05      Since Romanian authorities have not provided sufficient data to
fully justify their proposed product mix (para. 3.12), the Bank has assumed
a modified product mix reflecting the commonly used product mix in Western
Europe to test the sensitivity of the rate of return. Even under this assump-
tion, the project provides a satisfactory return of about 12.6%. The rates
of return are, however, slightly understated due to the excess capacity built
into the bar mill. Nevertheless, the project is sensitive to moderately
adverse conditions, particularly delays in project completion. Considering
the past Romanian experience in implementing projects successfully, the
return for Otelinox is expected to be satisfactory.
9.06      There are basically three major risks that this project could face.
First, unfamiliarity with the international bidding procedures of the Bank
may prolong the project implementation period somewhat with a resulting in-
crease in project costs. However, the Romanian authorities are aware of this
problem, and continued close contact between them and the Bank during pro-
curement should minimize such delays. Second, indirect impact of continuing
high energy costs may cause the demand abroad for Romanian goods using special
steel to be lower than now expected. However, in such a case, the project
will have sufficient in-built flexibility to temporarily roll special steel
products usually rolled in less efficient mills or roll some ordinary carbon



- 28 -
steels and thus counteract any serious fall in demand for special steel in
Romania because of external factors. Finally, the present situation in the
equipment supply market coupled with the high costs in preparing bids of
this type may result in reduced competition for equipment supply.
D.   Competitiveness
9.07      The supply of raw materials and utilities seems assured to the
project and so is the provision of well-trained labor. Wage costs are much
lower in Romania than in developed countries, the average direct wage cost
being about Lei 8.0 (US$0.40) an hour. Further, labor is relatively efficient
and hard-working, the scale of operation planned for the project is economic
and the machinery proposed for Otelinox is up-to-date. Based on all these
factors, the project is expected to be able to produce special steel compe-
titively with Western Europe.
E.   Employment
9.08      The project would generate employment directly for about 1,600
persons. It will also help open up a large number of jobs in the consuming
industries, especially engineering and metal-transforming industries which
are projected to grow at the rate of 15% a year during the current decade.
But for the project, Romania would be importing much less than the production
envisaged by Otelinox over the years because of its continuing foreign ex-
change shortages, with corresponding reduction in the rate of growth of the
above-mentioned industries and employment generation in them. However, the
impact of the project on employment creation upstream is limited because mDst
raw materials (barring scrap) required for the production of main inputs -
hot-rolled bands and billets - are imported.
F.   Estimated Foreign Exchange Effects
9.09      One of the most important benefits from the project is the annual
net foreign exchange earnings to the economy after deducting all foreign
operating costs and debt service payments associated with the project. As
shown in Annex 9-2, such net annual savings at 1973 adjusted world prices
would be about US$59 million after the project achieves full production in
1980. In other words, the total foreign exchange financing required for the
project - US$96 million - would be more than covered in two years of opera-
tion of the plant at full capacity. Thus the project has a significant and
beneficial impact on Romania's foreign exchange situation. Even at the
lower world prices in effect in 1972, net annual savings would still be
US$53 million.
G.   Transfer of Technology
9.10      Transfer of technology is also an important aspect of the project
as Romania does not have previous experience in operating cold-rolling mills
for stainless sheet and strip. Further,-under the project, it is envisaged
to help adopt new technology in the existing steel plants which are proposed
to provide semi-finished products for rolling at Otelinox.



- 29 -
X. AGREEMENTS
10.01     The Loan Agreement and Guarantee Agreement will record the following
major agreements and assurances:
(a) the Enterprise will not be dissolved without prior consent
of the Bank (para. 2.03);
(b) well-qualified personnel to fill key positions will be
appointed in a manner which is satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.14);
(c) the proposed product mix will be reviewed (para. 3.13);
(d) a study of export markets for special steels will be
carried out (para. 3.16);
(e) possible establishment of steel service centers will be
examined (para. 3.20);
(f) any major modification in project designs will only be
made with prior consent of the Bank (para. 4.05);
(g) arrangements for adequate training will be made (para. 4.09);
(h) adequate measures will be taken for environmental protection
(para. 4.11);
(i) expansion of Otelinox plant will be done only after exchange
of views with the Bank (para. 4.12);
(j) funds to ensure project completion, cover any possible
operational losses and maintain adequate working capital
will be provided (paras. 5.05 and 5.08);
(k) Disbursement of Bank loan beyond US$3 million for any one
contract will be subject to approval of final technical and
economic study (para. 6.03);
(1) procurement consultant will be appointed, if necessary
(para. 6.07);
(m) Annual depreciation remittances and benefits will be sufficient
to cover payments of interest and principal on the Bank loan
(para. 8.04);
(n) reports will be submitted in agreed form and substance
(para. 8.08); and



- 30 -
(o) annual audit and report on accounts of the Enterprise will
be carried out by the Ministry of Finance (para. 8.09).
10.02          Based on the foregoing agreements and assurances received
the project provides a sound basis for a loan for the Otelinox-project
equivalent to US$70 million for 15 years, including a 5-year grace period.
Industrial Projects Department
May 21, 1974.



ANNEX 1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF TECHNICAL TERMS
Hot-Rolled Coil:      This is the basic semi-finished flAt rolled steel product
from which cold-rolled products are produced. It is rolled hot from semi-
finished steel in the slab form. The hot-rolling operation is usually done
on a continuous or semi-continuous casting basis at temperatures frequently
exceeding 12000 C. The hot-rolled coil used at Otelinox will weigh approxi-
mately 6-12 tons with thicknesses ranging from 3-5 mm and width, 0.6-1.5 m.
Cold-Rolled Sheet:   This is a general term for a flat-rolled steel product
which is hot-rolled first and, subsequently, cold reduced.  Typical size
for Otelinox cold-rolled sheet will be 1 to 1.5 mm thick and 1 m wide.
Cold-Rolling:         This rolling operation is done initially at ambient tempera-
ture without additional heating; during this operation, the product fre-
quently reaches temperatures exceeding 1700 C.
Pickling:             It is a process of removing oxide, mill scale, and oil by
subjecting strip to flexing, and processing withshot blast, and with acids
such as hydrochloric, nitric and hydrofluoric acids in the Otelinox opera-
tion.
Sendzimir Mill Processing: The cold reduction of steel on a cluster-type cold-
rolling mill. This mill frequently has small work rolls of 50-60 mm dia-
meter. Multiple processing is frequently required on stainless steel with
maximum possible reduction of about 70% without intermediate annealing.
Cold Roll, Anneal and Pickling Line: The process line wherein strip is heated
to approximately 8OO C, with controlled cooling and subsequent acid
pickling. Bright annealing, wherein little or no oxide surface coating is
forned, can be performed on this line using inert, ntmospheric gases.
Coil Grinding and Polishing Line: A process line utilizing abrasive belts to
obtain desired surface finish.
SLitting Line::       A process line for trimming edges of coils and/or multiple
slitting into as many as 8-10 narrow stripsdepending on product dimensions
required.
Cold-Rolled Shear Line: A process line designed to cut sheets into desired
lengths from cold-rolled coils. Typical sheet lengths at Otelinox would
be 2-4 m.
Stretcher Leveller: A device wherein packs of cold-rolled sheets can be stretched
in length to achieve desired flatness.
Billet:               The input for the bar-rolling mill will be billets which are
semi-finished steel products, generally square in cross section, with
dimensions of 150 mm x 150 mm or less. Typical billet dimensions for Otel-
inox will be 90 mm x 90 mm, and 100 mm x 100 mm, weighing between 300 and
700 kg.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Rod and Bar Products: For Otelinox these products will be mostly round rods
and bars with some square sections, hexagons, and small flats. Typical
dimensions for rods will be 5.2 to 12 mm and for bars, 13 to 30 mm.
Hot-Rolling Bar Mill:  Billets will be heated in a reheat furnace of the mill
at temperatures -which frequently exceed 13000 C.  The heated billets are
rolled into rod and bar products in a set of rolling mill stands.
Cooling Beds:           Large horizontal tables at the exit end of the bar mill
designed to receive hot rod and bar products immediately after rolling,
for air cooling and later transfer for assembling and bundling for storage
and shipping.
In-iustri3l Projects Department
January 1974



rANzIZDIahxL CIIaU                       s IHRllU5 ICAL IDUSTUIES
Council of
Minhisters 
State Planning Comission                                                                                                                                     M of  Ministry of Finance
(Planning of Material Balances)                                                        Na| Induicea1
Foreign Trade Enterprises:               Design and Engineering               Steel Central          Other Centrals:                    Conetruction           National        Iavestnt         Others
(1) IThAROI  - import and export              Institutes:                      Bucharest             (1) Metallurgical Process-            Trusts:               Bank            Baok
of equipmet                          (1) IP}lQT - Iron & stel                                        ing, Bucharest                 (I) Galati
(2) M1ALIDKcM-EPOR1 - import                            als                                          (2) Non-ferrous and rare           (2) Bunedoara
and export of finished               (2) IPOIM - roling mnsa             Steel Central,             metals, Slatina
products                             (3) MIM  - noaferrn-                   Bucharest            (3) Refractories, Brasov
(3)  IMIE       D4OM - import of                     projote                                         (4) Scrap, Bucharest
raw materials                        (4) IOU  - metauvgioa
(4) ALUROK - Import and export                       research
of aluminum products
Integrated Steel         Integrated Steel        Integrated Steel         Alloy Steel  C-          Otelinox5           Victoria         Otelul Hasu,             Iron Enterprise
Works, Gal-ti            Works, Hunedoara        Works, Resita            plex,Tirgeriste         Tirgo-ist.          Enterpris              Calen                  Vlahita
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






ANNEX 2-2
ROMANIA:  OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
ROLE OF ENTERPRISE, CENTRAL AND MINISTRY
1.        Within the Romanian industrial sector, planners', not consumers',
preference determines what is produced. All major policy decisions are
made by the Romanian  Government.        The framework within which all techni-
cal and economic activities are carried out is outlined in laws passed by
the Grand National Assembly. Actual administrative work begins at the level
of the technical ministry, under the supervision of the appropriate vice
minister of the Council of Ministers. The technical ministry then delegates
considerable responsibility to the Centrals, which directly sunervise enter-
prises under them.
A. ENTERPRISE
2.        The industrial enterprise in Romania is primarily a production-
oriented organization with only limited decision-making responsibilities
outside that area. It becomes a legal entity at the time it is approved by
the Council of Ministers and registered at the Ministry of Finance and as
such has its own production plans (based on targets set by the plan for the Central),
prepares financial statements, has its own bank accounts, and can borrow money
from appropriate banks. It maintains economic, financial and legal relations
with other organizations (e.g. the Central).  Organizational modifications,
such as merger, relocation and major output changes, must be approved by the
Council of Ministers.
3.        Ehterprises are given fixed assets and working capital when they
are first established. The fixed assets cannot be mortgaged or pledged, but
can be used, transferred or liquidated as need be and in accordance with the
law. The initial working capital endowment comes from the Central, MiniEtry
or Ftate budget. Excess supplies of materials and fuels can be sold, but
debts can only be repaid in the form of cash. Temporary working capital
surpluses can be used to finance other short-term needs. Rhterprises deal
with the State budget through the Central except in the case of turnover and
regularization taxes which are directly remitted. Each enterprise has at its
own disposition funds for modernization, research and development, bonuses,
and social investment, while the Central holds all the other funds established
by law.
4.        In accordance with Law Number 11/1971, each enterorise has a number
of responsibilities as described below:
Planning and Plan Fulfillment
- draws up annual and five-year plans based on available capacity
and resources;
- attempts to fulfill or hopefully overfulfill the physical output
target and other indicators, such as value of output, profitability,
labor productivity, and material costs per unit value of output,
agreed for the enterprise;
- transmits bi-monthly, monthly, quarterly and yearly reports to the
Central;
- determines the utilization of facilities and attempts to increase
overall capacity utilization.



ANNEX 2-2
Page 2
Research and Development
-  draws up its own research and development plan if it has its
own research facilities;
-  can propose research topics to be included in State plans;
-  can prepare and apply studies, documentation and designs for new
products, modernization of equipment, and techniques, suitable
substitutes for materials in short supply, etc.;
-  encourages the development of patentable inventions.
Investment and Construction
-  can draw up detailed investment and investment financing plans;
-  can assure the preparation on schedule of necessary technical-
economic studies;
-  determines the technical-economic indicators that fall within the
competence of the enterprise;
-  can conclude construction contracts;
- can conclude contracts with local equipment suppliers and draw up
delivery schedules jointly with these suppliers. In the case of
imported equipment, the enterprise can deal with the foreign
suppliers only through the appropriate fcdi n trade enterprise,
that draws up all necessary contracts 1/;
-  supervises the portion of investment financing that comes from
the enterprise's own resources.
Organization of Production of Labor
-  can introduce modern methods of management, information retrieval,
computation, etc.;
-  can determine work norms and programs to increase labor productivity;
-  can determine norms for the consumption of material inputs and
utilities;
-  draws up and applies plans for small-scale mechanization;
-  can guarantee quality control;
-  arranges for the production of new products;
-  can assure adequate utility supply and efficient maintenance;
-  can assure the fulfillment of safety and health regulations.
Supply of Materials
-  concludes long-term, yearly or short-term contracts with material
suppliers;
- informs the Central of its need for foreign exchange;
- proposes inventory levels that must ultimately be approved by the
National Bank.
Marketing
-  can participate in market research in ordor to learn about consumers'
needs and can vary the composition of output to satisfy these needs
as long as quantity or value of output does not decrease;
1/ Thus for the Otelinox project, only METAROM will handle foreign equipment
contracts.



ANNEX 2-2
Page 3
- concludes contracts with customers, assuring the necessary level
of sales and meeting export goals set by the Central or Ministry;
- can prepare advertisements, packaging and catalogues;
- can participate in exhibitions and fairs;
- services output when so required.
Financial Planning and Bookkeeping
- prepares annual and five-year financial plans on the basis of
internal analyses and advice from the Central; after the approval
of these plans, the enterprise must assure their fulfillment;
- functions within the flow of funds specified in Annex 8-1;
- keeps accounting records;
- sets prices for minor products produced only by the enterprise.
Personnel Responsibilities
- hires, promotes and evaluates personnel;
- can determine future manpower requirements;
-  can prepare training plane and can org-anizs such training in
collaboration with other organizations;
- can apply general principles to determine salaries and material
incentives; and
- can provide canteens, nurseries, etc.
B. CENTRAL
5.        The Central becomes a legal entity at the time it is registered at
the Ministry of Finance. It can be established, reorganized or dissolved
only by a decision of the Council of Ministers. It is responsible for the
fulfillment of the plan indicators handed down by the Ministry and prepares
financial statements, has bank accounts, can borrow money from appropriate
banks and carries on economic and financial relations with both domestic and
foreign organizations. Funds for centralized investment, non-centralized
investment, unplanned modernization and repairs, contingencies (reserve fund)
social investments, research and development and workers' protection are held
by the Central. In addition, the Central can hold a special reserve fund of
foreign exchange to cover urgent import needs.
6.        In addition, the Central has the following responsibilities specifi-
cally delegated to it:
Planning
- draws up annual and five-year plans based on the potential of
subordinate enterprises;
- supervises plan implementation and takes measures to insure plan
fulfillment and resolvesproblems;
- maintains a reserve salary fund that cannot exceed 1.5% of the
total amount approved for wages; for seasonal activities and con-
struction, the reserve salary fund cannot exceed 2% of the total
amount approved for wages;
-  can modify up to a limit of 2% the work norms established by the
Ministry.



ANNEX 2-2
Page 4
Research and Development
- can prepare studies for the expansion and modernization of the
entire Central;
- can arrange for foreign research cooperation;
- analyzes foreign bids, when necessary.
Investment and Construction
- draws up investment plans for the Central;
- redistributes depreciation and profit funds received from subordin-
ate enterprise in order to finance centralized investment;
-  approves the financing ofnai-centraJized investment projects from
itsnon-crtralizedinvestment fund;
- arranges for technical-economic studies, concludes contracts,
determines delivery schedules in certain cases, in particular when
a new enterprise is to be constructed;
- can arrange for the transfer of equipment between enterprises.
Organization of Production and Labor
- can divide labor among various locations, offices, projects and
shifts;
- can establish plans for inter-enterprise cooperation;
- can locate additional skilled and unskilled workers when the
enterprise is unable to do so.
Supply of Materials
- can conoludn contracts for foreign supplies;
-  can transfer supplies between enterprises;
- can request foreign exchange from the Ministry and prepare the
necessary import documents;
- can locate materials when the enterprise is unable to do so.
Ma'ketling-
- can draw up export plans;
- can maintain sale representation abroad;
- can approve the use of trucks and other transport vehicles;
- can help enterprises to find potential customers, especially
foreign customers.
Financial Planning and Bookkeeping
- draws up financial plans;
- sets annual and quarterly financial norms for each enterprise;
- distributesplanned profits;
- aggregates and approves credit needs of each enterprise;
- analyzes uses of and requests for funds in excess of those planned;
-  insures the periodic recalculation of working c pital norms;
- audits each enterprise's financial statements;
- redistributes funds obtained from enterprise allocations; and
- helps set prices for products.



ANNEX 2-2
Page 5
C. THE MNISTRY
7.        Each Ministry receives annual plans from all its Centrals, consoli-
dates them after appropriate revisions, and forwards them after approval to
the State Planning Commission. After the balancing is completed, the State
Planning Commission sends finalized plans down to the Ministries Where they
are disaggregated by Centrals and sets production targets for each of them.
The Ministry is directly in charge of design institutes, foreign trade enter-
prises and construction trusts and the Minister appoints the heads of new
enterprises and Centrals.
8.        At present there are 10 Ministries which deal with the industrial
sector. Each of these Ministries is directly in charge of the Centrals foreign
trade enterprises, research and design institutes and construction trusts I
fiunctioning within its area of responsibility. The Ministry itself can contain
3 or 4 divisions -- economic-financial, technical, control and personnel --
and a nuwber of directorates or directorate-generals that deal with the sub-
ordinate Centrals and problems such as material supply and marketing. The
Minister appoints the heads of all new subordinate units.
9.        The Ministry has the following delegated responsibilities:
Planning
-   acts as the only legal holder of the State plan (t"titular de plan")
for its entire branch;
-   reviews, checks and aggregates proposed plans received from the
Centrals;
-   adds additional proposals onto central plans, in particular for
higher targets in cases where plans have been overfulfilled; and
-   translates plan objectives (once the plan has become law) into
goals and indicators for its Centrals.
Research and Development
-   supports and encourages the introduction of new technology and
products; and
-  prepares studies for expansion and modernization.
Investment and Construction
-   compiles and draws up investment plans;
-   arranges for technical and economic studies;
- gives final approval to investment projects valued up to 70
million lei; and
- ensures that investment projects are completed on time, and that
they have reached the projected parameters.



ANEX 2-2
Page 6
anization of Production and Labor
arranges for spacial training programs; and
assumes ultimate responsibility for the proper managem,ent of
production and manpower.
Supply of Materials
coordinates and projects material balances for a product or
group of products;
establishes sources of supply of inputs for subordinate units
when necessary; and
settles disputes which arise in the pre-contractual period between
Centrals and enterprises.
Marketing
assists in identifying customers for tha output of its subordinate
units; and
aims to cover the costs of imports received within the Ministry
by exports from the Ministry.
Financial Planning
compiles and tri.es to balance the financial plans of its subordinate
units;
sets financial norms for each Gentral;
audits each Central's financial statements; and
helps set prices for major products.
Industrial Projects Department
May    197h



ANNEX 2-3
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
ENTFRPRISE MANAGDMNT
1.                   All Romanian enterprises are owned by the Romanian people
and managed by the workers of respective enterprises. ^Authority is delegated
from the Wbrkers' General Assembly down through the Working People's Committee
and the Management Committee to the General Manager of the enterprise (see
Chart 1).
General Assembly of Workers
2.        The Wbrkers' General Assembly consists of all workers in the case
of small and medium enterprises, but of workers' elected representatives in
the case of large enterprises. The assembly meets twice a year, although
special sessions can be called on the request of one-third of the members.
This body discusses ways to fulfill State plans, and reduce costs. It approves
work contracts signed by management and the labor union, statistical reports,
distribution of part of profits among workers, and technical-organizational
changes.
Working People's Committee
3.        The Working Peopee's Committee consists of 9 to 25 members, depending
on the size of the enterprise. The general manager, chief engineer, chief
accountant, chief of quality control, secretary of the local Communist Party
organization, president of the labor union and secretary of the Union of Com-
munist Youth must be members of the committee. In addition, heads of important
sections, specialists and/or scientists can be appointed to the Committee by
the Central. Three to 11 of the members are elected from lower echelon posi-
tions by the Workers' General Assembly. The Committee meets once a month or
more frequently if requested by the general manager, or one-third of the members.
It approves State plans, material balances, local work and material norms,
fuids Lo be spent on publications and advertising, and investnent and moderniza-
tion programs. In addition, the Committee can modify producticn plans, rationalize
inventory levels and organize recruitment, orientation, training and promotion
of personnel. In case a majority in the Committee is in disagreement with the
manager, who is also the chairman of the Committee, the problem is referred
to the Central.
Management Committee
4.         The Management Committe consists of 3-7 members, including the general
manager of the enterprise, who serves as chairman, and other key management
personnel. It generally meets once every 10 days and is concerned with the
implementation of decisions taken by the Nbrking People's Committee. It can
recommend modifications in annual and quarterly targets. It approves repairs
and small-scale investment projects, strives for maximum capacity and labor
utilization, and arranges for the payment of basic salaries and bonuses. If
the manager is in disagreement with a majority of the members, the Working
People's Committee reviews the situation.
Gen.eral Manager
5.         The general manager is appointed by the appropriate ministry for an
indefinite period. He represents the enterprise in its dealings with other
entities and thus contracts for the purchase of raw materials and the sale of
final output.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
OTELINOX ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Workers' Geaeral Assembly
(meets twice yearly)
Working People's Committe
(meets once a month)
Management
Committee
Gener I
|Chief Engineer|                      |Chief Accountant]
Quality Control       esne           Production        Log-ang         CodMl           a ilShipig                    Supply      Bokkeeping
lProgrammingI    Planing                                                                     O
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






Annex 3-1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
MARKET FOR STEEL IN ROMANIA
World Situation
1.        During the last decade (1962-1972), world steel production in crude
steel equivalent increased from 362 million tons to 626 million tons, reflecting
an average annual growth rate of 5.6%. In 1973, as a result of the booming
world economy, the steel industry was operating close to full capacity with the
production level estimated at approximately 692 million tons. In spite of this
surge in production, steel is in short supply in many parts of the world, and
this situation is not expected to change radically during the rest of this decade.
The latest demand forecasts for steel indicate that the world would need about
1.1 billion tons of steelmaking capacity by 1980 compared to the present capacity
of approximately 800 million tons.Jl  Therefore, to meet the world demand, an
additional steelmaking capacity of about 300 million ingot tons is required by
the end of the decade. Taking into consideration the investment plans of various
countries, it is not certain that the required additional steel capacity would be
created by the end of this decade.
Romanian Expansion Program
2.        Romania is one of the countries which has ambitious plans to boost its
steel production from the present (1973) level of about 7.5 million tons in crude
steel equivalent to 17 million tons by 1980 (Table 1). Alloy steels (including
stainless) are being given increased emphasis in the expansion program to meet
the needs of the country's industry which has been expanding at about 13% a year
since 1950--one of the fastest growth rates in the world--and is expected to
maintain the momentum in the future as well (Table 2).  The production of alloy
steels is planned to increase from 525,000 tons in crude steel equivalent in 1973
to about 2.2 million tons in 1980 (Table 3), when the percentage share of alloy
steels in total steel production is expected to reach 13% compared to 9% in 1972.
3.        Tirgoviste, an industrial town 80 km from the capital city of Bucharest,
is being developed as a center of alloy steel production because of its potential
for rapid industrial growth, the availability of infrastructure facilities and
its favorable location for supply with respect to a number of industrial centers
such as Arad, Braila, Brasov, Bucharest, Constanta, Craiova, Jassy, Ploiesti and
Timisoara (Appendix I). The Tirgoviste SciPL Steel Complex is being developed
in stages. The Stage I of the complex (Tirgoviste I) has already begun initial
production and is expected to achieve full production of 600,000 tons of billets
in 1977. It will supply about 146,500 tons of billets to the Otelinox Steel
Project (Tirgoviste II) to roll annually 120,000 tons of alloy rod and bar products
by 1980. The Otelinox Project will also roll annually about 30,000 tons of stain-
less sheet and strip for the first time in Romania, using about 40,500 tons of
hot-rolled coils from the Galati Steel Plant, the country's biggest integrated
steelmill located about 270 km from Tirgoviste (Appendix II).
j   Iron and Steel Engineer, December 1973.



Annex 3-1
page 2
Past Trends in Steel Production
4.        In 1950, the total crude steel production in Romania was only about
half a million tons. During the 1950s, crude steel production increased at an
annual rate of 13% and during the following decade, the annual growth rate was
slightly higher at 13.7%. During the present decade, the average rate of
increase in steel production is projected at 10%. The following table shows
the trend of steel production (see also Tables 1 and 4) since 1965:
Trend of Crude Steel Production
(000 tons)
Special Steel     Other Steel      Total Steel
1965            193              3,233            3,426
1970            414              6,103            6,517
1973            525              7,000            7,525
1980
(proj.)       2,200             14,800           17,000
Production by Process
5.        While expanding steel production, Romania has also been modernizing
its existing plants. For example, in 1972, the country produced about 33.5%
of its steel through the modern LD basic oxygen-blown process compared to the
corresponding share of 20.5% in Poland. However, the percentage in Romania is
low compared to 39% in Italy and 79.5% in Japan as shown in the following table:
Crude Steel Production by Process (1972)
(in percentages)
Romania    Poland    Italy    Japan
Open Hearth           57.6      70.9       20.1      2.0
Electric               8.9       8.7       40.8     18.6
LD Process            33.5      20.4       39.1     79.4
Total:            100.0     100.0      100.0    100.0
Total Production
(in million tons)      7.4      1344      19.8      97.0
Source: Quarterly Bulletin of Steel Statistics for Europe, U.N.
Rolled Steel Products
6.        In terms of rolled steel products, the production in Romania increased
from 2.3 million tons in 1965 to 5.7 million tons in 1973 (Table 5). The follow-
ing table shows the share of flat and non-flat products in total rolled steel
production:



Annex 3-1
page 3
Rolled Steel Production
(in 000 tons)
1965 $            1973      %       1980 (proj.)       %
Total Production      2,313   100.0    5,717   100.0        13,150         100.0
of which:
-Flat Products        507    22.0    2,727    47.7         6,970          53.0
-Non-flat Products 1,806    78.0    2,990    52.3          6,180          47.0
7.        In common with the experience of industrialized countries, the share
of flat products in total production has increased in Romania over the years
and is expected to rise further, reaching 53% of the total in 1980 compared to
about 48% at present.
Trade in Steel Products
8.        Romania is a significant trader in steel products.  It has been making
concerted efforts to bridge the gap between imports and exports to ease the
burden on its scarce foreign exchange resources. In 1972, for example, exports
of steel products totalled 1,197,000 tons while imports were about 1,396,000
tons, with the imports exceeding exports by 199,000 tons. The following table
shows the trend in Romania's steel trade during 1970-1972:
Steel Trade of Romania
(in 000 tons)
Exports      Imports       Deficit
1970      1,278          1,361           83
1971      1,095          1,544          449
1972      1,197          1,396          199
Apparent Steel Consumption
9.        Apparent steel consumption--production plus net imports of steel--in
crude steel equivalent increased from about 2.4 million tons in 1960 to nearly
7 million tons in 1970 (Table 1), reflecting an average annual rate of growth
of about 11%. During the current Five-Year Plan (1971-1975), the consumption
is projected to increase at a lower annual rate of 6%, reaching 9.3 million
tons in 1975. However, during 1976-1980, it is forecast to expand at an
accelerated pace of 11% a year, touching the level of 15.8 million in 1980.
The projected 1980 consumption is nearly double that of 1972 when the total
consumption was 7.6 million tons.
Per Capita Steel Consumption
10.       Per capita steel consumption is considered a good indicator of the
level of economic development of a country. In 1960, the per capita steel
consumption in Romania was only 132 kg.  But, during the 1960s, it increased
at an average annual rate of 9.2%, reaching 318 kgi in 1970, slightly lower
1/ U.N. figure. The estimate by the Romanian Ministry of Metallurgical
Industries is higher at 348 kg.



Annex 3-1
page 4
than half the per capita steel consumption of the US that year (Table 8).
During the 1970s, according to the Romanian authorities, the per capita steel
consumption would increase at the rate of 7% a year, reaching 682 kg in 1980,
comparable to the consumption level of the US in 1969.
11.       The steel consumption level comparable to that of Romania in 1970
was reached by the Democratic Republic of Germany (321 kg) in 1959, by the USSR
(314 kg) in 1961 and by Poland (313 kg) in 1967.  In the decade folloing that
achievement, the annual rate of increase in consumption was 5% in the Democratic
Republic of Germany, and 4.2% in the USSR. But in Poland during the five-year
period following 1967, steel consumption has been growing at a higher annual
rate of 6.2%. Against the experience of these three countries, the Romanian
projection of 7% annual growth rate in steel consumption during the 1970s may
appear high but seems achievable in view of the fact that its planned annual
rate of industrial growth (about 12%) during 1970-1980 is higher than that
achieved by the Democratic Republic of Germany during 1959-1969 (5.5% a year),
in the USSR during 1961-1971 (9.5% a year), and in Poland during 1967-1972
(about 8.5% a year).
Consumption of Special Steels
12.    Internationally, the demand for special steel products is increas-
ing by an average of nearly 5% a year.1/ Today special steels are produced by
all the leading industrial countries, and are used largely in machine building
and engineering industries.
13.   Though the world demand for special steels on an average is growing at 5%
a year, the increase in demand in less developed countries is growing at a much
higher rate from a low base.  For example, in Romania, the consumption of
special steels including high-strength low-alloy steel products (HSLA steel or
high tensile steel) has been increasing as follows:
Trend of Consumption
(tons)
Production       Net    orts      Total Cons   tion
1965              133,770           29,0P70           -162SU40O
1970             286,940            52,960             339,900
1971             325,755            89,020             414,775
1972             366,650            90,780             457,430
1973 (Est.)      363,875           100,740             464,615
14.       The above table shows that the gap between production and consumption
has widened from about 29,000 tons in 1965 to 100,740 tons in 1973. The annual
rate of growth in consumption was about 16% during 1965-1970. For the current
decade as a whole, the total consumption of special steels could be assumed to
grow at the rate of about 15%, the same rate as that projected for the engineer-
ing and machine-building industries. On this assumption, the total demand for
1/  "The EEC Challenge for the UK Independent Alloy Steel Producers" by
N.S. Maconochie, in Steel Times Annual Reviewy 1972.
2/ Derived by assuming l.46 tons of crude steel is equivalent to 1 ton of
finished special steel products.



Annex 3-1
page5
speaK steels in 1980 would be about 1,375,000 tons. However, the Government
projection is slightly higher at about 1,600,000 tons.
15.       In the past, the share of high-alloy and high-strength low-alloy (HSLA)
steels in total consumption of special steels has been about 60% and 40% respec-
tively. The Romanian authorities have assumed that the share of HSIA steels in
total consumption would increase to 50% while that of high-alloy steels would
decline from 60% to 50% by 1980. On this basis, of the total projected demand of
1,375,000 tons for special steels, by the end of the decade, the HSLA steels
would account for 687,500 tons and the rest high-alloy steels (including stainless).
The HSLA steels are finding increasing use in structural applications because of
their durability. They are used mostly in transportation equipment including
railroad cars, bridges, tower construction, high-rise buildings, oil storage tanks,
oil-drilling rigs, automobile bumpers, air-conditioning equipment, earth-moving
equipment, shipping containers, agricultural machinery parts, etc. High-alloy
steels find extensive use especially in machine tools, electrical and electronic
equipment, cutlery, domestic appliances, precision instruments, and equipment for
food processing, chemicals, etc., because they have greater hardenability and
resistance to softening on tempering. High-speed tool steel, one variety of high-
alloy steels, is used in equipment for operations involving relatively high
temperature such as heavy cuts or high-speed machining.
Consumption of Stainless Steels
16.       As the name implies, stainless steels are more resistant to rusting
and staining than are plain carbon and lower alloy steels. The former has
superior corrosion resistance because of high chromium content. The American Iron &
Steel Institute (AISI) has chosen 4% chromium as the dividing line between "alloy"
and "stainless" steel.
17.       Stainless steels are grouped into three classes: austenitic, ferritic
and martensitic. The austenitic stainless steels are iron-chromium-nickel alloys
not hardenable by heat treatment. They bear numbers (under the American Iron
and Steel Institute classification) such as AISI Types 301, 302, 302B, 303, 304,
304L, 305, 308, 309, 310, 314, 316, 316L, 317, 321, and 347. The ferritic stain-
less steels are iron-chromium alloys not hardenable by heat treatment and they
include AISI Types 405, 430, 430F, 446 and 502. The martensitic stainless steels
are iron-chromium alloys that are hardenable by heat treatment and include AISI
Types 403, 410, 414, 416, 420, 431, 440A, 44GB, 440C, and 501.
18.       The austenitic variety which costs significantly higher than the
ferritic and martensitic varieties is in greater demand all over the world.
For example, in Romania, the respective shares of austenitic, ferritic and
martensitic stainless steels in total consumption are b06, 156 and 5A respec-
tively. The Romanian authorities think that these percentage shares would
hold good in the future as well.



Annex 3-1
page 6
19.       The main users of stainless steels by order of importance are:
(1) agricultural implements (excluding tractors) and equipment for food pro-
cessing and chemical industries; (2) industrial consumer goods; (3) electro-
technic, electronic and optical equipment; and (4) motor vehicles, tractors and
railway rolling stock. At present, about 70% of the total consumption of stain-
less steels is accounted for by the first three subsectors and their consumption
is expected to increase rapidly in the future (Table 6).
20.       The trend of consumption of stainless steels in Romania in recent
years is shown in the following table:
Consumption of Stainless Steel
(tons)
Sheet and Strip     Others      Total
1968           3,885             8J.315    12,200
1970           4,735           12,965      17,700
1973           8,710           17,890      26,600
21.      The total consumption of stainless steels in Romania in 1968 was
12,200 tons. It increased at the annual rate of 17% during the last five
years, reaching 26,600 tons in 1973, in spite of foreign exchange constraints.
22.      The folloving table compares the per capita consumption of stainless
steel in selected countries:
Comparison of Stainless Steel Consumption
in Selected Countries
Total Consumption     Per Capital Consumption
(tons)                     (kg)
Romania (1970)          17,700                      0.80
Spain (1972)            35,000                      o.94
Australia (1971)         25,000                     1.95
Italy (1970)           187,000                      3.7
Sweden (1971)          187,200                     23.o
Source: Stainless Steel, World Survey, 1972, Metal Bulletin.
23.       The per capita consumption of stainless steel is hardly 1 kg in
Romania compared with about 2 kg in Australia, 4 kg in Italy and 23 kg in Sweden.
The demand for stainless steel is growing at about 8-10% a year in the world,
But in Romania, where the consumption level is low, the total consumption could
be expected to grow at a higher rate.  At present, Romania does not produce
stainless steel. As a result, it has been depending entirely on imports to
meet its needs.



Annex 3-1
page 7
24.      The total consumption of stainless sheet and strip in 1973 was 8,710
tons -- about 32% of the total stainless steel consumption that year -- compared
to 4,735 tons in 1968. During 1968-1973, the average annual rate of growth in
the consumptionof stainless sheet and strip was around 17.5% in spite of the
foreign exchange constraint on imports. The Romanian authorities have forecast
that the total consumption of such products would increase at more or less the
same rate during this decade as a whole, reaching 23,000 tons in 1980. However,
considering the Romanian past record for exceeding targets, especially for
industry, it seems likely that the consumption of such products would expand
at a higher level of 19-20% a year during the present decade. On this basis,
the total consumption of stainless sheet and strip might range between 27,000
tons and 29,000 tons in 1980.
Major World Producers
25.      Japan, the US, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Sweden, Italy,
the UK and Austria are some of the important producers and exporters of stain-
less steels. The following table shows the trend of production in those
countries during 1960-1971:
Production of Stainless Steel Ingots
(in 000 tons)
1960      1970      Average Annual Growth Rate (%)
Japan               183      2,050                   28.0
US                  907      1,158 i/                 2.5
Germany             259        503                    7.0
France             191         467                    9.5
Sweden              176        394                    8.5
UK                  223        257                    1.2
Italy                62        237                   13.0
Austria             n.a.        66                      -
j   Production dropped from the peak of 1,421,000 tons in 1969.
2/ Includes small tonnage of liquid steel for castings.
Source: Stainless Steel, World Survey, 1972, Metal Bulletin.
26.      While the stainless steel production increased slowly in the US and
the UK during the 1960s, noteworthy expansion of capacity has been taking place
in Japan, Sweden, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy and France. France
has proved to be the most aggressive of the European stainless steel producers,
and has recently emerged as the second largest exporter after Japan. Ugine
Aciers, Europe's leading stainless producer, has proved a formidable competitor
in the world and its flat products project at Fos is expected to help France
overtake production of Germany where stainless steel producers as in Sweden, the
UK and the US are mainly preoccupied with rationalization and consolidation.



Annex 3-1
page 8
Sweden has already fallen behind France as Europe's leading exporter. Further,
Italy, next to Japan, has experienced the biggest growth rate in the 1960s in
stainless production. Though Italian producers are facing stiff competition
from imports, they are still set on expanding stainless steel production in the
future. Among other countries, Australia and Canada have established stainless
production facilities, but are facing increased competition from abroad. Mean-
while, Belgium, South Africa, South Korea and Spain have entered the stainless
steel field. In Eastern Europe, apart from Romania, Poland and Yugoslavia have
plans to produce stainless steel.
27.       According to the Metal Bulletin World Survey of stainless steel (1972),
the scope for expanding stainless steel capacity in the world is not very bright
because of the phenomenal growth of capacity in the world during the past two
decades and the existing overcapacity of between 250,000 tons and 300,000 tons.
The survey indicates that in spite of impressive growth in demand for stainless
steel, the expansion programs underway or being planned will still leave the
world with a surplus capacity of between 200,000 and 250,000 tons by the second
half of the 1970s.
28.       As a result of this situation, some existing small producers in the
world with old production facilities may well decide to give up the production
of stainless or concentrate on non-flat stainless production in which the small
specialist producer can survive. The mills that are likely to continue in the
flat product field are those with modern Sendzimir mills which have transformed
stainless sheet into a tonnage product.
29.       Flat products are the most important sector of the stainless steel
trade, accounting for almost three-fourths of total sales. Of the 1970 produc-
tion in the market econony countries of 3 million tons, about 1.6 million tons
(approximately 53%) were cold-rolled sheet and strip, 550,000 tons hot-rolled
sheet and plates; and 200,000 tons of wire rods, bars and bar-like products and
600,000 tons of other stainless non-flat products.
Market for Otelinox Stainless Steel
30.       In spite of the competitive world situation for stainless steel,
Romania has decided to establish a cold mill to produce 30,000 tons of stainless
sheet and strip a year as part of the proposed Otelinox project which is sche-
duled to start production in 1978. The cold-rolling facility will have a modern
Sendzimir mill which should help Romania produce stainless steel competitively.
Moreover, the facility is mainly oriented to meet the domestic needs for stain-
less sheet and strip which have grown rapidly from about 3,460 tons in 1965
to 8,710 tons in 1973 (Table 9). The Romanian authorities have forecast that in
1980 the demand for such products would reach 23,000 tons, which appears to be
an underestimation. As noted earlier (para. 24), the demand in 1980 is likely
to be at least 27,000 tons. But for the cold mill of Otelinox, Romania will
have to import this quantity which, at the average stainless import price of
1972,2/ would cost a total of about US$55 million. In the context of continuing
2/ In 1972, Romania imported 8,116 tons of stainless sheet and strip at
a total cost of US$16.6 million (Table 9), with the average import price
per ton accounting for about US$2,045.



Annex 3-1
page 9
serious foreign exchange difficulties, it is highly unlikely that Romania would
be able to meet from imports all its requirements of stainless sheet and strip
of its fast-growing industrial sector.
Market for Otelinox Alloy Bar Mill Products
31.      As already noted (para. 15), the demand for high-alloy and low-alloy
steels is likely to be 687,500 tons each. The Otelinox Steel Project will have
a bar mill to hot-roll 120,000 tons of   rod and  bar    products, including
110,000 tons of the high-alloy variety (90% of its total production) and 10,000
tons of the low-alloy variety (10% of the total).
32,.      The following table (see also Tables 9 and 11) shows the trend of
consumption of high-alloy   rod  and  bar   products and the projection for 1980
by the Romanian authorities:
Consumption of High-Alloy  Rod  and  Bar    Products
(in tons)
Average Annual Rate
of Growth (%)
1968      1973       1980     196M-7-    1973-78
Alloy steel for machine building    26,000    44,000   120,000          11.0         15.5
Ball-bearing steel                     8,200    15,000    45,000        13.0         17.0
Spring steel                           5,400      8,700    25,000       10.0         16.5
Carbon tool steel                        800      1,300     6,680       10.2         26.0
Alloy tool steel                         700      1,220     4,300       12.0         20.0
Stainless and heat-resistant steel       630        820     3,360        5.5         22.0
High-speed steel                       1,270      1,960     4,660        9.0         13.0
Total:                             43,000    73,000   209,000        11.2        15.0
33.       The above table shows that the consumption of bar products of alloy
tool steel,and stainless and heat-resistant steel is at present very low. It
is expected to grow at a faster annual rate than the consumption of other
varieties of bar products. For the bar products of high-alloy steels as a whole
the demand is projected to grow at an annual rate of 15.0% during 1973-80 com-
pared with 11.2% during 1968-73. This projection of the Romanian authorities
appears realistic, especially in view of the fact that machine tools, electrical
equipment, oil-drilling equipment, chemical plant equipment, and agricultural
machinery industries are some of the fastest growing alloy steel consuming indus-
tries in Romania (Tables 2 and 7).
34.       In 1980, the proposed Otelinox production of 110,000 tons of high-
alloy    rod  and  bar  products would account for 53% of the total consumption
of such products. The following table (see also Table 12) shows the market
share of Otelinox with respect to various types of high-alloy rod and bar
products:



Annex 3-1
page 1 0
Otelinox Share in Total Projected Consumption of
High-Alloy   Rod  and  Bar   Products in 1980
(000 tons)
Projected Total    Otelinox      Otelinox Market
Consumption     Production        Share (%)
Alloy steel for machine building         120,000           48,340            40.3
Ball-bearing steel                        45,000           26,300            58.4
Spring steel                              25,000           23,300            93.2
Carbon tool steel                          6,680            5`700            85.3
Alloy tool steel                           4,300            2,600            60.5
Stainless and heat-resistant steel         3,360            1,210            36.o
High-speed steel                           4,660            2,550            55.0
Total:                                209,000          110,000            53.0
High-Strength Low-Alloy Steels
35.     The consumption of HSLA rod and bar products were 32,000 tons in 196$.
It increased at an annual rate of 9% during the next five years, reaching 49,000
tons in 1973. During the following seven years (1973-1980), according to the
Romanian authorities, the consumption would grow at the rate of 23% a year,
reaching 211,000 tons in 1980. This projection appears to be on the high side
considering the annual growth rate in recent years. However, any shortfall in
the demand for HSIA steel is not likely to adversely affect Otelinox for the
following reasons: (1) the share of HSIA steel in total Otelinox bar mill pro-
ducts is small (hardly 5%); (2) export markets for HSLA steel are promising; and
(3) the Romanian authorities could reduce the production of HSIA steel bar pro-
ducts and increase the production of other alloy steel bar products, if necessaiy.
Other Producers of Otelinox-Type Products
36.     The existing steelmills at Resita, Cimpia Turzii, and Braila currently
produce about 53,000 tons of alloy bar mill products. Their production is
expected to be expanded to 75,000 tons by 1980. Three more steel plants, includ-
ing Otelinox, are expected to start producing such products by that time. Of the
new producers, Tirgoviste I will start producing them in 1975, Otelul Rosu in 1977,
and Otelinox in 1978. The following table (see also Table 3) shows trend of
production, past and projected, during the current decade:
Trend of Production of Alloy   Rod  and  Bar   Products
(tons)              l/
1970       1977      1980                hare
Resita              21,000      25,000     25,000 (20,000)   6.0
Cimpia Turzii       22,000      30,000    30,000 (26,000)   7.1
Braila              10,000      20,000    20,000 (17,000)   4.8
Tirgoviste I           -       143,500   190,000(105,000)  45.2
Otelul Rosu            -        30,000     35,000 (33,000)   8.3
Otelinox               -          -       120,000 (1O,OOO)  28.6
Total:           53,000    248,500    420,000            100.0
1/ Figures within brackets show HSLA
steel variety.



Annex 3-1
page 11
37.       As Romania is a planned economy, there is no competition between plants.
Production capacity is developed to catch up with consumption requirements as far
as possible and all products are sold at State-fixed Prices. In the case of the
six steel plants shown in the above table, the production programs of four with
respect to special steels are modest ones. Only Tirgoviste I and Otelinox have
comparatively major production programs. In 1980, Tirgoviste I would account for
about 45% and Otelinox for 29A of the total production. Though Tirgoviste I and
Otelinox will be producing similar products with respect to alloy rod and bar
products, their product mix and product dimensions and sizes would be different.
Otelinox would be producing only wire rods in thicknesses ranging from 5.2-12 mm
and bars in thicknesses from 13-30 mm in the following quantities (in tons):
In Coils      in Out Lengths      Total
Wire rods        11,000              -            11,000
Bars: Rounds     44,000            24,440         68,440
Square      3,000             2,760          5,760
Hexagon     2,000             4,300          6,300
Flat       10,000            18,500         28,500
Total:        70,000            50,000        120,000
c=== ===         ====           =====
Product Mix
38.       Otelinox Bar Mill:  According to the alloy steel type classification
of the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI), Otelinox would be producing in
its bar mill mainly AISI4142 (alloy steel for machine building), AISI52100B
(ball-bearing steel), AS1I6150 (spring steel), T4 and M2 (high-speed steel), and
stainless and heat-resistant steel of the AISI Types 410, 416, 403, 302, 303 and
305. In addition, it will also produce alloy tool steel and high-strength low-
alloy steel products. The following table shows the product mix of the Otelinox
bar mill:
Product Mix of Otelinox Bar Mill (1980)
Production     % Share
(tons)
Alloy Steel for machine building (AISI4142)              48,340          40.3
Ball-bearing steel (AISI52100B)                          26,300          22.0
Spring steel (AISI6150)                                  23,300          19.4
Stainless and heat-resistant steel (AISI 403, 410,
416, 302, 303, 305)                   1,210           1.0
Alloy tool steel                                          8,300           6.9
High-speed steel (T4 and M2)                              2,550           2.1
High-strength low-alloy steel (high tensile steel)       10,000           8.3
Total:                                               120,000        100.0
39.       The above product mix selected by the Romanian authorities is based
on the requirements of industries such as engineering, machine-building, motor
vehicles, agricultural machinery, etc., and appears realistic.



Annex 3-1
page 12
40.       Otelinox Cold Mill:  In Romania, as already noted (para. 18), the
demand pattern for stainless steel has been such that the austenitic variety
accounts for 80%, the ferritic variety for 15% and the martensitic variety for
5% of total consumption. These percentage shares are likely to remain more or
less constant in the future. On this basis, the proposed Otelinox production
of 30,000 tons of stainless steel sheet and strip is divided into 24,000 tons
(80%), austenitic; 4,500 tons (15%),ferritic; and 1,500 tons (5%),martensitic.
Under the austenitic variety, the AISI types to be produced in order of import-
ance are 321, 3D)4316, 314 310, 302, and 309; under the ferritic variety, the
most important types proposed are 430, 430Al and 416; and under the martensitic
variety, the      AISI types would be 410, 420 and 431.
la.       The following table shows the break-up of proposed Otelinox production
in 1980:
Break-up of Otelinox Production of Stainless
Sheets and Strips (1980)
AISI Type No.              Production      % of Total
(tons)
Austenitic: 321              12, 000         40.1
304               2,400          8.0
316Ti             2,400          8.0
316               1,900          6.4
310               1,800          6.o
302               1,750          5.8
309               1,750          5.8
Sub-total:                24,000         8o.O
Ferritic:   430               3,150          1o.5
430Al               450          1.5
416                 450          1.5
Other               450          1.5
Sub-total:                 4,500          15.0
Martensitic: 410 and 420         750          2.5
431                750          2.5
Sub-total:                 1,500          5.0
Grand Total:           30,0001/      100.0
1/ of which 50% is planned to be in coils and the rest in cut
lengths.
4a'.      The proposed break-up of Otelinox production seems to be at variance
with the usual product composition in the developed countries. For example,
the most important AISI type used in general is 304 (which is very similar to
AISI 302) while AISI 321, which at present costs about 35% more than AISI 304
or 302, is the most important type proposed for Otelinox. The importance given
to higher-grade, higher-value types such as 316Ti, 310 and 309 is also much
greater.  Compared to AISI 304 or 302, AISI 316Ti costs at present nearly 70%



Annex 3-1
page 13
more, AISI 310, approximately 160% more and AISI 309 nearly 90% more. In the
case of other AISI types, the importance given in the Otelinox product mix
appears reasonable as shown in the following comparison between the Otelinox
product mix proposed for 1980 and the actual product composition in the US in 1971:
Product Mix Comparison by Types
(% of total production)
AISI Types        Otelinox         US!/
321                 40.0           1.5
304                  8.0          38.2
304L                 -             3.4
316Ti-/              8.0           2.2
316                  6.4           4.9
310                  6.o           1.3)
309                  5.8              )
302                  5.8           2.2
430                 10.5          11.2
416                  1.5           2.7
Other                8.0          32.4
Total           100.0         100.0
j/ Source: American Iron and Steel Institute
For the US, comparable product is 316L
V Including 302B
43.       The above table shows that Otelinox proposes to produce 40% of its
stainless flat products in AISI Type 321 while in the US the comparable percent-
age for that product is only 1.5. The US percentage is the highest--38.2 (the
percentage rises to 41.6 if AISI Type 304L is also included)--for AISI Type 304
while the corresponding figure is only 8.0 for Otelinox. Therefore, the import-
ance given to 321 and 304 in the Otelinox product mix in particular needs to be
reviewed, along with that of 316Ti, 310 and 309.
Exports
i44.      According to the Romanian authorities, net surplus!/ from Otelinox
would be available for export during 1979-1982 in the case of stainless sheet
and strip, while in the case of bar mill products no net surplus is likely to
be available. The net exports in the case of stainless sheet and strip are
expected to develop as follows:
Net Exports (Proj.)
(tons)
1979              3,250
1980              7,000
1981              4,000
1982              1,000
1983 onwards        -
j   After deducting the import of small quantities of certain types
the manufacture of which would not be economical in Romania.



Annex 3-1
page 14
14g.     As shows in the above table, net exports of stainless sheet and strip
are projected to rise gradually from 1979 reaching a peak of 7,000 tons in 1980
and then tapering off to nil in 1983. But it is not yet clear where Metal Import-
EXport, a government agency in charge of trade in metal products, would be
marketing such products especially in the face of keen competition from Japan,
France, Sweden and Italy. It seems appropriate for Metal Import-Export to con-
duct a study of export markets. However, it has to be pointed out that the net
exports in 1980 might be considerably lower than the 7,000 tons projected by the
Romanian authorities as the domestic consumption (para. 31) is likely to be higher
than forecast by them. It is most unlikely that the net surplus available for
exports would exceed 3,000 tons in 1980, since consumption of stainless sheet and
strip is likely to reach at least 27,000 tons -- about 4.,000 tons higher than
projected by the Romanian authorities. Thus, export is not a major issue in the
project. During the short period of 1979-1982 when limited net surplus would be
available, Metal Import-Eaport is likely to succeed in selling it especially in
Algeria, Iran, the UAR, Zaire, and some other developing countries with which
Romania is developing close economic links.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1974



Annex 3-1
Table 1
ROI4ANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
STEEL PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION -- PAST TRENDS AND FUTURE FORECASTS
(In Crude Steel Equivalent)
Per Capita
Steel            Apparent Steel      Steel
Production          Consumption      Consumption
(I000 tons)         ('000 tons)         (Kg)
1950                    531              n.a.              n.a.
1955                    766              n.a.              n.a.
1960                  1,810              2,425             132
1965                  3,426              4,098             215
1966                  3,670              3,930             206
1967                  4,088              5,168             267
1968                  4,751              5,781             290
1969                  5,540              6,182              308
1970                  6,517              7,007             349
1971                  6,804              6,949             340
1972                  7,401              7,564             361
1973                  7,670              8,160             385
1974.                 8,075              8,875              414
1975                 10,100              9,325              432
1976                 11,000             11,930              545
1977                 12,000             12,770              577
1978                 13,100             13,588             602
1979                 114,300            14,369             631
1980                 17,000             15,765             682
2! Projections from 19714-1980.
Sources: The European Steel Market, Annual Publication of U.N. *Econoic
Commission for Europe, for data prior to 1965; and the
Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, Romnania, for data from
1 965-1980.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1973



Annex 3-1
Table 2
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
ANNUAL GRDWTH RATES OF PRO WCTION OF
MAIN ALLOY STEEL CONSUMING SUBSECTORS
(in percentages)
Average for
1968-1973    1970-1975     1975-1980      1970-1980
(Actual)          ---- Projected-
1. Chemical, Paper, Cellulose,
Refinery and Textile
Equipment                         22.o         23            12.5           17.5
2. Food Industry Equipment              12.0         29             24.0          22.0
3.  Refrigeration Equiprent             25.0         21            13.0           17.5
4. Power Industry Equipment             28.0         27            13.0           20.0
5. Metallurgical Industry
Equipment                       13.0          21            14.0           17.0
6. Metal Processing Equipment           22.0         15            35.0           24.0
7. Agricultural Machinery                7.0         11             4.5            8.0
8. Construction MachinerA'              14.0         18            14.5           16.0
9.  Diesel and Electric Locomotives    13.0           3             0.5            2.0
10.  Trucks2/and Buses                    7.5          2            11.0            6.5
11.  Cars                                60.0         25             22.0          23.0
1/ Including road building machinery.
~/ Including dump trucks.
3/ Starting from a low base.
Source: Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, Romania.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1973



ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
1/
PLANTWISE PRODUCTION OF ALLOY BAR MILL PRODUCTS  IN ROMANIA
(in tons)
1965      1970      1971      1972       1973       1974      1975      1976       1977     1978       1979       1980
1. Resita                     15,000    21,000   21,000    25,000    25,000    25,000    25,000   25,000    25,000   25,000    25,000    25,000
2. Cimpia Turzi               19,000    22,000   22,000    28,000    28,000    28,000    30,000   30,000    30,000   30,000    30,000    30,000
3. Braila-                       -       10,000   12,000    13,000    14,000    15,000    17,000   20,000    20,000   20,000    20,000    20,000
4. Tirgoviste I                  -         -         -         -          -          -       30,000  136,000   143,500  127,500   160,000   190,000
5. Tirgoviste II (Otelinox)    -           -         -         -          -          -         -         -          -      54,000   112,500   120,000
6. Otelul Rosu                  -          -         -         -          -          -         -         -       30,000   35,000    35,000    35,000
7.  TOTAL                     34,000    53,000   55,000    66,000    67,000    68,000   102,000  211,000   248,500  291,500   382,500   420,000
8. Total Production of All
Types of Alloy Steel (in
crude steel equivalent) 193,000   414,000  470,000   529,000   525,000   674,000   950,000 1,100,000 1400,000 1,550,000  1,750,000  2200,000
-/ Including alloy bars, wire rods and light sections of the type to be produced by Otelinox.
2 Started producing alloy bar mill products in 1968 after it was modernized.
Source: Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, Romania.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1973                                                                                                                                       -



Annex 3-1
Table 4
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
CRUDE STEEL PROWOCTION 1N SELECTED COUNTRIES
(in million tons)
Romania      Poland  Czechoslovakia  Italy        U. K.
1952             0.70           3.18        3.76       3.64        16.68
1953             0.72           3.60        4.37       3.60        17.89
1954             0.63           3.95        4.27       4.33        18.82
1955             0.77           4.43        4.47       5.55        20.11
1956             0.78          5.01         4.88       6.o8        20.99
1957             0.87          5.30         5.17       6.98        22.05
1958             0.93           5.64        5.51       6.45        19.88
1959             1.42           6.16        6.14       6.95        20.51
1960             1.81          6.68         6.77       8.46        24.70
1961             2.13           7.23        7.04        9.38       22.44
1962             2.45           7.68        7.64        9.76       20.82
1963             2.70           8.00        7.60      10.16        22.88
1964             3.04           8.57        8.38       9.79        26.65
1965             3.43           9.09        8.60      12,68        27.44
1966             3.67           9.85        9.13      13.64        24.71
1967             4.09          10.41       10.00      15.89        24.28
1968             4.32          11.00       10.56      16.96        26.28
1969             5.54          11.25       10.80      16.43        26.85
1970             6.80          12.69       12.07      17.45       24.17
1972             7.40          14.00       13.00       19.82       25.32
Source: The Steel Market, Annual Publication of the U.N. Commission for Europe.
Industrial Projects Department
January, 1974



ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
PRODUCTION OF ROLLED PRODUCTS IN ROMANIA
(in '000 tons)
Wire    Tube    Other Bars,   Heavy        Railway       Total         Hot-    Plates      Sheets   Others      Total        Total
Rods   Rounds    Rods and    Sections       Track      Non-Flat       Rolled   ( 3 mm      (under                Flat       Rolled
and      Light                  Materials   Products        Strip      and       3 mm )               Products   Products
_____  Squares   Sections                                                      over )
1965      214.0    178.2      1,000.0       347.7        66.1      1,806.0        98.4      147.4       185.2     76.0       507.0      2,313.0
1970      357.9    497.7      1,343.0       369.8        85.1      2,653.5       202.7   1,075.9        199.1    373.1    1,850.8       4,504.3
1971      371.0    484.5      1,374.1       418.4        70.0      2,718.0       196.9   1,421.6        202.8    223.9    2,045.2       4,763.2
1972      398.9    453.3      1,447.5       425.3        75.3      2,800.3       146.0   1,951X7        258.0     73.9    2,429.6       5,229.9
1973(est.)458.0    483.0      1,520.0       454.0        75.0      2,990.0        73.0   2,248.0        372.0     34.0    2,727.0       5,717.0
1974*     481.0    480.0      1,583.0       480.0        76.0      3,100.0        25.0   2,568.0        392.0     34.0    2,819.0       6,120.0
1975*     482.0    497.0      1,741.0       434.0        76.0      3,230.0        27.0   3,661.0        623.0    179.0    4,490.0       7,720.0
1980*   1,220.0    800.00    3,205.0        879.0        76.0      6,180.0        30.0   6,205.0        700.0     35.0    6,970.0    13,150.0
*Projections
Source:  Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, Romania.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1973                                                                                                                                9!



ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
CONSUMPTION OF STAIlLESS SHEE? AND SIRIP IN MAIN CONSUMING SUB-SECMRS
(in tons and in percentages*)
___________ ___________ __________Actual                                                                          Projected                                     1 8
1968          1969          1970           197l          1972          1973             1974          1975          1976          1977           1978          1979          1980
1. Consumer Goods                   425(12.5)    556(13.9)    668(19.0)  1,020(15.6)  1,367(16.8)  1,400(16.2)    1,500(16.5)  1,500(15.8)  2,500(16.7)  2,800(14.8)  3,000(14.3)  3,400(15.4)  3,500(15.2)
2. Motor Vehicles, Tractors
and Railways                     61( 1.6)      58( 1.5)      45( 1.0)       37(0.6)       40(0.5)       65(0.7)          90(1.0)      100(1.1)      300(2.0)      400(2.1)      500(2.4)       500(2.3)      500(2.2)
3. Electrical EquipmentI            196( 5,1)    162( 4.1)    188( 4.0)    198(3.0)          203(2.5)      240(2.8)         300(3.3)      300(3.2)      600(4.0)       900(4.7)   1,000(4.7)   1,000(4.6)   1,000(4.4)
4. Electrotechnic and
Electronic Equipment             75( 2.0)      65( 1.6)      62( 1.3)    715(11.0)    977(12.1)  1,100(12.7)    1,200(13.2)  1,200(12.6)  1,600(10.7)  1,900(10.0)  2,000(9.5)   2,300(10.4)  2,500(10.8)
5. Agricultural Implements _
and Equipment for Food Pro-
cessing and Chemical
Industries                      323( 8.3)    381( 9.5)    476(10.0)  2,713(41.6)  3,409(42.0)  3,600(41.6)    3,800(41.8)  3,800(40.0)  4,700(31.3)  6,800(35.8)  7,500(35.7)  7,700(35.0)  8,000(34.8)
6. Construction EqNipment         1,430(36.8)  1,502(37 5)  1,858(39.3)         59(0.9)        70(0.9)       85(1.0)        100(1.0)      100(1.0)      300(2.0)      420(2.2)       500(2.4)      500(2.3)      500(2.2)
7. Other Equipment2/              1,315(33.8)  1,288(32.1)  1,438(30.4)  1.780(27.3)  2,050(25.2)  2.162(25.0)    2.110(23.2)  2,500(26.3)  5.000(33.3)  5.780(30.4)  6,500(31.0)  6.600(30.0)  7.000(30.4)
8.  TOTAL                         3,885(100.0) 4,201(100.0) 4,735(100.0) 6,522(100)   8,116(100)   8,652(100)             9,100(100)   9,500(100)  15,000(100)  19,000(100)  21,000(100)  22,000(100)  23,000(100)
Of which:
- Austenitic       3,180(82.05  3,430(80.8)  3,713(78.5)  5,152(79.0)  6,298(77.6)  6,750(78.0)    7,180(78.9)  7,510(79.0) 11,850(79.0) 15,145(79.7) 16,905(80.5) 17,775(80.8) 18,630(81.0)
- Ferritic            513(13.0)    543(13.5)    753(15.9)  1,044(16.0)  1,388(17.1)  1,470(17.0)    1,475(16.2)  1,520(16.0)  2,400(16.0)  2,945(15.5)  3,105(14.8)  3,215(14.6)  3,335(14.5)
- Martenistic         192( 5.0)    228( 5-7)    269(5.6)    326(5.0)          430(5.3)       432(5.0)        445(4.9)      470(5.0)      750(5.0)       910(4.8)      990(4.7)   1,010(4.6)   1,035(4.5)
9. % Increase in Total Consumptiot       -              8.0          13.0          37.7          24.5          7               5             4.5          58              27           10.5            5            4.5
Over Previous Year
* Shown within brackets.
1 For generating hydro and thermal power.
2/ Excluding tractors.
3/ Including cranes, power distribution equipment, ship-building machinery, etc.
Source: Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, Romania.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1973



ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
CONSUMPTION OF ALLOY BAR MILL PRODUCTS* IN SELECTED
SUB-SECTORS -_- PAST TRENDS AND FUTURE FORECASTS
(in tons)
Actual                                                   Forecast
1970     1971       1972     1973         1974       1975     1976       1977      1978       1979       1980
1. Motor Vehicles, Tractors & Railways            29,000   31,000    34,000   37,000        49,000    60,000   70,000    78,000    92,400   110,000   122,000
2. Agricultural Implements,1I  and Equipment
for Food Processing and Chemical
Industries                                    16,000   17,300    24,000   23,000        29,000    40,000   52,000    60,000    70,000    75,000    80,000
3. Electrotechnic and Electronic Equipment         6,100    8,500    10,800   11,500         16,000    20,000   26,000    32,000    34,000    35,000    37,000
4. Consumer Goods                                  5,600    6,500      6,900    7,600         9,500    12,000   14,000    17,000    20,000    21,000    23,000
5. Construction Equipment2                         2,800    3,700      4,100    4,300         5,000     5,500    5,500       6,000     6,600      6,600      6,600
6. Electrical   Equipment-                         3,000    3,000      3,000    3,200         4,000     5,000    5,500       5,500     6,000      6,000      6,000
7. Other/                                         24,500   25,000    34,200   35X400         35.500    59,500   90,000   101,500   115,000   136,400   145,400
8.   TOTAL                                        87,000   95,000   117,000  122,000        148,000   202,000  263,000   300,000   344,000   390,000   420,000
% Increase over Previous Year                  -            9         23        4.5         21         36       30         14         15        13          8
* Including bars, wire rods and light sections of the type to be produced by Otelinox.
1/ Excluding tractors.
- Power generating equipment for hydro and thermal stations.
3/ Including cranes, power distribution equipment, machinery for shipbuilding, etc.
Source: Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, Romania.
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                                                                 C
December, 1973
_ lX



Annex 3-1
Table 6
Romania: Otelinox Steel Project
Trend of Per Capita Steel Consumption in
Selected Countries
(Kg)
Average
Annual Growth Rate (%)
1950    1960    1970      1972    1950-1960       1966_7-7_
Austria           108     268      396       372          9.5           4.0
Luxelbourg        210     255     477       465           2.0           6.5
Bulgaria          n.a.    114     273        175          n.a.          9.1
Czechoslovakia    n.a.    476     611        663          n.a.          2.5
Democratic
Republic of
Germany         n.a.    348     533        507          n.a.          4.4
France 1/         150     300     457       456           7.2           4.3
Federal
Republic of
Germany 2/      2d0     521 2/  658        648          9.8            2.5
Hungary           n.a.    208 -   298        314          n.a.           3.7
Italy              63     181     393        379         11.1           8.0
Japan             50.5    209     676       644          15.2          12.5
Poland            n.a.    212     356       422           n.a.          5.3
Romania           n.a.    132     318        374          n.a.           9.2
Spain             n.a.     52     253        276          n.a.         17.1
Sweden            292     548     733        686          6.5           3.0
U.K.              278     420     458       406           4.2           1.0
U.S.              565     498     620 3/    663          -1.0            2.2
USSR              n.a.    296     454 -      n.a.         n.a.          4.5
1/  Includes the Saar up to July 1959.
2/ Includes the Saar after July 1959.
3/ Was 682 kg in 1969.
Sources: Steel Production and Consumption Trends in Europe and the World
(published in 1952), and The Steel Market (an annual publication) of the
U.N. Economic Commission for Europe.



ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
ROMANIAN CONSUMPTION AND IMPORTS OF STAINLESS SHEETS AND ALLOY EDS AND BARSIh
(in tons)
Stainless Sheet and Strip*                           Alloy Rod and Bar Products                         Total
Total                            Value of               Total                              Value of            Value of
Consumption        Imports           Imports            Consumption         Imports           Imports             Imports
(tons)            (tons}        (US$ Million)           (tons)            (tons)         (US$ Million)       (US$ Million)
1965                    3,459             3,459               6.2              45,000            11,000              7.1                13.3
1966                    3,507             3,507               6.4              49,000            14,000              9.5                 15.9
1967                    3,590             3,590               6.6              62,000            26,000             18.2                24.8
1968                    3,885             3,885               7.2              75,000            30,000             21.6                 28.8
1969                    4,012            4,012                7.6              79,000            33,000             24.1                 31.7
1970                    4,735            4,735                9.2              87,000            34,000             25.6                34.8
1971                    6,522             6,522              13.0              95,000            40,000             30.4                43.4
1972                    8,116             8,116              16.6             117,000            51,000             39.3                 55.9
1973 (fst.)             8,652             8,652              18.0             122,000            55,000             42.9                60.9
1974Z/                  9,100             9,100              20.0             148,000            80,000             63.2                 83.2
1975                    9,500             9,500              20.1             202,000           100,000             80.0                100.1
1976                   15,000            15,000              32.1             263,000            52,000             42.1                 74.2
1977                   19,000            19,000              41.1             300,000            51,000             41.3                 82.4
1978                   21,000            14,300              31.1             344,000            52,000             42.1                 73.2
1979                   22,000              -                   -              390,000             7,500              6.1                 6.1
1980                   23,000                                                 420,000              -                                       0
* Including strips.
1! Of the type to be produced by Otelinox.
2/ ProJections from 1974-1980.
Source: Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, Romania.
0-3u
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                                                _a
December, 1973



Annex 3-1
Table 10
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
RQHANTAN IMPORTS OF ROLLED STAINLESS AND OTHER
ALLOY STEEL PRODUCTS (1965-1973)
.i
Stainless Steel                   Other Alloy Steel Products
Quantity     Average      Total        Quantity     Average         Total
(in t*sx)    Price Per   Value         (in tons)    Price Per       Value
______    rTon (US$)   ('000U$) Us$)            Ton (US$)    ('000us$)
1965       5,659*        1,508        8,533       29,069          360         loA,464
1970     13,585          1,647       22,374       52,962         600          31,777
1971      15,351         1,763       27,063       89,018          757         67,386
1972      21,688         1,680       36,436       90,780          705         63,999
1973      19,350         1,847       35,740      100,743          725         73,038
1/ Flat products only.
*/ Plates of more than 3 mm only.
Source: Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, Romania.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1973



Annex 3-1
Table 1 1
RCKANIA: OTELINOY STEEL PROJECT
CONSUM4PTION OF ALLOYS RODS AND BARS ]Y CATEGORIES IN RONANIA
(in tons)
Actual                   Projected
_1268    1970    1973(est) 1975    1977    1980
1. HSLA, Steel                           32,000  35,000  49,000    81,000 122,000  211,000
2. Alloy Steel For Machine Building     26,000  32,000  44,000    73,000  11000  120,000
3. Ballbearing Steel                     8,200  10,000  15,000    25,000  34,000   45,000
4. Spring Steel                           5,400  6,200   8,700    14,000  20,000   25,ooo
5. Carbon Tool Steel                        800     900   1,300     2,200   4,300    6,680
6. Alloy Tool Steel                         700     800   1,220     2,000   3,200    4,300
7. Stainless and Heat-Resisting Steel      630      700     820     1 ,400   2,500    3,360
8. High Speed Steel                      1,270   1,400   1,960      3,1400   4,000    4,660
TOTAL                              75,000  87,000 122,000   202,000 300,000  420,000
Of which:
- net imports            30,000  34,000  55,000   100,000  51,000       -
% of Imports             hO0    39.0    45.0        49.0    17.0      -
Source: Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, Romania.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1973



Annex 3-1
Table 12
RC(ANIA: OTEIJNOX STEEL PROJECT
PROJECTED OTELINOX PRODUCTION OF ALWY RODS AND BARS BY CATEGORIES
(in tons)
1978          1979          1980
1. H SLA Steel                            5,659         9,479         10,000
2. Alloy Steel for Machine Building      23,i485       46.,851        48,340
3. Ballbearing Steel                     11,826        24,634         26,300
4.! Spring Steel                         10,476        21,826         23,300
5. Carbon Tool Steel                      2,554         5,316          5,700
6. Alloy Tool Steel                         -            1,578         2,600
7. Stainless and Heat-Resisting Steel       -             936          1 ,210
8. High Speed Steel                                     1,880          2,550
TOTAL                               54,000       112 ,500       120,000
Of which:
In Coils               31,500        65,600         70,000
Sources Ministry of Metallurgical Industries, Romania.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1973



ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
LOCATION OF CONSUMERS AND SUPPLIERS
\._.- >, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ S.
-  -. i/7 -\                         44 HOT ROLLED STAINLESS
t/'~  BOTOSANI                          COIL-SUPPLY.
SATU MARE                                                  CONSUMERS OF "OTELINOX'
-'    \                                 tEj         %FINISHED PRODUCTS.
. ORADEA                                 v
PIATRA NEAM
/   >   \t                      4 ~~~~~~ ~~355Km.  
TG.MURES    //     K4
CLJ 484Km.
\RAE I   ONESTI   BIRLAD
FAG2    \                          TCUCI
SIBIU        RAOV       'V231 Km.
TI MISOARA           308K .#%\59Km  1                             GALATI        7
&& t/S B EAU    35
> ;   /              ~~~~RM.VILCE A -         *21 2K          . 
;j 275Km.            0  OPDIESTI 52Km.
TR-SEVERI       PITESTi        TIRGOVISTE
92      A0K m     UEITU T
\tC3R4AIOVA             A1      '     
2341(m. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 8Km
(v  _2       TR.MAGURELE    ALEXANDRIA
i  _     >      K        m.233(                     _.212 Km
(DL-i
World Bank - 8259(R)



LOCATION OF ROMANIAN IRON AND STEEL PLANTS
IRON AND STEEL WORKS
V F     -                .- K            a          O  IN ROMANIA.
/                                         I.M. IASI
IT. ROMAN
tiS.CIMPIA  TIMRZII  t
I.M. VLtAHITA
C,S HUNEDOARA        \
INTR. VICTORIA CALIN               \       El    /     
INTR. CIOANUL NADRAC                                          CL. GALATI
INTR OTELUL ROS~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~[L RIL
TIRGOVISTE (OD
INTER REPUBLICA-
World Bank-8258



Annex 3-2
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
SPECIAL STEEL PRICES
World Situation
1.        Steel prices in general show marked fluctuation from year to year
depending on the world economic situation. However, the average increase in
spedalsteel prices has been 4 to 5% a year during 1965-1972. The price rise in
1973 has set a new record, with the transaction prices having sharply increased
by at least 25% though this might not have been reflected in the list prices of
many countries. The price increase was particularly sharp in the second half of
1973. According to UK trading circles, special steel prices surged by 15% in the
second half of 1973 compared with nearly 10% in the first half. The previous
jump in specialsteel prices occurred in 1969 when they rose by about 10%. However,
the following year, prices slipped because of the world recession, with the total
world steel production touching a new low. In 1971, alloy steel prices were up
again by about 7%, but in 1972, the prices declined to more or less the normal
trend line of long-term increase in special steel prices. UK traders also feel
that it is likely that specdl steel prices would go up by about 10% in 1974 and
may decline a bit in 1975 considering the cyclical trend. The Romanian authori-
ties have estimated that their import price per ton of speciB steel increased by
about 50% during 1962-1972. Romania imports  special  steels mainly from Austria,
Sweden, Germany, Italy, France and Japan.
Steel Prices in Romania
2.        As in the case of all products in Romania--both domestic and imported--
steel is sold at prices fixed by the State in its price catalogue. Details of
steel prices for all types, grades, shapes and dimensions are given in the
catalogue which also specifies extra charges for certain quantitative charac-
teristics such as gauge, width, finish, temper, packing, etc. The steel prices
are scheduled for major revisions within the next two years along with the general
revision of all prices.
3.        For Otelinox stainless sheet  and strip  (to be produced for the first
time in Romania), the Romanian authorities seem to have determined catalogue
prices on the basis of the 1973 import prices (CIF Romanian border) which present
a misleading picture as 1973 prices were abnormally high.
International Comparison of Prices
4.        Listed basis prices (including extra charges for qualitative charac-
teristics) for mid-1973 have been collected from Armco, US Steel and Allegheny
Ludlum in the US, the British Steel Corporation in the UK, and August Thyssen
Hutte (Thyssen) in the Federal Republic of Germany for comparison with the prices
used by the Romanian authorities for Otelinox products--stainless sheet and
strip , and alloy bar mill products--and the semi-products used by the project
for rolling, hot-rolled bands and billets.



Annex 3-2
page 2
5.        List prices vary from country to country.  In the UK, they have been
comparatively low because of government restraint and price leadership by the
government-subsidized British Steel Corporation. However, following the UK
membership of EEC in 1973, the country has been switching over to the EEC system
and level of pricing. A 10% increase was granted by the Government in April
1973. Another increase of 9% was granted in November 1973.
6.        Under the EEC regulations, every member country is required to publish
price lists for steel products. These price lists bear a great similarity to
each other but one of the rules of EEC allows a company in certain circumstances
to align down its delivered price to that of a competitor, but never to align
its prices upwards.  This alignment practice is one reason why there is often a
difference between "list prices" and "going prices", but it is to be noted that
going and list prices virtually coincide when demand is high.
7.        As for the US, though steel pricing is often subject to government
intervention, actual prices charged more or less reflect the level of demand as
well as cost increases. Thus, producers charge comparatively more when market
is buoyant, and slash prices in times of recession. Such fluctuations have not
been a major feature in the UK.
8.        Though listed prices are not identically the same as transaction prices,
the former are the only ones available for international price comparisons.
Appendix I contains the listed prices for specific types of Otelinox products in
the US, the UK, Germa   and Romania. Taking the average of the listed prices in
the US, the UK and Germany for specific types and sizes and applying them to the
product mix of Otelinox, the weighted average prices per ton of 'stainless sheet
and strip   and alloy bar mill products we obtained. As already noted, the
listed prices refer to mid-1973. Therefore, the weighted average prices obtained
were dgflated by 10% to get the 1972 prices. The 1972 prices were then increased
by 5%iI to get the best approximation to normal international prices for Otelinox
products in 1973. Based on the above approach, the international prices for
Otelinox products are:
Adjusted 1973 International
Price./ (Base Year 1972)       Romanian Price
Lei/ton                   Lei/ton
Stainless Sheet  and Strip                   38,050                     41,790
Alloy Rod and Bar Products                    9,465                      8,057
9.        The above table shows that compared to international prices, the prices
used for projections by the Romanian authorities are 10% higher for stainless
sheet and strip, while they are 17.5% lower for alloy
j/  Assumed normal long-term annual price increase for steel as well as
main semi-product inputs.
3/ Without allowance for cyclical fluctuations.



Annex 3-2
page 3
10.       The semi-product to be used by Otelinox for rolling in the cold mill
is hot-rolled band and in the bar mill, billets. The average price used by the
Romanian authorities for hot-rolled band is Lei 19,500 (US$975) per ton and for
billets, Lei 4,535 (US$227) per ton.
Hot-Rolled Band Prices
11.       The hot-rolled band prices (mid-1973) for different types provided by
Allegheny Ludlum (US) and Thyssen (Germany) are as follows:
Price Comparison for Hot-Rolled Band (mid-1973)!!
(US'/ton)
AISI Typ2e                us             Germany
321                  1,067               872
304                     847              800
31 6Ti                  -              1,250
316                   1,232            1,100
302                     785              784
430                     566              570
410                     570              -
j/  960 mm wide and 3-5 mm thick.
12.       The above table shows that the listed basis prices for hot-rolled bands
are more or less comparable in the US and Germany. Using the average of the US
and Germany quoted prices for particular types, and based on the proposed product
mix of Otelinox with respect to stainless sheet and strip , the weighted average
price for hot-rolled bands in mid-1973 was about Ub$950. however, it is commonly
known that the list prices of semi-products like hot-rolled bands and billets are
unreliable because producers are not willing to trade those products unless they
get a considerable mark-up. Therefore, on a conservative basis, the mark-up
could be assumed to be at least 10%. Therefore, slashing the above weighted
average price by that percentage, the mid-1973 transaction price of hot-rolled
bands could be considered to be US$854 per ton. Further, to get the 1972 trans-
action price, this price was reduced by 10%--the rate of increase in world steel
prices in general from the end of 1972 to mid-1973. On the above assumptions,
the international price for hot-rolled bands in 1972 was about US$776.5 per ton.
Increasing this by the assumed normal price increase of 5% a year, the adjusted
international price for hot-rolled bands in 1973 is estimated at US$815.5 per ton
(Lei 16,310)--about 19.5% lower than the price used by the Romanian authorities
for projections.
Billet Prices
13.       The following table compares the available listed basis prices for
billets of the British Steel Corporation, US Steel, and Thyssen:



Annex 3-2
Page4
Comparison of Listed Basis Prices (mid-1973) for BiUet8i/
(US$/ton)
AISI Type            UK              US          Germany
615o                 244             288           326
4142                 219             273           288
41o                  451             534           538
416                  506             622           511
T4                    -               -          1,500
521 0OB              220             253           288
#/ 100o mm x 100 mm, 4-meter long.
14.       Based on the same approach followed for calculating the international
price for hot-rolled bands, adjusted international prices for biLlets in 1973
is estimated at Lei 5,560 (US$278.0) per ton. This is about 23% higher than
the average price of Lei 4,535 (US$227) per ton assumed by the Romanian authori-
ties in the projections.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974



Annex 3-2
Appendix I
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
INTERNATIONAL PRICE COMPARISON FOR FINISHED PRODUCTS (MID-1973)
(US$/ton)
I. Stainless Sheets and Strips (In Cut Length )
a/           b/            c/           d/
AISI Types      Thickness(mm)    U.S.-         U.K.      Germany       Romania
321             -1.5             T,732       T1;V3]          -         I,75-
321                2.0            1,706       1,428          -         1,815
321                0.5            2,286       1,589          -         3,000
304                1.5            1,320       1,344          -         1,797
304                0.5            1,610       1,540          -         2,875
316 + Ti           1.5            1,892         -         1,750        2,344
316 + Ti           2.0              -         1,881        1,750       2,269
316                1.5            1,872       1,727        1,960       2,430
316                0.8            2,072       1,840          -         2,818
310                2.0              -         2,488          -         2,783
302                1.5            1,320         -            -         1,617
302                0.3              -         1,450          -         2,588
309                1.5            2,057         -            -         2,133
430                0.5            1,450       1,095        1,120       1,520
II  Bar Nill Products 1/ ( In Cut Length Except Otherwise Stated)
AISI Types        size (mm)
4l42*         R & A Rounds, 019    332          269          519         290
4142          R & A Flats, 4Ox2O   353          389          569         293
4142          R & A Hexagon, 20    353          343          534         284
52,100B*      R & A Rounds,  $19   387          273          403         254
52,100B       R,A,P & G Rounds,
$ 15            967          390         480          268
6150*         R & A Rounds, $ 19   349          300          488  2/     278
6150          R & A Flats, 4Ox2O   368          417          538  -      290
6150          R & A Hexagon  20    368          371          511         291
410           R,A & P Rounds p15 1,260          -            846        n.a.
416           R,A,& P Rounds $15 1,304          -            819        n.a.
302           R,A & P Rounds ;15 1,710          -          1,115        n.a.
T4*           R,& A Rounds $ 19    -            -         2,865 3/    2,149
T4            R.A,P & G Rounds,
$ 15          8,712          -         3,163        2,262
* In coils
1/ R-rolled; A - Annealed; P = Peeled;  and G - Ground  $=diameter
T/ $ = 13 m'm
,1 if - 16.5 mm
a)  Based on listed basis prices (mid-1973) for Armco and U.S. Steel products.
b)  Based on listed basis prices (mid-1973) of the British Steel Corporation.
c)  Based on prices (mid-1973) supplied by Thyssen.
d)  Prioes used for Otelinox products by the Romanian authorities.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






ANNEX 4-1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
PROPOSED TYPES AND GRADES OF SPECIAL STEELS
A. Flat Products: Cold-Rolled Sheet and Strip--30,,000 TPY
1. Austenitic Stainless Steel:
(a)  AISI 321 - containing chrome, nickel, manganese and titanium
alloys.
(b) AISI 316 Ti - containing chrome, nickel, molybdenum,
titanium and manganese alloys.
(c) AISI 302/304 - containing chrome, nickel and manganese alloys.
(d) AISI 309, 310, 316 - other austenitic grades
2.  Ferritic Stainless Steel:
AISI 430, 430 Al, 416 and others - containing chromium alloys.
3.  Martensitic Stainless Steel:
AISI 431, 410, and 420 - containing chromium alloys.
Width of the products will range from 50 mm to 1200 mm; and thickness, from
0.1 mm to 3 mm. Shipments mill be in coils and cut lengths.
B.  Non-Flat Products:  Rods and Bars--120,000 TPY
(a) AISI 4142 - alloy steel for machine building
(b) AISI 52100 B- ball-bearing steel
(c) AISI 5150 and 6150 - spring steel
(d) AISI 4142 - tool steel
(e) AISI T4 and M2 - high-speed steel
(f)  AISI 302, 303, 3o5, 403, 510 and 416 - stainless and heat-resistant steel
(g)  HSLA steel - high-strength, low-alloy steels
Non-flat products would be produced mostly in the form of round rods and bars,
vith some bars in the form of squares, small flats and hexagons. The diameter
of round rods and bars will range from 5.2 mm to 30 mm. The flats will be
in 20 mm x 70 mm sizes. Shipments of products mill be in coils and cut
lengths.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






ANNEX 4-2
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
LIST OF BASIC FACILITIES
The general plant layout of the bar mill,    the cold mill and
common facilities is given in Appendix I, and the main facilities are
listed below:
A. Bar Mill Facilities
The bar mill will consist of a complete hot-rolling mill for
rolling billets into round rods and bars, hexagons, squares and small flats.
Its major equipment will be:
1.  One 2-zone, 70-ton/hr billet reheat furnace;
2.  One single-strand, continuous, two-high, hot-rolling mill with
28 stands (a primary trair. of six stands, intermediate trains
of 12 stands and finishing trains of 4 stands, and finishing
stands for rods);
3. Crop shears at each mill train;
4.  Bar cooling beds--individual and pack-type systems;
5.  Cold saw-shears for bars;
6.  Coilers (two);
7. Coil cooling - on hooks/conveyor systems;
8. Heat treatment--continuous normalizing, annealing, sphereoidizing,
quenching, and tempering facilities;
9.  Finishing facilities--straightening, grinding, turning, and
cutting equipment; and
10.  Packaging, inspection, storage, shipping and related service
facilities.
B.  Cold Mill Facilities
These facilities will consist of a complete cold rolling and finishing
mill complex which will include the following major equipment:
1.  Batch annealing facility;
2.  Coil preparation line;
3. Hot-strip heat-treatment, shot-blast and pickling line;
4. Hot-strip grinding line;
5.  Sendshzr cold reduction mill;
6.  Cold-strip heat-treatment and pickling line;
7.  Bright annealing line;
8.  Coil inspecticn line;
9.  Two-high temper mill;
10.  Slitting line;
11.  Shearing line;
12.  Stretcher leveller;
13.  Sheet polishing line;
14.  Strip polishing line;
15.  Coil and sheet packaging lines; and
16.  Storage, shipping and related facilities.



ANNEX 4-2
Page 2
C. General Information
LAND AREAs    The plant will occupy an area of 33.5 hectares of land at the
disposal of the Industrial Steel Central, Bucharest, which is
now being utilized for agricultural purposes. It is adjacent
to a major national highway and will be zerved by suitable
railway connections (see Appendix I for the general plant layout).
POWER:        Power will be supplied from the national grid through one of the
two existing transformers of 63,000 MVA-llO/lOKY capacity each,
which are located close to the plant site. Total power needs
of the plant are estimated at about 44,000 MW. Processed steam
and hot water will be supplied from an existing, nearby thermal
station at the Lathe factory, Tirgoviste. This facility will
be expanded as required by industries served by it.
WATER:        Water to the plant will be supplied from the Puciosa Reservoir;
and potable water will be supplied from "Lazuri" wells of the
Tirgoviste Water Supply System.
LABORATORIES: Necessary laboratories and small electrical,mechanical,chemical
maintenance shops and roll shops are included in the project.
A separate replacsimt parts plant in Tirgoviste is also foreseen.
BUILDINGS:    Buildings for the cold mill will use structural steel with insula-
ted, corrugated, galvanized-steel roofing and siding. Bar mill
buildings will utilize prefabricated concrete columns, metal
framing, and insulated, corrugated, galvanized-steel roofing and
siding. Almost all building materials will be supplied locally.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974



ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
GENERAL PLANT LAYOUT
'p ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    C
|   4          YXPA                                t         CONNECTION                        l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IROVST 
4$'~~~~~~~~ 
COLD MILL          ~~ALLOY STEEL PLANT
. . .     ......= R1
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT                                                                                 WrdBn46 
JANUARY, 1974






ANNEX 4-3
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF PROCESSES AND PFROCESSING SEQUENCES
I. Cold Mill
A. Raw Material
3-6 mm gauge hot-rolled coils from Galati (see Appendix I) will be
delivered by railo ad on flat cars; coils will be unloaded by crane
(using tongs) and will be processed over a downender for subsequent
handling by crane c-hooks or a ram tractor. The proposed product
flow is given in Appendix II.
B. Facilities for Austenitic Grades
(a) Coil preparation line for:
(1) Welding on leader strips; (2) welding small coils together
up to a maximum weight of 20 tons; (3) visual inspection to
remove very bad sections and to reweld; and (4) side trimming.
(b)  Hot-rolled anneal, shot blast and pickle line for:
(1)  Uncoiling;
(2) end shearing;
(3) KEG welding;
(4) annealing at about 1150OC;
(5) quenching (probably multi-media cooling);
(6) shot blasting; and
(7) Pickling:
(a)  with sulfuric acid, and rinsing; (b)  with nitric
and hydrofluoric acids, and rinsing; (c) drying;
(d) shearing; and (e) recoiling
(c) Inspection line for:
(1) Visual inspection of both sides of coils; and (2) removal
of minor defects by spot grinding.
(d)  Cold-rolling on Sendzimir Mill which will have:
(1) 5o-6o mm work rolls; (2) facilities for tension control,
automatic gauge control using both contact and X-Ray gauges
and a process control computer; and (3) a recirculating oil
treatment system. The mill will be capable of about 70%
reduction between intermediate anneals.
(e) Intermediate coil grinding line for use only when end applica-
tion requires it.



ANNEz 4-3
Page 2
(f) Cold-rolled anneal and pickle line (for intermediate and final
annealing and also for bright annealing). It would have
facilities for:
uncoiling, welding, electrolytic cleaning, rinsing,
annealing at about 11000C, quenching (multi-media cooling),
salt descaling, rinsing, pickling, drying, shearing and
recoiling.
(g) Additional cold reduction and intermediate annealing will be
performed when necessary.
(h) Bright annealing will be done either in a separate line with a
vertical furnace, or alternatively, in horizontal furnaces
which are part of the cold-rolled anneal and pickle line.
(i) A single stand, two-high temper mill will be used to reduce
2-4% for optimum surface and desired hardness.
(j) Coil Grinding and Polishing Line: Present plans subject to
modification caTI 6ior-p6hiijg 50% of the product mix, an
unusually high percentage as compared to the level in Western
Europe.
(k)  Sitting line for side trimming of coils.
(1)  Shearing line including facilities for levelling and side
trimRing for cut length sheets.
(m) Packaging lines for coils and for sheets.
C. Ferritic Grades will have some additional annealing treatment (e.g.
box annealTng at about 8000C).
II. Bar Mill
A. Raw Material
The proposed product flow is given in Appendix III.
Billets in sizes of 80 x 80 mm and 100 x 100 mm will be delivered
by truck from Tirgoviste I across the road, after billet conditioning
at Tirgoviste I Where:
(1) Allqy billets will be hot scarfed on the rolling line;
(2) alloy billets for critical end product applications will be
Magnaglo inspected and all defects removed by spot grinding;
(3) stainless and tool steel billets will be 100% ground for
complete surface removal; and
(4) internal quality of billets will be inspected ultrasonically.



ANNE% 4-3
B. Billet Handling and Storage facilities will include:
(1) Two bay billet storage yards containing apace to stock a 30-day
supply of billets of about 400 grades;
(2) Two 12.5-ton cranes (one in each bay) for truck unloading,
billet stocking and deatocking and placement of billets on
unscramblerE;
(3) Two billet unscramblers (one in each bay) for unpiling billets.
All billets go                                             where
they are individually weighed. Billet identification is entered
into computer at this point to activate the product identifica-
tion system installed throughout the mill.
C. Billet Heating facilities will include:
Two-zone, natural-gas-fired, walking-beam furnace with a capacity
of 70 tons/hr, equipped with modem combustion controls with a
maximum decarburization guarantee of 1% of finished bar diameter.
The furnace builder will guarantee a maximum temperature variation
of 200C from center to surface of billets and 30PC from end to end
of billets. The furnace will be charged with two rows of 4-meter-
long billets or one row of 9-meter-long billets. The walking-beam
system can move each half of furnace separately for 4-meter-long
billets or both halves together for the 9-meter-long billets.
Billets will exit from the furnace by a roller table with an output
range varying from 7 to 70 tons per hour. The furnace system can
be preset and controlled by a process computer.
D. Rolling facilities will include: (1) a mill similar to a Demag mill
la aIled at the Krefeld Works of the DEW Company in Germany. This
mill is producing the same product mix planned for Otelinox. It is
a single-strand, two-high continuous mill, with its stands individually
driven. The reduction sequence for it will be diamond-square for
first 6 passes, and oval-square for the balance. The mill will have
high-speed roll-changing equipment, allowing 8-10 minutes roll
change time. It will have modern looping control devices to avoid
inter-stand tension. Further, the rolling sequence for cut length
bars (12-30 mm) will involve the use of:
(1) a descaler - high pressure water (185 atm.); (2) a roughing
train - 6 continuous stands alternately horizontal and vertical
rolls; (3) first crop shear; (4) first intermediate train of 6
continuous stands with alternate horizontal and vertical rolls;
(5) second crop shear; (6) second intermediate train of 6 con-
tinuous with alternate horizontal and vertical rolls; (7) third
crop ehear; (8) a bar finishing train - 4 continuous stands
alternately horizontal and vertical rolls; (9) fourth crop shear;



ANNEX 4-3
Page 4
(10) a Schloemann-type water-cooling system for bars; (11) a
rake-type cooling bed with facilities for pack cooling of spring
steel; and (12) two cold shears. The rolling sequence for coiled
bars (12-30 mm) will be the same from  40) as for cut-length bars,
but will also have the following:
two Mueller-Neumann-type coilers to coil rounds, squares,
hexagons and flats, and a rock conveyor for coil cooling.
The rolling sequence for coiled rods (5.2-12 mm) will be
the same(IU) as for the cut-length bars, and in addition
include the use of: (1) a rod finishing train of 6 con-
tinuous stands with alternate horizontal and vertical rolls;
(2) fourth crop shear; (3) a water-cooling system for rods.
(4) coiling facilities will include four conventional coilers
for direct coiled product; or Stelmore-type cooling with laying
cone, cooling conveyor and two reforming tubs; (5) a hook
conveyor for coil cooling and/or conveyance of coils to the
finishing department.
E. Finishing facilities will include:  (1)  four roller hearth,
atmosphere controlled furnaces (capable of heating to 9500C),
for normalizing, annealing, spheroidize annealing and isothermal
annealing of both bars and coils in an atmosphere mainly of
nitrogen with hydrogen added depending upon the grade being
treated; (2) a hood-type stress relieving furnace capable of
heating to 6000C with tempered flame burners; (3) two 2-roll
bar straighteners; (4) abrasive cutting machines; (5) bar
turning machines; (6) centerless grinding machines; (7) spot
grinding machines; (8) testing machines using Eddy-current, and
Magnaglo; (9) a line for uncoiling, straightening and cutting
coils to cut length bars; (10) a line for uncoiling,grinding and
recoiling coiled bar products; and (11) various types of bundling
and packaging equipment.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974



ANNEX 4-3
APPENDIX I
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
GALATI FACILITIES FOR SPECIAL STEEL PRODUCTION
I. Steel-Making
a. Number of furnaces - 2
b. Type of furnaces - electric arc
c.  Nominal capacity of each - 50,000 TPY
d. Power - 25 MVA
e.  Estimated tap-to-tap time - 6.5 hours
f. Estimated annual production - 150,000 TPY
g. Total investment - Lei 345 million
h. Estimated commissioning date - first furnace, 4th quarter of 1973
- second furnace, 2nd quarter of 1974
II. Rolling Facilities
Type of            Number of   Estimated Total        Expected
Facility             Units        Investment      Commissioning Date
(million Lei)
A. Slabbing Mill
1.  Soaking pits       8               50         2nd quarter of 1974
2.  Bell-type furnaces 9               20         3rd quarter of 1975
3.  Scarfing machine   1                7         1st quarter of 1976
B.  Hot-Strip Mill
1. Slab reheat
furnace          1               41         1st quarter of 1974
118
III. General Comments
1. It should be noted that the facilities listed above are designed to
meet the needs of stainless steel heavy plate production in Romania,
and also to supply the hot-rolled stainless steel coils for Otelinox.
The total cost of facilities listed above, including necessary support
facilities, would approach approximately US$25 million.  This capital
investment is already firmly planned and the facility construction is
now underway.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974



ANNEX 4-3
Appendix II
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
RAW MATERIAL AND FINISHED PRODUCT FLOW - STAINLESS FLAT PRODUCTS
HOT COILS
145000 tty
9000 t/yT7
BELL-TYPE FURNACES                      36000 t/y
(12 STANDS)
8800 t/y I                            I
COIL BUILD-UP LINE
I1 LINE I
41574 t/y 9207 tSy ONLY FOR PICKLINE LINE
HOT STRIP ANNEALING-SHOT BLASTING & PICKLINE LINE
(LINE INCLUDING CONT.dvJOUS FURNACE)
4 40048 t/y
HOT STRIP GRINDING LINE
11 LINE I
39348 tly
SENDZIMIR MILL
(OIL  654 x 1400 mm
1 39426 tlY
COLD STRIP INTERMEDIATE AND FINAL ANNEALING AND
PICKLING LINE (2 LINES INCLUDING CONTINUOUS FURNACE)
38816 t/y
S96ftly                    INSPECTION LINE                       11184tY
(1 LINE I
29231 t/y
SENDZIMIR MILL
4 29145 t/y
1176          COLD STRIP INTERMEDIATE AND FINAL ANNEALING
AND PICKLING LINE
l9500 t/y
SENDZIMIR MILL
1 9465 t/y
486t        COLD STRIP INTERMEDIATE AND FINAL ANNEALING
AND PICKLINE LINE
4 935 t/y
SENDZIMIR MILL
4 930 t/y
COLD STRIP FINAL ANNEALING AND               |
PICKLING LINE
r   32730 t/Y                         728 t/v
TWO HIGH TEMPER MILL
- 33426i t/y
POLISHING LINE (2 LINES)
16416 t/Y s                            s 16980 t/y
SLITTING LINE                  SHEARING LINE
0(1 LiNE)                               (11 LINE)
- 15015 t/y
15000 t/y          STRETCHER LEVELLING UNIT
PACKAGING AND SHIPMENT
30000 t/y
BASED ON PRELIMINARY YIELD FIGURES WHICH
WERE REVISED SUBSEQUENTLY
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT                                    World Bank-8261
JANUARY. 1974



ANNEX 4-3
Appendix III
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
RAW MATERIAL FLOW AND THE FLOW OF
PRODUCTS FROM THE BAR MILL
BILETSS
146,500t
WALKING BEAM FURNACE
BAR ROLLING MILL
135,000t
COIL STORAGE                                    BARSTORAGE
ANNEALING FURNACES                                HEAT TREATMENT
FURNACES
WEIGHING, FORMING,     STRAIGHTENING &                     BAR STRAIGHTENING
STRAPPING & PRO-       CUT-TO-LENGTH                     (DEBURRING & PAINT
TECTION LINEFROM COILS INTO                             MARKING)
INSTALLATION                         INSTALLATION 
|SCALPING (CLEANING) |SAPN 
| AND CROPPING                            SCALPIN
WEIGHING, STRAPPING                  WEIGHING, STRAPPING 
& PROTECTION LINE                     & PROTECTION LINE
SHIPPING                             SHIPPING
70000t                                  50000t
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
JANUARY, 1974
World Bank-8257






ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
PROCESS FLOW CHART FOR COLD MILL
HOT-ROLLED COILS                  COIL BUILD-UP LINE               HOT-STRIP ANNEALING-SHOT BLASTING-PICKLING LINE
JR1Je1 BATCH ANNEALING
FURNACES
COLD STRIP INTERMEDIATE                        SENDZIMIR MILL            HOT-STRIP GRINDING LINE
AND FINAL ANNEALING AND PICKLING LINE
SHEET POLISHING MACHINE
TWO-HIGH TEMPER MILL     SHEARING LINE             STRETCHING LINE                              SHEETS
X  @) SHEETS
SLITTING LINE
STRIP POLISHING LINE     COILS
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT                                                                                      World Bank-8263
JANUARY, 1974



ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
PROCESS FLOW CHART FOR BAR MILL
(BI LLETS)
SEMI-PRODUCT
REHEATING
ROLLING PROCESS                  BAR CUT-TO-LENGTH AND COOLING
BAR SURFACE CONDITIONING  MARKING     DEBURRING   STRAIGHTENING    BAR HEAT TREATMENT
9~~~UNN                      BAR WEIGHING, BUNDLING AND PROTECTION
tX           X~~~~~BAR SHIPMENT
AR SHIPMENT         COIL FORMING, WEIGHING, STRAPPING
STRAIGHTENING AND      COIL HEAT TREATMENT
CUT-TO-LENGTH FROM     COL-ETTETMN
,Q     ~COILS INTO BARS                                   l  Z
COIL SHIPMENT                   _                  
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
JANUARY, 1974                                                                                                     World Bank - 8262(R)



ANNEX 4-5
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING
Manpower Needs
1.        The Romanian authorities have forecast that the Otelinox Steel
Project would require 1,612 employees (on a three-shift basis), of whom
625 would be for the cold rolling mill, 673 for the bar mill, and 314 for
services common to both plants (i.e. for administration, maintenance, trans-
portation, etc.) as shown below:
Manpower Needs
(Numbers)
Cold Mill  Bar Mill   Common   Total
1.  Direct Production Workere                  351        359         -       710
2.  Auxiliary Production Workers               135        159        194      488
3.  Maintenance Personnel                      112        124         53      289
4.  Management                                  27         31         67      125
F2T       673         fD314   1,6E12
2.        Faployees in Romania work for about 2,240 hours a year.  On this
basis, the total manhours worked by production workers in the cold mill per
year would be 1.4 million to produce 30,000 tons of stainless sheet and strip,
and in the bar mill, 1.53 million manhours to produce 120,000  tons of rod
and    bar   products a year.  In other words, manhours per ton of stainless
flats and bar mill products would be 47 and 13 respectively. These figures
appear high by about 20% compared to the norms for similar plant operations
in the West, therefore, the labor force requirements are overestimated by
WeGtern ztandards but seem Justifiable because of the lot.^ hourly employment
costs and the strategy of the Romanian authorities to augment trained and
experienced manpower for stepping up steel production in the country as a
whole.
3.        According to the practice in Romania, part of the trained manpower
in the existing plants is relocated at new enterprises by the State. Under
this system, about 320 well-experienced personnel for top and middle level
positions at Otelinox are expected to come from the existing steel plants and
342 skilled craftsmen (welders, electricians, etc.) would come from various
industries. In addition, 150 persons (with 12-year schooling) would be recuited
from the special secondary schools for technical trainingfor middle level
positions and 600 persons (with 10-year schooling) would be selected from
technical schools in Tirgoviste, which has good educational institutions geared
to industrial training. These new recruits to the labor force would work as
apprentices for 3 years before they are assigned to permanent positions.
Further 200 persons from various places would be trained at a school to be run
by the project for training people in operating cranes,   machines, commercial
vehicles, etc.
4.        No problem is foreseen in getting adequate manpower for the project.
Personnel seLection has begun. The General Manager has already been appointedl
by the Minister of Metallurgical Industries. He has about L5 years of experience
in responsible positions in steel plants. Other personnel are expected to be
appointed gradually.



ANNEX 4-5
page 2
5.        Foreign training is an important part of the project.  About 103
key engineering and 15 management personnel are expected to be trained
abroad at the plants of equipment suppliers as well as in steelmills similar
to Otelinox. Further, the suppliers of equipment and technical assistance
will provide experts to train technicians of Otelinox in specialized opera-
ting and maintenance techniques.   Interchange of information as well as
provision of manuals of training and standard practices will also be part of
the technical assistance program.
6.        The following table shows the gradual build-up of manpower at Otelinox:
Number
1974 
1975                  60
1976                  740
1977               1,030
1978               1,030
1979               1,320
1980 onwards        1,612
Housing and Other Facilities
7.        Apartments for employees of both Tirgoviste I and Otelinox are under
construction. Additional schools, hospitals, sports and other facilities have
bean dcs7loped at Tirgoviste town to meet the needs of the TirgoviFte Alloy qteel
Complex in general.
Wage System in Romania
8.        Under the Romanian System, the basic wage rate (excluding bonuses
and other payments) varies with the training required for, the branch of activ-
ity, and the complexity of the job. The average monthly wage rose at an annual
rate of about 7% during 1951-1972, reaching Lei 1,498 in 1972. The general
policy of the Government is to increase wages systematically on the basis of
increasing labor productivity. Wages are also increased as a consequence of
promotion.
9.        The wage differentials between employees of different skill levels
are limited. For example, in 1970, only 14% of the employees in Ronania had
basic monthly wages exceeding Lei 2,000; 79% were earning between Lei 900 to
2,000; and 7% had basic monthly wages of Lei 800-900. The basic minimum
monthly wage was raised from Lei 800 to 1,000 on September 1, 1972.
10.        Incentives are buiilt into the wage system. Wages  are related to
the fulfillment of targets for different enterprises. For example, all employees
initially receive only 80% of their basic wages and salaries and the remainder
is paid only if they meet their production targets. Moreover, if workers ful-
fill the annual targets in a steel plant with respect to production and benefits
(profits), they receive 2% of their basic wages by way of bonus.  Nonfulfillment
of the targets leads to a reduction in basic wages proportionate to the responsi-
bility and position of the individual employee. Additional payments are also
made for individuals or collective work units for important achievements in
production, and for savings in the use of raw materials, fuel and labor. Supple-
mentary incentives are also given for exceeding the export target.  In 1972,
incentive payments accounted for about 18% of the total earnings of employees,
with the basic wage accounting for the rest.



ANNEX 4-5
Page 3
11.        The wage system is also intended to establish continuity in employ-
ment within the same enterprise.  An employee leaving an enterprise for reasons
other than an approved transfer loses his seniority.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






Annex 4-6
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
ECOLDGY
Ecological Hazards
1.        Since Otelinox is basically a rolling operation and not an integrated
steel plant, it presents fewer obvious ecological hazards than a steel plant
with basic iron and steel-making equipment, such as coke plant, sinter plant,
blast furnace, BOF shop, etc. (The latter are frequently considered to be
problem areas for steel plants, particularly those located close to centers of
population). However, the Otelinox plant does have pickling operations which
result in noise, and effluents emanating from the use of sulfuric,-nitric and
hydrofluoric acids. It also has a cold-rolling operation which results in oily
vapor/liquid effluents, and hot-rolling operations which result in effluents
with mill scale, suspended solids, oil and grease; these operations also result
in some toxic products. All things considered, the most hazardous products that
would be released by Otelinox are from acid pickling. These acids will not be
regenerated as in some larger operations, but will be neutralized in a special
facility built for that purpose. Liquid effluents will also be treated for
removal of oil, grease, suspended solids, and scales prior to release into the
Ialomita River (Appendix 1).
Facilities and Costs
2.        A description of these facilities and their estimated costs are
contained in Appendix 2.
Standards
3.        Appendix ,3 gives some general information on pertinent ecology
legislation now existing in Romania, clarifying standards in force with respect
to air, water and noise pollution.
Status
4.        In summary, the plan to neutralize and treat pickling line and other
effluents, seems adequate to solve the problems of acidity, solids, oil, grease,
etc.  However, the release of neutralized acid with fluorine compounds may pose
some health hazards, including toxic effects.  Therefore, additional review
will be made of the overall ecological aspects following the final selection of
processes for the project.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






Annex 4-6
Appendix 1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
WATER FLOW VOLUME AND EFFLUENTS
Plant Sections
Cold Mill                          Bar Mill
Industrial Water          2740 M3 per hour total flow        2250 M3 per hour
(of which 2240 M3per hour          (of which 2350 M3
recirculated and 500 M3 per        recirculated and
hour make-up)                      200 M3 make-up;
effluent, 200 M3
per hour.
Effluent = 500 M3/hr.              Effluent = 200 M3/hr.
Drinking Water            645 M3 per day (once through       555 M3 per day (once
system--all effluent)              through system--all
effluent)
Effluents will flow into the Ialomita River, adjacent to the plant.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974



Annex 4-6
Appendix 2
ROMANIA: OTEIINOX STEEL PROJECT
ECOLOGY - BASIC FACILITIES AND APPROXIMATE INVESTKMNT COSTaS
(in 000 Lei)
A. Acid Treatment
Neutralizing plant for waste
water from pickling and cleaning:                               20,000
of which:
- chemical work            13,500
- construction work         5,220
- electric supply and
electric drives           650
- ventilation                 350
- cranes                       280
B.  Settling and Skimming Fluipment
Mill scales and solids, sedimen-
tation, and oil separation                                       1,000
C. Piping and General
Conduits, pipes, etc.                                           4,000
Total:                                                     25,000  or
approximately US$1.25 million
Note: The above represents an initial estimate of basic equipment related
to ecology. Additional equipment may have to be added in the future,
with marginally higher costs following the final selection of processes
for the project.
As proposed by IPROLAM
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974



Annex 4-6
Appendix 3
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
LAW (NO. 9/1973) REGARDING PROTECTION OF ENVIRONMENT
Chapter I - Explanation of the general purposes of environmental protection.
Chapter II - Protection of the various components of the environment.
Section 1:   Protection of the Air
1.        with the purpose of protecting the air, it is forbidden to emit
poisonous substances into the air in the form of gases, vapors, solid particles,
etc. in excess of the limit presently established by the law. It is also pro-
hibited to construct new facilities that are not adequately equipped to retain
or neutralize polluting substances.
Section 2: Protection of the Waters
2.        It is forbidden to permit the evacuation, disposal, or the injection
into surface and sub-surface waters, as well as salt water, waste, residues,
solid substances, liquids or gases, bacteria or microbes in quantities and con-
centrations that can change the character of the waters, to the extent that they
are poisonous to the people, the flora or fauna, or prohibit a rational use of
these waters....
3.        It is also forbidden to construct new facilities that are not adequately
equipped to retain or neutralize polluting substances. All State and public
organizations are obliged to assure the protection of waters by:
A. coordination of their development;
B. rational use;
C. installation according to schedule of pollution control devices;
D. proper maintenance of reservoirs, river beds, irrigation networks, etc.
Section 3:
4.        To maintain and improve the quality of the resources of the soil and
its productive potential, custodians of land are obliged to combat erosion,
landslides, floods, etc.  The depositing of waste or solid)liquid or gaseous
residues, as well as radioactive substances that can pollute the soil, is possible
only in specially designated areas.
Chapter III
5.        Ministries and other central organizations are responsible for
establishing and applying measures that respect the anti-pollution norms set
by law. New units must be designed with these norms in mind.



Annex 4-6
Appendix 3
page 2
Maximum Permissible Concentrations of Polluting
Substances in the Atmosphere of the Protected Zones
Item Number                    Substance                    Concentration in mg/m3
temporary   average/24 hours
1.                Hydrochloric acid                       0.3           0.1
2.                Sulphuric acid                          0.3           0.1
3.                Nitrogen dioxide                        0.3            0.1
4.                Sulphur dioxide                         0.75           0.25
5.                Chlorine                                0.3            0.1
6.                Fluorine and its compounds              0.02           0.005
7.                Soot                                    0.15          0.05
8.                Hydrogen sulphide                       0.03          0.01
9.                Carbon monoxide                         6.0           2.0
10.                Carbon tetrachloride                    3.0            1.0
11.                Suspended powders (non-toxic)           0.5           0.15
12.                Settling-down powders (non-toxic)   200 t/Km2/year
13.                Lasting smells                           -           perceptible



Annex 4-6
Appendix 3
page 3
Day Water Quality Conditions
Item No.                   Substance                               Concentration
Category 2     Category 3
1.        Oxygen dissolved in water           mg/d3        min. 5             4
2.        Biochemical oxygen consumption      mg. 14
mv dm3   min. 4            10
3.        Chemical oxygen consumption by
the method of potassium dichro-
mate                                mg/dm3       max. 20          30
4.        Chlorides (Cl)                      mgJdm3       max. 400         400
5.        Calcium (Ca)                        mg/dn3       max. 200         300
6.        Sulphates (S04)                     mgJdm3       max. 400         400
7.        Magnesium (Mg)                      mg/dm3       max. 100         200
8.        Constant residue                    mg/dm3       max. 100O       1200
9.        Suspended matters in waste water
before discharging it into the
river, depending on the degree of mg/din3
dilution :
degree of dilution: 150-200 mg/dm3               450-1500      750-2500
10.        Temperature rise from the maximum
natural average temperature         OC             5                5
11.        The colour of the waste water
diluted with day water in a                      Should not be noticeable
proportion corresponding to the                  in a water column of the
dilution obtained at the minimum                 following height:
flow rate of the river
10 cm         5 cm
12.        The smell of the waste water
diluted with day water in a
proportion corresponding to the                  odourless       odourless
dilution obtained at the minimum
flow rate of the rIver
13.        pH                                               6.5-8.5          6.5-9



Annex 4-6
Appendix 3
page 4
Concentration
Item No.                  Substance                           Category 2      Category 3
14.        Sexavalent chromium (Cr)            mg/dm3       max. 0.1            3
i5.        Trivalent chromium (Cr)             mg/dm3       max. 0.5          0.5
16.        Anionic detergents                  mg/dm3       max. 2              3
17.        Totally ionic iron (Fe)             mg/dm3       max. 1              1
18.        Fluorine                            mg/dm3       max. 1              1
19.        Nickel (Ni)                         mg/dm3       max. 0.1          0.1
20.        Nitrates (N03)                      mg/dm3       max. 30            -
21.        Carbon tetrachlordie                mg/dm3       max. 5              5
22.        Crude oil and petroleum products   mg/dm3        max. 0.1          0.1
Maximum permissable noise level
6.           Manufacturing and maintenance facilities that make noise greater
than 80 decibels will be located in separate buildings or structures   as
far as possible. The walls of the buildings will be acoustically isolated.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974



ANNEX 4-7
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
LONG-RANGE PLANNING AND FUTURE EXPANSION
1.        Plant and equipment layouts, processes, and all facility planning
at Otelinox are designed to facilitate future expansion.  Such expansion will
probably be required in the early 1980's. A review of the present stage of
project engineering indicates that project sponsors have carefully considered
the relationship between the present project and subsequent expansion stages,
thus providing for economical expansion in the future.
Basic Plan
2.        The basic plan is to double the capacity of the bar mill and to
increace the cold mill capscity by about 30% in the second stage of plant
development.
Bar Mill Expansion
3.        The present layout (Stage I) provides for rolling of rod and bar
products in one continuous mill with wire products being processed, finished,
and shipped from the adjacent (south) bay. This layout will permit future
expansion into two continuous mills -- one for rods and the other for bars --
by adding fan-rolling trains and a furnace to the first mill with heat-treat-
ment facilities remaining common to both mills. Capacity for the production
of bar products at Otelinox could be effectively doubled in this way when the
market justifies expansion.
Flat Products Plant Expansion
4.        The situation at the cold mill is somewhat different.  Initial
(Stage I) capacity will be limited to 30,000 tons per year at full utilization
of the one modern, efficient Sendzimir mill for cold reduction. It is planned
to achieve the 30% expansion of the plant capacity in Stage II with the addi-
tion of one single-stand reversing cold mill and necessary support facilities.
In this way, the use of two mills will provide increased capacity, while
helping to maintain the high level of quality control (shape and close dimen-
sional tolerances) normally associated with the Sendzimir mill processing.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
CAPITAL COST nTinmkZ
(in MillionT
Cold Hlll                          Bar____           _                                   Total Otelinox
ki  ei             in Lei)                                               (in Lei)                             (in US$)
Local             ci T                           e       T              Ial        Forei         Total           Lal   For          Tat
1. Equikprt   (CIF plant site)      162.4      484.0     646.4          210.2      671.5      881.7          372.6      1,155.5      1,528.1          18.6      57.8     76.4
2. Spares                             3.0       40.0      43.0            6.o       52.0       58.0            9.0         92.0        201.0           0.5      4.6        5.1
3. Engineering, Ynow-how and
Technical Assistance            79.3       77.8      157.1          42.9       25.0       67.9          122.2        102.8        225.0           6.1       5.1      11.2
4. Construction & Installation      448.3         -      448.3          457.4        -        457.4          95.7          -          905.7          45.3        -      45.3
5, Supevision and Start-up           25.9         -        25.9            7.6       _          7.6           33.5          -           33.5           1.7        -        1.7
6. Pre-operating Expenses            11.1        4,o        15.1                     - 300                    14.1          4.o         18.1           0.7       0.2       0.9
Sub-total                   730.0          .   ,3                727.1     7C83     1, 4 K         1471         1,3314j      2,=.4            ~47"      E7-
7. Contingencies
Pbysical                      70.1       68.0      138.1           68.3       81.0     149.3          138.4        149.0        287.4           6.9       7.4      14.3
Price (10%)                     -       122.0      122.0                    1032       103.2            -          22225.2                       -       11.3      13
Total Fixed Capital         87 7P "                              795.       932.7   1,7Ef          19           1, g2O..     3,  70
8. WorkLng Capital Requirements     103M7        2.2                     52.6        1.5         .1          356.3          3.7        160.0           7.8       0.2       8.0
Total Project Cost                                               MM 79t5.0317   .28                i7T:i        17372        3;4W.o           B77       ME o     17;
9. Interest and Financial Charges
During Construction                                                                                     38.5        183.4        221.9           1.9       9.2      11.1
Total Firncing Required                                                                            1,790.3     1,915.6      3,705.9          89.5      95.8     185.3
1/ This project is exempted from all duties and taxes on imported items.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1974



ANNEX 5-1
Page 2
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
DETAILS OF EQUIPMENT COST
(US$ 000)
Equipment and Associated Items
Foreign        Local           Total
I. COLD MILL
A. EOT Cranes and Material Handling             260           300             560
B. Batch Annealing                              420            -              420
C. Coil Preparation Line                        900           300           1,200
D. Hot Roll, Anneal and Pickle Line           1,715           575           2,290
E. Hot Strip Grinding Line                    1,530           490           2,020
F. Sendzimir Mill                             4,850           500           5,350
G. Cold Roll, Anneal and Pickle Line         2,100            715           2,815
H. Bright Anneal Line                         2,070           690           2,760
I. Coil Inspection Line                        680            105             785
J. Two High Temper Mill                       1,400           160           1,560
K. Slitting Line                                520            70             590
L. Shearing Line                                845           155           1,000
M. Sheet Stretcher Leveller                     310            -              310
N. Sheet Polishing Line                         135            -              135
0. Strip Polishing Lines (2)                  1,850           185           2,035
P. Coil Packaging Line                           50           150             200
Q. Miscellaneous Equipment and Items            900           525           1,425
R. Auxiliary Equipment                        2,915         3,200           6,115
S. Freight and Insurance                        750            -              750
Sub-Total                                24,200          8,120          32,320
II. BAR MILL
A. EOT Cranes and Material Handling             250           300             550
B. Billet Reheat Furnace                        500           310             810
C. Rolling Mill                             22,500          3,600          26,100
D. Heat Treating Facilities                   1,200         1,380           2,580
E. Finishing Facilities                       3,975         1,295           5,270
F. Miscellaneous Equipment and Items          1,000           425           1,425
G. Auxiliary Equipment                       3,150          3,200           6,350
H. Freight and Insurance                      1,000           -             1,000
Sib-Total                                33,575         10,510          44,o85
TOTAL (I and II)                            57,775         18,630          76,405
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974



ANNEX 5-2
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
WORMING CAPITAL RQUIREMTNTS
(000 Lei)
1978      1979      1980
1.  Cash                                               500       500        500
2. Inventory
A.  Cold Mill - Production Capacity (%)            22        90       100
Raw Materials (15 days of operation)      8,40o    33,800    37,600
Wbrk in Process (15 days of operation)   7,950    32,000    35,631
Finished Products (7 days of production) 6,500    26,300    29,224
Spare Parts                               2,220      2,220     2,220
Auxiliary Materials                       1,020      1,020     1,020
B.  Ear Mill - Production Capacity (%)             45        94        100
Raw Materials (8 days of operation)       7,600    17,200    16,930
Work in Process (8 days of operation)    8,ooo    16,700    17,900
Finished Products ( days of production)  7,1400    15,1400    16,485
Spare Parts                               1,480     1,480      1,480
Auxiliary Materials                       1,010      1,010     1,010
Total Working Capital                          50,810   147,630   1602000
Incremental Working Capital                    50,810    96,820    12,370
Note:  In the Romanian context, payments on all industrial trade transactions
are made by the National Bank, which provides credits to enterprises in
an amount equal to the total production cost of the sales transaction
involved on receipt of invoices from them. When the customer informs
the National Bank to make the payment on the customer's behalf, the
National Bank makes the entire payment while cancelling the credit
already provided. Therefore, account receivables as well as account
payables are not a part of working capital requirement calculations,
as is common in the market economy.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






ANNEX 5-3
Page 1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
INVESTMENT IN NEW PROJECTS
A.  Types of Investments
1.        There are two main categories under which investments are generally
undertaken in Romania. First and most important, covering over 95X of total
investments in recent years, are Centralized Investments, the investments
from the state funds which are authorized in the Plan and which include all
major investments. Second and relatively minor in total value are Non-Cen-
tralized Investments, the small investments made by enterprises from their
own funds without specific plan approval; such investments are primarily made
by the enterprises from their planned profit allocated for this purpose which
are held in Central's account in the Investment Bank and are disbursed to an
enterprise in accordance with demonstrated need. Productive investments of
urgency and investments of social benefit (such as urgent maintenance/modernization
jobs, technical improvements in plant, social and cultural investments like
schools, housing, etc.) are some examples of non-centralized investments.
While the individual investments are decided by the Enterprise itself and need
not be specifically approved in the annual plan, the gross allocation of funds
for such decentralized investments must be approved by higher authorities as
a part of the annual financial plan and within the framework of the state
annual plan. A graphic description of these two categories of investments
and their major sources of finance is given in Table 1. As practically all
important investments fall under the centralized investment category, this
note will concentrate on the approval and financing of centralized investments.
Table 2 gives a graphic view of the decision-making and funds flow for
centralized investments.
B.   Approval of Investments
2.        Investments in all sectors of the economy are designed to meet the
production targets set forth in the National Production Plan, both Five-Year
and Annual, approved by the Grand National Assembly. The Annual State Budget
(Annual Financial Plan), also approved by the Grand National Assembly, details
the investments required by different sectors of the economy, including a
breakdown up to the enterprise level, to achieve the production targets
established for them. Once these Investment and Financial Plans are approved,
they acquire the status of a State Law and must be strictly adhered to by
all the concerned parties. The procedure outlined in the following paragraph
describes the steps followed to include an investment in these plans.
3.        Investment projects are prepared by the enterprise or by the
ministry concerned (in the case of large projects of national importance, it
is prepared by the ministry itself or by the enterprise concerned only with
the assistance of the ministry concerned) to achieve the production targets



ANNEX 5-3
Page 2
approved in the Five-Year and Annual Plans. Prior to its inclusion in the
Plan, an investment must be approved by the authorized organization unit.
The authority for approval depends on the total cost of the proposed investment;
a higher than required organization may, however, approve investments of
special significance. Generally, investment of:
(a) Lei 10,000,000 or less can be approved by the Enterprise; 1/
(b) Lei 10,000,000 to 30,000,000 are approved by the Central; 1/
(c) Lei 30,000,000 to 70,000,000 are approved by the Ministry; 1/
and
(d) Over Lei 70,000,000 are approved by the Council of Ministers.
In this case, the Minister concerned presents the proposal but
the Council of Ministers receives comments from the Ministry
of Finance, State Planning Committee, Ministry of Supply and
Investment Control, and Investment Bank.
4.         The investment decisions are made on the basis of the "Techno-
Economic Studies". These studies not only contain the economic justifica-
tion of the project but also include the project schedule, detailed cost
estimates of the project based on complete design and engineering, and
fully identify sources of equipment, raw materials, labor and financing.
For example, the approval for an investment is not given till sources of
financing are firmly identified. Consequently, immediately after the ap-
proval of a project, its financing is incorporated in the national plan in
order that the physical execution of the project can start soon thereafter.
C.    Financing of Investments
5.         There are three major sources of financing available to industrial
enterprises:
(i) Their "Own Funds": depreciation, share of own benefits
(profits) and to a much smaller extent receipts from sale
of obsolete equipment.
(ii) Allocations from the State/Local Budget.
(iii) Credits from the banks: this source is expected to become
more important in future.
Investments made through credit sources are called the Credit Investments
and all other investments are called the Financed Investments (Table 1).
1/    In the case of these investments, a notification of the Investment
Bank's consent is necessary for final approval. The Investment Bank
particularly reviews the efficiency of investing the requested level
of funds to meet the production goals; it may recommend a reduction
in or even a postponement of the proposed investment.



ANNEX 5-3
Page 3
6.         Non-Centralized Investments.  As already mentioned earlier, invest-
ments in non-centralized investments are made from the Non-Centralized Fund.
An allocation to this fund is made if the enterprise meets its planned-
benefit target for the year. Amount of allocation varies between 1% to 4%
of the planned profits depending upon the "rentability" (roughly profits on
sales revenues) of the enterprise as explained in para 3 (v) of the note on
"Distribution of Benefits".
7.         Centralized Investments.  The broad Financial Plan for the whole
project is prepared by the enterprise in consultation with the Investment
Bank during the preparation of the Techno-Economic Study. However, detailed
sources of funds for work to be completed in a budget year are identified in
the annual financial plan of the enterprise/central. This annual financial
plan (sources and usage of funds statement) considers the planned benefits
for the enterprise and the funds likely to be surplus after making other
mandatory allocations, the depreciation funds and other "own funds", surplus
depreciation funds from other enterprises in the central and the credit in-
vestments suggested by the Investment Bank. If these sources are not suffi-
cient, the financing gap is met through a non-reimbursable, non-interest-
bearing grant from the budget. Republic Enterprises request allocation from
the Republican (National) Budget while the Local Enterprises get allocations
from the Local (District, Municipal) Budget. Allocations for such investments
are made through the Republican/Local Economic and Social Development Fund
part of the Budget.
8.         In this process of seeking budget funds, the enterprise, first,
makes a detailed statement of its sources (planned benefits minus mandatory
allocations) and needs for funds to achieve the production targets set for
it for the forthcoming year. It forwards this statement to the Central
without balancing the sources and usage of funds. The Central collates the
statements from all the enterprises associated with it and tries to meet ex-
cess needs of one enterprise with the surplus funds, if any, from other en-
terprises. For example, if during a year an enterprise has authorized cen-
tralized investment needs below its "own funds" (depreciation and its share
of benefits), then these excess funds are used for centralized investments
in other enterprises. The Central, then, finalizes its financial plan; if
the total investment needs of the enterprises are in excess of their com-
bined "own funds", the Central requests budget allocations. On the other
hand, If the enterprises, as a group, have surplus funds during a year,
they are returned to the State Budget. Each Ministry receives annual plans
from all its Centrals, consolidates them and forwards them to the Ministry
of Finance. The latter collates the financial plans of all the Ministries
and formulates the National Financial Plan which is approved by the Grand
National Assembly and the Council of State.
9.         This approval authorizes the enterprises to proceed further with
their planned activities. The Investment Bank, National Bank and other banks
receive copies of the approved financial plan for each enterprise and are



ANNEX 5-3
Page 4
responsible for making payments from the budget categories/sources specified,
according to the approved schedule. The banks keep a separate account for
each category in the financial plan for every enterprise. The banks deal
directly with the enterprises and the intermediate organization units, Min-
istry and the Central, do not get involved in the financial transactions once
the Annual Plan is finalized and sources of funds identified. The deprecia-
tion fund is handled in the Investment Bank; it receives bi-monthly payments
from the enterprise. The allocations from the Economic and Social Develop-
ment Fund are channeled through the National Bank; it makes bi-monthly trans-
fers to the enterprise account at the Investment Bank, according to the sched-
ule approved in the Plan. The latter makes all payments after ensuring that
they are in full conformity with the approved Plan.
D.    Cost of Financing
10.        The Investment Bank decides, in consultation with the borrower, if
any part of an investment should be designated Credit Investment and financed
by credits. The balance is, then, designated Financed Investments for finan-
cing through "own funds" and budget allocations. The main criteria for ap-
proving credit investments are:
(i) The investment should be able to pay for itself in maximum
10 years.
(ii) It should have sources of equipment firmly identified.
(iii) It should have firm sales contracts for the proposed pro-
duction.
(iv) Until the new law of 1973, such investments were limited
for projects under Lei 70 million.
The cost of these two and other types of financing is discussed below.
11.        Financed Investments.  At present the Financed Investments (see
para 5) have no specific fixed financial obligations though any surplus gen-
erated during the year is transferred to the budget on a preallocated basis.
However, a new law now under consideration is expected to impose a tax on in-
vested funds. This tax could be considered like a fixed dividend rate on
equity and is aimed to encourage an efficient use of State funds invested as
budget allocation. The tax rate, subject to a maximum of 6%, is expected to
be different for different sectors of the economy. This differential rate
will be used to encourage investments in specific sectors like agriculture.
124        To provide an incentive to make investments productive as soon as
possible, the financing under the financed investments is not effective till
the investments start production. During the construction period, the Invest-
ment Bank pays for the investments from a special account for all expenditures,



ANNEX 5-3
Page 5
except for buildings and construction which are directly paid from the financed
investment funds. The financing for investments, plant, equipment, spares etc.
is provided at a 2% interest rate until the date of commissioning. However,
as soon as the plant is declared commissioned after the "technical tests",
these special account credits are replaced by funds from the financed-invest-
ments fund. If actual commissioning is delayed, then this interest rate is
increased from 2% to 6% for the delayed period.
13.        Credit Investments:  are expected to become more important in fu-
ture. These are medium7long-term loans, presently at 2%-4X interest rate,
extended by the Investment Bank from its own sources for the centralized
investments. Under a new law in force since January 1973, the Investment
Bank has been authorized to extend large credits for projects of national
interest, which was not possible earlier. At present the maximum term for
loans is 10 years. The lower interest rates are charged for short maturity
credits and the higher interest rates, i.e. 4%, are charged for longer ma-
turities.
14.        Working Capital A.  Temporary:  For the commissioning period, the
Investment Bank provides the enterprise with credit for its working capital
needs (spares, inventory, materials for commissioning period) at 2% interest
rate. This credit must be paid back, within 90 days of the scheduled commis-
sioning date, from the sales of production during this period. If the com-
missioning is delayed, the interest rate is increased to 6% for the delayed
period.
15.        Working Capital B.  Permanent:  Once an investment is declared ef-
fective (commissioned), the expected working capital needs for the forthcoming
year are met by the State Budget channelled through the National Bank. The
enterprise must negotiate, each year, its working capital needs for the coming
year with the bank. The working capital amount is composed of two parts.
First, the "normative" amount calculated on the basis of the planned produc-
tion and the previously approved "norms" like the turnover rate. Second, any
"additional" needs which must be specifically approved either by the National
Bank or the Ministry on grounds like special supply conditions which justify
higher than economical level of inventories, etc. Increases in the "normative"
amount of permanent working capital requirements are mostly met, through self
generated funds by retaining benefits though additional grants from the State
Budget are possible, if necessary. The "additional" working capital needs
are met through specially approved loans at 3%-5% interest rate; late payments
are charged 12% interest.
Industrial Projects Department
May 21, 1974






ANNEX 5-3
Chart 1
ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
MAJOR TYPES OF INVESTMENTS AND SOUkfiES Ot FUNDS
Investments
Type According to
Approval Needed                                  Investments from                               Investments from funds
State Funds 1/                                 from economic uni 2
Type According to
Financing                          Financed                           Credit
Investments                      Investments       |
Sources of Finance
Fixed Assets
Own Funds
State Budget                      Fixed Assets
Allocations                         Investment                Own Funds
(non-reimbursable)                    Bank                       (mainly Non-centralized
Working Capital                         Credits                     Investment Funds)
National Bank
Credit
1/ Centralized Investments
2/ Non-centralized
Investments                                                                World Bank - 8403(RI



ROMANIA: INDUSTRIAL st IOR
SOURCES OF CAPITAL FUNDS FOR CENTRALIZED INVESTMENTS
The
Grand Natona                                                               ANNEX 5-3
Assembly                                                                   Chart 2
,    1Appoval
Financial Plan for Approval
* -  -.          -    _ .  _.           .-._ . _       ._.  S
I                        Budgot rquest                         Mini
Finn
Ii 
1Speciel Units I
I Profits       I                            Local                            I                          Repulic
I    Budgets                                                    Budtet
-I                FOwn                                    '       lRepublic1
|   ffi   Economic                  LocalEconomic                                                 rom c
|  & Social                  a ~~~~~~& Social                                               & S  odl     Z
Dev Funds  '                            DeweFunds                                                   Dev Fund
.~ ~             I              . \DvFn   j
I Dept. I   Profits
.I              I                 ....         . ; 
*   =                                                                                             j%i *.. I
* ,NX ationl
k                         _,__,...                      Bank
-i - - - - - ----  -                                           - - -
*                             I     W*,;;,    *~~~~~~~i 
Minister                                      .
(e.g.Chsemicals) -   -  - -  - -. - -  - --.
(tCOsnixlsl _._._._._._.   5 \  @                          I                               j  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Suppliers|
. .                                     '.                       ~               ~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~I S1 
Investmentf Plan & Sources                                                                                          / |   /s
Cenral  . -. -.    .    . -         Entere    '                   '                                           | /VContractor
Financial Plan                              I :                                                 -,
Cash Flow Budget Balanced       Enterpri
Etc.
_ . _-. _-. Financial Plan
Approval for Expenses
.      .      .. Alloeation from Profits
-  -  -  -   Budpt Allocation
Allocation from Depr ecition Funds
-       .   Allocation of Enterprise Profits and Depreciation                                                             World Bank 8402(R)



ANNEX 6-1
Page 1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES IO BE FINANCED BY THE BANK
Category                                   Estimated           % to be        Amount to be
Total Foreign      Financed       Financed by
Exchange Cost  /  by the Bank   the Bank
(USffiOOO )           (X)         (US$000)
A.      Cold Mill
1.  WOT Cranes and Material Handling               260               100           260
2. Batch Annealing                                 420              100            420
3.  Coil Preparation Line                          900               100           900
4. Hot Roll, Anneal and Pickleline              1,715               100          1,715
5.  Hot-Strip Grinding Line                      1,530               100         1,530
6.  Sendzimer Mill                               4,850              100          4,850
7. Cold Roll, Anneal and Pickleline              2,100              100          2,100
8.  Bright Anneal Line                           2,070              100          2,070
9.  Coil Inspection Line                           680              100            680
10.  Two-High Temper Line                         1,400               100         1,400
11.  Slitting Line                                  520               100           520
12.  Shear Line                                     845               100           845
13.  Sheet Stretcher Leveller                       310               100           310
14.  Sheet Polishing Line                           135               100           135
15.  Strip Polishing Lines (2)                    1,850               100         1,850
16.  Auxiliary and Miscellaneous Equip.2/         6,615               100         6,615
17.  Engineering and Know-how and Technical
Assistance 3/                             4,090              100          4,090
Sub-total                               30,290                           30,290
1/ The Bank loan is expected to finance the entire cost of the Cold Mill bid
package which is to be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
including equipment, spare parts, engineering, know how, training, technical
assistance and other services. Romanian firms are not expected to participate
in the consortium supplying the Cold Mill.
With respect to the Bar Mill the Bank loan is expected to finance a part
(about 65%) of the bid package to be procured under ICB including similar
items as described above for the Cold Mill.
In the case of the Bar Mill, it is expected that Romanian firms may participate
as members of the supplying consortium.
The remainder of the foreign exchange (and local) financing required for the
project is expected to be supplied by the State.
2/ This includes the cost of spares as well as foreign freight and insurance.
3/ Includes the cost of technical assistance, which may be required during the
procurement stage, estimated at US$0.2 million.



ANNEX 6-1
Page 2
Category                                   Estimated        % to be       Amount to be
Tbtal Fbreign    Financed      Financed by
Exchange Cost   by the Bank   the Bank
(US$000O)          (%          (U$000)
1/
B.   Bar Mill-
1. Rolling Mill                             22,500        100% of         )
2. Heat Treatment Facilities                 1,200        individual      )
3. Finishing Facilities                      3,975        expenditures   )
4. Billet Reheat Furnace                       500        up to loan      )
5. Material Handling                           250        amount          ): 24,310
6.  Auxiliary and Misc. Equipment            7,750        (expected to   )
7.  Engineering, know how and technical                   cover 65% of   )
assistance                             1 250        actual expendi-)
37,425 2/     tures)          )
C.   Unallocated                                                                   15,4oo
Total                                                                    70,000
1/ It is expected that all of the Bank Loan will be utilized for financing of
goods and services required for the project. However, if any funds from the
loan amount remain after all reasonable commitments for goods and services for
the project have been made, such amount may be reallocated by the Bank for
interest during construction.
2/ Based on recent information received in May 1974 some significant Bar Mill
components--listed in this annex as "Foreigni"--may be shifted to Romanian
supply but included as part of the foreign bid package if accepted voluntarily
by the lead firm of the supply consortium. Thus, figures shown above may include
Romanian components supplied through the foreign consortium.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1974



ANNEx 6-2
RCKANIA: OTELINOZ STEEL PROJECT                  -
ESTIMATED DISBURSFE~NT SCHEDULE
(000 US)
a,       Amount            Undistributed
Year                  Disbursement        Outstanding             Amount
1974: III Qtr                 0                  0                70,000
IV Qtr                0                   0               70,000
1975:  I Qtr             2,180 2/            2,180                67,820
II Qtr            3,490o              5,670                64,330
III Qtr            3,490               9,160                60,840
IV Qtr            3,490              12,650                57,350
1976:  I Qtr             3,490              16,140                53,860
II Qtr            3,490              19,630                50,370
III Qtr            3,490              23,120                46,880
IV Qtr            5,470              28,590                41,410
1977:  I Qtr             6,980              35,570                34,430
II Qtr           12,915              48,485                21,515
III Qtr            7,560              56,045                13,955
IV Qtr                0              56,045                13,955
1978:  I Qtr             3,960              60,005                 9,995
II Qtr            6,975              66,980                 3,020
III Qtr            3,020              70,000                     0
1/ This is based on the following assumptions: 5%, down payment; 50%,progress
payment; 25%, on delivery; 10%, on oommissioning; and 10% after the completion
of performance guarantee.
2/ Includes the cost of the technical assistance for procurement, if necessary.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1974






ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
7 1974            1           176                          1976                        _5F
I  PUBLISHING OF INTERNATIONAL ADVERTISEMENTS             M            A I         1UjI                                          7 I  IA:    DI|MIQ                       .t   +   j                                    ' J
2RAECEIVING OF RESPONSES TO AGE                                                           ,1
3  PREOUALIFICATION                                                                             I
DRAWING UP AND SENDING OF INOUIRIES                                                 I                 ;
TO THE PREQUALFIED FIRMS                        -                                                                                                                     --________tl 
5  PRE RID DISCUSSION                                                                              I       |                                                                 ___|  __ 
6DATE OP RECEIPT GF PRELIMINARY OFFERS                    -                                                                 tt                        -'          -
7 TGCHNICAL DISCUSSIGNO AITH THE BIOI'ERS
82 RECEIPT  BASIC TECHNICAL E     RICED BI         .t
O9TEECTRICAL ERECTSIONS
M ECEAIPTAL FIRNALGECHIA AND   PRICED12,2BIDS2
25NOLETOAD O TEST S TEAUEDB-ECSO
RTO AWART  CONT RACT A   0 RA TEST
127  ACCETAINCEO TEROSTS   REMN
A REVISEDSIESTIMATESND17GMAY 1024
AGREEMENT   L     _188  R  
17AIGMN  OF PAREVSDETM AE 17 MA  1974                                                                                                                                                                      Wom  Bak807{






ANNEX 7-1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
RAW MATERIALS
Otelinox Needs
1.        Main semi-finished steel products required by the Otelinox Plant
for its rolling operation are hot-rolled bands and billets. When fully
operational in 1980, the plant would require annually 40,500 tons of hot-
rolled bands (3-5mm) to produce stainless sheet and strip , and 146,500 tons
of billets (in 80mm x 80mm and 100mm x 100mm sizes) to produce alloy bars
and bar-like products. Hot-rolled band will be supplied by rail from the
new integrated steel plant at Galati, 270 km from Otelinox, and billets will
be delivered by truck from the Tirgoviste Steel Plant (Stage I), adjacent
to Otelinox.
2.        In addition to the above main inputs, the Otelinox plant would
require the following inputs among otheir which would be used in small quan-
tities:
Otelinox Requirements
Aiuxiliary Materials
Sulphuric Acid (tons)                       3,000
1ydrofluoric Acid (tons)                      500
Trichloroethylene (tons)                    2,290
Nitrogen ('000 m3)                          2,,240
Refractories (tons)                            90
Rolls (tons)                                  375
Utilities
Natural Gas ('000 Nm3)                     39,060
Power  ('000 Kwh)                          63,000
Water ('000 m3)                            24,250
3.        The above inputs are available locally and no problem is foreseen
in their supply.
Raw Material Needs of Galati and Tirgoviste I to Produce Semi-Products for Otelinox
4.        As already noted, Otelinox will require hot-rolled bands from Galati
and billets from Tirgoviste I. To produce these semi-products for Oteli.nox,
Galati and Tirgoviste I will require the following main inputs:



ANNEX 7-1
Page 2
Main Input Requirements
(in tons except where mentioned)
Mater ials                         Galati          Tirgoviste I         Total
Scrap  1/                          46,ooo             204,000         250,000
Ferrosilicon (75% Si)                 815               2,115            2,930
Refined Ferromanganese (85%Mn)      1,675                  70            1,745
Ferromanganese                                          1,500            1,500
Refined Ferrochromium (65% Cr)    17,010                  875           17,885
Ferrochromnium (35% Cr)             6,595               2,445            9,040
Ferromolybdenum                       375                 240              615
Ferrotitanium                       2,625                  65            2,690
Nickel                              6,840                 490            7,330
Graphite Electrodes                   600               1,400            2,000
Castings                            2,720               6,800            9,520
Refractories                        5,290              10,410          15,700
Limestone                             465              12,600          13,065
Ferrovanadium                        _                    310              310
Wolfram (Tungsten)                   -                    520              520
Cobalt                                                     1 40             40
Cast Iron                            _                  6,125           6,125
Magnesite Granules                   -                  2,100           2,100
Rolls                                -                    300              300
Utilities
Natural Gas ('000 Nm3)             80,025              20,450         100,475
Power ('000 Kwh)                   16,890             195,380         212,270
Water ('000 m3)                    13,035              18,785          31,820
1/ Excluding recoveries.
5.        As shown in the  above table, the production of semi-products for
Otelinox would require a total of about 250,000 tons of scrap, 26,925 tons
of ferrochromium and  9,790 tons of other ferroalloys, 7,330 tons of nickel,
40 tons of cobalt, 520 tons of tungsten, 15,700 tons of refractories, 13,065
tons of limestone, and some other iems in minor quantities.
Scrap Sapply
6.        Romania is able to meet its  scrap requirements from internal
sources. In 1972, a total of 4 million tons were supplied to steel mills.
Their requirements are expected to rise to 6.5 million tons in 1980, and the
entire needs are expected to be met from domestic sources.
7.        Romania has a well-organized scrap collection, processing, storage
and distribution system. A Central established in 1952 looks after these
aspects. It has at present about 160 warehouses in different parts of the
country. In addition, three scrap preparation centers have been already
established, and five more are being developed. These processing centers
process ferrous as well as non-ferrous scrap.



ANNEX 7-1
Page 3
Ferroalloys, Nickel and Tungsten
8.        Ronania relies on imports to meet most of its requirements of
ferroalloys. This situation is expected to continue in the future except
for lower grade (35% Mg) ferromanganese for -which a plant is being built at
TMcea port, on the Danube River. However, higher-grade ferromanganese (65%Mg)
'will continue to be imported from the Soviet Union, India, Brazil, Gabon
and Morocco. In the case of ferrochrome, nickel and tungsten, three other
important alloying materials uFed in special steels, the imports are expected
to rise as follows:
1972           1980         Main Sources of Import
Ferrochromium      1           i0           2B700              Europe
Nickel                        3,000           8,000       U.K., Holland, Canada,
USSR and Cuba
Tungsten                        400          1,200             China
Cobalt
Cobalt is imported from Belgium.  Imports are expected to rise from
75 tons to 120 tons during 1972-1980.
Refractories
9.        Refractory materials made of chromemagnesite, silicoalumina and
silica would be used by Otelinox. In the case of silicoalumina and silica
bricks, the country is self-sufficient.  However, chromemagnesite refractories
are currently imported from Czechoslovakia, the USSR, Yugoslavia and Austria,
but there are plans to produce them locally.
Graphite Electrodes
10.       These are  produced in adequate quaatity in Slatina and Tirgoviste.
Limestone
11.       Limestone is locally available in abundant quantity.
Other Materials
12.       Other raw materials required for alloy steel production are minor
in importance. Most of them are available locally.
Utilities
13.       Romania has one of the largest gas and oil resources in Eastern Europe.
Power generation is increasing fast at the rate of about 12% a year, and power
is supplied through a national grid. As a result, the supply of natural gas
and power to the project seems assured. Power transmission and water supply
facilities as well as transportation links to the project site have already
been developed as part of the development of Tirgoviste I.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






ANNEX 7-2
ROMANIA   OT!LINOX STEEL PROJECT
Cold Mill at Full Capacity Production (30,000 tons)
Reuirei ents     Price  Total Production Cost
No.      Item                          U/M    Per Ton of  Annual Lei/i    Lei'O00           %
Product
1. Raw Materials:
-- RDt-roleld coil                tons       1.350    40,500  19,500   789,750
2. Recoveries                                    0.320     9,600   3,314    31,814
Sub-total                                                               757,936      74.3
3. Auxiliary materialst
--Sulrurle aeld                    t         0.100    3,000       850     2,550
-- tdroflouric acid                t        0.016       500   45,200    22,600
--Tricholorethylene                t        o.o86    2,590    7,076    18,328
--Rolls                            t        0.0017       51  138,800      7,080
--Others                                                                 17,871
Sub-total                                                                68,429       6.7
4. Utilities                          3
--natural gas                   10 Nm3         793   23,791       205     4,875
--electricity                   103 Kwh     1,000   30,000        400    12,000
--industrial water              103m3          500   15,000       250     3,750
--steam, compressed air, etc.                                             2,340
Sub-total                                                                22,965        2.3
5. Wages & Salaries                                                          21,700        2.1
of which:
--Social Tax                                                             (2,500)
6.  aiop Overhead                                                           136,600       13.4
of which:
--Depreciation                                                          (84,700)
7.  General Factory Overhead                                                 12,439        1.2
Total Cost of Production                                              1,020,069      100.0



ANNEX 7-2
Page 2
ROMANIA - OTELINOZ STEXL PROJECT
PR-ODUCTION COST ESTIYA!TS U1W0
Bar Mill at Full Production Capeoity (120,00C TPy)
Requiremsnts      Price    Total Production Cost
No.    Item                             Per Ton of Ainual  Lei/UM       Lei '000        _
U/M   Pr-oduct-
1. Raw Materials - billets      tons     l,220      146,400   4s535     663,924
2. Recoveries                            0.210       25,200     853      21,496
Sub-total                                                            642,428        75.5
3. Auxiliary Materials:
--Rolls                      tons     0.0027         324  30,000       9,720
--Nitrogen                 103M3      o.o0866      2,240   2,785       6,238
--Refractories               tons     0.00075         91   1,800         164
--Others                                                                 744
Sub-total                                                           16,866         2.0
4. Utilities
-rDatural Gas              103Nm3       127       15,280     205       3,132
--Electricity              lo3Kwh       275       33,000     400      13,200
--Industrial Water         103M3          77       9,250     250       2,313
--Others                                                               1,851
Sub-total                                                           20,496        2.4
ri. nrect Salaries                                                       23,800         2.8
.. P which social tax:                                              (2,800)
6. Shop Overhead                                                        136,900        16.0
--of which Depreciation                                              (91,300)
7.  Genral Factory Overhead                                              10,692        1.3
Total Cost of Production                                             851,182      100.0
Industrial Projects ]epartment
January 1974



ANNEX 7-3
Page 1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
ROMANIAN PRICING SYSTEM
1.         Within the industrial sector, the primary function of prices is to
facilitate planning and control of expenditures. They are kept more or less
constant over long periods of time. The existing prices are the published
catalogue prices of 1963 with minor modifications over time.
2.         The product price within the industrial sector is set in the State
catalogue to cover production costs in an average facility and also to yield
an acceptable profit, subject to certain modifications due to relative domestic
and/or foreign scarcities or priorities. A turnover tax is added to the
product price to arrive at the delivery price. This delivery price is charged
only when products are sold to final consumers. The turnover tax is not
applicable to sales of primary and intermediate products (e.g., for iron ore,
steel, etc.) The export price is identical to the product price, since an
enterprise receives the same payment from the foreign trade enterprise that
markets the goods abroad as it would from a domestic customer. Supplementary
expenditures required to prepare a product for export are reimbursed separately.
The lei prices of imported items are determined in one of three different ways:
(i) in correlation with the production price of similar items produced domes-
tically; (ii) by conversion of unit foreign exchange expenditures into domestic
currency at specially determined exchange rates (usually done for equipment);
and (iii) by conversion of the cost of the components imported at a specially
determined exchange rate and then pricing of the subsequently assembled pro-
ducts in correlation with the imported price of the components.
3.         According to the Romanian authorities, 1963 catalogue prices were
set more or less in line with 1963 world prices. Since then the world demand
and technology situation has changed, necessitating a number of price modifica-
tions. Usually, the more capital intensive an industry, the higher its approved
profit mark-up so that capital repairs and expansion do not have to be financed
by budgetary grants. However, in industries where technical progress has pro-
duced unnecessarily high profit rates, regularization taxes have been applied
since 1970 to absorb these excess profits. Certain prices have been changed
to prevent misuse of resources such as the use of natural gas as a fuel instead
of as a chemical feedstock. Oil products have been slightly modified and
sold at higher prices.
4.         In order to eliminate the existing price distortions and align prices
with the social costs of production, a major price revision based on Law Number
19/1971 is scheduled for adoption in 1974/75. Accordingly, new prices will
be introduced gradually, not all at once as in 1963. The role of Centrals and
enterprises in setting prices is expected to increase and price adjustments
would be done more frequently. Some catalogue prices would no longer be
invariable, but would indicate merely the upper limit.



ANNEX 7-3
Page 2
5.         As already mentioned, product prices will be set to equal average
production costs plus the approved profit mark-up which would be a function
of total assets. In addition to the usual cost elements, such as materials,
utilities, wages including social taxes, depreciation, research and develop-
ment, etc. two new cost elements -  a tax on total assets and a land tax -
will be introduced. These taxes, whose rates for each industry are yet to
be determined, 1/ are designed to encourage more efficient use of capital and
land.  The product price based on costs can be altered to encourage:  (i)
introduction of new products of higher quality or with lower production
costs; (ii) profitable use of natural resources determined by reference to
world prices and long-range requirements; (iii) domestic production of pro-
ducers' goods; (iv) rational use of materials by reference to world prices;
(v) vertical integration of production; and (vi) increased production of spare
parts.
6.         The Bank has been given no indication of the new prices that will
result from the revision. The prices of natural gas, coal, iron ore and other
raw materials are expected to rise to the level of world prices. Prices may
be lower than previously fixed levels, for products in industries such as
chemicals, machine building and electrical equipment where technical progress
has been substantial. On the average, prices are expected to increase only
moderately. Although there would be some adjustments, the pricing system is
such that it would not affect the financial viability of the Enterprise. The
revenue forecasts which are based on the present catalogue prices are given
in Annex 7-4.
Industrial Projects Department
May, 1974
1/    A total asset tax of 6% is now being used experimentally in the food
industry.



ANNEX 7-4
ROMANIAL OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
IIV NUr; funbA.AbrC    -
Total Revenue
Avg. Price                       (Lei Million)
Products                         Per Ton    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982        1983     1984
A. Cold Mill Products
Domestic
Austenitic                   45,197    242.3   829.4   768.6   904.1 1,039.5  1,084.7  1,084.7
Ferritic                     29,083     29.2   117.8   130.9   130.9   130.9    130.9    130.8
Martensitic                  25,394       8.5   _4-3    38.1    38.1    38.1        38.1     38.1
Sub-total                             280.0   981.5   937.6 1,073.1 1,208.5  1,253.7  1,253.7
Exports
Eutxpo itic                  45,197      -      146.8   316.1   180.6    45.2 
Total Cold Mill Products              280.0 1,128.3 1,253.7 1,253.7 1,253.7  1,253.7  1,253.7
B. Bar Mill Products
Domestic
In Coils                      6,923    192.1   455.1   484.7   484.7   484.7    484.7    484.7
In Bars                       9,645    158.9   446.9  482.3   482.3   482.3    482.3    482.3
Total Bar Mill Products               351.0   902.0   967.0   967.0   967.0    967.0    967.0
Total Otelinox                        631.0 2,030.3 2,220.7 2,220.7 2,220.7  2,220.7  2,220.7
Industrial Projects Department
January 1974






ANNEX 8-1
Page 1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
CASH FLOW AND ALLOCATION OF PROFITS
A.    Introduction
1.         Every enterprise must draw up a financial plan in support of its
annual material plan. This plan, which specifies sources and uses of funds,
is not initially required to balance at the level of the enterprise. The
Central, which has the primary role in financial planning, then allocates
surpluses and deficits among enterprises in an attempt to balance their
financial plans. If the total sources and needs of all enterprises under
the Central do not match, the Central identifies the difference to indicate
its needs/contributions to the State Budget; in case of a surplus, the fi-
nancial plan included a matching entry for allocation to the State Budget;
in case of an overall deficit, an equivalent amount is requested from the
State Budget. The same process is followed at the Ministry level and the
State Budget level. Since the overall investments authorized for the whole
economy for a fiscal period are always supposed to equal the expected overall
financial resources, the financial plan must balance at the State Budget
level. Because of this balancing, debt default at any of the organization
structure is not possible in theory.
2.         Financial flows provide a major means of controlling an enterprise's
activities. All funds flow in and out of a number of special accounts held
for the enterprise by the National Bank (for the operational activities) and
the Investment Bank (for the construction activities). Sales receipts are
all credited to a National Bank account labeled "Account B", but the amounts
needed to meet payments for wages, materials, utilities and short-term loans
are immediately transferred from this account to "Account A". The funds
remaining in "Account B" are used for bi-monthly depreciation, profit, and
tax remittances and can cover temporary shortages in "Account A". A part of
these extra funds go into special enterprise funds (e.g. for prizes) and
modernization funds also held by the National Bank and are used only for
designated purposes. The enterprise holds only a small amount of petty cash
for entertainment, office expenses, etc.
B.    Distribution of depreciation charges and scrap value of obsolete equipment
3.         Internally-generated depreciation funds and revenue from the sale
of obsolete equipment are used as needed to finance State-approved expansion
(called centralized investment) within the enterprise or to repay loans for
previous expansion. Excess funds are transferred to the Central and then to
the Ministry, if necessary, to be used for centralized investment in other
enterprises. If neither the Central nor the Ministry requires such funds,
they are remitted to the State Budget. Depreciation is charged on all
installed assets even though they may be fully depreciated. The enterprise



ANNEX 8-1
Page 2
is permitted to request that up to 25% of the depreciation on assets which
have outlived their expected lives be allowed to be retained to finance
unplanned improvements or capital repairs. In addition, an amount upto
15% of the depreciation of these assets can be allocated to the non-centralized
investment fund held by the Central. This fund finances major capital repairs,
modernization, social investments (e.g., in housing).
C.    Distribution of excess working capital
4.         If the National Bank decides that an enterprise has more working
capital than necessary to produce a given output, this excess working capital
must be redistributed. The first claim on this surplus is to meet planned
working capital growth needed to cover increased output targets of the enter-
prise itself. Any remainder will be allocated among other enterprises within
the Central and lastly, among other enterprises within the Ministry concerned.
If not needed by them, it is remitted to the Budget. However, such redistri-
bution is possible only for usages already authorized by the National Bank.
D.    Distribution of Benefits (Profits)
5.         Prior to 1969, enterprises had little control over the utilization
of benefits earned by them; over 50% of profits were allocated by law to the
state budget and very little funds could be spent at the discretion of the
enterprises. However, various reforms since then have reduced the mandatory
allocation to the state budget; the enterprises now have the first right over
utilization of their depreciation funds; discretionary funds like the re-
serve fund and the fund for non-centralized investments, described later,
have been created; and the centrals can allocate unused funds from one
enterprise to another before returning the surplus funds to the state.
6.         Major allocations of the profits are based on the planned benefits.
The planned benefit is the profit an enterprise includes in its annual in-
vestment and financial plan which is approved finally by the Council of
Ministers; such an approval gives these plans the status of a law. The
planned profit is based on the approved production plan (a part of the
annual plan of the ministry and the country) and the agreed prices and
costs.
7.         The annual financial plan also indicates the planned distribution
of the benefits. The distribution is made in the following order of priority:
(i) At least 10% 1/ of the benefits must be allocated to the
National Budget or the Local Budget depending on the
designation of the enterprise - Republic enterprises pay
this allocation to the National Budget and local enter-
prises to the local budget. This allocation could be re-
garded as a corporate profit tax.
1/    10% is the mandatory minimum and is deducted first.  Any surplus benefits
after other allocations also go to the budget.



ANNEX 8-1
Page 3
(ii) Workers' first allocation or the prize fund has the next
priority. This allocation is at most 2% of the total wages
of all enterprise enployees called the "salary fund". The
salary fund includes only direct wages and does not incor-
porate indirect labor costs like the social security, etc.
This allocation is used to pay bonuses to the employees.
(iii) Bank Credits (loans) due during the year have the next prior-
ity. They include both the long/medium-term credits from the
Investment Bank and the short-term credits extended by the
National Bank for approved working capital needs.
(iv) Allocation for the centralized investments approved by the
Council of Ministers in the investment plan of the enterprise.
Any surplus, if any, after this allocation would be further
distributed.
(v) Repayment of any funds borrowed from the National Bank over
the working capital norms. Such credits are approved in
special cases, e.g. when an enterprise exceeds its produc-
tion target, needs additional inventory due to special supply
conditions, etc. All National Bank credits must be repaid
every year and new credits negotiated for the next year.
(vi) Allocation to the Non-Centralized Investments Fund, which is
used for productive investments in the social field. This
allocation is based on the rentability 1/ (profitability) of
the enterprise:
Maximum Allocation of
Rentability                     Profits to Uncentralized Fund
Less than 2%                                   4%
2.01  -   5%                                   3%
5.01  -  10%                                   2.5%
10.01 -  15%                                   1.5%
Over     15%                                    1%
(vii)  Allocation to the Reserve Fund up to a maximum of 0.1% of
enterprise's working capital. This fund is used for miscel-
laneous expenses, e.g. protocol, representation, and to repay
the excess working capital borrowings, National Bank and other
credits if benefits in a particular year are not adequate to
do so.
1/   YRentability          o         Total Benefits
Value of Production Sold at Production Cost



ANNEX 8-1
Page 4
(viii) Best Workers Fund deduction. It cannot exceed 0.05% of the
salary fund and is used to give special bonuses to outstand-
ing workers/teams.
(ix) If any funds are left after the above allocations, they can
be used by the Central to make centralized investments in
other enterprises under it.
(x) Any funds left over even after they are remitted to the state
budget cannot be claimed back the next year.
8.        Even if the actual benefits made by an enterprise are less than
the planned benefits, the budgeted allocation to the budget (minimum 10%
plus any planned surplus allocations) must be made first. After meeting
this obligation, the workers bonus allocation must be made even if credit
repayment cannot be made. The bank credits are repaid next; if the benefits
after the budget allocations are inadequate, the reserve fund of the enter-
prise is used for repayment. Benefits and/or reserve funds from other allo-
cations are used for such repayments before other allocations are made. How-
ever, no allocations to the Uncentralized Investments Fund, Best Workers Fund
and Reserve Fund are made if planned benefit is not achieved. 1/
9.        If the actual benefits are more than the planned benefits, the
employees bonus allocation is increased proportionately, e.g. an extra 10%
benefits would also increase the workers allocation 10% above the planned.
The additional benefits are next used to repay any credits obtained for
modernization but the repayment is again proportional to the additional
benefits; for 10% extra benefits, 10% of such credits would be repaid from
these extra "unplanned" funds. The balance is distributed between the Re-
publican and the Local Budgets. The ratio of this distribution depends on
the development stage of and the investment possibilities in the district
in which the enterprise is located and is specified by law and can be varied
from year to year by the Ministry of Finance. For example, for enterprise
located in a poor district, 80% of surplus additional benefits may be allo-
cated to the Local Budget and only 20% to the Republican Budget.
E.   Creation of Special Funds
10.       Output prices are set high enough above basic unit input costs so
that a number of special funds can be created. Most of these funds, such as
the fund for invention, innovation and improvement and the fund for worker's
protection, are remitted to the Central and then redistributed in accordance
with demonstrated needs. Funds for research and development can often be
kept by the enterprise.
1/   However, it appears that in practice small allocations are made for
these categories even if planned profits are not achieved.



ANNEX 8-1
Page 5
F.   Sales Taxes
11.       Turnover and regularization taxes are invoiced by the enterprise
when certain consumer goods are sold. These taxes are remitted directly from
the enterprise's account in the National Bank to the Budget.
G.   Budget Allocations
12.       Budget allocations channelled through the National Bank are used to
finance annual loans for increased working capital when other sources are not
available. In the case of new enterprises, the initial working capital en-
dowment comes from the Budget through the National Bank in the form of a non-
reimbursable advance. In the case of large centrally-planned investment proj-
ects, most, if not all, of the financing comes from the Budget through the
Investment Bank. This is particularly true for new enterprises. The Budget
also finances losses which cannot be covered by other sources.
Industrial Projects Department
May, 1974



ROMIA IA: OTELIOX STEEL PR)JE
tin Lei MilI'on)
128   1y7          1980                                      1984   19821f1 1985 1                9      -8 18- 
Production
CO3hill - in % of capacity            22%      90%      100%       100%      100%      100%       100%      100%      100%       100%      100%
- in TPY                 6,700   27,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000        30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000
Bar Mill  - in % of capacity         45%       914%     100%       100%      100%       100%      100%      100%       100%      100%      100%
- in TPY 5oa i000  112,500   120,000   120,000   120,000   120,000   120,000   120,000   120,000   120,000   120,000
Net Sales9361205
DomestiC:Cold Mill Products         280.0    981.5     93716 i,073.1    12085   1,253.7   1,253.7   1,253.7   1,253.7   1,253.7   1,253.7
Bar Mill Products          351.0    902.0     967.0    967.0       967.0     967.0      967.0      967.0     967.0      967.0     967.o
Exports:. Cold Mill Prodwts           -      1.46. 8   316.1   1L80.6        45.2-                            -
Total                      631.0  27M.   2 07  2,820.7    2,220.7   2,   7 0                     2,220.7   2,220.7   2,220.7   2,220.7
Cost of Goods Sold:
Direct Raw Materals                 410.2  1,319.7  1,400.3   1,400.3    1,400.3   1,400.3   1,400.3   1,400.3   1,400.3   1,400.3   1,400.3
Auxivlary Materials                  25.2     81.2      85.3      85.3       85.3       85.3      85.3       85.3      85.3       85.3      85.3
Utilities                            12.6     40.6     43.4       43.4       43.4      43.4       43.4       43-4      43.4       43.4      43.4
Labor                                29.0     37.2     45.5       45.5       45.5      45.5       45.5       45.5   4--5.5        45.5      45.5
Oross Profit               25.0                                                         M 7 6    2    -V     646.2     646.2
Oerating Exqsenses
General Factory Overhead             15.6     22.2     23.1       23.1       23.1       23.1      23.1       23.1      23.1       23.1      23.1
Maintenanee and Repair               61.0     96.5      97.5      97.5       97.5       97.5      97.5       97.5      97.5       97.5      97.5
Depreciatio                         176.0   176.0    176.0       176.0      176.0     176.o      176.0      176.0     176.0    176.0       176.0
Benefits                            -98.6    256.9    349.6      349.6      349.6      349.6     349.6      349.6     349.6      349.6     349.6
Tnterest on IBRD Loan                63.0    121.7   112.2       104.5       96.4       87.6      78.2      68.1       57.2      45.5       33.0
Benefits After Interest Charges   -161.6    135.2    237.4       245.1      253.2      262,0     271.4      281.5     292.4     304.3      316.6
=~~                                                                            =                    - 
Note:  Details of Revenue Calculations are given in Annex 7-4 and of Production Cost are given in Annex 7-2.                                             3
Industrial Projects Department
May, 1974






ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OP FUNDS PROJECTIONS (1974-1984)
(in Lei Million)
1974     1975    1976       1977    1978      1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984
SOURCES
I. From Operations:
-- Benefits                                             -        -        -         -     -98.6    256.9    349.6    349.6    349.6    349.6    349.6
-- Depreciation                                        _         -        -         -     176.0    176.0    176.0    176.0    176.0    176.0    176.0
Cash Generation                                             -         -       -         -      77.4    432.9    525.6    525.6    525.6    525.6    525.6
II.  IBRD Loan                                               4.0   249.0    318.8    549.1   279.1         -         -         -         -         -        _
III.  State Advances for:
-- Fixed Assets
(a) Foreign                                         -       49.3     65.7    147.8    65.7         -        -         _         _         _         _
(b) Local                                         122.2   328.6    764.1    370.7        9.9       -        -         -         -         -        -
-- lforking Capital                                     -       -         -         -      50.9      96.8      12.3       -        -         -         -
-- Financial Charges
(a) Foreign                                         3.6    20.1       38.9     74.2    46.5        -        -         -         -         _         _
(b) Local                                           0.0      2.6       7.7     17.2    11.1        -                  -         -         -         -
-- To Cover Losses and Obligations                      -       -         -         -      99.5       -        _          -        -        _         _
TOTAL                                         129.8   649.6  1,195.2  1,159.0   640.1    529.7    537.9    525.6    525.6    525.6    525.6
APPLICATIONS
I.  Fixed Investment
-- Foreign Currency                                     4.0   298.3    384.5    696.9   344.8         -         -         -        -         -         -
-- Local Currency                                    122.2   328.6    764.1    370.7        9.9       -              -             -         -         -
-- Financial Charges                                    3.6    22.7      46.6      91.4    57.6       -         -         -         -        -         -
II.  Surplus Before Compulsory Allocations                   -        -        -         -       77.4    432.9    525.6    525.6    525.6    525.6    525.6
of which: (a) Interest on IBRD Loan                   -       -         -         -      63.0    121.7    112.2    104.5        96.4      87.6      78.2
(b) Repayment of IBRD Loan                 -                 -                 -        48.9    103.1    110.8    118.9    127.7    137.1
-- Depreciation Allocation 1/                          -       -         -         -     176.0    176.0    176.0    176.0    176.0    176.0    176.0
-- Benefit Allocation 1/
(a) State Budget 2/                                -        -         -        -        -        25.7      35.0     35.0      35.0      35.0      35.0
(b) Workers Bonus 3/                               -        -         -         -       0.6       0.7       0.9      0.9       0.9       0.9       0.9
(c) Non-Centralized Investment Funds 4/            -        -         -        -        -         3.9       5.2      5.2       5.2       5.2       5.2
(d) Reserve Fund 5/                                -        -         -         -       0.3       0.7       0.8      0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8
(e) Other Allocations 6/                           -                                    -       225.9    307.7    307.7    307.7    307.7    307.7
III.  Working Capital Increase                                                   -         -      50.9      96.8      12.3      -         -         -         -
TOTAL                                        129.8   649.6  1,195.2               640.1    529.7    537.9    525.6    525.6    525.6    525.6
a   ==                          =-            -        -        -         -        -
1/ Detailed explanation of allocation of depreciation as well as benefits is contained in Annex 8-1.
2/  107. of planned benefits.
3/ 2Z of wage and salary bill.
4/ 1.5% of benefits for repairs and replacement.
5/ Maximum allocation possible, 0.57. of working capital, is assumed.
6/ Includes certain other allocations, such as centralized investment funds, with the residual going to the Stage Budget as explained in Annex 8-1.
Industrial Projects Department
May, 1974



ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET PROJECTIONS
(in Lei Million)
1974      1975       1976      1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982      1983       1984
ASSETS
I. Current Assets
Cash                                                   -         -          -         -          0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5        0.5
Reserve Funds                                          -         -          -         -          0.3        1.0       1.8        2.6        3.4       4.2        5.0
Inventory                                              -         -        _          _          50.4      147.2     159.5      159.5      159.5     159.5      159.5
-         -          -         -         51.2     148.7      161.8      162.6      163.4     164.2      165.0
II. Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                                   129.8     779.4   1,974.6   3,133.6   3,545.9   3,549.8   3,555.0   3,560.2   3,565.4   3,570.6   3,575.8
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                         -         -          -         -        176.0     352.0      528.0      704.0      880.0   1,056.0   1,232.0
Net Fixed Assets                                     129.8     779.4   1,974.6   3,133.6   3,369.9   3,197.8   3,027.0   2,856.2   2,685.4   2,514.6   2,343.8
TOTAL ASSETS                                  129.8      779.4   1 974.6   3X133.6   3,421 1   3,346.5   3,188.8   3018.8   2,848.8   2,678.8   2,508.8
LIABILITIES
I. Current Liabilities
Current Portion of Long-Term Debt                     _          -         _          -         48.9      103.1     110.8      118.9      127.7     137.1      147.2
-         -          -         -         48.9     103.1      110.8      118.9      127.7     137.1      147.2
II.  Long-Term Debt (IBRD)                                      4.0      253.0     571.8   1,120.9   1,351.1   1,248.0   1,137.2   1,018.3         890.6      753.5     606.3
III. Equity
State Funds for 1/
(a) Fixed Assets                                    125.8      526.4   1,402.8   2,012.7   1,969.9   1,842.8   1,769.9   1,704.7   1,647.6   1,599.3   1,560.4
(b) Working Capital                                    -         -          -          -        50.9      147.7     160.0      160.0      160.0     160.0      160.0
Non-Centralized Investment Funds 2/                      -         -          -          -         -          3.9        9.1      14.3       19.5       24.7      29.9
Reserve Funds 2/                                         -         -          -          -         0.3        1.0        1.8       2.6        3.4        4.2       5.0
125.8     526.4   1,402.8   2,012.7   2,021.1   1,995.4   1,940.8   1,881.6   1,830.5   1,788.2   1,755.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES                           129.8      779.4   1,974.6   3,133.6   3,421.1   3,346.5   3,188.8   3,018.8   2,848.8   2,678.8   2,508.8
RATIOS:
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio                                   3:97    32:68       29:71      36:64      40:60     38:62      37:63      35:65     33:67      30:70      26:74
Current Ratio                                                  -         -          -          -          1.1       1.4        1.5        1.4        1.3       1.2        1.1
Debt Service Coverage (times)                                  -         -           -         -          -         3.2        3.0        2.9        2.9       2.8        2.8
1/  All State funds (interest free) to the enterprise are considered as equity.  Drop in equity is because all the initial advances for the project are recouped
by the State through depreciation amounts (see Annex 8-3).
2/  Both the Non-Centralized Investment Funds and the Reserve Funds are held by the Central (see Annex 8-1) and may be redistributed to any of the enterprise
within the Central. Here the assumption is that Otelinox allocates the maximum allowable to these funds and receives back from the Central the entire
amount allocated, in the same year the allocation is made.
Industrial Projects Department
May, 1974



ANNEX 8-5
Page 1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
MAJOR ACCOUNTING PRACTICES
1, *There are some differences between the financial statements pre-
pared by industrial enterprises in Romania and the ones prepared under the
generally accepted accounting practices followed by most Bank borrowers;
the type of statements as well as their frequency and format are slightly
different. While the statements prepared by the Romanian enterprises may
not be considered adequate by financial analysts in a conventional financial
system, they seem well suited to the Romanian industrial and financial system.
2.        Basic Oblectives of Statements:  The main differences arise from
the difference in the usage of financial statements in the two systems, due
to various sources of financing available to commercial organizations. In
economies with a predominant private sector, the main source for financing
new investments is the capital market. In such a system, the investment
and financing decisions, though interconnected, are taken separately and by
a different group of people. The management of a corporation decides on
new investments; the bankers and the leaders of the financial markets
evaluate the overall financing needs and the creditworthiness of the corpora-
tion before agreeing to provide additional financing. Generally, the fi-
nancing is flexible and is not tied to individual investments. Consequently,
the financial statements are designed to provide the lenders sufficient in-
formation to enable them to judge the creditworthiness of the company rela-
tive to other borrowers. The accounting and audit practices are designed to
ensure consistency and accuracy of the statements, to meet this basic objec-
tive. In Romania, the State is the only source of financing. It also takes
all investment decisions. As a result, both investment and financing deci-
sions are taken by the same supreme body. The responsibility for financing
is assumed by the State at the same time as it approves the investment. The
financial statements in Romania do not perform the primary information func-
tion as in market economies. They are instead designed to ensure that com-
merical entities dovetail their activities to the National Plan; they are
primarily a planning and control tool. Romanian accounting and audit systems
are tailored to meet this objective. For example, instead of identifying
the investment funds by their sources, the balance sheet identifies them by
investment categories as the financing is approved for specific investments
and not for aggregate requirements of the enterprise. Some of the major
differences between the financial statements prepared under the two systems
are described below. 1/
3.        Financial Statements:  Types and Timing of Preparation:  In Romania,
each Central and enterprise prepares four major sets of financial statements
1/   Details of the funds flow and financial audit methods are described in
Annexes 8-1 and 8-6 respectively.



ANNEX 8-5
Page 2
annually, two for the planning of next year's operations -- the Investment
Plan and the Financial Plan, which detail sources and uses of funds; and two
to show past year's performance -- the Balance Sheet and an annex to the
Balance Sheet which closely resembles a normal income statement. There are
a large number of other annexes to the Balance Sheet. In addition, a variety
of statistical reports are prepared. A hypothetical balance sheet prepared
by the Steel Central in 1973 is attached as an example. It is understood
that even though individual enterprises have long-term production plans,
they do not prepare balance sheets for any future years.
4.        A new enterprise does not start making its balance sheet until the
plant is officially commissioned, i.e., it is certified that the "technical
tests" have been successfully completed; until then, only the Investment
Statement and the Financial Plan are prepared.
5.        Difference in Format:  The Balance Sheet is prepared in a different
format reflecting Romanian practices on financing of new investments 1/. The
major different feature of the Romanian Balance Sheet is in the presentation
of the liabilities; they are listed primarily according to the type of invest-
ments they have financed rather than the source of funds. There are three
major sources of funds for investments available to an enterprise: its "own
funds" in form of depreciation and a share of benefits, allocations from State
Budget, and credits from banks. However, as shown in the attached Balance
Sheet a breakdown of liabilities according to these sources is not given.
Instead, the liabilities are shown according to the use of funds for different
types of assets, a practice which makes the liability side of the balance
sheet look very similar to the asset side. This is perhaps due to the three
factors mentioned earlier: (i) the State is the only source of financing;
(ii) funds are provided for specific investments and not for the overall needs
of the enterprise; and (iii) until recently, credits -- long- and short-term --
were a negligible source of financing.
6.        As a result, some of the comparable information readily available
from the Balance Sheets normally submitted to the Bank Group by other borrowers,
would not be presented in the usual Romanian Balance Sheets. This includes:
(i) breakdown of liabilities by major sources of funds:
own funds, State allocations and bank credits;
(ii) debt/equity ratio;
(iii) breakdown of debt by current and long-term
liabilities; and
(lv) breakdown of own funds between equity capital
and retained earnings.
However, such information which would be considered vital for an enterprise
seeking funds from a conventional system is perhaps neither needed nor rele-
vant in the present Romanian financial system. Investments are decided dur-
ing the national planning exercises; once the investment is approved, funds
1/ See the hypothetical balance sheet given in Appendix I.



ANNEX 8-5
Page 3
are automatically authorized, and the performance of an enterprise is pri-
marily judged by its physical achievements rather than its profitability.
In addition, until January 1973, a very minute part of investment funds
came in the form of long-term loans. With much larger long-term credit in-
vestments now permitted and especially in the case of enterprises receiving
IBRD loans, this situation would change and the Bank Group will insist that
debt liabilities be shown separately in the Balance Sheets.
7.        Payments/Receipts Mechanism:  The enterprise itself does not make
any major payments to other organizations. For example, even though when the
annual investment plan is approved and funds are earmarked for the enterprise,
the actual payments are made semi-monthly by the National Bank to the Invest-
ment Bank and not to the enterprise. This seems to serve two objectives: (i)
it ensures that the surplus cash (cash lying idle) is reduced to the minimum
in the economy as a whole; (ii) it acts as a part of the overall control
system (see Annex 8-6). Perhaps for similar reasons, payments against all
major allocations to the State are made twice a week by large enterprises;
all small units do so once a month. These payments include (i) Regularization
Tax, (ii) Tax on Circulation of Goods or Turnover Tax, (iii) Taxes on Salaries,
and (iv) Allocation of Benefits.
8.        Balance Sheet:  Paragraphs 9 and 10 give definitions of major ac-
counting terms used in Romanian financial statements. While reviewing the
Balance Sheets, it should be noted that the current assets are kept at a
minimum possible level as a part of the national policy. Within the indus-
trial sector, it is against the law to sell or buy goods on credit; there
are no credit arrangements between enterprises and their customers.
9.        "Fixed Assets" show the book value of all fixed assets in enter-
prises that have already been commissioned and always equal "Own Funds and
Allocations for Fixed Assets." The productive life of each major category
of assets is specified by law (e.g. 20 years for a rolling mill) and assets
are depreciated under the straightline method. However, even after this
legal life is over, the assets are depreciated at full rate until they are
scrapped and sold to a special State enterprise formed for this specific
purpose. Depreciation on assets that have exceeded their expected lives
is not included in accumulated depreciation. "Investment in Progress" in-
dicates the total cost of projects that have not yet been completed and is
equivalent to "Financing of Investment in Progress." Once the investment
is certified "commissioned", it is taken out of the "Investment in Progress"
category and entered into the "Fixed Assets" category. No depreciation is
charged on any asset until it is "commissioned" and production starts.
10.       Within the "Working Capital" section, semifinished and finished
products inventories include not only the goods ready to be shipped between
sections or out of the factory, but also products already shipped for which
payments have not yet been received. The latter are equivalent to 3-5 days'
sales, the time taken by the National Bank to receive authorization for pay-
ments from the buyers; in the meantime, the National Bank provides credits



ANNEX 8-5
Page 4
equal to the production cost of such materials. Packaging materials re-
present the stock of reusable containers. Pecuniary assets refer to the
amounts held in bank accounts plus a small amount of petty cash. Accounts
receivable from transactions that involve less than 500 lei and consequently
do not go through the National Bank are treated separately in accounts re-
ceivable involving small amounts. Accounts receivable from related organiza-
tions indicates transfers to be made. "Goods-in-Process" include only pro-
ducts that have not been completed within a shop. Section B on the liability
side of the Balance Sheet covers current liabilities and all the self-financing
of inventory from own funds. Special funds include funds for prizes, non-
centralized investment, etc. and are allocated from profits.
11.       Payments to the State consist of remittances still to be credited
to the State Budget. It is interesting to note that while most of the pay-
ments are made in advance and the adjustments are supposedly made at the end
of the year, these allocations appear both as assets (paid in advance) and
liabilities (owed to the State) instead of the two entries cancelling each
other when the books are closed at the end of the year. This is because these
accounts are settled about two weeks after the books are closed for the year.
This and some other minor entries which are double counted tend to slightly
inflate both the current assets and current liabilities. According to the
Romanian system, sections B plus D on the asset side must equal the two
similar sections on the liability side of the Balance Sheet.
12.       Income Statement:  The following entries in the Romanian income
statements are worth nothing:
(i) Revenues are calculated on the basis of the product price
which is less than the price paid by buyers by the amount of
the Regularization Tax and the Tax on Product Circulation
(Turnover Tax) determined separately for each product and
paid directly to the State budget. However, these taxes
are not applicable in the case of steel products.
(ii) A product is considered sold only when payment is received
for the shipment and not when the invoice is raised or the
product physically shipped. Thus even though a product is
shipped and an invoice raised, it will not be considered
sold but will be carried in selling enterprise's books
until the payment is received; to this extent, the sales
are on a "cash basis" and not on an "accrual basis".
(iii) Interest charges, being very small, are not shown separately
in the income statement; it is normally included along with
other overhead costs which also contain administrative and
overhead costs. However, it should be noted that the interest
charges on the IBRD loan would not be included here but treated
as a separate expense item, below the benefit (profit) entry.
This would/prevent reduction of profits of an enterprise obtain-
ing IBRD loans relative to other enterprises in the same sector.



ANNEX 8-5
Page 5
(iv) Benefit is equivalent ot profit before tax even though it is
the bottom line of the income statement. All allocations, like
the State Budget allocations, the Workers Bonus, etc. whether
mandatory or optional, are made in accordance with the approved
Financial Plan and are not shown in the income statement. In
this context, it may be noted that the product price of a pro-
duct, which determines the revenue, is fixed at a level where
the profitability 1/ of the industry would be acceptable. The
product price may be altered to bring the profitability and
hence benefits to acceptably levels.
13.       All financial statements prepared by the Bank are in accordance
with the conventional system taking into account the peculiarities of the
Romanian system.
1/   Romanians use the word rentability which is equal to Benefits t Production
costs, including depreciation and overhead costs.






ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
HYPOTHETICAL BALANCE SHEET
IN LEI MILLION
Beginning           End of                                                      Beginning           End of
of Year      Reporting Period                                                   of Year       Reporting Period
A.  FIXED ASSETS                            17,719             18,944        A.  OWN FUNDS AND ALLOCATIONS FOR             17,719               18,944
FIXED ASSETS
-- Book Value (gross)                  25,331              27,350
-- of which:  bank loans                     63                   44
-- Accumulated Depreciation             7,612               8,406
B.  WORKING CAPITAL                          3,251              3,641         B.  OWN FUNDS,  1DAlN      AND                3,191                3,551
PAYMENTS FOR WORKING CAPITAL
1.  Material inventories                1,633               1,714
1.  Own funds                             1,854                1,974
2.  Semi-finished and finished          1,271               1,494
products anventorie)                                                     2.  Working!eapital loans                    859                1,024
3.  Packaging materials                      2                  4            3.  Accounts payable involving               352                  396
small amounts
4.  Pecuniary assets                        58                146
4.  Accounts payable to related              67                    3
5.  Accounts receivable involving           17                 29                 organizations
small amounts
5.  Future income and penalties               1                    1
6. Accounts receivable from                  8                 13                 payable
related organizations
6.  Unpaid expenses                           4                   12
7. Prepaid Expenses                         30                 38
I     7.  Special funds                            54                  142
8.  Goods-in-process.                     219                 203
C.  INVESTMENT IN PROGRESS                   4,277              5,199      I      C.  FINANCING OF INVESTMENT IN PROGRESS  4,277                 5,199
D.  RENITTANCES TO THE STATE                 2,363              2,532             D.  OWIED T'O THE STATE                   2,424                2,622
TOTAL                               27,610             30,316                      TOTAL                           27,610
INDuSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTM1ENT 
January 17, 1974






ANNEX 8-6
Page 1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
CONTROL AND AUDIT SYSTEM
1.        To support its highly centralized decision-making process, Romania
has, at least in its industrial sector, an elaborate control and audit system
designed to keep the managers at all levels of the economy advised of the
progress of, and deviations from, the planned activities. This control
system is backed by a fairly strong incentives system. The system, de-
scribed below, includes not only the audit system generally used by the
industry in other economic systems familiar to the Bank Group, but also
the work generally performed by Corporate Controllers, National Controller
Generals and Audit Groups (like the GAO in the USA), as well as some of the
duties entrusted to the National Courts dealing with judicial cases concern-
ing commercial activities. It has three major objectives: (i) to audit the
financial accounts to ensure that they accurately reflect the actual finan-
cial status of the unit; (ii) to report to higher authorities that the eco-
nomic assets are being used efficiently and effectively in accordance with
the national plan; and (iii) to recommend changes desirable to improve the
economic use of the assets in future.
2.        The control and audit system is organized like a pyramid as shown
in Table 1: at the top is the Court of Superior Control reporting directly
to the President of the country, while at the bottom are the accountants
checking and approving routine day-to-day financial transactions at the
enterprise level. The numerous organizations involved perform either the
"Internal Control" or the "External Control" duties. The Internal Control,
conducted by the accountants and internal controllers working either for the
Enterprise or its Ministry, can be divided in two broad categories: first,
the preliminary control which involves a day-to-day check of all financial
transactions; second, the posterior control which resembles annual audits.
The External Control, simultaneously carried out by three main organizations,
the Banks, Ministry of Finance and the Court of Superior Control, which are
independent of the Ministry concerned, also has the preliminary and posterior
control functions. As described below, all the bodies involved perform their
functions independently of each other and report to different authorities.
Thus an enterprise, during a period of one year, is controlled by (i) its
chief accountant who reports to the manager and also to the General Manager
of the Central; (ii) the internal controller, who submits reports both to
the General Manager of the Central and the Minister concerned; (iii) the
inspectors from the Investment Bank and/or National Bank, whose reports
are also available to the Ministry of Finance, (iv) the controllers from
the Ministry of Finance; and (v) the inspectors from the court of Superior
Control, whose reports can reach the Council of Ministers and the President
himself, if necessary.



ANNEX 8-6
Page 2
A.   Internal Control System
3.        Preliminary Control:  The chief accountant at each commercial unit,
e.g. Enterprise, Central, performs the "preliminary control" functions which
combine activities of both the accountants and controllers as familiar to
us. He is responsible for checking and approving all financial transactions,
e.g. payments, orders, etc. to ensure that the business is conducted in the
most economic way and according to the approved plans. He reports directly
to the General Manager of the unit and is supposed to report any disagree-
ments to the manager of the supervising unit. For example, if the chief ac-
countant of an Enterprise does not agree with a payment authorized by the
manager, he is expected to report it to the General Manager of the Central.
To ensure the objectivity and independence of the chief accountant, he is
nominated by the supervising unit or the Ministry and cannot be changed by
the management of the unit he audits. This system may be further modified
under a new law on "Internal Control" which is now being drafted as a follow-
up of the recent policy decision to create the Court of Superior Control (see
para 13); under this new law the chief accountants may be subordinated to the
Ministry of Finance instead of the Ministry of the Central concerned as at
present.
4.        Posterior Control performed by the special "Internal Control Units",
is somewhat similar to the work performed by the certified accountants and/or
national audit organizations. These control units spotcheck financial trans-
actions conducted during the year and evaluate the financial state of the
company, including the actual value of its stated assets. The audit must be
conducted at least once a year for all enterprises, unless specially exempted
by the Ministry of Finance; such exemptions are given to very small units
like shops, schools, hospitals, etc., which are generally audited once every
2-3 years. The audit involves a check of 14 items listed in law No. 5 of
1970; some of the items are:
-    Inventory:  quantity, quality and value
-    Payments, receipts, etc:  their accuracy and validity
-    Documents, e.g. orders, checks
-    Entries in accounting books:  their conformity to the rules
of the Ministry of Finance
-    Status of assets and liabilities:  actual vs book entries
-    Techno-economic indicators, e.g. productivity, input/output
ratios, etc.: their accuracy.
Thus, an internal audit not only certifies the correctness of the financial
books but also presents an opinion about the efficiency of operations.



ANNEX 8-6
Page 3
5.        The accounts of a unit are examined by the Internal Controller lo-
cated in its supervising unit; accounts of a department are checked by the
control unit in the Enterprise, while the accounts of the Enterprise are
checked by the control unit in the Central. This internal audit is the basis
of all other higher audit/control activities designed to monitor the efficiency
of the economy. The Internal Controller is expected not only to give an opinion
on the financial status of the unit, as done by the certified accountants in
the USA, but also to check other items like the techno-economic indicators
and to make recommendations on the improvements desired in the organization.
The internal audit also establishes the differences, with their reasons, between
the actual status and recorded entries. The chief accountant of the organiza-
tion takes into account these comments before issuing the final financial state-
ments. It is understood, however, that the Internal Controllers do not certify
the accuracy of the final statements, which is the responsibility of the chief
accountant.
6.        The Internal Controllers are nominated by the Ministry concerned
and approved by the Ministry of Finance. However, an Internal Controller
can neither be transferred nor removed without prior approval from the Min-
istry of Finance. Under the new draft law on Internal Control procedures
mentioned earlier, the power to approve the appointments and transfers of
the Internal Controllers may be shifted from the Ministry of Finance to the
Court of Superior Control. This measure, designed to make the controllers
even more independent from the operational managers, may be promulgated by
December 1973.
B.   External Control System
7.        This audit/control function is performed by organizations outside
the operational units. The Banks perform the day-to-day "preliminary con-
trol" of purely financial matters, and seem to have the primary responsibil-
ity for conventional audit functions, the Ministry of Finance and the Superior
Control Court audit the techno-economic performance on "posterior" basis and
seem to concentrate on the financial control aspects.
8.        Preliminary External Control by Banks:  Four banks (the National
Bank, Investment Bank, Food and Agriculture Bank, and Foreign Trade Bank)
are involved in this work. The law requires the Romanian banks to monitor,
and ensure the "economic" use of, their investments in the industrial units,
much more than, for example, a bank in the US would. The Banks not only com-
ment extensively on the desirability of an investment before it is approved
by the State, but also supervise and certify the appropriateness of invest-
ment work before releasing payments against supplies. In addition, the Na-
tional Bank not only approves the working capital included in the annual
financial plan, but also monitors actual requirements during the year. No
transactions can be paid for without an approval from the bank concerned.



ANNEX 8-6
Page 4
9.         Each bank must monitor its own investments.  Investment Bank, which
provides financing for all new projects in every sector except agriculture and
food, supervises projects under construction while the National Bank, which
finances the working capital needs of on-going projects, supervises the units
in production. Thus, an enterprise may be "controlled" by more than one bank
at the same time. For example, the Craiova Central, which is executing ex-
pansion projects and also has production units already operational, has its
accounts concerning the production audited by the National Bank and accounts
concerning the expansion projects checked by the Investment Bank.
10.       The checks are fairly elaborate.  For example, in the case of a
large investment, the Investment Bank will:
-    comment on the techno-economic study with particular reference
to the investment plan and forward its comments to the Council
of Ministers before it approves an investment;
-    receive a copy of the techno-economic study, which gives all
financial and technical data on the project, as approved by
the Council of Ministers. The Investment Bank is obliged to
ensure that the project is executed according to this plan;
-    approve all payments after checking that the supplies conform
to the purchase orders;
-    approve any variations from the approved contracts.  It may
impose penalties on the defaulting parties;
-    check that the project is proceeding according to the sched-
ule approved in the plan;
-    make all payments and is the conduit for all investment funds,
irrespective of source, allocated to the project.
11.        Similarly, the National Bank must approve the working capital needs
of the enterprise/central; it determines, in consultation with other parties
concerned, the norms to be applied in calculating the working capital needs
of an enterprise. At the beginning of the budget year, it approves the budget
allocation based on these norms; any additional needs must be justified by the
Enterprise to the National Bank. During the year, it periodically monitors
the actual needs; if the Enterprise needs funds above the budget allocation,
it must seek specific approval for them from the Bank.
12.        Ministry of Finance:  oversees the work of all the ministries.
Through its own controllers and by reviewing the reports of the Internal
Controllers (at the Ministries, Centrals and Enterprises), it ensures that
the actual performance is in conformity to the annual plan approved for
each Ministry, and that the accounts of the Ministry and the Centrals/
Enterprises under it are maintained properly. The Finance Ministry reports



ANNEX 8-6
Page 5
its findings to the Council of Ministers. Any expenditures exceeding the
allocation in the annual plans approved for a Ministry/Central must be
evaluated by the Finance Ministry and approved by the Council of Ministers.
13.        Court of Superior Control:  is a successor to the Account Court
established in 1864 and abolished in 1948; the Superior Court was created
under a new law promulgated on March 28, 1973. Most of the functions now
performed by this court were handled by the Ministry of Finance between 1948
and 1973. The court reports directly to the President of Romania; its prim-
ary function is to control the main state bodies in Romania, e.g. the Min-
istry of Finance, other Ministries and the Banks. It performs both the
"preliminary" and the "posterior" controls.
14.        The preliminary control is performed by the controllers (inspectors)
in each Ministry to ensure that the work is performed efficiently and the funds
are employed effectively. If the controller disagrees with any specific trans-
action, he discusses his findings with the Minister concerned. In case they
are unable to resolve the issue at this level, the controller presents his
report to the Superior Court. If the Court concurs with the objections of
the controller, the matter is taken to the Council of Ministers for a deci-
sion, where both the Minister and the Court present their arguments. If the
Council overrules the objection raised by the Court, the President of the
country receives a report from the Court for his information.
15.        Similar procedure applies in case of the posterior control in which
inspectors from the Court audit the accounts of the State Bodies mentioned
earlier. The inspectors may also audit accounts of the Centrals, though at
present it is not done on an annual basis. The main objective of this con-
trol is to ensure that the main objectives of the National Plan are being
achieved, "economic efficiency" is being attained as planned, and the Cen-
tral Fund for Economic and Social Development, the main source of investments
in Romania, is being economically used.
16.        The Court, to perform its function, receives the following reports
regularly:
-    Quarterly reports from the banks on their financial status;
-    Finance Ministry's control reports;
-    Annual internal control reports from each Ministry, including
recommendations made by the Internal Controllers.
The Court prepares its annual report which is submitted to the President and
the State Council. In this report, the Court also makes recommendations on
the possibilities of improving the economic use of national resources. The
Court evaluates the reasons for the shortfalls in meeting the plan targets
and fixes the responsibility for them.



ANNEX 8-6
Page 6
17.        The Court has three other major responsibilities:
(i) It acts as the coordinating body for the overall control
system in the country; it ensures that there are no duplica-
tions and suggests means for improving the system.
(ii) It acts as the counsellor of the State Council. For example,
the President of the State Council may ask it to express its
opinion on state laws.
(iii) It is a judicial court: it analyses the 'damages' to the na-
tional economy due to economic mismanagement, fixes respon-
sibilities for such damages and determines what, if any,
penalties/punishment should be imposed on the individual(s)
concerned. However, only cases involving the senior officials
like the Ministers, Director Generals in the Ministries and
the General Managers of the Centrals are considered by the
Court of Superior Control.
Industrial Projects Department
May, 1974



ANHJLE B-6
Appendix  1
ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
CONTROL & AUDIT SYSTEM
Council.
Einemtry of          s_                        ______              __Co_t_o__er
L1              h                                                                                                        Mnostry of 14*t ,
Fins E-  |  bl4"n  
E"""""""""s|||Z||| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. E|||.............. ..;.....
E.- .........               ,          -    ......... ....|||"
,      ...................  ...........     ....*.
L           Interna[x                                                                    Organiation Unit
flnlmii Cotal                 Fntrciail-
E t:::-                               ;              s                    3  3 E~~~~~~~~~~le::
C ~ Z]   Internal Control -Preliminary
[Z]    internal Control -Posterior
-            E.teral Control Banks
-                                            F-i            is 3 E External Control -Ministry of Financ
Court of Superior Control
,0r uerantIjI                                                                         I ,  ' e*ne*    Reports to Normal Audit Channel
*    Audit Chaneil in specia cases
World Bunk.8401






ROMHNIA: OTELUIOX STEEL PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATE OF RERUIW
in Lei Million
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  1995
COLD MILL
Revenues                 -      -       -      -    280.0  1128.3  1253.7  1253.7  1253.7  1253.7 1253.7  1253.7  1253.7  1253.7  1253.7  1253.7  1253.7  1253.7  1253.7 1253.7  1253.7  1253.7
Costs
Capital Costs        69.3  330.2  566.9  461.9  192.7   70.5   10.3         -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -
Raw Materials          -      -       -      -    166.7  682.1  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9  757.9
Operating Expenses     -      -       -      -      68.4  166.3  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4  177.4
Net Benefits           (69.3) (330.2) (566.9) (461.9) (147.8) (209.4) 308.1  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4  318.4
Financial Rate of Return: 13.
BAR MILL
Revermes                 -      -       -      -    315.0  902.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0  967.0
Costs
Capital Costs        56.9  296.7   581.7  605.7  212.9   26.3    2.0        -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -
Raw Materials          -      -       -      -    289.1  603.9  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4  642.4
Operating Expenses     -      -       -      -      75.0  111.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4  117.4
Net Benefits           (56.9) (296.7) (581.7) (605.7) (262.0) 160.4  205.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2  207.2
Financial Rate of Return: 6.80%
OTELINOX (Cold Mill and Bar MlIll combined)
Revenues                 -      -       -      -    631.0 2030.3 2220.7  2220.7 2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7  2220.7
Costs
Capital Costs        126.2  626.9  1148.6 1067.6  405.6   96.8   12.3       -              -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -
Raw Materials          -      -       -      -    455.8  1286.0 1400.3  1400.3 1400.3 1400.3 1400.3 1400.3  1400.3 1400.3 1400.3.3 143  1400.3  1400.3 1400.3  1400.3  1400.3 1400.3
Operating Expenses     -      -       -      -    143.4  277.7  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8  294.8
Net Benefits          (126.2)  (626.9)(1148.6)(1067.6) (373.8) 369.8  513.3  525.6  525.6  525.6  525.6  525.6  525.6  525.6  525.6  525.6  525.6  525.6  52506  525.6  525.6  525.6
Financial Rate of Return: 12.8'
ldiBtrial Projects Departnent
May 1974



ANNEX 8-&
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
BREAK-EVEN POINT
The profit break-even points of the Otelinox plant and of the
cold mill and bar mill separately in 1980 are calculated based on the
following data. The year 1980 is selected because that is the year in
which first full capacity production is expected.
In Lei Million
Cold Mill        Bar Mill    ToTal Otelinox
Variable  Fixed Variable FixedViiab2e  Fixed
Cost    Cost   Cost       Cost  Cost    Cost
Raw Material         757.9     -    642.4      - 1,400.3       -
Auxiliary Materials   54.7   13.7   13.5    3.4   68.2   17.1
Utilities             20.7     2.3   18.4   2.0    39.1    4.3
Wages                   -    21.7       -    23.8      -     45.5
maintenance           41.5   10.4   36.5   9.1   78.0   19.5
Depreciation            -     84.7      -    91.3      -    176.0
Overhead              6.2      6.2     5.4    5.3   11.6   11.5
Financial Charges       -     64.       -              -    112.2
881.0   203.2  716.2  182.91,597.2   386.1
Revenue                  1,253.0          967.0          2,220.7
Break-even Point
(capacity %)           54.6%             72.9%           61.9%



ANUEX 8- 8
Pageo 2
BREAK- EVEN POINT
22
20
18 
16
SEA".V  POWN 
1  .&   / -                 .---- 
12                                                I
00
6
/                                              I
2
0 L              i              ,.9
20            140             60             ao            100
Industrial ProjectE Department          PERCENTAGE Of OPERATION
Januar-y 197h






ANNEX 9-1
ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETUR AND SENSITIRITY TESTS
Assumptions
1.        International prices for special steels and semi-products for 1973
are estimated in Annex 3-2, using 1972 as the normal year for steel prices.
on that basis, the price for stainless sheet and strip per ton in 1973 is
estimated (Annex 3-2) at US$1 902.5 (Lei 38,050) and for alloy steel rods
and bars, US$473.0 (Lei 9,i465S. To those prices, transportation cost/ton of
US$28 (Lei 560) has been added -- the average transportation cost (c.i.f) to
Romanian border from France, Italy, Germany, Sweden and Japan, the countries
from which Romania would be importing the type of products proposed for
Otelinox if the project were not built. On this basis, the accounting prices
per ton of Otelinox finished products are: stainless sheet and strip, US$1,930.5
(Lei 38,610) and for alloy bar products, US$501 (Lei 10,025).
2.        As for the semi-products proposed for rolling at Otelinox -- hot-
rolled bands and billets -- the 1973 international prices are estimated
(Annex 3-2) at US$815.5 (Lei 16,310) for hot-rolled bands and US$278 (Lei
5,560) for billets. In the case of hot-rolled bands, Romania already produces
them at its integrated steel plant at Galati, close to the Russian border.
If the project were not developed, probably Romania would be selling 40,500
tons most probably to Eastern European countries. The transportation cost to
the Russian border by train would be about Lei 10 per ton. Deducting it from
the estimated international price, the economic accounting price for hot-rolled
band is assumed to be US$815 (Lei 16,300).  In the case of billets, Which are
proposed for manufacture at Tirgoviste I, it is assumed that if the project
were not developed, the former mould be shippingby rail about 146,500 tons
of billets to the border with Italy for sale to Western European countries. The
transportation cost from Tirgoviste to the Italian border is Lei 110. Deduc-
ting it from the international price of Lei 5,560 per ton, the economic accoun-
ting price is assumed at US$272.5 (Lei 5,450) for billets.
3.        The following table shows the accounting prices (c.i.f. border) used
for Otelinc output and inputs:
Finished Products                           (Lei/ton)
Stainless steel sheet and strip             38,610
Alloy rod and bar products                  10,025
Main Inputs
Hot-rolled coil                             16,300
Billets                                      5,450
Auxiliary Tnputs
Sulphluric Ac-i.d                              700
Hydrofluoric Acid                           45,040
Trichloroethylene                            51940
Nitric Acid                                   1,770
Refractories                                 2,200
Back-up Rolls                               33,000
Recoveries
Scrap froim Cold Mill                        2, 400
Scrap from Bar Mill                          1,600



ANNEX 9-1
Page 2
Utilities                                   (Lei/ton)
Natural Gas                                Lei 250/1,000 Nm3
Power                                      Lei 450/1,000 Kwh
4.  Construction Period                         4 years
5. Operation Period                             18 years
6.  Project Cost                           Lei 3,484 million (US$174.2 million)
7.  Scrap Value                                    0



ROANI&: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
Using'US$9l - Li 20
in Lei Million
1974    1975   1976   1977    1978    1979   1980   1981    1982    1983   1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
COLD MILL
Revenues                -       -       -      -      254.8  1042.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5  1158.5
Costs
Capital Costs        69.3  330.2  566.9  461.9  192.7   70.5    10.3    -            -       -       -        -      -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Raw Materials         -       -       -      -       139.9  572.2  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8  635.8   635.8  635.8
Operating Expenses    -       -       -       -       65.3  158.3  169.2  169.2  169.2  169.2  169.2  169.2  169.2  169.2  169.2  169.2  169.2  169.2  169.2   169.2  169.2  169.2
Net Benefits           (69.3) (330.2) (566.9) (461.9) (143.1) 233.5  335.0  345.3  345.3  345.3  345.3  345.3  345.3  345.3  345.3  345.3  345.3  345.3  345,3  345.3  345.3  345.3
Economic Rate of Retu'rn: AA
BAR MILL
Revenmes                -       -       -       -      541.0  1130.8  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0  1203.0
Costs
Capitai Costs         56.9  296.7  581.7  605.7  212.9   26.3          2.0    -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -      -       -
Raw Materials         -       -       -      -       340.0  710.1   755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5  755.5
Operating Expenses    -       -       -       -       71.2   104.4  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3   110.3   110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3
Net Benefits           (56.9) (296.7) (581.7) (605,7)  (83.1) 283.0  328.1  330.1  330.1  330.1  330.1  330.1   330.1  330.1   330.1   330.1  330.1  330.1   330.1   330.1  330.1   330.1
Economic Rate of Returns 
OTELINOX (Cold Nill and Bar Mill Combined)
Revenues                -       -       -       -      795.8  2173.3  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5  2361.5
CGots
Capital Costs        126.2   626.9  1148.6  1067.6  405.6   96.8   12.3    -          -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Raw Materials         -       -       -       -      479.9  1282.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3  1391.3
Operating Expenses    -       -       -       -      136.5  262.7  279.5  279.5  279.5   279.5  279.5  279.5   279.5  279.5   279.5  279.5  279.5  279.5  279.5  279.5  279.5   279.5
Net Benefits          (126.2) (626.9)(1148.6)(1067.6) (226.2) 516.5  663.1  675.4  675.4  675.4  675.4  675.4  675.h   675.4  675.4  675.4  675.4  675.4  675.4   675.4  675.4  675.4
Economic Rate of Returnt 1
Industrial Projects Department
May 1974






ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
SENSITIVITY TESTS ON ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
* Exchange Rate US$1 = 20 Lei
** Exchange Rate US$1 = 25 Lei
Rate of' Return (%)
,r  ~~~~~~~~40
o20 
Revenue                 +2.% +20%.+10%                        -20% ...... 225%
1~ ,'
Capta _os _   _                                 l._1
do,                                                                      .0
0~~                                                                                      0
-20%      -15%        -10%        -5%    Base :Case       +5%         +10%       +15         +0%
t         .            I .      -- .           i           I           1   .         .5      2.p 
Revenue           +25% +20%     +10%    j    -10%        -20%  _25%
Capita+124@st +20%             I1%{-C                                          2%       _5 
Operating Cost
Industrial Projects Department
May 1974






ROMANIA: OTELINOX STEEL PROJECT
FOREIGN EXCHANaE SAVINGS
in Lei million
1978        1979        1980         1981        1982         1983        1984
GROSS SAVINGS/               796.8       2173.3      2361.5       2361.5      2361.5      2361.5       2361.5
Less:
Raw Materialsz/             278.3       895-5       950.0        950.0       950.0        950.0       950.0
Spare Parts2/                14.3        22.5        22.7         22.7        22.7         22.7        22.7
Amortization                  0.0        48.9       103.1        110.8       11869        127.7       137.1
InterestW                   63.o        121.7       112.2        1o4.5        96.4         87.6        78.2
NET SAVINGS (Lei)            441.2       1084.7      1173.5       1173.5      1173.5       1173.5      1173.5
(US$)             22.1        54.2         58.7        58.7         58.7        58.7         58.7
1/ Price assumptions are same as those used for economic rate of return calculations.
2/ Including basic foreign raw materials required to produce hot rolled sheets and billets used by Otelinox
3/  Mstly rolls.
4/  On IBRD loan.
Note:  Calculations are based on US$11 Lei 20                                                                  1!
Industrial Projects Department
May 1974






..,~~~~~~~~                 Ai    
a---' M A    A M U' B TA                                               m nr~,                                          TE             L% T
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k
A~~~~~~~~~~~~ RR GN ;H I 
1-u ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A)A  A~N4 C~,\
SIGUIE. ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~       -IIRN    N~   ' 
IGIIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                              C~oM   Aqi
R A~~~~~~~~~~(    RNI At
N-1\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A P
AMAM                           /                                   ,/      \                                       -           OM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA  VL    A
TA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Oe~ 
AR'A ~~~~~~~LI~~~~                                       /      ~      ~      ~     ~      >      -~~~~~ r~~~ ~~~    A S N  A                      4/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I    U~~~~~ '(        '~~~~~~
TA                                                                                                                                                                        O
__                                                              MMAOAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                       k~~~~~~~ L   B  I  T L  A        i  U     -I
riB  N~~~00000  A                                                                                                                                                                                        RAd~~~~~ O,~~     OARSrAINNT  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UHRS



