Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LN . z4l63-CtO
Report No. 4964-JO
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A ]MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
May 21, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jordanian-Dinar (JD)
US$1 = JD 0.365
JD 1 = US$2.74
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)     =  0.621 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)      =  2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton) =  0.984 long ton
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AASHTO - American Association of State Highways and
Transportation Officials
ARC    - Aqaba Railway Cooperation
BPR    - Bureau of Public Roads (USA)
CIF    - Cost, Insurance ana Freight
ER     - Economic Return
FYBR   - First Year Benefit Ratio
FYP    - Five-Year Plan
GE     - General Electric
HJR    - Hejaz-Jordan Railway
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
JFI    - Jordan Fertilizer Industries
JPMC   - Jordan Phosphate Mining Company
KfW    - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOF    - Ministry of Finance
MOI    - Ministry of Interior
MOT    - Ministry of Transport
MPW    - Ministry of Public Works
NPC    - National Planning Council
NTS    - National Transport Study
RoRo   - Roll-on/Roll-off
TEU    - Twenty-feet Equivalent Unit
TPC    - The Ports Corporation
TRRL   - Transport and Road Research Laboratory (UK)



JORDAN                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                                                 1
A. The Transport System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.  Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination. . . . . . . . .   2
C.  Transport Sector Objectives and Issues . . . . . . . . . . .   3
D.  Previous Bank Involvement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
II.  HIGHWAYS, RAILWAYS AND PORT SUBSECTORS                               7
A.  Highways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
B.  Railways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
C.  Ports. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
II.  THE PROJECT                                                        20
A. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
B. Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
C. Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
D. Engineering . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .  24
E.  Cost Estimates and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
F.  The Loan, The Borrower and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . .  29
G.  Implementation  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  . . . . . . . .  29
H. Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  31
I. Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  .  . .  33
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                34
A. General. . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . a   . . .  . a   . .  34
B.  Project Costs and Benefits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
C. Economic Return . . . .  . . . . . . .      . . . . .  . . .  . a .  36
D.  Project Risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
E.  Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
V.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION                                               41
A.  General. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
B.  Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
C.  The Ports Corporation (TPC)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
This report is prepared by Messrs. M.K. Ganguli (Transport Economist),
M. R. Payne (Highway Engineer), D. Perfrement (Port Engineer),
P. 0. Cheryan (Financial Analyst) and U. Marggraf (Railway Engineer)
on the basis of an appraisal mission to Jordan during November/
December 1983.
This dowent has a restrted distibution and may be used by recpients only in the perfonane of
thir offical duti Its contents may not otherwise be dbsosed without World Dank authorization.



Table of Contents- Continued)
Page
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                           51
ANNEXES
1. ARC Action Plan .. . . . . . . . .   54
2. Accounting Activities to be Introduced by ARC . . . . . . .  56
3. Highway Routine and Periodic Maintenance Activities . . . .  57
4.  Railway Track Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .  59
5. ARC Training and Technical Assistance Programs  . . . . . .  60
6. Highway Design Standards  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  61
7. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File. .  62
8. Assumptions regarding ARC's Sources and
Applications of Funds . . . . . . . . . . .......  65
SUPPORTING TABLES
1. Expenditures on National Highway Network, 1966-82 ... .  .  67
2. Primary and Secondary Highways Kilometrage. . . . . . . . .  68
3.  Status of 1981-85 Highway Investment Plan . . . . . . . . .  69
4.  Registered Vehicles, 1978-81 and 1982 . . . . . . . . . . .  70
5. Railway Operational Data and Targets. . . . . . . . . . . .  72
6. Railway Monthly Operating Statistics, 1982-83 . . . . . . .  73
7. Railway Traction and Rolling Stock. . . . . . . . . . . . .  74
8. Railway Operation Plan for Freight Wagons . . . . . . . . .  75
9. Railway Investment Plan, 1984-87  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  76
10. Railway Investment Forecasts, 1984-87 . . . . . . . . . . .  77
11. Railway Financial Sensitivity Analysis  . . . . . . . . . .  79
12. Port Traffic and Projections.. . . . . . . . . .   80
13. Container Import Traffic through Aqaba Port . . . . . . . .  81
14. Highway Component Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . .  82
15.  Railway Component Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . .  83
16. Railway Items on which the Loan will be disbursed . . . . .  84
17. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . .  85
18. ARC Projected Income Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  86
19. ARC Projected Statement of Sources and Application of Funds  87
20. ARC Projected Balance Sheets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  88
CHARTS
1. MPW Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
2. MPW District Engineer Organization  . . . . .             . 90
3. ARC Organization . .    .. . . . . . . . . . . . 91
4. TPC Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
MAPS
IBRD 17523 - Multi-Mode Transport Project
IBRD 18002 - Road Traffic Assignment: Wadi YutumrWadi 2
and Spur to Container Port
IBRD 17937 - Aqaba Port Layout



JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.01     Jordan's transport system comprises highways, railways, ports and
airports. The main transport corridor connects Amman with Syria to the
north and with the Gulf of Aqaba to the south. The corridor is served
mainly by highway and to a partial extent by railway. The only seaport,
Aqaba, is located at the northern tip of the Gulf of Aqaba, an arm of the
Red Sea. Air transport serves the two main towns, Amman and Aqaba and is
significant primarily for international passenger traffic to and from Amman.
1.02    The major centers of population and domestic production are rela-
tively close to each other, therefore, only limited domestic transport is
required. The situation is quite different for imports, exports and tran-
sit traffic, which generally involve long distances.
1.03     Highways are the main mode of transport.  In general, the dif-
fe-rnt sub-sectors have admirably adjusted in the recent past to unexpected
and significant expansions in traffic flows, including transit traffic to
Iraq. However, this success has been achieved at high cost. The major
portion of the transport network, particularly the main desert highway, has
shown clear signs of distress. While there are obvious transport pro-
blems-highway pavement deterioration, axle load control, heavy truck con-
gestion in Aqaba, and under-utilization of railway capacity-in the main
sub-sectors now, over the next few years pressures on all transport facili-
ties will multiply as the planned expansions of major centers of production
are realized. Unless timely action is taken, bottlenecks on the country's
main export/import routes would prove a serious impediment to the movement
of such key commodities as phosphate, potash, fertilizers, cement and
general cargo, which are vital for the economy of Jordan as well as its
neighboring countries.
1.04     The bulk of the transport sector investments during the 1980's
would be designed to cater to the mining, export and manufacturing indus-
tries like potash, fertilizers, cement, etc. Roads and road transport
would continue to play a major role on the country's main export/import
routes particularly for the movement of general cargo, potash, cement and
transit traffic. Jordan's main export commodity is rock phosphate and



-2-
priority is being given to increasing production. The bulk of this produc-
tion is being planned to be moved from the mines by rail to Aqaba, taking
into account cost effectiveness, bulk handling potentialities and relative
efficiency in energy utilization of that mode. With these points in mind,
there is urgent need to increase rail capacity.
1.05     During the last few years, Jordan experienced an unusual upsurge
of transit traffic through the port of Aqaba as a result of the outbreak of
hostilities in the Gulf. There has been substantial expansion of Aqaba
port facilities to cope with the Iraqi transit traffic through foreign
loans from the Iraqi Fund on attractive terms. The port facilities at
Aqaba are now adequate. Transport accounted for about 15-20% of Jordan's
total investments during the last decade.
B. Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
1.06    The responsibility for administering the transport system is dis-
persed amongst a number of authorities: the Ministries of Transport (MOT),
Public Works (MPW), and Interior (MOI), the National Planning Council (NPC)
and to a lesser extent, other Government bodies such as the Ministry of
Municipal and Rural Affairs and Environment. The MOT is responsible for
the railway, Aqaba port and aviation. The MPW is in charge of the national
and rural road networks. Regulations concerning axle loads, vehicle weight
limits and dimension of vehicles are issued by the MPW with inputs from the
MOI.  The MOI prepares the regulations governing construction standards for
vehicles and their operations. The responsibility for overall planning and
coordination rests with the MOT. The MOT commissioned a comprehensive
National Transport Study (NTS) in 1982/83 to provide the basis for trans-
port investment and a coordinated transport development strategy. The
Draft Final Report of this study prepared by the Consultants, Dorsch
Consult, Hughes Economic Planning and Deutsche Eisenbahn Consulting GMBH
was presented to the Government in July 1983. Investments, in transport as
in other sectors, are coordinated by the NPC.
1.07     Central and Local Traffic Committees have been coustituted to
review applications for the licensing of freight vehicle operators, bus and
taxi operators and to consider the services to be provided and the routes
to be served. The Minister of Interior chairs the Central Traffic Commit-
tee whose members are the Head of the Traffic Management department in the
MOI, delegates from the MOT, MPW, Industry and Commerce, Municipal and
Rural Affairs and Environment and representatives from the operators. Each
Local Traffic Committee is chaired by a Governor with members who are the
Head of Police in the Governorate, the Head of the District Office of the
MPW in each Governorate and delegates from the Public Transport Corpora-
tion, and the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs and Environment. All
applications are routed through the Local Traffic Committees. There is
little regulation of goods movements in the transport market; both the
railway and the trucking industry are encouraged to set cost-based rates
and adopt market policies. The expanding road transport industry has



-3-
attracted most of the traffic. At present the Aqaba Railway Corporation
(ARC) is a single commodity (phosphate) freight carrier and has been able
to compete successfully for the transport of phosphate.
1.08     The 1971Law of the MOT is specific in requiring the MOT to exer-
cise full responsibility for coordinating all transport matters. Further-
more, it states that in order to participate in general transport policy
and to coordinate transport activities in Departments and Corporations, a
Higher Council for Transport shall be established. So far, this Council
has not been activated.   A high level inter-ministerial coordinating
committee is urgently needed (including representatives of MOT, I'W, NPC)
to consider and resolve problems relating to movement of key commodities,
including phosphate. During loan negotiations, the Government undertook to
establish an inter-ministerial coordinating committee by the end of 1984.
C. Transport Sector Objectives and Issues
Objectives
1.09     The Government's primary objectives for the transport sector are
to build the infrastructure needed to support the development taking place
in other sectors of the economy, to enhance operational efficiency of the
key operating agencies through modernization, to conserve energy by promot-
ing rail transport and to improve manpower planning. The Government
attaches higthest priority to the improvement of international trade routes
carrying suostantial quantities of phosphate, potash, fertilizers, cement
and general cargo vital for the economy of Jordan and the neighboring
countries.
1.10     Tne proposed transport project would contribute to the three major
themes of Jordan's development strategy: (a) promotion of international
trade including transit traffic; (b) modernization and technology transfer;
and (c) manpower planning and institution building. Bottlenecks have
already developed on the principal trade routes in Jordan, their elimina-
tion is of great urgency for the Government and the proposed project would
ensure significant improvements on international trade routes (paras. 2.11,
2.13, 2.37 and 2.55). The project would also encourage technology transfer
particularly for the railway through an Action Plan (Annex 1). The Bank
had already made an important impact on the ARC's operational efficiency
during project preparation and ARC has attained record transport levels in
moving phosphate to Aqaba. Furthermore, the proposed project includes
technical assistance and training as an important component to improve
institutional development and staff training, especially for lower level
workers (paras. 3.08, 3.16, 3.18 and 3.19). Completion of civil works
envisaged in the proposed project and other on-going works would meet most
of the urgent needs of international trade including transit traffic within
the project period. However, assistance for institutional development,
manpower planning and improved technology, would be needed even after the
completion of the project.



-4-
1.11     The Bank's role in developing the multi-mode transport project and
providing the needed lead in its financing is considered by the Government
of Jordan as catalytic for obtaining recognition, support and financial
assistance from other financing institutions. Based on the Bank's involve-
ment in the preparation and appraisal of the project, the Government of
Jordan has made significant progress towards identifying and attracting
parallel co-financing (paras. 3.31 and Annex 8).
Issues
Diesel and Aviation Fuel Subsidy
1.12     The transport sector accounts for about 50% of the energy consump-
tion of the country and uses about 75Z of the imported petroleum. At
present diesel oil and aviation fuel are subsidized. In 1979, the Govern-
ment decided to phase pout the subsidies for petroleum products. Since
then, domestic prices have been increased on six 1/ occasions by a total
of about 180%. Presently, the weighted average domestic price is above the
weighted average border price for petroleum products. However, the lighter
fuels are cross-subsidizing diesel and aviation fuel. The prices of diesel
oil (US$230 per ton or about 80 cents per US gallon) and aviation fuel
(US$248 per ton or about 90 cents per US gallon) covered about 75% and 80%
of border prices respectively in early 1983. Currently, there is a slide
in crude oil spot market prices and prices of several types of crude are
being quoted $1 to $2 per barrel below official price. In the circumstan-
ces, the prices of diesel and aviation fuel are now closer to the border
prices and the issue of subsidies on these products is now of marginal
significance. Furthermore, the Government in the Memorandum of Under-
standing with the Bank dated October 27, 1983, on a recent Energy Develop-
ment Loan, has reaffirmed its intention to continue its review of domestic
prices of petroleum products with the object of phasing out the subsidy
over the medium term (1984-89).
Road User Charges
1.13     The estimated income in 1981 from road user charges amounted to
about US$70 million compared to a total expenditure of about US$60 million
on inter-urban roads for the same year. Thus it appears that overall road
transport costs are being covered on a pay-as-you-go basis. However, at
present the large fleet of heavily laden trucks does not pay adequately for
the wear it causes to the road network. If this situation is allowed to
continue, undue advantage will accrue to heavy trucks which do not cover
directly the costs of provision and operation of their infrastructure as
compared to the railway. The NTS has recommended that for freight vehicles,
registration and licensing fees should be appropriately related to maximum
gross vehicle weights in accordance with the vehicles' maximum permissible
1/ March, July 1979, February 1980, February and November 1981 and
February 1983.



-5-
axle loads. Furthermore, the NTS has made many other related recommenda-
tions for revising user charges such as annual license fees, import duties,
diesel fuel prices, transit fees, etc. particularly for trucks, to cover
the resource costs of operations. However, users of service vehicles are
more sensitive to changes in charges than, in many cases, to the absolute
level of charge. This is particularly relevant for the heavy transit traf-
fic to Iraq, on which Jordan does not directly recover all costs from the
specific road users, but Iraq grants considerable economic privileges and
financial assistance to Jordan in recognition of its goodwill. Thus formu-
lation of charges requires political flexibility and commercial acumen to
ensure optimum benefits for Jordan. During loan negotiations, an under-
standing was reached with the Government that it would appoint a working
party by the end of 1984 to consider revenue measures recommended in the
NTS and would initiate actions on selected measures by the end of March
1985. This issue is one which cannot be resolved by a single action and it
will be necessary for the Bank to carry out continuous dialogue with the
Government on the matter of road user charges.
Axle-load Control
1.14     Unregulated axle loads of the large fleet of heavy trucks have
severely damaged the primary roads in Jordan. If highway overloading
remains unrestrained, the road network will continue to deteriorate rapidly
and total transport costs, including the cost of the infrastructure will
remain unduly high. The Government has recently enacted a Bill limiting
the axle load to 13 tons per axle. The Government should ensure effective
enforcement of current legislation regarding maximum permissible axle
loads, gross vehicle weights for particular vehicular configurations and
vehicle dimensions. In particular, the Ministries concerned should ensure
that the present permissible overloadings should be reduced in stages from
25X in 1984 to no overloading by the end of 1986. Furthermore, in view of
the relative damages done by the different types of vehicles, the Govern-
ment aims to discourage the importation and use of 2-axle trucks and
encourage the purchase of multi-axle vehicles by proper fiscal incentives
and more favorable licensing policy and will prepare an action plan to an
agreed timetable. The enforcement of axle load policy and related matters
was discussed further with the Government during loan negotiations and a
timed program of enforcement agreed (para. 2.10).
D. Previous Bank Involvement
1.15     The proposed project would be the second in the transport sector
and the first for rail/port development. In June 1971, the Association
approved a Credit (262-JO) in the amount of US$6.0 million equivalent, to
assist in the construction of a highway from Amman to Zarqa (18 km) and to
finance related consultancy services, the purchase of road maintenance
equipment and an urban transport study of Amman. The credit was closed and
fully disbursed in December 1974. The road construction component was com-
pleted two years later than expected with a 30% cost overrun.



-6-
1.16     In general, the main problems encountered in the project were
inefficiency of the contractor (a British/Jordanian joint venture), and
slowness in arranging for the clearing of obstructions (buildings and mili-
tary installation6) and relocation of utilities from the right-of-way. The
land acquisition related difficulties were not unique to this project
(Audit Report No. 1762 dated October 18, 1977) and several other projects
involving road construction passing through densely populated areas experi-
enced similar problems. The delays in obtaining the right-of-way, together
with delays in contractor mobilization because of a closure of the
Jordanian/Syrian border, gave rise to a substantial claim being paid to the
contractor; this claim was the main reason for the cost overrun. In the
currently proposed transport project, land acquisition problems will not
arise as all the rights-of-way are over Government-owned land.



-7-
II. HIGHWAYS, RAILWAYS AND PORT SUBSECTORS
A. Highways
Organization
2.01     The MPW is responsible for the constructon and maintenance of
roads. The Under-Secretary for Public Works is the senior coordinating
official to whom the Director of Highways reports (Chart 1). The highways
headquarters is adequately staffed with some positions filled by individual
Jordanian consultants.
2.02     The MPW engineering districts correspond to the eight governorates
into which Jordan is divided for administration purposes; three of these
governorates are on the west bank of the Jordan river (Map 17523). Each is
under the control of a District Engineer who is responsible for all road-
work activities in his governorate (Chart 2). The district organizations
need reinforcement for the purposes of more effective road maintenance
(paras. 2.14-2.19, 3.05-3.07).
Planning
2.03     Highway planning is a function of the NPC which evaluates and
ranks planning proposals mainly from MPW, MOT, MOI and from city adminis-
trations. MPW undertakes feasibility studies through consultants to
generate the basis for proposals for investment decisions for highway
development.
Engineering
2.04     The Director of Major Roads in MPW is responsible for executing
road development projects; his headquarters organization is adequately
staffed with engineers to fulfill this function, although consultants, both
local and expatriate, are often employed when engineering design and con-
struction supervision requirements exceed the Directorate's capacity.
2.05     Highway design standards in Jordan were originally recommended in
1965 by the then U.S. Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) (now Federal Highway
Administration - FHWA) and are satisfactory. Pavement design is based on
American Association of State Highway and Transport Officials (AASHTO)
standards.
Construction
2.06     Highway construction is normally executed under unit price con-
tracts awarded after competitive bidding. Construction activities have
increased significantly from 1975 onwards (Table 1). The domestic contract-
ing industry has expanded considerably since the First Highway Project
began in 1971. There are now 18 local contractors in the top class for



-8-
works valued up to US$33 million and 3 local contractors in the second
class. The majority of large highway construction contracts are undertaken
by national contractors in joint venture with expatriate firms. Large con-
struction projects are controlled by a Projects Department of MPW which was
set up in 1982.
Network
2.07     MPW is responsible for Jordan's national highway network (Table 2)
which for the East Bank now comprises 2,004 km of paved primary highways
(29Z of total network) and 867 km of paved secondary highways (12Z).
Village and feeder roads, 2,304 km paved (33Z) and 1,775 km unpaved (26Z)
have recently been transferred from the jurisdiction of the MOI to MPW.
2.08     The paved highway networks has expanded by about 2% per year since
1970 (Table 2). Major emphasis has been given to improvement of the exist-
ing network by reconstruction and pavement strengthening, in particular,
the main north/south route from the Syrian Border at Ramtha via Amman and
Ma'an to Aqaba Port on the Red Sea. A total of about 520 km (26%) of the
primary network is under reconstruction under the 1981-85 Five-Year Plan
and most was completed by the end of 1983. About 460 km (23%) of similar
works is planned for completion by 1986.
2.09     The highway system, given the improvements underway and planned,
adequately connects all populated areas of the country. Paved connections
exist to Syria, Iraq and Saudi Arabia. A special purpose road has been
completed from Aqaba to Safi, where a potash industry has been established
(see Map IBRD 17523).
2.10     Regulations and legislation governing maximum dimensions and axle
loading of vehicles have not been enforced effectively and the resultant
severe road damage has necessitated a major reinvestment in highway infra-
structure (para. 2.15). The 1983 legislation specifying a maximum single
axle load of 13 tonnes has been amended by Government in response to pres-
sure from the trucking industry to permit 25%, 15% and 10% above the
maximum respectively during the next three years and no overloading from
September 1, 1986. Actions are to be taken so that the weighing stations
at Jordan's international borders, the phosphate mines at Ruseifa, El Abyad
and El Hassa and at Aqaba Port would be utilized rigorously to enforce the
legislation and protect the highway system from accelerated deterioration.
During loan negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government
that it will enforce and continue to enforce regulations controlling vehicle
dimensions and axle loads and phase out overloading before September 1, 1986,
(para. 6.01(iii)).
Investment Plan
2.11     The 1981-85 highway investment plan of 33 items, including the
project highway construction component, was estimated to cost about
JD 197 million (US$540 million equivalent) and has the general objective of



-9-
meeting urgent transport requirements and public safety by the construction/
reconstruction/improvement of 2,240 km (600 km primary, 240 km secondary
and 1,400 km rural and agricultural roads) of the 1980 network. The high-
way investment plan has adopted a balanced approach towards the development
of international routes connecting neighboring Arab countries, the primary
network serving mining and export oriented industries and agricultural
roads in and around the Jordan valley region. The highway investment plan
is sound and comprehensive.
2.12     Sources of finance for the 1981-85 highway investment plan are
shown below:
Table 2.1: Source of Finance for Righway Investment Plan, 1981-85
(JD million)
i81      1982     1983     1984      1985     Total
General Budget            10.7     26.3     27.9     28.4      22.9     116.2
General Bulget and
Foreign Loans             -         -        -      3.5       7.5      11.0
Municipal Resources
and Loans                 -       0.2      0.9      1.0       0.4       2.5
Foreign Loans              3.7     16.7     23.4     16.4       7.3      67.5
Total ( JD million)  14.4     43.2      52.2     49.3      38.1     197.2
(USt million)  39.5     118.4    143.0    135.1    104.4    540.4
2.13     Implementation of the 1981-85 highway investment plan is well
underway and by the end of the plan period it is estimated that most of the
major projects will have been completed or be under construction (Table 3)
and the spillover to the next plan period will be about 15-20X, which
includes the project highway construction component.
Maintenance
2.14     The MPW undertakes routine and some periodic highway maintenance
works by force account through the District organizations; other periodic
maintenance such as asphalt overlays and some resurfacing is carried out by
contract. Present day levels of maintenance have become ineffectual and,
recognizing the resultant deterioration of the network, the NPW has begun
to improve all aspects of highway maintenance.
2.15     The maintenance efforts made by the MPW through its District opera-
tions have been unable to cope with the demands. Over a short time, heavy,
often overloaded trucks, have severely damaged highway pavements and
shoulders to the extent that maintenance efforts are totally inadequate to
sustain the service level of the highways at or near their original



-10-
condition. Highway damage has been so severe that the Government has
embarked on major capital expenditures to reconstruct/rehabilitate large
sections of the highway network (paras. 2.11, 2.13 and Table 1).
2.16     District maintenance operations need to be improved and expanded
to cope with the increasing demands arising from heavy traffic. Shortages
of competent equipment operators must be alleviated if maintenance efforts
are to be realistic and efficient. Training methods must be reinforced to
provide the number of maintenance staff required.
2.17     Maintenance equipment used by the District Engineers was origin-
ally obtained on a hire basis from the centralized plant and equipment pool
in Amman (Wadi Sir), where good workshop facilities used to exist, having
been constructed in the late 1950's/early 1960's with the advice of the
U.S. Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) under USAID financing . Then, the policy
was to undertake all major repairs and overhauls in Amman and reissue recom-
missioned equipment to the District Engineers; now, the central workshops
in Amman have become so rundown that they only handle some minor repairs to
light vehicles and act as a dumping ground for unserviceable earthmoving
equipment and heavy trucks, which are beyond the District Engineers' capa-
bilities to repair. The reasons for the deterioration of the workshop
services in Amman are poor management, insufficient and underpaid staff and
budget constraints, which over time have brought the mechanical engineering
services to a virtual standstill.
2.18     Effectiveness of highway maintenance efforts, especially the avail-
ability of adequate, serviceable maintenance equipment and plant to carry
them out, have followed a "sawtooth" pattern over the last two decades with
peaks arising during 1953-1965 and again during 1972, both with USAID
participation.
2.19     The Government and MPW recognize the urgent need to revitalize
highway maintenance activities and are taking steps towards that goal by
(a) utilizing bilateral technical assistance from USA, U.K., and Sweden to
plan, manage and operate a highway maintenance system based on the recom-
mendations of the 1983 NTS for a strategy aimed at urgent reintroduction of
efficient highway maintenance; and (b) providing 25% government participa-
tion in a commercial plant-hire corporation that is being set up and would
lease to MPW equipment and plant for highway maintenance purposes. During
loan negotiations, understandings were reached with the Government that;
(a)     it would discuss and review with the Bank the maintenance
system which would be derived with bilateral technical
assistance and the arrangements for ensuring the avail-
ability of adequate equipment and financing for the
planned maintenance operations; and



-11-
(b)     it would submit to the Bank a plan for improving the
functioning of the plant-hire corporation and implement
the plan according to a timetable agreed with the Bank.
Traffic and Road Transport
2.20     The conflict in the northern Gulf, and the subsequent closing of
the ports there, has diverted traffic destined for Iraq via Basra to Aqaba
Port and then overland by road to Iraq. This has caused a big surge in
traffic volumes along the Aqaba-Amman-Iraq highway corridor. Road haulage
to Iraq amounted to about 4.2 million tonnes in 1982. In 1982, the highest
traffic flows were on the access roads to Amman (6,000 to 12,000 vehicles
per day) and the main road via Jerash and Ramtha to the Syria border (5,000
to 6,000 vehicles per day). International traffic to Syria, Iraq and Saudi
Arabia were 1,800, 1,300 and 500 vehicles per day, respectively. In 1982,
traffic along the 335 km long Aqaba-Amman highway was about 2,500 vehicles
per day, of which 70% were heavy trucks. Secondary roads typically carry
about 500-800 vehicles per day.
2.21     Jordan's trucking industry consists of numerous small companies,
typically with fleets of up to ten vehicles and a large number of individual
operators. Ninety (90) percent of freight vehicles are privately owned and
about 60% operate for hire and reward. Two major companies, in which the
Government has a half share, handle transit movements to Iraq and Syria;
these are the Iraqi-Jordanian Land Transport Company (IJLTC) and the
Jordanian-Syria Land Transport Company (JOSYCO), both of which are granted
by the Government immunity from import duties and annual license fees for
their vehicle fleets, which number 750 and 350, respectively. IJLTC
operates by leasing trucks from two German suppliers under an agreement
which includes driving staff and mechanical maintenance; JOSYCO vehicles
are operated directly by the company.   The Arab Potash Company (APC) owns
a puirpose-built fleet of 9 axle trucks and trailers (gross vehicle weight
75 tonnes; payload 52 tonnes) for the haulage of potash from Safi to the
Jordan Fertilizer Industry Co. Ltd (JFI) at Wadi 2.
2.22     The domestic vehicle fleet has grown at about 15% per year during
1972-82 to reach 177,849 vehicles. Annual growth rates during the period
1978-81 were 21% for trucks and buses and 16% for passenger cars and light
vehicles (Table 4). Trucks form 24% of the domestic vehicle stock and pas-
senger cars and taxis 70%.
Budgets, Accounts and Audit
2.23     MPW prepares annual budgets for its recurrent and capital expendi-
tures, which are consolidated with those of other ministries by the Ministry
of Finance (MOF) and are approved first by the Cabinet and then by Par-
liament. The approved budget is closely controlled by MPW and the budget
department of MOF through monthly statements of budget performance and cash
position. MOF establishes disbursement ceilings for each ministry for each
month on the basis of the liquidity position of the government.



-12-
2.24     A MOF representative is located in the MPW finance department and
checks all financial certificates and vouchers. The Accounting Council,
which reports directly to Parliament, conducts audits through auditing
personnel permanently assigned to each ministry. A joint auditing com-
mittee from the Accounting Council and MOF performs the annual audit of the
actual expenditures and checks all cash transactions. The above budgeting
and accounting systems and auditing arrangements are satisfactory to the
Bank.
B. Railways
Network
2.25     Jordan's railway system is based on the Hejaz Railway, which was
constructed between 1900 and 1904. Today, the section Syrian border-
Amman-El Qasr (94 km) is operated by the Hejaz Jordan Railway (HJR), while
the sections Amman-El Abyad (about 130 km), Batn El Ghul-Saudi Arabian
border (about 68 km) and the branch line Ma'an-Ras En Naqb (about 40 km)
have been out of operation since 1973. All major fixed assets of the HJR
date back to the early part of the century and are fully depreciated
although still allowing limited operations. Two passenger trains and two
freight trains run weekly with the help of about 20 staff, 4 locomotives
and a limited number of coaches and wagons. The present level of low key
operations of HJR is of little economic and financial significance for the
country and the main source of income for the HJR is the rent paid by the
ARC for the section of the Hejaz Railway over which it operates. HJR has
no plans for expansion within the project period.
2.26     This report deals only with the ARC, which operates on the old
Hejaz Railway over 294 km of single track between El Abyad and Batn El Ghul
and on the new line Batn El Chul-Aqaba (see Map 17523). Two branch lines
connect the phosphate mines with the main line; these are El Abyad (3.4 km),
built in 1981/82, and El Hassa (5.1 km), built in 1975. All the lines with
a gauge of 1,050 mm have been designed and built for a 16-tonne axle load.
Temporary and permanent speed restrictions, mainly imposed due to sharp
curvature and bad track conditions, limit the efficient use of the ARC line.
Organization
2.27     The Corporation was established under the ARC Law of 1972.  Pre-
sently it is only operated to haul phosphate from the mines at El Abyad and
El Hassa to Aqaba Port. ARC is governed by a Board of Directors consisting
of seven members under the chairmanship of the Minister of Transport. The
organization is shown in Chart 3.
Role of the Railways
2.28     Operating since 1975, the ARC is still an infant railway with a
number of problems. While traction and rolling stock are relatively new,
ARC now faces necessary major overhauls of high priority. Recruiting staff



-13-
became more difficult when the ARC headquarters were moved from Amman to
Ma'an in 1980. Little was done in the past to train staff because the
railway was facing the problem that employees who received training and
acquired skills left the railway and went abroad or to the private sector
in Jordan, which both offer more lucrative job opportunities.
2.29     ARC tried with increasing success to raise its share of phosphate
transport. Recent studies carried out show that ARC's task in the next
years is clearly to further its role as the major transporter of phosphate
for export. Plans to diversify into grains, containers and other general
cargo should be pursued only after ARC has solved the above-mentioned pro-
blems (para. 2.37), has successfully completed a substantial technology
transfer, has further improved its operational efficiency and has increased
its capacity to meet possible phosphate transport forecasts.
Management
2.30     The Director General is responsible for the efficient management
of the ARC and for planning its development under the direction of the
Board of Directors. Seven Chiefs of Departments and a Chief of Planning
report to the Director General (see Chart 3).
Staff
2.31     At the end of 1983, ARC employed 797 staff.  More staff will be
required in certain sections to meet the forecast increase in traffic. The
staffing and annual targets are given by ARC in a manpower plan, which is
subject to annual review. Productivity, measured as traffic units per
employee, is forecast to increase by 12% over the period 1983-87. Staff
numbers and productivity forecasts are shown in Table 5. The external
demand for Jordanian labor has decreased in recent years, and it is expected
that more manpower will be available to ARC and that, like many other
institutions in Jordan, staffing problems will subside.
2.32     To improve the ability of ARC to operate the railway with current
available manpower, 70 railway staff from Rail India Technical and Economic
Services (RITES-India) were engaged under contract. The team members are
deployed as engineers and supervisors in all departments but accounting.
Traffic
2.33     The ARC is a single purpose railway for the carriage of rock
phosphate for export. Rail-borne phosphate traffic from the mines to Aqaba
for export has registered a significant increase in recent years, rising
from 1.15 million tonnes in 1979 to almost 2.6 million tonnes in 1983
(Tables 2.2 and 6). The Jordan Phosphate Mining Corporation (JPMC) fore-
casts that its total production from all three mines now working would be
at least 6 million tonnes in 1986 of which 4 million tonnes would be for
export. Considering the cost effectiveness and energy conservation of bulk



-14-
transport by rail, the Government proposes that this 4 million tonnes of
phosphate be moved to Aqaba Port by rail. The projected traffic eroe-th is
realistic provided that exports develop as expected and the ARC will be
able to increase its transport capacity commensurately through the planned
investments and higher operational efficiency.
2.34     The figures below show the actual traffic growth during the
1971-83 period and the traffic projections up to 1987.
Table 2.2; Phosphate Traffic and Traffic Projection, 1979-87
(million tonnes net)
Annual
Growth Rate
Year         Actual Traffic        Projected Traffic               %
1979             1.15
1980             1.30
1981             1.64                                        22.5 (1979-83)
1982             2.15
1983             2.59
1984                                     2.7
1985                                     3.0
1986                                     3.7                 11.5 (1983-87)
1987                                     4.0
About two-thirds of the above phosphate traffic originates from El-Hassa
mines and one-third from El Abyad Mines.
Operations
2.35     The ARC has 25 main line locomotives and 247 phosphate wagons in
operational condition (Table 7) and presently operates about 7 phosphate
unit trains per day almost every day of the week, a marked improvement
compared to 1979 and 1980 when the railways were running only 3 trains a
day. To carry the projected 4 million tonnes in 1987, the number of
trains has to be increased to 10 to 11 trains per day, an operational
level attainable with the existing infrastructure improved by the proposed
investments shown in para. 2.37. Operational efficiency also needs to be
improved, according to an Action Plan (Annex 1) by increasing the number
of wagons per train from 30-32 to at least 35, reducing the turnaround
time for the unit trains and reducing day to day traffic variations
(Table 8). The latter aspects would require co-ordination of activities
with the mines and the port (para. 3.18).
Tariffs and Costs
2.36     Tariffs for the transport of phosphate from the mines to Aqaba
are proposed by ARC to HOT which has to ratify them before becoming
effective. Tariff rates in the recent past have been as follows;



-15-
El Hassa to Aqaba        El Abyad to Aqaba
Distance              271.7 km                  289.0 km
Oct. 31, 1980         JD 1.600/tonne            JD 1.800/tonne
Jan. 1, 1982          JD 2.050/tonne            JD 2.200/tonne
Jan. 1, 1983 1/       JD 2.200/tonne            JD 2.400/tonne
1/ Proposed by ARC's board but not yet approved by the MOT.
In 1983, the railway carried 2.59 million tonnes of phosphate at estimated
operating expenses and interest costs of JD 5.50 million, i.e. JD 2.12 per
tonne. The main thrust of ARC should be to improve utilization of railway
capacity by carrying increasing volumes of traffic, supplemented to the
extent necessary by tariff adjustments, so that higher contributions could
be made towards fixed costs and debt service requirements, thereby paving
the way towards the railways' financial viability. The proposed project
aims at achieving this objective (paras. 3.02 and 3.36).
Investment Plan
2.37     ARC's Investment Plan (Table 9), which is an update of the 1981-85
plan extended to 1987, covers the period 1984-87 and consists of three
parts; (i) Spillover Investments; (ii) New Investments covered by the pro-
ject; and (iii) Other New Investments. Spillover Investments comprise
either on-going project items or those for which firm investment commit-
ments were made prior to preappraisal of the proposed project. The project
investments were selected to achieve the principal objective of the Invest-
ment Plan, which is to increase the operational efficiency of ARC to enable
its greater utilization as an energy-efficient transport mode for phos-
phate, its exclusive commodity. The investment proposals are realistic and
are responsive to the needs of Jordan's economy. More than 80% of the new
investments form an important part of the proposed project. Detailed
investment costs and their yearly breakdown are shown in Table 10.
Financing
2.38     The Five Year Plan for 1981-1985 provided for railway investments
during the period totalling JD 11.1 million (US$30.4 million) to be
financed from the General Budget (JD 7.4 million (USM2O.3 million)) and
through external loans from the Kuwait Fund and the Saudi Fund for Develop-
ment (JD 3.7 million (US$10.1 million)). During loan negotiations, the
Government has agreed that the ARC would implement and annually review its
action and financing plans before the start of each fiscal year and prepare
necessary revisions in consultation with the Bank.



-16-
Budgets, Accounts, Audit and Insurance
2.39     ARC prepares annual budgets for its cash working and capital
expenditures, which are first cleared by MOT and then incorporated into the
national budget by MOF before approval by the Cabinet and Parliament. The
approved budget is tightly controlled by MOT and the budget department of
MOP through monthly statements of budget performance prepared by ARC from
the receipts and expenditure accounts mentioned below (para. 2.39).
2.40     ARC's accounts are kept on the same basis as the Government
treasury system of accounting and budgeting; the emphasis is on cash move-
ments. ARC's financial department does not attempt to assess activity-based
operating results through accrual accounting. However, starting from
July 1981, ARC's auditors have reworked the outward billings and incoming
invoices on a commercial basis to determine the financial position and
results before certifying the annual balance sheets and the statements of
revenue and expenditures for 1981 (part) and 1982. No subsidiary accounts
or controls exist for the fixed assets, related depreciation and the stores
inventory. ARC needs, and the proposed project provides, technical assist-
ance and training (paras. 3.16, 5.06 and 5.15) for the introduction of new
and improved methods of accounting to establish and maintain satisfactory
bases for its accounting activities as shown in Annex 2.
2.41    ARC's accounts are audited by a local firm of public accountants
in accordance with generally accepted auditing practices which are adequate
for purposes of reporting to the Bank.
2.42     ARC maintains adequate insurance coverage of its rolling stock and
other insurable risks.
C. Ports
organization & Management
The Port Corporation (TPC)
2.43     The Royal Decree of 1952 established TPC as an independent public
corporation. The Corporation is managed by and acts through its Board
consisting of five designated members, two of whom are Government represen-
tatives. The Board is presided over by the Minister of Transport, the
Director General of TPC who is responsible for the day-to-day running of
the port is Deputy Chairman, and representatives from the port users and
other relevant sectors are appointed by the Council of Ministers. TPC is
legally empowered to operate the port of Aqaba and to levy dues and charges
for the use of the port and its facilities. The structure is being revised
and the new proposed structure is shown in Chart 4. TPC proposes to
improve its financial, administrative and planning capabilities, and the
overall status of its cargo handling equipment through a technical assist-
ance and training program included in the project (paras. 3.18 and 3.19).



-17-
Staff
2.44     Of about 4,500 staff employed, 500 cover the administration, work-
shops and warehouses functions with which the project is concerned. About
25Z of port workers (mainly Egyptian) are employed on a two-year contract
basis.
Training
2.45     TPC operates its own training school with up to 10 instructors
available to run training courses of eight weeks duration for mechanics,
drivers, shed master and tally clerks, labor foremen, electricians and
introductory labor. The school operates efficiently and has a reasonable
quantity of training aids.
Main Port Facilities
2.46     The Port of Aqaba was established in 1952 by Royal Decree and has
developed through various phases to its present seven general cargo main
berths, and with two shallower cargo berths (Nos. 9 and 10) and two lighter
berths - see General Plan (IBRD 17937). The six main berths are 1,060
meters in length with a depth alongside of 11 meters, Berth 7 is 150 meters
long with 7 meters depth, Berths 9 and 10 are 150 meters long with 6 meters
depth. The lighter berths have about 6 meters depth. The berths and asso-
ciated sheds and storage areas are generally in satisfactory condition.
None of the berths carries any portal cranes, all non-bulk cargo being
handled by ships gear, which appears to work effectively.
2.47     Immediately south of Berth No. 1 are two phosphate loading berths,
"A" and "B", constructed in 1960 and 1969 respectively.  Berth "A' is now
being used for the imports of mineral and edible oils, and can take vessels
up to 18,000 dwt. Berth "B" is 180 meters long with 15 meters depth along-
side and is capable of taking vessels up to 100,000 dwt. There are two
shiploaders on the berth of 2,100 tonnes/hr nominal capacity served by
conveyors from four sheds onshore (two of capacity 73,000 tonnes each, and
two of capacity 80,000 tonnes each). With the expected increase in phos-
phate exports, TPC should initiate an investigation of the likely advan-
tages of restoring the phosphate loading facilities at Berth "A" for
loading smaller ships to optimize availability of both berths for bulk
export of phosphate (para. 3.18). Two rail unloading bins and two road
truck unloaders are located in the port on the landward side of the sheds.
Container and RoRo Berths
2.48     In 1977, TPC provided two floating berths (150 meters long and 35
meters wide) about 5 km south of the main port for handling container,
cement and RoRo traffic to minimize congestion in the main port area. One
pontoon handled containers and has a RoRo ramp on the northern face, and
carried 4-5 tonne portal cranes, while the second had a bulk cement



-18-
unloader, and also handled RoRo traffic. Nearby, TPC has constructed a
container berth 280 meters long with a depth alongside of 15 meters and are
providing 2-40 tonne container cranes. A new 80 meter RoRo berth was con-
structed simultaneously just north on the same quay line as the new con-
tainer berth, one pontoon has recently been removed, and the second
container berth will be completed in 1984 in the intervening 220 meters to
provide 580 meters of continuous berths.
Potash/Fertilizer Jetty
2.49     Some 15 km south of Aqaba there is a new jetty for the import of
raw materials such as sulphur, and the export of potash and fertilizers.
The berth has 2 loaders and 2 conveyors for handling di-ammonium phosphate
(DAP) fertilizer, potash and other fertilizers for export.
Traffic
2.50     Import traffic handled through the port of Aqaba increased drama-
tically in the years 1980, 1981 and 1982 as a result of transit cargos,
mainly for Iraq. In 1983 Iraq began diverting imports for northern Iraq
through Mersin (Turkey) and southern Iraq through Saudi Arabia with con-
sequent reductions in throughputs at Aqaba of about one million tonnes in
1983 (Table 11).
2.51     The traffic statistics for imports and exports through Aqaba
1979-83 and projections for 1984, 1985 and 1990 are shown in Table 11. The
container traffic has increased from 4,557 Twenty feet Equivalent Units
(TEU) in 1977 to about 37,000 in 1933 (Table 12) and is expected to reach
about 100,000 TEU by 1987.
Operations and Productivity
2.52     General cargo operations in the port are satisfactory and open and
covered storage space appears adequate. Labor productivity is generally
good averaging 18 tonnes per gang hour for general cargo, and 35 tonnes per
gang hour for bagged cargo.
2.53     TPC has two  container yards in the main port area totalling
140,000 square metres and further yards in the area of the new container
berth totalling 200,000 square metres. Container handling is by straddle
carriers and forklift trucks but the overall operation could be consider-
ably improved and provision of technical assistance e. i training to achieve
this is included in the project (para. 3.18).
2.54     The maintenance workshops are too small and lack sufficient
covered area and workshop equipment and trained technicians to carry out
effective preventive and breakdown maintenance. TPC aim to correct these
shortcomings by appropriate self-financed investments in workshops and
training activities (paras. 3.18 and 3.19). Site preparation has begun for
the workshops extension.



-19-
Investments and Financing
2.55     The Five Year Plan for 1981-1985 provided for investments during
the period of some JD 43.3 million (US$118.6 million) for the construction
of new container and RoRo berths and a slipway and a new industrial berth
to handle imports and exports of fertilizer and potash industries, acquisi-
tion of equipment, and ship-loading systems for the industrial berth,
acquisition of marine craft, and rehabilitation and increase in capacity of
shiploading at phosphate Berth A. These are to be financed to the extent
of JD 6.6 million (US$18.1 million) through self-financing by the Port
Authority, JD 13.8 million (US$37.8 million) from the General Budget and
JD 22.9 million through external loans from the Saudi Fund for Development,
the Islamic Bank and the Iraqi Fund for External Development. The Plan is
project-specific and aims to develop the port capacity in order to meet the
expected increase in transport requirements for imports and exports. All
these works are well underway or completed. No new major investments are
envisaged or required during the project period beyond 1985 through 1987
other than the completion of the ongoing works and the provision of techni-
cal assistance and training component included in the project (para. 3.19).
Budget Accounts and Audit
2.56     TPC's budgets are controlled in the same manner as those of ARC
(see para. 2.39). TPC's accounts are commercially-based, follow the
accrual system, and are audited by Jordanian public accountants in accord-
ance with professional standards.



-20-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01     In recognition of the seriousness of the mounting congestion pro-
blems on the country's trade routes, the increasing problems of maintaining
the highways under heavy traffic and the urgency to improve the railway
operations in an era of energy consciousness, Government commissioned in
early 1982 a comprehensive NTS covering the entire transport sector to
provide the basis for transport investments and a coordinated transport
development strategy. This study has been completed and provides forceful
evidence of priority investment needs in the transport sector. Based on
the study's findings, and supplemented by the Bank assessment of the sector
needs, a multi-mode transport project has been proposed which forms a vital
and economically justified part of the high priority investments included
in the Government Development Plan.
B. Objectives
3.02     The primary objectives of the project are to;
Transport Sector
(a)    ease critical transport bottlenecks on Jordan's principal
export/import routes to facilitate the movement of such key
commodities as phosphate, potash, fertilizers, cement and
general cargo, all vital for the economy of Jordan and
neighboring countries;
(b)    initiate institution building efforts by introducing and
encouraging investment and financial planning, manpower
management, training and technical assistance;
(c)    improve project preparation and thereby the receptivity of
the capital markets towards cofinancing;
Highways
(d)    improve monitoring, control and enforcement of the legal
limits of vehicle axle loads and dimensions by operation of
permanent and mobile weighing stations;
(e)    promote systematic and effective highway maintenance; and
Railway
(f)    encourage technology transfer in order to improve ARC's
operating efficiency with greater utilization of line
capacity;



-21-
(g)    strengthen management of ARC by the preparation and
implementation of sound Operational and Action Plans
(Annex 1);
(h)    enable ARC to achieve financial viability; and
Port
(i)    enable TPC to improve interface operations -- rail/port
movement of phosphate and highway/port movement of con-
tainerized cargo--through technical assistance and training.
C. Description
3.03     The proposed project deals with highways, railway and the port
which serve the major part of Jordan's transportation. The project is
based on a broad review of all major investment programs of the above three
modes in the 1981-85 Plan including important spillover works through
87/88, that is, up to the end of the project period. The structure and
organization of these agencies, their on-going investments and financing
plans are described in Chapter 2.
3.04     The project components derived from the above investment plan lay
special emphasis on the development and maintenance of international trade
routes and institution building. The project components are discussed
below:
Highway Components
Highway Maintenance
3.05     The proposed project includes routine and periodic maintenance
activities set out in Annex 3.
3.06     The periodic maintenance asphalt overlay program for strengthening
of sections of the highway network would be selected on the basis of tech-
nical and economic criteria which were discussed and agreed during negoti-
ations (para. 4.10). Sections of the following four highways have been
tentatively proposed by MNPW for strengthening:
(a)    Azraq-Saudi Arabia Border, 50 km;
(b)    Juwaidah-Azraq-Iraqi Border, 320 km;
(c)    Access road to Queen Alya International Airport, 35 km; and
(d)    Al Hashimiyah-Rihab; 30 km.



-22-
3.07     Equipment included in the project to assist the implementation of
routine and periodic maintenance consists of:
(i)    five to seven fixed bitumen storage heaters for periodic
resealing and routine patching;
(ii)   a highway striping machine;
(iii)  portable weighing scales for axle load control;
(iv)   traffic counters; and
(v)    pavement deflection testing equipment for asphalt overlay
design purposes.
Technical Assistance
3.08     Technical assistance to strengthen highway maintenance management,
planning, operations and training would be undertaken by consultants
appointed to "in-line" positions within MPW for 100-120 man-months-one
senior engineer for planning and budget (30 man-months), one administra-
tion/procurement officer (30 man-months), one field maintenance engineer
(30 man-months), and one training specialist (20 man-months). During
negotiations, the Jordanian delegation expressed the Government's comit-
ment to an effective highway maintenance program and plan of action, in
accordance with established practices already set out in the MPW Highway
Maintenance Manual (see Annex 7, Project File, Item B9) and based on the
recommendations of the NTS and other bilateral agencies who have recently
visited Jordan (USAID, Sweden, TRRL (UK)); implementation progress would be
monitored through project supervision. Expatriate consulting services cost
estimates are based on the estimated man-months required and consultants
rates applicable to Jordan. Bank financing is limited to training activi-
ties only, as technical assistance for other requirements would be financed
by the Government or any bilateral sources that may become available.
Civil Works
3.09     Diversion around Aqaba Town of heavy trucks destined to or from
the Aqaba port area and JFI is only practically possible on the eastern
side of the town away from the Gulf of Aqaba shore and the mountainous area
(see Map IBRD 18002). The proposed 30 km two-lane alignment will begin
about 15 km from Aqaba on the Aqaba-Amman road, overpass the ARC track and
proceed along the Wadi Yutum in a SSW direction towards Wadi 2 (JFI).
Climbing lanes for trucks will be required on about 9 km of the first 15 km
where the 6 km spur to the container berth area branches off the main
alignment; these will accommodate slower-moving trucks on gradients between
6 and 7%. No climbing lanes are required on the spur. Truck parking areas
with repair/maintenance facilities will be constructed alongside the spur
to store vehicles in convenient proximity to Aqaba port.



-23-
Railway Components
3.10     Aqaba Workshop Extension is vital to enable the ARC to adequately
maintain its traction and rolling stock. Most of the ARC's locomotives are
now due for 8-year major overhaul and the phosphate wagons are due for
4-year minor overhaul around 1984. These overhauls are additional to
normal repairs and necessary to ensure satisfactory operation and a reason-
able life for the traction and rolling stock. The present lack of space at
Ma'an would inhibit maintenance work and result in a substantial drop of
locomotive availability from 80% (1982) to 70Z (1985). The planned exten-
sion of the workshop would allow the concentration of all locomotive main-
tenance at Aqaba and free space for all freight wagon maintenance at Ma'an.
3.11     Track Renewal.  Track renewal involves high priority sections
Rum-Aqaba (31 km), Batn El Ghul-Disi (40 km), and El Hassa - Jerouf/Jourdan
- Ma'an (30 km), where standards and conditions of the rails, sleepers,
fastenings, and ballast are unsatisfactory. Without the proposed track
renewals which includes using heavier rails of 49 kg/meter (Annex 4), the
poor track conditions would deteriorate further and restrict the daily
number of trains.
3.12     Track Machinery.  In light of the specialized natur  rf the work,
the ARC proposes to carry out track renewal with its own work force. Costs
would be lower than using contractors and track quality would be better
maintained especially on the long stretches of line (about 115 km) with
steep gradiants up to 2.692. To this end the proposed project includes
track renewal machinery to carry out track renewals planned after 1987.
3.13     Freight Wagons.  Sixty phosphate wagons have been ordered and
would be delivered in early 1984. The project provides for a further 90
wagons to be delivered in 1985 and 1986. Detailed calculations (Table 8)
demonstrate the need for these wagons to meet the transport target of about
4 million tonnes per year by 1987.
3.14     Breakdown Crane.  Derailments and collisions result in traffic
interruptions which would have a substantial adverse affect on the number
of daily trains operated substantially. With the expected increase in
traffic, line blockage would become increasingly serious. Since ARC has no
suitable breakdown crane the purchase is essential and would avoid delays
similar to those experienced in the past when hiring lifting equipment.
3.15     Locomotive Rehabilitation, Spare Parts.  In recent years several
locomotives were heavily damaged by train accidents (para. 4.16). ARC
plans to rehabilitate four of them, which are in repairable condition, to
provide the necessary locomotives for phosphate trains and for ballast and
material trains during the track renewal period. Extra spare parts such as
draft gear assembly, coupler, crankshaft, engine governor, etc. are needed
to rehabilitate the locomotives.



-24-
3.16     Training and Technical Assistance.  The ARC has a serious manpower
problem due to high turnover of staff resulting from unattractive employ-
ment conditions. Since there has been no systematic training on the rail-
ways, the project includes a training component (Annex 5) to meet the
urgent needs and make the lower level staff technically more competent.
Bank financing is needed for the railway component only since bilateral
technical assistance on attractive terms is available for the highway
component (except training-see para. 3.08) and TPC will finance its own
training needs (para. 3.19).
3.17     Training costs are based on estimates of 36 man-months for expat-
riate consultants services, 108 man-months for overseas courses for ARC
staff, 200 man-months for local, technical and professional assistance and
provision of training equipment and materials. Training equipment and
materials are estimated to cost US$150,000.
Port Components
3.18     To ensure that the objectives of efficient operation of the inter-
dependent transport modes are achieved, it is essential that the interface
operations such as rail/port movements of phosphate and highway/port move-
ments of containerized cargo are effectively coordinated and implemented.
To this end the project contains a training component whereby existing
operational staff in the port will receive further training which will
include container, general cargo and shipping operations, phosphate handl-
ing and storage, repair and maintenance of equipment, finance and admini-
stration, project planning and maintenance, and safety/fire fighting. The
Government in cooperation with TPC would initiate an investigation of the
likely advantages of restoring the phosphate loading facilities at Berth
'A' (see Map IBRD 17937) and/or of other ancillary facilities which would
be needed to provide sufficient capacity to sustain regular rail movements
of phosphate and to take into account the seasonal variations in ship
arrivals (para. 2.47).
3.19     The technical assistance and training needs an estimated input of
about 100 expatriate man-months-operations specialists (18 man-months),
phosphate storage and handling (12 man-months), maintenance engineer
(36 man-months), finance and administration (24 man-months), project
planning and maintenance (6 man-months) and safety/fire fighting (4 man-
months)-and about 36 man-months of overseas training for selected staff
and middle management. US$150,000 has been included for training equipment
materials. The USS1.3 million total cost of the training component is to
be financed from TPC's own resources.
D. Engineering
Highway Maintenance
3.20     Detailed engineering for the asphalt overlays will be undertaken
by consultants using the results of field testing of the selected road
sections to determine residual pavement life and projections of future
traffic demand.



-25-
Civil Works (Highways)
3.21     Detailed engineering and bid documents for the Wadi YutumrWadi 2
"back road" and the spur to the Aqaba Container port were substantially
completed in June 1977 by consultants (VBB-Sweden and Ahmad Fawzi and Asso-
ciates - Jordan). Extensions of the final engineering to include details
and quantities for the road junctions at Wadi Yutum, Wadi 2, and the
container port are estimated to be completed by September 1984.
3.22     Design standards adopted are shown in Annex 6 and are satisfactory
when considering the harsh terrain through which the alignment passes.
Where vertical gradients are steeper than 6Z, climbing lanes have been
provided for heavy trucks; these sections are 3.7 km long (inbound to the
port) and 5.7 km long (outbound from the port) in which the maximum vertical
gradient of 7Z occurs over 2.6 km.
Track Renewal (Railway)
3.23     Detailed engineering for the track renewal was carried out by ARC
on the basis of experience with similar ongoing works. Geometric standards,
however, were not changed because straightening of curves with small radii,
which restrict speeds substantially below the maximum of 80 kmph, would be
extremely expensive.
3.24     The present track standards (see paras. 2.25, 3.11 and 4.13) had
been chosen for a traffic volume of 1.5 to 2 million tonnes per year. Since
actual traffic is now above this limit, improved standards of track
materials have been adopted by ARC (Annex 4).
Aqaba Workshop Extension
3.25     Detailed engineering for the extension of the existing Aqaba work-
shop, for earthworks, tracks and a new access road was undertaken by con-
sultants. They also assessed the necessary workshop equipment and machinery
(see Project File, Annex A7, Item B3). The ARC will prepare the bidding
documents based on the consultant's recommendations.
E. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.26     Project cost estimates and Bank participation are summarized in the
table below:



-26-
Table 3.1s  Project Cost Estimates nd Bank Pwrticipation ./
S
Foreign          Bank
JD million                USS million          Exchange    Participation
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreiqn  Total   Coponent    USS Million
A. HIGHIRAS CONPONENT
Highway Naintenance
Routine Maintenance                  4.0      2.0      6.0       11.0    5.5      16.5        33              -
Periodic Maintenance                  1.7     2.5      4.3       4.7    7.0        11.7       60            7.0
Highway mintenance. Traffic and
Pavement Testing Equipment           -      0.2       0.2        -    0.5        0.5        100           0.5
Technical Assistance:
(a) Naintenance  anagment            0.1      0.4      O.S       0.3     1.1       1.4        s0
(b) Training                         0.2      0.1      0.3       0.6    0.2        0.8        25            0.2
Sub-total                       6.0      5.3     11.3      16.6   14.3       30.9        46            7.7
Civil Works
Wadi Yutum-hadi 2 (31 ki)            3.2      4.7      7.9       8.6    13.0      21.6        60             --
Spur to Container Port (6 kb)        1.0      1.4      2.4       2.6    3.9        6.5        60             --
-      Sub-Total                        4.2      6.1     10.3      11.2   16.9       28.1        60             --
Base Cost (JD & US$ million)          10.2    11.4    21.6        27.8   31.2       59.0        53            7.0
Contingencies
Physical ZJ                           1.0     1.1      2.2       2.8    3.1        5.9        53            0.o
Price Escalation Y                    1.6     1.9      3.2       4.3    S.2        9.5        55            1.5
TOTAL (Highways)                12.8    14.4    27.2       34.9   39.5       74.4        53           10.0
_.       MM .      ._.      _i        u       __         me             _
B. RAMILWY C(UONENT
Aqaba  orkshop Extension                1.5      1.0     2.5       4.2    2.6        6.8        38            -
Track Renwal                           3.4      6.3      9.7       9.2   17.2       26.4        65            16.0
Track Machinery                         -        0.6     0.6       -        1.7       1.7       100           -
Phosphate Wagons                       -        3.1      3.1       -       8.6       8.6       100            -
Breakdown Crane                        -        0.3      0.3       -       0.9       0.9       100            -
Locometive Rehabilitation              -        0.5      0.5       -        1.5      1.5        98            -
Technical Assistance and Training      0.2       0.3     0.5       0.5   .0.8         1.3       62            0.2
Subtotal                        5.1     12.1    17.2        13.9   33.3      47.2        71           16.2
Cotingencies
Physical                             0.5      0.8       1.3       1.3    2.1       3.4        62             1.6
Price Escalation                     0.8       1.6     2.4       2.1     4.4       6.5        68            2.2
TOTAL (Railway)                 6.4    14.5    20.9         17.3   39.8      57.1        70           20.0
m.    _      m..    _ .   __m           .m.         mem...._ _
C. PORT COMPONENT
Technical Assistance
and Training                         0.1      0.4      0.5       0.3    1.0        1.3        80              -
GRANW TOTAL (Highways.
Railway and Port)          19.3    29.3    48.6       52.5   80.3       132.8       60           30.0
__m      me.    _em      _me._ ..    m._.    em           .m.          m..
.f Local and foreign costs do not include taxes as IPI  nd ARC components are tax-exempted.
31 Physical contingencies at 1S. except for railwy equipment and machinery.
3I Price esculation for foreign exchange calculated using 7.5% (1984), 7.01 (1985) and 6.51 thereafter
and for local costs 7.51 throughout.



-27-
3.27     The project cost estimates are based on April 1984 price levels.
The total project costs are estimated at JD 48.6 million (US$132.8 million),
consisting of highways JD 27.2 million (US$74.4 million), railways
JD 20.9 million (US$57.1 million) and ports JD 0.5 million (US*1.3 million)
with an estimated foreign exchange component of about JD 29.3 million
(US$80.3 million). A US$30.0 million loan would thus represent about 23%
of the cost of the project and about 37Z of the foreign exchange component.
3.28     Cost estimates for civil works are based on quantities from the
provision1 final engineering design and on unit rates derived from current
construction contracts. Railway equipment estimates are based on recent
procurement and market surveys.
3.29     The foreign exchange component of the Wadi YutumrWadi 2 and spur
to Aqaba container port and for the asphalt overlay program is estimated to
be about 60% which includes an element of foreign costs for non-Jordanian
construction workers.
3.30     The data used in the preparation of the project are listed in
Annex 7.
Financing
3.31     Out of the total foreign exchange cost of US$80.3 million, financ-
ing to the extent of US$50.7 million has been assured by the Bank loan
(US$30.0 million), a Saudi Development Fund loan (US$11.4 million) and an
Islamic Development Bank loan (US$9.3 million) as shown in Table 3.2 below:



-28-
Table 3.2: ProJect Comeonent Cost Estimtes and Sources of Financing
US) millionn 1  ---
Government                                       Co-Financier
Local     Foreign                IBRD      SOF          IDO      Cnrcial          Total
Credits
A. HIGhWAYS
Highway Maintenance
(a) Routine Maintenance                       11.0       S.S 1                 -        -             --            --           16.5
(b) Periodic Maintenance                      4.7         --                   7.0      -             --            -            11.7
(c) Highway Maintenance. Traffic &
Pavement Testing Equipment                --         --                   0.5       -            --            -             0.5
(d) Technical Assistance;
(i) Maintenance Management                0.3         1.1                  -        --            --            --            1.4
(ii) Training                             0.6         -                    0.2      -             --            -            0.8
Sub-Total                    16.6         6.6                 7.7       --            -             _           30.9
Civil Works
(a) Wadi Tutum-Wadi 2 (31 ki)                 8.6         4.8 21               -        8.2           -             -            21.6
(b) Spur to Container Port (6 ki)             2.6         3.9                  -        -             -             _             6.5
Sub-Total                    11.2        8.7                  --        8.2          --            -            28.1
Base Cost (JD & US) million)             27.8        15.3                  7.7       8.2          --            -            59.0
Contingencies
(a) Physical                                  2.8         1.S                  0.8      0.8           --            -            5.9
(b) Price Escalation                          4 1.3       1.3                  1.5      2.4           -             -             9.s
TOTAL (Highays)              34.9        18.1                10.0      11.4 Y         -                         74.4
B. RAILWAY
(a) Aqaba Workshop Extension                  4.2         1.2 S                -        -_            _             1.4 Al       6.8
(b) Track Renewal                             9.2         1.2 AS              16.0      --            -             --           26.4
Cc) Track Machinery                           -           --                   -        --            -             1.7 L         1.7
(d) 90 Freight Wagons                         --          -                    -        --            8.6 7/        --            8.6
Ce) Breakdown Crane                           -           -                   -         --            -             0.9s         0.9
(f) Locomotive Rehabilitation and Spares      -           -                    -        --            -             1.S Y         1.S
(g) Training                                  0.5         0.6                  0.2      -             --            --            1.3
Sub-Total                    13.9        3.0                  - 16.2    -            8.6           5.5          47.2
Contingencies
(a) Physical                                  1.3         --                   1.6      -             -             0.5          3.4
(b) Price Escalation 3/                       2.1         0.5                  2.2      -             0.7/N         1.0           6.5
TOTAL (Railway)              17.3         3.5                20.0       -             9.3          7.0          57.1
C. PORT
(a) Training Aids and Books                   --          _                    _        _             _             __
(b) Technical Assistance and Local Training    -          --                   -        -             -             --            _
Cc) Overseas Training
Sub-Total                     0.1         1.0                 -         --            -            --            1.1
Contingencies
(a) Price Escalation 3/                       0.2         -                                                                       0.2
TOTAL (Port)                  0.3         1.0  /              -                       -                9/        1.3
TOTAL (Highways. Railway, and Port)               52.5       22.6                 30.0      11.4          9.3           7.0          132.8
50.7
__----- 80.3
11 Foreign exchange element to be financed by Government.
12 Includes heavy vehicle parks.
3/ Price escalation for foreign exchange calculated using 7.5% (1984). 7.01 (1985)
and 61 thereafter and for local costs 7.5% throughout.
4/ Saudi Developuent Fund (SOF) assistance (SR 40 million; US$11.4 million equivalent).
k1 Foreign exchange element of workshop building to be financed by Goveriment.
6/ Foreign exchange shortfall for m2% balance of cost of rails to be financed by Govermient.
7/ Islamic Developoent Bank (IB) comnlttment.
!/ Foreign exchange to be financed by TPC.



-29-
During loan negotiations, the financing of project costs was discussed with
the Borrower and agreement reached that the foreign exchange costs in
excess of the proposed Bank loan and the co-financing arrangements, and all
local costs, including cost overruns would be met by the Government.
Therefore, in addition to local costs (US$51.7 million), the Government
will finance foreign exchange costs of routine highway maintenance
(US$6.6 million), the foreign exchange gap of the Wadi Yutumr-Wadi 2 road
and spur to the container port (US$8.7 million), the railway locomotive
workshop building at Aqaba (US$1.2 million), rails (US$1.2 million), and
railway and port training (US$1.6 million) to the extent of US$22.6 million,
including physical and price contingencies. The Government expects to
enlist additional financial support of US$7.0 million for the railway part
of the project from suppliers' and/or export credits.
3.32     Since parallel financing is preferred by the co-lenders, the
Government requested at negotiations that the Bank and the co-lenders
should finance separate, economically self-reliant project components. For
the railway, the parts of the project to be financed by each are distinct.
For highways, the Bank would finance the foreign exchange cost of the
periodic maintenance, while the Saudi Development Fund would contribute
part of the foreign exchange cost of construction of the Wadi YutumrWadi 2
highway, the spur to the containe-r port, heavy vehicle parks and flood
controls at Wadi 2. Each financing agency would administer procurement
related to its part of the project and the Government would arrange regular
exchanges of information between co-lenders. Such arrangements were dis-
cussed and confirmed during loan negotiations. Signature of official
co-financing arrangements would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.33     In respect of the port component, which is to be fully financed by
the TPC, agreement was reached during loan negotiations that TPC would
investigate by December 31, 1985, the optimum use of berth facilities for
phosphate loading and exchange views with the Bank on proposed measures to
be taken (paras. 2.47 and 3.18).
F. The Loan, The Borrower and Beneficiaries
3.34     The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan will be the borrower of the Bank
loan for the whole project totalling US$30.0 million comprising
US$10 million for highways and US$20 million for railway. The beneficiary
for highways will be MPW; since the Ministry is a part of the Government
and is not a revenue earning entity, there will be no relending arrange-
ments. The beneficiary for the railway component of the project will be
ARC. The portion of the Bank loan for the railway component would be
relent by the Government to ARC under the same terms as the proposed Bank
loan to the Government. Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement would be
a special condition of loan effectiveness.
G. Implementation
3.35     The executing agencies would be MPW for highways, ARC for the
railway and TPC for the port, each assisted by consultants engaged under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations, agree-
ment was obtained from the Government that it would retain, or cause ARC



-30-
and TPC to retain, as the case may be, consultants for construction
supervision and for other technical assistance services required in the
project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.08,
3.16 and 3.19).
3.36     In order to reduce costs, improve service quality and its market
position, the ARC has prepared Comprehensive Action Plans which address
organization, planning, investments, productivity, information systems,
finance, government support and staff training. The Plans specify actions
to be taken to achieve agreed productivity, operational and financial tar-
gets and will be updated annually. As part of its Action Plan, the ARC has
prepared Operational Plans to improve the utilization of its traction and
rolling stock and to serve as a basis for procurement (Annex 1).
3.37     During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that:
(a)     before presentation of the project to the Bank's Board of
Directors, MPW, ARC and TPC would nominate an officer of
each agency with appropriate qualifications and experience
to be appointed in consultation with the Bank as Project
Coordinator responsible for implementation of his agency's
part of the project in accordance with agreed specifica-
tions, time schedules and budgets and this has been done;
(b)     before presentation of the project to the Bank's Board of
Directors, MPW, ARC and TPC would, and in consultation
with the Bank, appoint/nominate full-time training
officers with suitable qualifications and experience and
take all steps necessary to ensure that satisfactory
arrangements be completed on time for carrying out the
training programs and technical assistance envisaged in
their respective project components and thereafter cause
such training programs to be carried out according to a
time-table to be agreed between the Government and the
Bank and this has been done; and
(c)     the ARC, in conjunction with JPMC and TPC would endeavor
at all times to; (i) carry out its Action Plan (Annex 1)
including its operational plan and training program;
(ii) follow appropriate monitoring procedures to assess
progress in the implementation of its Action Plan;
(iii) review annually in consultation with the Bank its
Action Plans.
3.38     All communications and reporting will be through the National
Planning Council. Implementation schedules for the project components,
prepared in conjunction with the transport agencies (Tables 13 and 14),
were discussed and confirmed by the Government during loan negotiations.



-31-
The Government also agreed to prepare regular progress reports on a
quarterly basis and a project completion report within six months of the
Loan Closing Date.
H. Procurement
3.39     Contracts for asphalt overlays would be offered for bids under ICB
procedures and in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits (July 1980 Edition) after satisfac-
tory review by the Bank of: (i) the technical and economic evaluations of
selected highway sections prepared by consultants; (ii) the final engineer-
ing and bid documents; and (iii) the bid evaluations (see paras. 3.06, 4.10
and 6.02). The timing of the first overlay contract is estimated to be
August 1985.
3.40     The construction contracts for the Wadi Yutum-Wadi 2 highway sec-
tion, the spur to Aqaba container port, related heavy vehicle parks and
flood control measures would be awarded on the basis of unit prices after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the procedures of the
Saudi Development Fund. Bids are expected to be called for in early 1985
and construction begin in June 1985. The duration of construction is
expected to be 2-1/2 years.
3.41     Equipment for pavement testing and traffic data collection will be
procured on the basis of limited international competitive bidding because
of the specialized nature of the items.
3.42     Materials for track renewal would be procured by ICB in accordance
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(July 1980 Edition) after Bank review of the bid documents. Domestic firms
participating in bidding would be accorded a preference of 15%, or the
custom duties, whichever is lower. The proposed items to be procured comr
prising rails, fastenings, fish plates, anti-creep and anti-warp devices
are shown in Table 15; the list of items was discussed and agreed with the
Government during loan negotiations.



-32-
Table 3.3: Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                ICB        LCB        Other         N.A.         Cost
(US$ million)
Civil Works
Highways                   53.3        --          --           18.3 1/      71.6
( 93)      C-)         (--) 2/      ()           ( 9.3)
Railways                   --          --           1.6         16.8         18.4
C-)        (-)         (--)         (-)          (-)
Equipment
Highways                   --          --           0.6         --            0.6
(C-)      (C-)         t 0.5)       (-)          ( 0.5)
Railways                   21.7        --          15.4         -            37.1
(19.7)     (-)         (--)         C-)          (19.7)
Services
Highways                   --          --          --            2.2          2.2
C-)        C -)        C--)         C 0.2)    (   0.2)
Railways                   --          --          --            1.6          1.6
C -)       (- )        (--)         ( 0.3)       C 0.3)
Ports                      --          --          1.3          --            1.3
.-- __C-)              C--)         (-)          (-)
TOTAL         75.0       --          18.5         38.8        132.8
(29.0)     (-)         C 0.5)       ( 0.5)       (30.0)
1/ Routine highway maintenance.
2/ Figures in brackets are for the proposed Bank loan.
NOTE: Unbracketted figures are for project.



-33-
I. Disbursements
3.43     The proceeds of the highway and railway component of the proposed
Bank loan would be disbursed on the following basis:
Highways
(a)    601 of the total costs of asphalt overlay, which represents
the estimated foreign exchange component of this item;
(b)    lOOZ of the c.i.f. landed costs of highway maintenance,
traffic and pavement testing equipment; and
(c)    the actual foreign exchange costs of the consultants
undertaking training services.
Railways
(a)    10OZ of expenditures on track materials up to the amount
allocated in the Loan Agreement; and
(b)    the actual foreign exchange costs of the consultants
undertaking technical assistance and training services.
3.44     The estimated cumulative quarterly disbursement schedule shown in
Table 16 assumes that the loan would become effective by October 1984. The
disbursement profile is closely similar to those for other regional trans-
portation projects (see Table 16) and, in view of Jordan's long term
involvement and familiarity with Bank projects, the marginal improvements
assumed between the project and regional transport standard profiles are
realistic. During negotiations, the Government and the Bank discussed and
confirmed the Bank participation rates for each loan category and the
disbursement schedule.



-34-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     Increased emphasis is being given in Jordan to develop industry and
mining projects with a large export potential. Industry, particularly
mining and construction, has been the engine of growth during the last
decade. In the 1980s, relatively high growth rates, about 15-20% per annum
are envisaged for industries such as fertilizers, phosphate mining, cement
and refining, as compared with a growth rate of about 8-10 per annum for
the economy as a whole. Generally, these economic priorities would generate
increased transport requirements on the principal trade routes of the
country. Jordan has experienced an unusual upsurge of transit traffic to
Iraq through the port of Aqaba since outbreak of hostilities in the Gulf in
1979; this has strengthened Jordan's political and economic ties with Iraq.
Even when the hostilities cease, because of the complementary interests of
the two countries, Iraq would wish to continue to have a reliable outlet
overland through Jordan. Furthermore, a post-war reconstruction boom in
Iraq is likely to result in the import of increased tonnages of construction
materials over the Aqaba-Baghdad route.
4.02     As in the past, the ARC's investment programs would remain closely
related to the increasing transport needs of phosphate movements from the
mines to Aqaba port for export. The railway is likely to assume a renewed
significance in the era of energy consciousness. Road transport would con-
tinue to play the dominant role in facilitating the movement of such key
commodities as potash, fertilizers, cement, and general cargo which are
vital to the economy of Jordan and its neighboring countries. The Aqaba
Port, which has by now developed adequate capacity, would be required to
deal with increasing pace of containerization and considerable growth in
bulk exports such as phosphate, potash and fertilizers.
4.03     Many important links in the transport networks are already over-
loaded now and, with the projected growths in traffic, would become even
more congested later. Several sections of the primary highway network are
already under reconstruction to meet the Government's objective to restore
the primary highway network to adequate pavement service levels by 1985.
The proposed project aims at relieving transport bottlenecks on some
critical road and rail sections. One of the principal highway components
included in the project is the improvement of road maintenance systems,
particularly for the primary road network; another aims to divert the heavy
port-oriented truck movements away from Aqaba town. The railway components
included in the project are intended to provide additional capacity and
technology transfer.
4.04     The ultimate beneficiaries of the proposed project would be trans-
port users who, due to the diversity of traffic using the transport net-
works, come from a wide range of sectors and income groups. The proposed
project would benefit long distance international trade, and support



-35-
Jordan's efforts for energy conservation. Because of the competitive nature
of the transport industry, it is expected that the benefits of the project,
which initially would accrue to transport users, would be ultimately passed
on to the economy in general.
B. Project Costs and Benefits
4.05     The economic evaluation of the different sub-projects is based on
the feasibility studies undertaken by the consultants Hughes Planning Unit
and Rail India Technical and Economic Services (RITES) for the highway and
railway components respectively. These studies were reviewed and discussed
with the concerned agencies and, to the extent necessary, some of the mar-
ginal subprojects were either reformulated or postponed as a result of the
review.
4.06     The traffic projections for the different sub-projects are based on
past traffic trends, recent origin-destination studies and planned increases
in production and consumption in the zones of influence. The quantitative
economic analysis for the project road sections takes account of savings in
vehicle operating costs due to savings in distances, reduced congestion and
improved road surfaces. Benefits from improved environment around Aqaba
town and possible development of tourism at the Red Sea coast due to the
diversion of heavy commercial vehicles from the city and coastal roads have
not been quantified. The economic benefits due to the railway workshop
facilities and spare parts would result mainly from reduced maintenance and
operating costs and improved availability and utilization of traction and
rolling stock. Expected benefits from the track renewals include reduction
in track and rolling stock maintenance expenses due to reduced wear and
savings in operating expenses due to increased operating speed arising from
removal of speed restrictions on poor tracks. Benefits due to reduction in
derailments have not been taken into account.
4.07     For calculating the economic benefits and costs, international
prices have been used for imported equipment and materials, and other trade-
able commodities. In particular, prices of asphalt in Jordan are signifi-
cantly below the international price. Land and other non-tradeable items
like railway ballast and concrete aggregates have been valued at local
prices. Jordan presently imports a large number of skilled and unskilled
construction labor and this has been taken into account in estimating the
foreign component of construction costs. Economic costs net of taxes were
estimated for all investment costs, maintenance costs and operating costs.
Savings in transport operating costs, excluding passenger (driver) time
savings, account for more than 95% of the total benefits because the project
routes are freight traffic oriented.
4.08     In selecting the proposed investments, several alternative solu-
tions were evaluated such as improving or reconstructing the existing track
or constructing a new one, rehabilitation of the damaged locomotives or
purchase of new ones, road construction of the ultimate four lanes at once
or by stages. For each project alternative, the most economic solution has
been adopted.



-36-
C. Economic Re .rn
4.09     Based on the most probable estimates of construction and equipment
costs, operating and maintenance costs, the proposed investments on the
project road/rail sections and equipment produce economic returns (ERs)
ranging from 12-35% (Table 4.1). All investments would yield first-year
benefits of 9% or more. The weighted average ERs of all civil works com-
ponents (excluding routine maintenance) and equipment such as railway work-
shop machinery, breakdown crane,etc., which account for more than 95% of
total project cost are 18% for the project as a whole and 162 and 201
respectively for its highways and railway components. The above ERs under-
state the full economic benefits of the project by excluding benefits due to
reduction in accidents, environmental improvements and greater comfort and
convenience of travellers. Sensitivity analyses were carried out to test
the effects of variation in construction and equipment costs and users'
benefits on the above estimates. Even under the unfavorable assumptions of
152 higher construction/equipment costs combined with a 15% reduction in
users' benefits, the ERs remain acceptable within the range of 10-29% with
an overall weighted ER of 15%.



-37-
Table 4.1: Economic Returns (ERs) and First-Year Returns (FYRs)
Proportion                 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Project                    of Total      Expected    Lower /I    Higherl2    Expected
Component                  Investment        ER       Estimate    Estimate        FYR
------------------------- -%------------------------
Hi ghways
1,  Periodic Maintenance (about 100 km)  14             12 3/       10           14          9 3
2.  Civil Works                            36           17          14           20          11
a) Wadi Yutum-Container Port (20 km)               20           16          24          13
b) Jn. of Wadi Yutum & Spur road to
Container Port-Wadi 2 (15 km)    _             13           11           15         10
Sub-total (Hi gways)            50           16 4/        13  1       19          lo 10 4
Railways
1. Aqaba Workshop Extension                 9          25           20           30         17
2.  Track Renewal & Track Machinery        30           18          14           22          12
a) Ram-Aqaba (31 km)                               20           16          24          14
b) Batn El Ghul-Disi (40 km)                       18           14          22          12
c) El Hassa-Jerouf & Jourdon-
Ma'an (30 km)                                  15           13           18         11
3.  Freight Wagons                          9          22           17           27          15
4.  Breakdown Crane                         1           20          16           24          15
5.  Locomotive Rehabilitation & Spares    1            35           29           41         24
Sub-total (Railways)            50           20 4         16 A        24 .        15 4/
GRAND TOTAL
(Highways & Railways)         100            18          is 15        22 1       13 1
1/  Assumes 15% increase in construction costs combined with 15% decrease in benefits.
2/  Assumes 15% decrease in construction costs combined with 15% increase in benefits.
3/ Indicates lower limit; the sub-projects to be selected are expected to yield
significantly higher returns.
4/ Weighted average.
Source: Feasibility Studies and Mission Estimates
January 1984



-38-
Highway Sub-Projects
4.10     Highway Maintenance - The need to develop an efficient highway
maintenance program based on adequate organization, equipment, traffic and
economic criteria was examined in the NTS and was further reviewed by
experts from the US AID and TRRL. Many of the primary roads are being sub-
jected to heavier axle loads and traffic volumes than they were designed
for, with consequent rapid pavement deterioration and shortened life, and
the risk of serious pavement failures in the future. Usually in such cases
two alternative sources of action are possible: (a) applying an overlay for
immediate strengthening; or (b) to completely reconstruct those sections
after they have failed. The quantifiable benefits for applying overlays are
measured on the basis that if the overlays were not applied, vehicle operat-
ing costs on the progressively deteriorating pavement would be higher, and
the failed sections would require complete reconstruction after, say, eight
to ten years at a relatively higher cost than that of an immediate overlay.
Further, disruption to traffic during reconstruction would be much greater
than during overlay works, but such benefits to the overlay alternatives
have not been included in the analysis. In the proposed project, specific
highway links to be overlaid with asphalt under the periodic maintenance
component would be subject to individual economic analysis and would be
acceptable only if a minimum ER of 12% is indicated.
4.11     New Construction of Wadi Yutum/Wadi 2 road link with a Spur to
Container Port - The proposed highway sections are extensions of the Desert
Highway located on the eastern periphery of Aqaba town and are designed to
provide a by-pass for heavy commercial vehicles. About 2,500 heavy vehicles
per day would have used the Wadi Yutum to Container Port link (21 km) in
1983 if it had been constructed. Similarly, another 200 heavy vehicles
would have used the remaining portion (15 km) of the new road to Wadi 2.
With the planned increase in the throughputs of JFI at Wadi 2 and general
cargo movements in the port, it is estimated that traffic on the Wadi
Yuturi-Container Part link would increase at a rate of about 6X per annum
reaching about 3,800 vehicles per day in 1990 and thereafter would increase
at a rate of about 4% per annum up to 2000. The rate of increase of traffic
is empected to be faster on the remaining portion of the new road because of
planned development of JFI and other industries near Wadi 2. It is esti-
mated that the traffic on this section would increase at a rate of about 12%
per annum reaching about 500 heavy vehicles per day in 1990, and thereafter
would increase at a rate of about 8% per annum up to 2000. Construction of
this new facility would result in considerable savings in vehicle operating
costs because of distance savings (see Map IBRD 18002) and diversion of
considerable numbers of heavy vehicles away from the city streets of Aqaba
town. All trucks operating to and from the Container Port and Wadi 2 would
save about 4 km driving distance each way. Intra-urban traffic in Aqaba
would also benefit from the relief in congestion. The estimated ERs for the
road sections from Wadi Yutum to Container Port link and the balance of the
new road are 20% and 13% respectively with a weighted average of 17%.



-39-
Railway Sub-Projects
4.12     Extension of Aqaba Railway Workshop - The Aqaba railway workshop
facilities are required for essential maintenance and overhaul of the ARC's
fleet of locomotives. Since 1975, traffic volumes on the railway have
increased steadily to a level around 2.6 million tonnes in 1983. The haul-
age capacity of the ARC is targeted to increase to between 4 and 4.5 million
tonnes by the year 1987/88. Without the extension of the workshop facili-
ties, the locomotive availability would decline from about 75Z in 1984 to as
low as 40% by 1988 and the railway operation would come to a stand-still in
early 1990s. The proposed investments, therefore, would yield high benefits
and produce a satisfactory ER of about 25%.
4.13     Track Renewal and Track Machinery - The three track sections,
namely, RamrAqaba (31 km), Batn-El Chul-Disi (40 km) and a part of
El Hassa-Ma'an (30 km) are weak and the incidence of rail fractures has been
high. Cases of track buckling in these sections are frequent in summer.
Considerable wear of outer rails on curves and wear and flattening of the
rail table pose difficult maintenance problems with steadily increasing
costs. Furthermore, speed restrictions of 30 kmph have been imposed on
several stretches of these sections affecting movement and turn round of
trains. The proposed investments in track renewals, including track
machinery, would alleviate a serious impediment to smooth traffic flow and
would yield ERs between 15 and 20% (Table 4.1).
4.14     Freight Wagons - Investments in wagons have been based on :ompre-
hensive Operational Plan (Annex 1). Introduction of high-capacity anodern
wagons (47.5 tonnes pay load instead of existing 42 tons) would result in
higher net pay loads per freight train which would lower freight costs
because a given volume of traffic could be carried by fewer train-km in a
reduced time. Furthermore, the additional wagons would enable the ARC to
increase its haulage capacity of phosphate from about 3 million tonnes per
annum in 1984/85 to the targeted traffic of about 4 to 4.5 million tonnes
per annum by 1987/88. Without these additional wagons, export of phosphate
traffic over and above 3 million tonnes per annum would have to move by more
costly road transport. The round trip cost of haulage of phosphate from the
mines to Aqaba port and empty return by rail and road has been estimated at
JD 3.4 (USt9.3) and JD 4.2 (US$11.5) per tonne respectively. The proposed
investments in wagons are, therefore, of special significance to ARC and
would yield a satisfactory ER of about 22%.
4.15     Breakdown Crane - At present, ARC does not own a high capacity
breakdown crane to assist in case of accidents. Considerable time is now
lost in getting a crane to the site from outside sources resulting in sub-
stantial loss of rail traffic to road. Based on the study of trend of
derailments in ARC, the proposed new breakdown crane is estimated to yield
an ER of about 20%.



-40-
4.16     Locomotive Rehabilitation and Spare Parts - ARC has a fleet of 29
main line locomotives, of which 4 were badly damaged in August 1982 in a
two-train accident. Since these locomotives have considerable residual
life, repair, instead of acquisition of new locomotives, has been found to
be the least-cost solution with an ER of about 35Z, amply justifying the
proposed investment.
4.17     Other Project Elements - Benefits could not be quantified for other
project elements, namely, technical assistance and training which are neces-
sary for the projc.t as a whole and whose benefits would permeate the entire
economy. Similarly, routine maintenance for roads involving repairing of
potholes, ruts and cracks, surface patching, cleaning and reshaping of
ditches, repairing and replacing of traffic signs, etc., consists of
numerous small works scattered all over the country. The economic justifi-
cation of such maintenance effort is apparent since protection of past
capital investments by relatively marginal annual expenditure is
self-evident.
D. Project Risk
4.18     The proposed project addresses high priority requirements of the
1981-85 Investment Plan for Jordan. The economic justification of the
project components has been well established even under unfavorable hypo-
theses concerning project costs and users' benefits (para. 4.09). The risk
involved in making an over-optimistic assumption regarding rail-borne traf-
fic is negligible in this case because most of this traffic is already
available to the railway and is at present moving by road for want of rail
capacity. The technical solutions adopted are based on adequate engineering
and technical studies. These areas do not entail any special risk.
E. Environmental Impact
4.19     The project is expected to have beneficial environmental impact by
reducing traffic congestion, accidents and air pollution. In particular,
the alternative road routes proposed would improve the environment in Aqaba
town and along the coastal road by the diversion of heavy traffic.



-41-
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General
5.01     The project covers three transport modes: highways, railways and
ports; the last two are direct revenue earners. In the case of the highway
components of the loan the beneficiary is the Government itself through MPW
and since revenues are not directly earned by MPW from the investments under
the project and the associated activities, a financial evaluation of NPW is
not considered necessary. However, in the case of the railway component,
the beneficiary is ARC and the investments under the project will be
generating revenues directly for ARC. Thus this section of the report will
elaborate on the financial evaluation of ARC and, although there is no lend-
ing to TPC under the project, a brief review of the financial performance of
TPC is also included because of its importance as a link in the transport
system.
B. Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC)
Past Financial Performance
5.02     Despite the incompleteness of ARC's present accounting practices
(para. 2.40), the statements prepared by ARC for the years 1979 to 1983
offer a useful representation of its past financial performance. In the
absence of accrual accounting, appropriate accounting of fixed assets and
related depreciation and stores inventory, the operating results and the
financial situation of ARC as shown in these statements should be taken as
an overall view only. Fixed asset values as recalculated in mid-July 1981
on the basis of what would seem to be original costs do not provide for any
reserves for depreciation in the years after acquisition. Purchases of
spare parts are charged directly to expense and the stores inventory account
is reconstructed at year end; subsidiary ledgers are not kept for the
details of these accounts. In some instances, the depreciation rates used
are higher than appropriate; for example, locomotives and wagons are depre-
ciated at 15% per year, and permanent way at 7% per year instead of the more
appropriate 4.0% for the locomotives and 3.3% for the latter two items.
Despite these deficiencies, the 1982 accounts, as revised by the auditors,
are acceptable for purposes of preparing financial forecasts. The 1983
accounts have been prepared using actual revenues for the full year, the
actual payroll costs for ten months projected for twelve, and estimates of
costs of activities actually performed. Thus, the 1982 and 1983 accounts
are much more reliable than those of earlier years. The proposed project
includes provision of technical assistance for setting up a commercially-
based accounting system and establishing fixed assets, depreciation and
stores records, values and physical inventory on a satisfactory basis.
5.03     ARC's income statements for 1979 through 1983 shown in detail in
Table 17 are summarized in Table 5.1. The income statements show that in
1979 ARC was not able to meet the working expenses. Thereafter through 1982



-42-
ARC was able to cover working expenses and in 1983, for the first time, was
able to meet working expenses and depreciation and almost all interest pay-
ments. As a result ARC's operating ratio has decreased between 1979 and
1983 from 181Z to 85% and the working ratio from 116X to 63%; this progres-
sive trend is primarily due to increases in productivity, traffic and tariff.
Table 5.1: ARC - Income Statement Summary
(JD million)
1979      1980       1981      1982       1983
Operating revenues               1.5        2.2       3.0        4.7       5.4
Working expenses                 1.7        1.7       2.3        2.8       3.4
Depreciation                     1.0        1.0       1.0        2.8       1.2
Operating expenses               2.7        2.7       3.3        5.6       4.6
Net operating income/(loss)    (1.2)       (0.5)     (0.3)      (0.9)      0.8
Interest payments                0.6        0.7       0.8        0.8       0.8
Net income/Mloss)               (1.8)      (1.2)     (1.1)      (1.7)       1/
Operating ratio X                181        121       111        L_8        85
Working ratio %                  116         78        77         58        63
1/ Net loss amounting to JD 26,000.
5.04     ARC's balance sheets at December 31, 1979, through 1983 shown in
detail in Table 19 are summarized in Table 5.2. ARC's current ratio has
come down from 2.9 in 1979 to 1.7 in 1983, while the debt/equity ratio has
changed from 78/22 in 1979 to 62/38 in 1983; this is acceptable. When fixed
assets values and accumulated depreciation were recalculated in 1981, the
equity and accumulated losses were also adjusted to reflect the net equity
position as at July 16, 1981. Fixed assets have been tentatively revalued
for purposes of this report as at December 31, 1983 to account for inflation.



-43-
Table 5.2: ARC - Balance Sheet Summary
(JD million)
1979      1980      1981       1982      1983
Current assets                   1.9       2.7        2.7       4.6       4.3
Net fixed assets                25.1      24.2       27.7      25.2      33.8
Work-in-progress                 1.9       6.9        3.4       4.4        -
Total assets                  28.9      33.8       33.8      34.2      38.1
Current liabilities              0.6       3.5        2.2       3.0       2.6
Long-term debt                  22.1      21.5      22.9       22.8      21.3
Capital and reserves            13.2      16.9       9.9       11.3      16.6
Accumulated losses              (7.0)     (8.1)      (1.2)     (2.9)     (2.4)
Total liabilities & equity   28.9       33.8       33.8      34.2      38.1
Debt/Equity ratio               78/22     71/29      72/18     73/27     62/38
Current ratio
(Current assets     )
(Current liabilities)          2.9       0.8       1.2        1.5       1.7
5.05     ARC's problem, which it is in the process of overcoming success-
fully, is that of improving utilization of capacity and carrying larger
volumes of traffic so that higher contributions could be made not only
towards fully covering fixed costs but also towards fully meeting debt
service obligations. Recent developments in these respects augur well for
ARC's future.
5.06     Improvements contemplated under the proposed project would put
ARC's accounting activities on a regular accrual basis and this should
further enhance the reliability of the financial statements. During loan
negotiations agreement was reached that ARC's financial statements audited
by a firm of public accountants acceptable to the Bank would be furnished to
the Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Future Prospects
5.07     ARC's financial results have been forecast for 1984 through 1990.
The projected financial statements (income, source and application of funds,
and balance sheet) show acceptable targets.



-44-
Income Statement
5.08     The projected income statements for 1984 through 1990 shown in
detail in Table 17 are summarized in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3: ARC - Projected Income Statement Summary
(JD million)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Operating revenues               6.0    7.2    9.3   10.5   12.1   12.8   13.4
Working expenses                 3.8    4.1    4.6    4.9    4.7    5.0    5.3
Depreciation and write offs      1.5    1.8    2.7    3.2    3.7    3.9    4.0
Operating expenses               5.3    5.9    7.3    8.1    8.4    8.9    9.3
Net operating income/(loss)      0.7    1.3    2.0    2.4    3.7    3.9    4.1
Interest payments                1.1    1.4    1.9    2.1    2.0    1.9    1.6
Net income/Closs)               (0.4)  (0.1)   0.1    0.3    1.7    2.0    2.5
Operating ratio %                87      81     78     77      69     70     70
5.09     The projections are based on the following assumptions:
(a)    Operating Revenues.  ARC's income from the carriage of
freight is projected at the same rate of growth as traffic.
Railway traffic has in the past been inhibited by lack of
capacity, but the future growth is predicated on the trans-
fer of traffic from road transport as ARC's traffic capacity
increases. Beyond 1987 when the traffic is expected to
reach 4.0 million tonnes, the growth is assumed as
4.4 million tonnes in 1988, which will remain at the same
level in 1989 and 1990. Tariff adjustments at an annual
rate of 5% to match estimated inflation have been assumed
starting mid-1984 through 1990. The item "other" includes
income from equipment rental,bank interest and miscellaneous
items and is assumed to grow at a modest rate ranging from
4.3% to 5.8%.
(b)    Operating Expenses.  Personnel costs and benefits projections
take into account adjustments of 5% per year for cost of
living increases, plus staff additions each year to bring
the manpower strength to an optimum level. The consultants
(RITES) now assisting ARC are expected to continue their



-45-
assignment through 1987. Fuel and lubricants have been
calculated on the basis of trip numbers per year and cost of
fuel per trip. The price of fuel is expected to reach
border price level with an increase of 5% in 1984 and this
price level has been maintained through 1990. Maintenance
costs are assessed to increase at a rate of 10% per year and
provide for inflation and increased maintenance activities.
Miscellaneous items increase annually at a modest rate
ranging between 3.8% and 5%. Depreciation of fixed assets
have been calculated at appropriate rates, such as those
referred to in para. 5.02, after applying a revaluation
factor of 7.5% per year. The costs of technical assistance
and training have been written off over 5 years starting
1986.
(c)    Non-Operating Items.  These include interest charges on all
debt, commitment charges, and front-end fee on the proposed
Bank loan.
5.10     Recovering from a history of losses through 1985 (Table 5.3), net
incomes show positive results and a progressive trend from JD 84,000 in 1986
to JD 2.5 million in 1990. For operating income the positive trend starts
earlier and operating ratios improve from 87% in 1984 to 70% in 1990.
5.11     A sensitivity analysis was carried out to test the financial impli-
cations of variations of traffic forecasts and tariff rates (Table 11). The
result of the analysis clearly shows that the traffic element is the most
significant factor affecting ARC's financial viability. The forecast of
traffic used in this report is conservative since the output of phosphate at
the mines is assured and, with the addition of 60 wagons (payload 48 tonnes)
due for delivery in 1984, traffic is confidently expected to be higher than
conservatively estimated and reach the cases tested in Sections B, C and D
of Table 11, whereby in 1984 ARC would cover its debt service on borrowed
capital even without the tariff increase envisaged in SAR in that year.
Statement of Sources and Application of Funds
5.12     The projected statements of sources and application of funds for
years 1984 through 1990, shown in detail in Table 18 are summarized in
Table 5.4. They indicate ARC's relatively strong cash position throughout
in spite of negative cash flows in 1984 and 1985.



-46-
Table 5.4: ARC - Projected Sources and
Application Funds Summary
(JD Million)
Project Period      Next 3 Years
1984-1987          1988-1990
(C)
Sources
Internally generated                       15.7      30             23.2
Government grant - proposed project         7.8      15
to     if  - other                    12.4      24
to     if  - debt service              1.5       3
Borrowings - proposed project              12.9      25
it    - other                          1.4       3
Total                                 51.7     100             23.2
Applications
Investments - proposed project             20.7      40
to     - other                        13.8      27
Debt service - proposed project             3.6       7               7.5
to      - other                       12.3      24              7.2
Changes in working capital
(including cash) - increase               1.3       2              8.5
Total                                 51.7     100             23.2
5.13     The main assumptions are shown in Annex 8.  The cash position
improves significantly from JD 0.7 million in 1984 to a cash balance of some
JD 9.7 million at end-1990. This accumulation of cash could be used by ARC
for new investments having economic and financial justification and/or for
payment to the Government as return on its equity.
Balance Sheet
5.14     ARC's projected balance sheets for years 1984 through 1990 shown in
detail in Table 19 are summarized in Table 5.5.



-47-
Table 5.5: ARC - Projected Balance Sheet Summary
(JD million)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Current assets                   3.9    3.5    4.7    5.7    7.6   10.2   14.1
Net fixed assets                36.3   51.3   59.5   68.4   68.6   68.8   69.0
Work-in-progress                 7.9    8.0    6.8    -       -       -      -
Deferred charges                        0.1    0.2    0.3    0.2    0.1    -
Total Assets                  48.1   62.9   71.2   74.4   76.4   79.1   83.1
Current liabilities              2.8    3.9    3.9    4.4    4.1    3.6    3.4
Long-term debt                  21.2   24.8   26.9   24.7   21.5   18.9   16.3
Capital and reserves            26.8   37.0   43.1   47.8   51.6   55.5   59.7
Retained earnings/
(accumulated losses)          (2.7)  (2.8)  (2.7)  (2.5)  (0.8)   1.1    3.7
Total Liabilities & Equity   48.1   62.9   71.2   74.4   76.4   79.1   83.1
Debt/Equity ratio               47/53  42/58  40/60  35/65  30/70  25/75  20/80
Current ratio
(Current assets     )
(Current liabxlities)          1.4    0.9    1.2    1.3    1.9    2.9    4.2
They indicate the following:
(a)    ARC would build up positive retained earnings from 1989,
which would be available for providing return on ARC's
equity; and
(b)    the improvement of debt/equity ratio from 47/53 in 1984 to
20/80 in 1990, which would assure decreasing financial
demands on ARC on account of future debt service
requirements.
Financial Conditions
5.15     The on-lending arrangements discussed in Annex 8 will be finalized
by the Government and ARC. The Government will provide, as in the past, a
grant to ARC for debt service support for years 1984 and 1985 totalling
JD 1.5 million to the extent required (para. 5.11).
5.16     It is important that ARC maintains adequate accounting records as
detailed in Annex 2. During negotiations agreement was reached that by
January 1, 1986 ARC would maintain accounting records under a commercially-
based accounting system using accrual methods on a current and continuous



-48-
basis by trained staff familiar with such systems and methods, in order to
ensure that its cost accounting and internal recording and reporting systems
would be kept current at all times. During negotiations, agreement was also
reached on ARC maintaining its current assets and current liabilities at
levels consistent with its working capital requirements.
5.17     During loan negotiations the Government and ARC agreed that through
operational improvements, as conceived in the Action Plan, supplemented to
the extent necessary by tariff adjustments, ARC would specifically aim to
earn sufficient revenues in 1986 and thereafter to at least cover operating
and maintenance costs, overheads and debt service or depreciation of fixed
assets as revalued from time to time whichever is greater. The operating
ratios of 87% for 1984, 81% for 1985, 78% for 1986, 77% for 1987, and 70%
for 1988 through 1990 have been adopted as indicators for measurng the
financial performance of ARC.
5.18     ARC's financial viability is interlinked with its debt situation.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that ARC will not incur any
additional long-term debt without the Bank's prior agreement unless its net
cash revenues for the calendar year or the twelve consecutive months immedi-
ately before the date of incurrence, whichever is greater, would be at least
1.5 times its maximum debt service requirements of any succeeding year on
all ARC's debt.
C. The Ports Corporation (TPC)
5.19     As the Tables 5.6 and 5.7 included in this section show, the
financial situation of TPC is healthy, which is mainly due to the consider-
able transit traffic through the Aqaba port to Iraq. TPC is a reliable
source of revenue for the Government providing some JD 4.0 million in 1981
and is expected to provide about JD 15.0 million in 1983 after meeting its
debt service obligations and minor capital investments.
5.20     TPC's income statement and balance sheet for years 1981 and 1982
indicate operating ratios of 48%, a measure of the profitability of TPC's
operations, and sound current and debt/equity ratios. Given its record of
good financial management, TPC will continue to generate sufficient funds
internally to finance its reasonable future capital investment needs includ-
ing the financing of the training program envisaged under the project.



-49-
Table 5.6
TPC's Income Statement
(JD '000)
For yeare ending December 31,
Operating Revenues
Income                                     20,356         25,860
Operating Expenses
Operating and General                       7,993         10,080
Depreciation                                1,826          2,346
9,819        12,425
Net Operating Income                          10,537         13,435
Non-Operating Items
Interest Payments                             886            920
Other items (Cr)                                (5)          416
881         1,336
Net Income                                     9,656         12,099
Operating ratio Z                                 48             48
Working ratio Z                                    39            39



-50-
Table 5.7
TPC's Balance Sheet
(JD '000)
As at December 31,
1981          1982
Current Assets
Cash                                       9,731          3,364
Accounts Receivable                         3,389         2,850
Inventories                                1,769          2,317
Other Including Prepaids                     414            414
Subtotal                        15,303         8,855
Fixed Assets
At Cost                                    54,864        57,746
Less; Accumulated Depreciation             9,737         11,400
45,127        46,346
Add: Work-in-Progress                      3,485         10,748
48,612        57,094
Investments at Cost                              700           750
Total Assets                    64,615         66,699
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                            3.098         4,177
Non-Current Liabilities
Long-Term Debt                             18,127        18,723
Equity
Equity                                        200           200
Reserves and Provisions                       257           257
Capital Contributions                     23,926         24,237
Earned Surplus                             19,007        19,105
Total Liabilities Equity        64,615         66,699
Debt/Equity Ratio                           29/71         30/70
Current Ratio (Current Assets/               4.9            2.1
Current Liabilities)



-51-
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, the Government and the Beneficiaries confirmed:
(i)    arrangements for inter-agency coordination for movement of
key comodities such as phosphate (para. 1.08);
(ii)   the preparation and implementation of a timed program for
executing NTS recommendations relating to road user charges
(para. 1.13);
(iii)  the control of axle loads and vehicle dimensions
(paras. 1.14 and 2.10);
(iv)   prepare a plan for improving the operations of the
plant-hire corporation (para. 2.19);
(v)    the project cost estimates and the Bank-financed project
component and co-financing arrangements (paras. 3.26, 3.31
and Table 3.2);
(vi)   the implementation schedules (para. 3.38 and Tables 13 and
14); and
(vii)  the estimated schedule of disbursements (para. 3.44 and
Table 16).
6.02     During loan negotiations, agreements were reached with Government
and the Beneficiaries on the following main issues:
(i)    the operation and financing of the highway maintenance
system (para. 2.19);
(ii)   the implementation of the technical assistance and training
program (paras. 3.08, 3.16, 3.17, 3.18, 3.19);
(iii)  the periodic highway maintenance program would include
strengthening of selected sections which would be ranked in
order of economic justification and would be acceptable only
if the ER is minimum 122 (paras. 3.06 and 4.10);
(iv)   that TPC would examine by December 31, 1985, the optimum use
of berth facilities for phosphate loading and exchange views
with the Bank on measures to be taken (paras. 2.47, 3.18 and
3.33);
(v)    the appointment of consultants for construction supervision
and for other expert services required in the project under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.35)



-52-
(vi)   that ARC would implement and annually review and update its
Action Plan, including its operational plan, in consultation
with the Bank (para. 3.37(c));
(vii)  the Government would prepare regular progress reports on a
quarterly basis and a project completion report within six
months of the Loan Closing Date (Para. 3.38);
(viii) that construction contracts for periodic maintenance, high-
way equipment and rail components of the loan would, except
for some minor items, be procured by ICB (paras. 3.39, 3.40
and 3.42);
(ix)   that ARC would furnish its financial statements audited by
an agency acceptable to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.06);
(x)    that ARC, by January 1, 1986, would maintain accounting
records under a commercially-based accounting system in
order to ensure that its cost accounting and internal
recording and reporting systems will be kept current at all
times. ARC would also maintain at all times a ratio of
current assets to current liabilities consistent with ARC's
working capital requirements (para. 5.16);
(xi)   that ARC, through operational improvements as conceived in
the Action Plan, supplemented to the extent necessary by
tariff adjustments, should aim to earn sufficient revenues
by 1986 and thereafter to at least cover operating and
maintenance costs, overheads and debt service or deprecia-
tion of fixed assets as revalued from time to time whichever
is greater;
(xii)  that ARC would gradually improve its operating ratios to
cover current expenditues and debt service charges, or
depreciation, whichever is higher (para. 5.17);
(xiii) that ARC would maintain a debt limitation test of 1.5
(para. 5.18);
(xiv)  the Government guarantees the financing of the project,
including possible cost overruns (para. 3.31).
6.03     During loan negotiations, the following conditions of loan effec-
tiveness were discussed and agreed;
(i)    signature of official co-financing loans (para. 3.32); and



-53-
(ii)   subsidiary loan agreement by the Government to relend the
loan proceeds to ARC on the same terms as the Bank loan to
the Government (para. 3.34).
6.04     With the understandings indicated above in paras. 6.01 to 6.03, the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US030.0 million to the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan for a 15-year term, including a three-year grace period.



-54-
ANE  1
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Action Plan and Operational Plan
for Traction and Rolling Stock
Action Plan
1.       Based on actual figures for 1983, ARC prepared an Action Plan to
determine agreed financial, operational and productivity targets for 1984 to
1987. The Plan covers the following matters:
(a) measures needed to attain financial targets;
(b) measures necessary to achieve annual operational and productivity
targets;
(c) Manpower Plan covering departmental and section requirements,
training needs. recruitment and retirement; and
(d) an Operational Plan for Traction and Rolling Stock.
The Action Plan including the Manpower Plan and the Operational Plan for
Traction and Rolling Stock would be reviewed annually.
Operational Plan for Traction and Rolling Stock
2.       The Operational Plan estimates equipment requirements based on an
analysis of the traction and vehicle fleet, the proposed withdrawals during
the planned period, planned improvements in the quality of service, and
forecast of traffic and vehicle utilization, the latter represented by
agreed productivity ratios and targets.
3.       Monthly operating statistics from January 1982 to December 1983 are
shown in Table 6. Table 5 contains operational data for 1982 and 1983 and
targets for 1984 to 1987. Table 7 provides information about the existing
traction and rolling stock fleet and planned withdrawals and procurement in
1983 to 1987. Table 8 illustrates as an example the analysis on which the
procurement of additional rolling stock is based.
4.       The targets for availability of locomotives and phosphate wagons
and their average performance have been agreed with ARC. Availability
depends in this case mainly on maintenance facilities and procedures and the



-55-
ANNEX 1
presence of maintenance staff. Planned improvements in availability require
the extension of the Aqaba workshops. Turnaround time will be negatively
affected by the need to provide sufficient long intervals for track renewal
in the years 1985-1987. The average train load depends on successful
efforts to increase the number of wagons per trains from nov 30 and 32 to 35
wagons per train and on the use of new wagons with a higher payload of
47.5 tons.
5.       The analysis of wagon requirements proves that additional to 60
wagons ordered and to be delivered early in 1984, 90 more phosphate wagons
are needed in 1985/6. The reserve of 10% of the actual number of wagons to
provide for fluctuations in traffic will, however, not be fully available.



-56-
ANNEX 2
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Accounting Activities to be Introduced by ARC
1.   Commercial and cost accounting concepts and systems, and related
accounts classifications and procedures appropriate for a railway of
ARC's size involved in a single line, single commodity operation;
2.   Cost centers, departmental accounts and procedures for recording cost
of operations for designated activities;
3.   Accrual accounting basis for all transactions as and when they occur;
4.   Accounting for all internal transfers as and when they occur such as
issues of spare parts from stores to workshops, depreciation of fixed
assets, payroll accounting, etc.;
5.   Monthly closing of accounts and extraction of trial balance;
6.  Preparation and circulation of monthly reports on costs and related
statistics of operational performances such as quantities carried and
mileage covered, and reports on financial operating results and
situation;
7.  Maintaining identity and accounting values through subsidiary ledgers
of fixed assets and related depreciation on an appropriate basis;
8.   Maintaining control and accounting values through subsidiary ledgers of
stores inventory and stores inventory movements on an appropriate
basis; and
9.   Training of ARC accounting and financial staff.



-57-
ANNEX 3
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PROPOSED MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Activities
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE: financed from MPW annual recurrent budget.
Surface             (i)   patching asphalt pavement;
(ii)   patching surface treatment pavement;
(iii)   reshaping gravel-or un-surfaced roads;
Base, Sub-base     (iv)   replenishment of traffic- or weather-eroded gravel
and Shoulders            base course;
(v)   repairing of localized base and sub-base failures;
(vi)   reshaping and restoring shoulders of paved, gravel
and unpaved roads;
Drainage          (vii)   clearing, cleaning and reshaping side, turn-out,
toe and catchwater drain;
(viii)   upkeep of pavements of wadi crossings;
(ix)   clearing, cleaning and reshaping culvert inlets
and outlets;
(x)   erosion control for all wadi crossings, culverts
and drains;
(xi)   culvert repairs and replacement;
(xii)   installation of additional pipe clverts;
Structures       (xiii)   painting;
(xiv)   minor repairs;
Marking and Signs  (xv)   restriping and remarking paved roads;
(xvi)   repairing and replacing road signs;
Other            (xvii)   clearing of regenerated bush within road formation
width;
(xviii)   control of drifting sand;
(xix)   minor vertical and horizontal alignments
improvements, up to a financial limit laid down by
MPW.
NOTES:  Frequency of reshaping gravel- or un-surfaced roads and
replenishment of gravel base course above, will depend on
(a) traffic volume and composition, (b) climatic conditions, and
(c) observed running surface conditions.



-58-
ANNMX 3
2.  All tasks, except (xix), are regular "housekeeping" tasks carried out
daily or as required by traffic, weather and observed conditions.
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE: financed from MPW Capital Development Budget.
Pavement             (i)   hot-rolled asphalt overlay for paved roads;
(ii)   resealing of bituminous surface-treated roads;
(iii) provision of 150 mm of gravel base course;
(iv)   provision of new subbase, base and pavement
(rehabilitation);
Earthworks           (v)   major improvements in horizontal and vertical
alignments of existing roads;
(vi)   major improvements to road cross-sections;
Drainage Structures
(vii) new bridges;
(viii) additional box culverts and large diameter pipe
arches;
(ix)   major repairs to structures;
Markings and Signs  (x)   new road furniture;
(xi)   replacement of guardrails.
NOTE:    Major highway repairs due to inclement weather, geological causes
or any other force majeure would be dealt with by special
allocations to the Capital Development Budget.



-59-
ANNEX 4
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Railway Track Standards -/
Rails:        UIC S-49z/ continuously welded rails on straights and
curves with a radius of 300 m and above; short welded rails
of 36 m length on curves of radius less than 300 m.
Sleepers:     Mono-block pre-stressed concrete sleepers at spacing 60 cm on
straights and curves of radius above 290 m at 57 cm spacing
on curves of radius 290 m and less. Wooden sleepers, size
16 cm X 24 cm X 210 cm on straights and curves flatter than
500 m radius.
Fastenings:   Indirect double elastic fastenings.
Ballast:      Clean ballast cushion of 250 mm below sleepers; shoulder
widths 55 cm outside curves and 45 cm on straights.
Formation
Width:        5.0 m.
1/ For traffic volume above 2 million tonnes per year.
2/ 49 kg/meter compared to old rail types of 30 and 38.8 kg/meter
(para. 2.32)



-60-
ANNEX 5
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
ARC's Training and Technical Assistance Program
1.       The manufacturers of the locomotives-  will be asked to send a
few engineers to Jordan for specified period to train the staff in
maintenance practices;
2.       A nucleus of personnel selected as instructors will be sent abroad
for specialized training in their respective functional disciplines as well
as in teaching techniques;
3.       Selected ARC higher level staff will be trained abroad in specific
areas of specialization to fill the technological gap and to provide
expertise in such areas;
4.       Technical assistance and training in the accounting field will be
provided for the finance department staff;
5.       A personalized training program on the footplate will be launched
for the junior locomotive drivers, by deputing an experienced locomotive
instructor from the ARC to run with each junior driver, monitor his
performance and guide him properly;
6.       Operational staff (panel operators, station masters, traffic
controllers, etc.) and maintenance staff of the Mechanical Department
(wagons), permanent way, signal and telecommunication, electrical equipment
will be trained by ARC instructors; and
7.       Purchase of training equipment and teaching aids.
1/ All mainline locomotives of ARC are manufactured by General Electric
(GE).



HASHEMITE KINGDOM                             GEOMETRIC DESIGN CRITERIA FOR RURAL HIGHWAYS                                                              MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
OF JORDAN                                                        HIGHWAY DESIGN MANUAL * 1971                                                         HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
HIGHWAY              PRIMARY                                                                                                                                                    PRIMAR.
CLASSIICATION        SECONDARY                                                                                            SECONDARY                   -
LOCAL             .                              LOCAL  __
DESIGN GROUP                                               R.l                       R-2                        R4                         R4                        R4                         RB
DESION TRAFrIC   ICURRET YEAR ADT                      O TO  250                 250 TO 400                 400 TO  750                 OVER 750
VOLUMES (2 WAY)    FuTuRr                                                                                       TO 200          200 TO  400 OR OVER ill              121                        E23
MAJOR TERRAIN  13J                                 L        R   |             L       R        N        L                                   R        bM4      L   | R   |               L          
DESICiN SPEED, KPH N                                                30 |                                to      L     I      . 40      I   so       do       100      80 EO  |         120 4]4   100 |   o
4   tUR  *ir.315 M  '-  -4O-RURSM  LTREI
f  WDTH OF PAVEMENT [5)                           2-S.7 METER LANES           2-3  METER LANES          24. gMR LANES               -3 6 METER LANES        LANES DIVIDED WHEN            LANES DIVIDED
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                   PO SSIBLE 
CROSS SLOPE OF PAVEMENT                               4%                         3S                         3%                         2';                       2%                         2%
tWIDTH oF SHOULDER, DESIRED MINIMUM                1.2 METERS                 1.5 METERS                24 METERS                  30 METERS                3.0 METERS OUTSIDE, 12 METERS flSIDE
CROSS SLOPE or SHOULDER                               5                          6%                         S%                         4_                        4%                         4S
MINIMUM RAoIUS, METERS                        as|      52  | 3J          125 | . |  S2                   I I'm | .|5 uL                2         2J230 L                   125   SI          38 0
4 MINIMUM LENGTII OF CURVEI                    SEE REFERENCE NOTE (6)                                    -
MIN I M 1AlNE BETWEEN REVERSt    |NO LEWS THAN REQUIRED SUIPERELEVATION TRANSMON DISTANCE BETWEEN THECURVES                                                                                                V
CURVES                               _
MAXIMUM RATE OF SUPERELEVATION                        elf?                                                                                   *-                                     2?.8     8%
_MNAXiMUM GRADE                      _         %   _ %         12%       ew9      2% <     - 11    4        6%       9%                5'.;              3%      3%   | %           3        4%      7%
MANIMUM GRADE P1)                            05        ? 051i  0s       05.      I5 W     o        oss  |  0S,1 |   s%       05'-  |           ol;|  01%  |0%  |0%                 es%|  01%         0 e5
K-VALUEFORMINIMUM           CRESTCIRVE  _               6                         8        6                 14      6        55       26       14       55       2|      14       100      |  26
LENGTIIOFCURVE.L=KzA  ISAGCURVE               _          II            7 S        II                    |   IS|   11  | it    33       23       15       35|      3        15 |     SJ                23
CRITICAL LENGTH OF UPGRADE METERS    |VARIES WITH THE PERCENT UPGRADE . SEE GRAPH
-                                                                                                   .         .        *       = =       ,      =  =-                                                 
MINIMUM SlOIIT DISTANCE    PASSINGi, METERS     ERLL  NO'             42       35~0     270     300      420      30       615      50       420       -       -     
HORILZONTALAND VERTICAL) STOPPINO YM TERSj ST M   |                                    65   55 |IO |0                   | 0615|51|  E0                       IOS |1051|
MINIMUM RiGHT-OF-WAY, MERSi| NOT LESS THAN THAT REQUIRED FOR CROSS-SECTION ELEMEm    AND APPROPRIATE BORDER AEAS  II)
1' Woan the  desip DHV is greater than 400. check tbh design capacity charte far suitability of a 2-lane highwvy. If insufficiest. desip for    iultilane
highway.
I/ The *inin,s traffic volume warranting a mIltilane facility is defined as a volum  living unacceptable level of service on a 2-lane highway in the delgp year.
T/ L * Level, R * Rolling and N - Mountainous Terrain
T/ Design speede 120 lUd or bIgher are applicable only to highvays with full control of access, or whare such control is planned In the future.
T/ Check pavemnt widening requiremntm for horizontal curves.
Ib  rot gall central angle, the curve should be long enougb to avoid the eppearance of a kink. For a central engle of 5 degrees. the curve should be at
least 150 "etar  long, and for each decrease of one degree in the central angle, the length should be increased at lesat 30 metersm
I/ In level terrain, 01 grades may be used when the pavemnt is adequately cowerd to drein the surface runoff water laterally to fill slopes or drainage
channels, which hven sufficient grade for longitudinal flow.
I/ Based on *iniinm etepping sisht diatance.
1/ Additional width may be necessary for constructioo.



-62-
ANNEX 7
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Report and Studies in the Transport Sector
1.   National Transport Study of Jordan:-  Dorsch Consult (Germany), Hughes
Economic Planning (UK), Deutsche Eisenbah Consulting (Germany) in
association with UNICONSULT GMBH (Germany) and Mar Jardaneb, Jordan
Vol  1 - Executive Summary
Vol 2 - Economic Background and Traffic Forecasts
Vol 3 - Roads
Vol 4 - Inventory of Primary Roads
Vol 5 - Road Transport
Vol 6 - Railways
Vol  7 - Shipping and Ports
Vol 8 - Airport and Air Services
Vol 9 - Road Safety
Vol 10 - Principles of Management
Vol 11 - Economies and Transport Policy
2.   Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development 1981-85, Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan, Transportation Ch. II pp. 178-210.
3.   Jordan, Imports and Exports Transport Study, Vol. 1-2, March 1978,
Rendel, Palmer and Tritton, London, England.
4.   Updating of the Import/Export Transport Study, April 1981, Rendel,
Palmer and Tritton, London.
5.   Central Bank of Jordan - Monthly Statistical Bulletin Vol. 19 Nos. 1-9
January - September 1983.
6.   Jordan in Figures - Department of Statistics 1981.
7.   Arab Potash Company - Annual Report 1981.
8.   Jordan Fertilizer Industry Co. Ltd. - Pamphlet, 1983.
9.   Ports Corporation - Aqaba Port Thirty Years of Development 1952-81.



-63-
ANNEX 7
10. Red Sea Shipping Agency - Aqaba 25 years 1956-80.
11. Aqaba Railway Corporation - Pamphlet 1982.
12. Jordan Phosphate Mining Company - Annual Report for 1982 (Arabic).
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.  Project Related Information - Aqaba Railway Corporation, October 1983.
2.   Feasibility Report on Track Renewal Project including purchase of
Permanent Way Machinery, Jordan, October 1983.
3.   Feasibility Report on Extension of Aqaba Locomotive Workshop, Jordan,
September 1983.
4.   Feasibility Report on purchase of 100 tonne Breakdown Crane, Jordan,
September 1983.
5.   Feasibility Report on Repairs, Rehabilitation of Four Accident Damaged
Locomotives, Jordan, September 1983.
6.   Manpower Plan, including Training of Manpower, Aqaba Railway
Corporation, Jordan, November 1983.
7.   Economic Evaluation of Wadi Yutum-Wadi 2/spur road to Container Port -
Hugues Economic Planning, U.K. November 1983.
8.   Feasibility Study _f Ras El Naqb - Aqaba Highway Project, Associated
Consulting Engineers, May/June 1983.
9.   -   Highway Maintenance Manual, 1972 - MPW.
-   Standard Specifications for the Construction of Roads and Bridges,
1974 - MPW.
-   Highway Design Manual, 1972 - MPW.
-   Highway Maintenance Study Report, 1983 - TRRL.
-   An Evaluation of the Current Status of Maintenance Operations, 1983
- International Executive Service Corps.
-   Maintenance and Repair Facility Study - Inception Report, 1983 -
Peat Marwick.
-   Interim Instructions concerning Freight Transportation, Sept. 1983
-   Law No. 49 of 1958 concerning Foreign Trucks Charges
-   Law No. 57 of 1977, Road Traffic Service Charges
-   Internal Memo from Center of Studies to MPW re Wadi Yutum/Aqaba
Southern Coast road.



-64-
ANNEX 7
Law No. 26 of 1983, Amended Road Law.
Interim Law No. 23 of 1975, Roads Law.
Law No. 39 of 1982, Public Works Law.
Laws & Regulations regarding MPW, 1976.
Instructions concerning criteria for Classification of Second Class
Contractors and Approved List of Required Documents and
Definition of Areas of Specialization, 1983.
Classification of Top and Second Class Contractors, 1983.
10. -   Temporary Law No. 28 - 1978, Port Organization Law
-   Temporary Law No. 41 - 1980, Law Amending the Port Organization Law
-   Aqaba Port Corporation Handbook, 1952-1981.
-   Aqaba Port Corporation Yearbook, 1982
-   Aqaba Port Traffic Statistics for 1983 (ref. to end September)
-   General Layout Plan of Main Port of Aqaba
-   General Layout Plan of New Container and RoRo Berths, near Aqaba.
-   Phosphate Traffic at Berth B.
-   Inventory of Port Fork Lift Trucks.
-   Inventory of Port Cranes.
-   Inventory of Port Marine Craft.
C. Design Plans. Specification, Estimates
1.  Material Cost of Track Rehabilitation Works, Aqaba Railway Corporation,
December 1983.
2.   -   Wadi Yutum - Southern Aqaba Coast Road - Feasibility Report.
-   Wadi Yutum - Southern Aqaba Coast Road - Tender Documents, Bill of
Quantities, Technical Specifications, General and Special
Conditions of Contract.
-   Wadi Yutum - Southern Aqaba Coast Road - Engineering Drawings
-   Wadi Yutum - Southern Aqaba Coast Road - Summary Cost Estimates.
D. Financial and Accounting Documentation
1.  ARC's audited financial statements for 1976 (Arabic), 1977 (English),
1978 (Arabic), 1979 (English), 1980 (Arabic with translation in
English), 1981 and 1982 (English).
2.   Railway Law.
3.   TPC's audited financial statement for 1975, 1977, 1978, 1979, and 1982
in English.



-65-
ANNEX 8
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Assumptions Regarding ARC's Sources and
Applications of Funds
1.       Investments under the proposed project totalling JD 20.7 million
(US$56.7 million) is assumed to be financed as follows:
(a) By IBRD: A loan to Government in the amount of US$20.0 mil-
lion equivaleaLt to JD 7.3 million to finance track renewal and
technical assistance and training. The lending terms involve
a variable interest rate (revised six monthly), currently
10.081. The loan would be for 15 years including a grace
period of three years. Front-end fee at 0.25Z would be paid
in cash. The total amount would be relent to ARC on the same
terms as above. For purposes of preparing the financial
forecasts included herein, a fixed interest rate of 10.0 is
assumed;
(b) By IDB: A loan to Government in the amount of JD 3.4 million
(US$9.3 million) to finance phosphate wagons. This loan would
be for six years during which IDB would retaia title and lease
the wagons to ARC at a ch ge of 8.0Z per year.
(c) By other co-financing yet to be identified: One or more loans
in the amount of JD 2.2 million (US$6.0 million) to finance
individual items such as Aqaba workshop machinery, track
machinery, breakdown crane and locomotive rehabilitation.
Interest rate is assumed to be 10.0% for a term of 13 years
with a grace period of three years.
(d) By the Government: The Government will provide JD 7.8 million
(US$21.4 million) to meet all local currency requirements and
certain portions of foreign costs which are attributable to
some remaining items such as the financing gap for Aqaba
Workshop, etc., which are considered unattractive for
co-financing. The Government's contribution is treated as a
contribution to equity.
2.       Other investments totalling some JD 13.8 million (excluding work-
in-progress carried over from the prior investment plan projects) are
assumed to be financed as follows:



-66-
ANNEX 8
(a)  Saudi Development Fund:    JD 0.8 million (US$2.2 million)
(b)  Islamic Development Bank:  JD 0.6 million (US$1.6 million)
(c)  The Government:             JD12.4 million (US$34.0 million)
The Saudi loan carries interest at 3Z, but is relent to ARC at 6X and is
repayable over 15 years. The IDB loan carries a lease charge and is repay-
able over 6 years. The Government's share carries no charge and is treated
as a contribution to equity.
3.       Government is expected to provide ARC with JD 750,000 annually for
1983 and 1985.
4.       The domestic interest rate at present varies between 7.5Z and 10.0X,
whereas the inflation rate has decreased from 7.5Z about a year ago to the
present level of about 5.01. The on-lending arrangements are considered
reasonable under the circumstances.



-67-
TABLE I
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PROPOSED MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Expenditures on National Higlhway Network, 1966-1982
(JD)
Year       Administration       Maintenance      Construction        Total
19661!          160,148             206,156           956,754        1,323,058
1967            184,990             317,743         1,933,048       2,435,781
1968            145,849             244,296         1,552,815       1,942,960
1969            154,580             249,600         2,838,19121     3,242,371
19703/          163,680             280,000         1,165,000       1,608,680
1971            193,256             251,999           533,023         978,278
1972            194,912             257,669         1,054,832        1,507,413
1973            215,847             295,457         1,351,983        1,863,287
1974            250,430             289,768           927,413       1,467,611
1975            302,678             302,472         1,716,085       2,321,235
1976            347,044             362,101         1,899,185       2,608,330
1977            413,181             408,881         2,355,865       3,177,927
1978            432,685             485,157         6,093,797       7,011,639
1979            542,795             581,584         6,042,975       7,167,354
1980            591,032             544,858        12,087,295      13,223,185
1981            705,700             481,912        12,392,365      13,579,977
1982            390,1004/         1,371,712        15,074,762      16,836,574
1/ 9 months expenditure due to change at beginning of fiscal year from
April 1 to January 1.
2/ Includes JD 318,895 carried over from 1968.
3/  Budget allocation; actual expenditures Jot available.
4/ Reduction of expenditure for Administration due to separation of
Buildings from NPW.
Source: Ministry of Public Works (NPW)
January 4, 1984.
3011/5



-68-
TABLE 2
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PROPOSED MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Primary and Secondar Highways Kilometrage
(km)
Primary                              Secondary
Year             Total         Paved                  Total           Paved
1965             1,645         980 (60Q)              1,575           860 (55%)
1966             1,715       1,235 (72%)              1,600        1,222 (76%)
1967             1,790       1,413 (79%)              1,620        1,280 (79%)
1968-1           1,660       1,337 (81%)              1,038           648 (63%)
1969.1/         1,759        1,457 (83%)              1,038           689 (66Z)
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977             1,920       1,910                    1,038           820
1978
1979
1980            2,202        1,920                      988           820
1981
1982            2,202        2,004                      988           867
1/ Excludes lengths of road on West Bank.
Source: Ministry of Public Works
November 1983
3011D/13



-69-
TABLE 3
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Status of 1981-85 Highway Investment Plan
Est'd Cost           Completion
Description                   Km        Type       JD million         Z        month
Major Roads Under Construction
1.  Ma'an-Al Hassa                     66      4-lane           15.5          56       mid-1985
2.  Sawaqa-Al Hassa                    71      4-lane           16.0          30       end-1985
3.  Juwaideh-Muaqqar-Azraq             89      10x4 lane
79x2 lane       10.0           85      March 1984
4.  Suweileh (Am-an)-Old Jerash         11     4 lane            2.5         100       Dec. 1983
5. Azraq-El Jaffer (Amman)            180      2 lane  /       n.a.           10       End 1984
6.  Rautha Interchange                -        --               n.a.         100       Dec. 1983
7.  Suweileh Interchange              --       -                 2.6          60       Kid 1984
8.  Jordan University Interchange    -         --                1.2         100       Dec. 1983
Estimated
Construction Period
(months)
Major Roads Already Bid
1.  Zarqa Bypass                       12     4 lane2/           7.0                  27
2.  Juwaideh-Sawaqa 3/_                60      4 lane           17.0                  36
3. Z7.rqa-Mafraq-Syrian Border 3/      52      32x4 lane
20x2 lane        8.3                   24
4.  Rashaddiya-Desert Road 3/          24      2 lane            2.7                  24
5.  Suweileh-Salt 4Y                   10      4 lane            2.7                  12
Probable Tenders in 1984
1.  Wadi Yutum-Wadi 2 and Spur         37      2 lane           10.0                  24
2.  Zarqa-Sukua-Jerash                 32      2 lane            8.0                  24
Hiwhays under Study by Consultants
1.  Malan-Ras en Naqb-Aqaba           120     4 lane 5/        n.a.
2.  Anman-Na'ur-Dead Sea               60      4 lane           n.a.
3.  Irbid-North Shuna                  35      4 lane          n.a.
4.  Zarqa-Irbid 6/                     80      4 lane           35.0
Highways Proposed for Study by Consultants
1.  Amman Outer Ring Road
2. South Shuna-North Shuna-Syrian Border
3. Mafraq-H5
4. Central Jordan Valley to
Salt-Zai Junction
5. Irbid-Ajlun
6. Connection Amman Outer Ring
Road to Jerash-Irbid Hwy
1/  Earthworks only
2/ Includes two interchanges
3/ Contract awarded.
4I  Contract for 5.2 km awarded; remaining 4.8 km (including interchange) being evaluated.
5/ 90 km to Wadi Yutum; 10 km 2-lane.
61 Includes link to Yarmuk, 26 overpasses and three interchanges.
Source: Ministry of Public Works
December 1983
3011D/6



-70-
TABLE 4
Page 1 of 2
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Registered Vehicles, 1978-1981 and 1982
1978       1979        1980       1981
Private Cars                       50,905      61,828     73,078      85,052
Taxis                              10,072      10,872     11,207      11,661
Government Cars                            )    4,911      5,463       6,043
8,004 )
Diplomatic Cars                            )    4,483      4,939       5,621
Tourist Saloons                       268         334        410         561
Private Buses                         294         416         518        744
Public Buses                          687         754         897      1,382
Private Trucks under 5 tonnes              )   14,670     16,488      19,923
11,328 )
Private Trucks over 5 tonnes               )    1,025       1,423      1,583
Public Trucks under 5 tonnes               )    3,124      4,171       4,785
8,705 )
Public Trucks over 5 tonnes                )    6,645      7,435       9,317
Tractors (Agric.)                   3,003       3,204      3,479       3,774
Motorcycles                         3,539       4,239      4,888       5,434
Excavators                            597         745         875      1,044
TOTAL                         97,402    117,250    135,271    156,924
Source: Statistics Department, MOT
November 1983
3011D/7



-71-                                                       TABLE 4
Page 2 of 2
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-NODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Registered Vehicles, 1982
AMMAN    IRBID    ZARKA    SALT        MA'AN    NAFRAK    KAJAR    AQABA    JERASH          TOTAL
Private Saloons                   83,118    9,800    3,503    1,019        204        108       479       232        249        98,712
Public Saloons                    10,118    1,376        349        95      32         10        71        19         22       12,092
Tourist Saloons                      665        -         -         -       -          --        --        --         -            665
Private Buses                        853        45        15         1      -           2        12         2          2           932
Public Buses                       1,424       343         2         2      -          --         1        -          --         1,772
Private Pick-Ups                  15,188    4,649        645       257     296         70       303       114        311       21,833
Private Trucks                       919         3        23         7        6        --         6        -          -            964
Public Trucks                      2,456       384       171         8      67           2        9         5          1         3,103
Private Semi-Trailer                 202        -         -         -       -          --        --        -          -            202
Public Semi-Trailer                2,437         4        55        32       68          2        6         1         -          2,605
Private Mixer Truck                  329         6         8         8       11        --         4         2         --           368
Public Mixer Truck                 2,176       496       160        16       51        33        14        13         15         2,974
Private Sewage Disposal Truck          12       -         -         --      -          --        11        -          -             23
Public Sewage Disposal Truck          134       53        15        __        1         2        -         -           5           210
Private Water Truck                    79       -         -         --      -          --        11        -          -             79
Public Water Truck                   350        12        15        --        1        -         -         -          -            378
Private Refrigerator Truck             39       -          6        -       -          -          1        -          -             46
Public Refrigeration Truck         1,820        41        33        --      -           4         4        -          -          1,902
Tankers                               174       -         -         --    -            -         -         -          -            174
Agricultural Tractors              2,943       890        25        42       5   .      5        11         8         29         3,957
Motorcycles                        3,789    1,810         99        80      31           7       35        18         16         5,885
Construction Vehicles              1,127       1l1        27         3      -          -         -         -          12         1,287
Government Vehicles                6,426   -   4          -          2      -           6        -         __         -          6,438
Others                             6,215                                                                   -          -          6,215
TOTALS                 146,887   20,768    5.281    1.594        794        291      983       421        730       177.849
Source: National Planning Council
December 1983
301ID/22



-72-
TABLE 5
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Railway Operational Data and Targets
1982      1983       1984      1985       1986      1987
Net Tonnes (million)
- El Hassa               1.39      1.74        1.8        1.8       2.2        2.5
- El Abyad               0.76      0.85        0.9        1.2       1.5        1.5
- Total                  2.15      2.59        2.7       3.0        3.7       4.0
Net Tonne Km (million)   598.7      718.1      751.7     837.0    1032.7    1114.0
Gross Tonne Km(million) 1171.8    1395.3    1402.0    1561.0    1892.4    2012.8
Average Train Load (t)    1244        1337      1297       1431      1492       1511
Average Number of           4.9      5.51       5.96       5.99      7.09       7.97
Trains per Day
Average Number of          29.5      32.0       30.2       32.9      33.8       32.5
Wagons per Train
Locomotives
- Availability (Z)         80        75         75        70         80         85
Freight Wagons
- Availability (Z)         85        85       82.5      85.9       88.4         94
- Turnaround Time (h)   29.4         25.7    30.1       30.1       30.5      30.5
Staff
- Number at Year-End      772       797        914      1050       1083       1085
- Average Number          772       785        856       982       1067       1084
Traffic Units per           776        915       878 /1    852 /I    968        1028
Employee (000)
(Net tonne-km - Average
number of staff)
1/ Temporary decline in productivity due to provision of
extra staff for training.
Source: ARC
December 1983
(301lD/23)



JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-NODE TRANSPORT PROWECT
Railway Monthly operating Statistics 1982-83
No, of                   Daily       No. of       Total         Total    Locomotive                                                 Average      Wagon
Wagon&                  Loading      Loaded       Train      Locomotive    km per        Total Wagon   Net Tonne   Gross Tonne  Nat Load   Turnaround
Month          Loaded    Tonnase    in Tonnea  Trains Run          km           knc          day            kua          000 kma       000 kma    per Train  (in hours)
1982
January         2,560    107,520         3,854           87       46.980       93,960        260         1,382,400        29,030         56,678       1,236        --
February        4,009    168,378         6,014          134       72,520      145,040        370         2,170,000        45,630         89,088       1,257        35.2
March           4,858    204,036         6,881          162       90,124      180,248        416         2,702,636        56,755        110,808       1,259        32.0
April           4,918    206,556         6,885          164       91,208      182,416        450         2,735,156        57,438        112,141       1,259        29.6
May             3,984    167,328          5,397         133       74,366      148,732        434         2,227,448        46,776         91,325       1,258        30.9
June            4,559    191,478         6,383          152       84,704      169,408        432         2,540,578        53,352        104,164       1,260        30.9
July            2,953    124,026         4,001          100       56,280      112,560        390         1,662,646        34,916         6B,168       1,240        35.1
August          5,005    210,210         6,781          168       93,496      186,992        462         2,785,950        58,505        11L,224       1,251        29.0
September       3,588    150,696         5,023          122       67,964      135,928        512         1,999,136        41,982         81,965       1,235        26.3
October         4,764    200,088         6,454          163       91,386      182,772        530         2,671,168        56,095        109,518       1,228        24.0
November        5,223    219,366         7,312          181      100,902      201,804        520         2,911,786        61,148        119,383       1,212        25.8
December        4,682    204,204         6,587          165       92,230      184,460        512         2.717,564        57.069        114,420       1,236        25.0
TOTAL 1982    51,103  2,153,886          5,964        1,731      962,160   1,924,320         441        28,506,468       598,696      1,171,882       1,244        29.4
1983
January         1,820      76,440        2,466           61*      34,142       68,284        468         1,018,680        21,392         41,766       1,253        28.7
February        3,909    164,178          5,864         131       72,322      144,644        517         2,157,798        45,314         88,470       1,254        25.7
Karch           5,768    242,256         7,815          192      106,384      212,768        524         3,196,016        67,116        131,037       1,264        24.8
April           5,490    230,580          7,686         178       98,516      197,032        505         3,038,980        63,819        124,598       1,295        26.3
may             5,847    245,574          7,922         1S5      102,350      204,700        507         3,234,514        67,925        132,615        1,327       24.4
June            5,153    216,426          7,214         159       88,138      176,276        515         2,857,486        60,007        117,157       1,361        24.2
July            5,042    211,764         6,831          160       88,800      177,600        524         2,789,844        58,776        114,753       1,324        25.1
August          5,452    228,984          7,367         166       92,092      184,184        512         3,024,504        63,515        122,795       1,379        26.0
September       4,437    186,354         6,212          135       77,520      155,040        523         2,458,654        51,632         99,821       1,380        26.1
October         5,865    246,354          7,947         176       97,392      194,784        521         3,245,350        68,131        131,761       1,400        25.5
November        6,054    254,280         8,476          181      100,382      200,764        517         3,357,308        70,507        136,145       1,404        25.8
December        6,875    288,750         9,315          206      114.052      228,101        526         3,806,650        79,940        154,360       1,402        25.3
TOTAL 1983    61,712  2,591,940          7,093        1,930   1,072,090   2,144,177          513        34,185,754       718,074      1,395,278       1,337        25.7
A No trains ran for about a fortnight since Aqaba Port unable to receive trains for want of storage.
Source:  ARC                                                                                                                                                               I
December 1983 



-74-
TABLE 7
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Railway Traction and Rolling Stock
Stock at
12/31/82
in condi-                Rehabili-
Stock at   tion for    Withdrawal   tation       Procurement
12/31/82   operation   1983-1987   1983-1987    1983-1987
--- (Numbers) ------------- -
Locomotives
- for train haulage
Type U20C              18          15         -              3           -
Type U18C               3           3         -             -            -
Type U17C               8           7         -              1           -
Subtotal       29           25        -              4            -
- for shunting and
repair work trains
Type UlOC               2           2         -             -            -
Type CEM                6           1         -             -            -
Subtotal        8            3        -              -            -
TOTAL          37           28        -              4            -
Phosphate Wagons
Type BRE-Metro         67          67          5            -            -
Type Gregg            180         180         14            -            -
New 47.5 t - type    -            -           -             -            150
Subtotal    247          247        19             -            150
Other Wagons
Ballast Wagons         20          20         -             -            -
Type BRE-Metro          9         -           -             -            -
with transmission
couplers             ___
TOTAL        276          267        19             -            150
Source: ARC
December 1983
(3011D/11)



-75-
TABLE 8
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A PROPOSED MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Railvay Operational Plan for Freight Wagons
Description                        Index   1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
1. Traffic Volume (in million tonneslyear)            A       2.15   2.59     2.7      3.0     3.7   4.0
2. Capacity per wagon taking the whole fleet          B      42.0    42.0    42.9   43.56   44.17   44.17
(in tonnes)
3. No. of wagons required in operation per year    C-A       51190   61667   62937   68871   83767   90559
(in Nos.)                            B
4. No. of wagons required per day (in Nos.)         D-C        146     176      180     197     239     259
350
5. Availability of wagons for traffic use             E        .85     .85    .825    .859    .884    .940
6. Actual No. of wagons required per day            F-D        172     207     218      229     271     275
i
7. Turnaround time (in hrs.)                          G         30      26    30.1    30.1    30.5    30.5
8. Actual No. of wagons required (total fleet)    HNFxG        215     224     273      287     344     349
24
9. Actual No. of wagons required plus reserve!'    JRH+1O0   237       246     301      316     378     384
10. No. of wagons (total fleet) at year end            K        255     24.7    239      295     352     380
11. No. of withdrawals                                 L          8       8       4        3       2       2
12. No. of wagons after withdrawal                     M        247     239     235      292     350     378
13. No. of wagons added at the end of previous year   N         -       -        60.1  6021  30          -
14. No. of wagons after withdrawals and purchases      0        247     239     295      352     380     378
15. No. of new wagons required                       P-J-O      -10      +7      +6      -36      -2      46
1/ To provide for fluctuations in traffic a margin of IO should be allowed
for the total no. of wagons actually required.
2/ 60 wagons available from April 1984.
3/ 60 wagons available from July 1983, equivalent to 30 wagons available throughout the whole year.
Source: ARC
December 1983



-76-
NAZ 9
SrAF APPRAISAL FPW CF
A PRaOE MUJLTT-taE RA1NP P1WJECr
Mj1    ilvbwWrlret Plan l2Yr<8
(JD & USS millico) if
Spillover               New Investumnts
Investaent         Project           Other             Total          % of
JD      US$     JD       US       _-      -         JDs      us       TOMllU
-   -   million
Wncsibops                             -       -       2.49    6.82    0.31    0.85    2.80         7.67    10.3
Triack Renewal and Rebabilitation
and Track Macihinery             5.37  14.72   10.25   28.09         -       -       15.62   42.81    57.3
Rolling Stock                         -       -       3.68   10.09       -        -      3.68    10.09    13.5
fnfrastructure                        -       -        -        -       1.18    3.24     1.18    3.24       4.3
Signalling                           1.32    3.61      -                -        -       1.32    3.61       4.8
Miscellaneous                        0.49    1.34    0.32    0.88       1.86    5.09    2.67       7.31     9.8
Subtotal                           7.18  19.67    16.74   45.88    3.35    9.18   27.27    74.73   10O.0
Prhsical Contiagencies2/         0.72    1.97     L21    3.32    0.33    0.92    2.26    6.21
Price Conti2genciUM              0.35    0.96     2.41    6.58    0.37    1.01    3.13    8.55
IUiNL                              8.25  22.60   20.36   55.78    4.05    11.11   32.66   89.49
1/ October 1983 price levels.
/ Physical conigenies of 10Z have been incldd for all itemn,
except for *quipnent, rolling stock amd track iachiny.
3/ Price contingencies have been estimated  anug anual price
imcreases for foreign costs of 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985 and 6Z thereafter
and for local costs 7.5X thruguout.
Source: ARC
December 1983



-77-
Table 10
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
RailwY Investment Forecasts. 1984-87
Detailed Cost Table
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cant
(US$ Million)
Base Costs          Totals Including Contingencies --------------___.___________
(JO million)                 (JO Million)                     Local
_____________ _  --      -   For.       (Excl.
1984  1935  1986 1937 Total  1984  198S  1986 1987 Total  Exch.      Tames)       Total
.....  ..... ....  .... .....  ...* S  ..... ..... ME a" ..SUU   MENEM ....UW     MENEM
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. SPILLOVER INVESTMENTS
1. TRACK REHABILITATION
____________________
64.5Km AIIAN-BATN EL GHUL            3.90  1.47    -    - 5.37   4.41  1.78    -    - 6.19   11.02          5.93      16.95
Sub-Total TRACK REHABILITATION          3.90  1.47    -    - 5.37   4.41  1.78    -    - 6.19   11.02          5.93      16.95
2. INFRASTRUCTURE
_____________
SIGNALLING. 5 STATIONS               1.05 0.27             1.32   1.19 0.33         -    1.51   2.90        1.24       4.14
Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTURE                1.05 0.27    -    - 1.32   1.19 0.33    -    - 1.51   2.90             1.24       4.14
3. MISCELLANEOUS
,___________
PERMANENT WAY MACHINERY              0.49    -             0.49   0.55    -           - 0.55    1.51           -       1.51
Sub-Total MISCELLANEOUS                 0.49    -    -    - 0.49   0.55    -    -    - 0.55    1.51              -        l.Sl
Sub-Total SPILLOVER INVESTMENTS            5.44  1.74    -    - 7.18   6.15 2.10    -    - 8.25   15.43           7.17      22.60
3. PROJECT
1. AQABA WORKSHOP EXTENSION
EQUIPMENT                               - 0.16 0.10    - 0.56        - 0.55  0.13    - 0.68    1.88            -       1.88
CIVIL WORKS                          0.36  1.41 0.16    - 1.93   0.41  1.70 0.20    - 2.31   1.27           5.07       6.34
Sub-Total AQABA WORKSHOP EXTENSION      0.36  1.87 0.26    - 2.49   0.41  2.25  0.34    - 3.00   3.14          5.07       0.21
2. TRACK RENEWAL
31.4Km RUM-AQABA                        - 2.59 0.39    - 2.99        - 3.13  0.51    - 3.64   6.48          3.49       9.97
30bK HASSA-JEROUF
JOIRMAN-rA'M                       - 0.20  1.68  1.04 2.92       - 0.24  2.18  1.45 3.86   6.88        3.70       10.58
40Xm lATt EL GHUL-DISI                  - 0.52 2.92 0.31  3.75       - 0.63  3.78 0.43 4.84   8.61          4.64      13.25
Sub-Total TRACK RENEWAL                   - 3.31  4.99  1.35 9.65       - 3.99  6.47  1.88 12.34  21.97       11.83      33.80
3. TRACK KUCHINERY                         - 0.60    -    - 0.60        - 0.66    -    - 0.66    1.81            -        1.81
4. 90 PHOSPHATE WAGONS                  0.32 2.82    -    - 3.14   0.33  3.09    -    - 3.42   9.38               -       9.38
5. 1 BREAKOIX CtANE                       - 0.32    -    - 0.32         - 0.35    -    - 0.35   0.97             -         .s97
6. LOCOMDTIVE REHABILITATION
SPARE PARTS                             - 0.53  0.01    - 0.54        - 0.58  0.01    - 0.59   1.59         0.03       1.62
Sub-Total LOCOMOTIVE REHABILITATION        - 0.53 0.01    - 0.54        - 0.58 0.01    - 0.59    1.59          0.03       1.62
Sub-Total PRWET                           0.68 9.45  5.26  1.35 16.75   0.74 10.92  6.82  1.88 20.36  38.85     16.93      55.78
Scarce; ARC
Ny 1984



-78-                                                   TTble 10
Page 2 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Railway Investumnt Forecasts. 196-87
Oetailed Cost Table
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont
(USS Million)
Base Costs            Totals Including Contingencies  ------_-______           
(JD Million)                     (JD Millien)                        Local
___ __         _          _     _      _ __ _ _ _ __ ___-_ ____------_----- ---  _ --  Far.  (Excl.
1984  1985  1986  1987  Total   1984  1985  1986  1987  Total   Exch.        Taxes)       Total
in.... _ss. a .... .n.... ..u.  _.u... ...u.. ..u... ....u  ....u.   .....   *uu
C. OTHER NEW INVESTMENTS
1. INFRASTAUCTURE
______________
1K  AQABA RUNWAY SIDING                 0.10  0.63     -     -  0.74    0.12  0.76      -     -  0.88    0.60         1.81        2.41
1.lKr EL-AMYAD LOOP                         -  0.29     -     -  0.29        -  0.35     -     -  0.35    0.10         0.86        0.96
RECONSTRUCTION
EL-HASSA NINE STATION                    - 0.16      -     -  0.16        -  0.19     -      -  0.19    0.13        0.39         0.51
Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTURE                    0.10  1.09     -      -  1.18    0.12  1.30     -      -  1.42    0.83        3.06         3.88
2. WORKSHOPS
EXTENSION MA'AN WORKSHOP                 0.13  0.06     -      -  0.20    0.15  O.K      -      -  0.23    0.19        0.44         0.62
MODERNIZATION PERM. WAY WORKSHOP            -  0.08  0.03     -  0.11        -  0.10  0.04      -  0.14    0.06        0.31         0.38
Sub-Total WORKSHOPS                         0.13  0.15  0.03     -  0.31    0.15  0.18  0.04       -  0.37    0.26        0.74         1.01
3. MISCELLANEOUS
===_________
RECREATION CENTERS
WAiM AND AQABA                        0.08  1.04  0.47     -  1.59    0.09  1.25  0.61      -  1.95    1.60         3.74         5.34
PERMANENT WAY MACHINERY                  0.09 0.05      -     -  0.15    0.11  0.06      -      -  0.17    0.46           -         0.46
OTHER MACHINERY                             -  0.12     -      -  0.12       -  0.15     -      -  0.15    0.41           -         0.41
Sub-Total MISCELLANEOUS                     0.18  1.21  0.47      -  1.86    0.20  1.46  0.61      -  2.27    2.47        3.74         6.21
Sub-Total OTHER NEW INVESTMENTS                0.42  2.44  0.50      -  3.35    0.47  2.94  0.65      -  4.05    3.57         7.U4       11.11
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                            6.54 13.63  5.76  1.35 27.28    7.36 15.97  7.46  1.88 32.66   57.84          31.65       89.49
..i........ inininin. _t.0  Uinin.in ......*.. .....  G          s          u     .       i.....
Total                                              6.54 13.63  5.76  1.35 27.28    7.36 15.97  7.46  1.88 32.66   57.84          31.65       89.49
.u..*iniin*  .s  a.....  M~u..aa   snau  55.in.uuu  .U uas .-
Source: ARC
May 1984
30110/26



-79-
JORDAN                                                     TABLE 11
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
k PRPOSED MULTI-NODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Railway Sensitivity Analysis
Unit             1984        1985       1986        1987        1988        1989       1990
A. AS FORECAST IN SAR
1. Traffic                          Million Tonnes       2.7         3.0         3.7        4.0         4.4         4.4         4.4
2. Tariff                           JD per Tonne         2.23        2.34        2.45        2.58       2.71        2.84        2.98
3.  Operating Ratio                     Z                87          82          78          77         69          69          70
4. Net Operating Income*            ID Million           0.8         1.3         2.G         2.4        3.7         3.9         4.1
5. Interest on Borrowed Capital  JD Million              1.1         1.4         1.9        2.1         2.1         1.9         1.6
6.  Balance 4-5. (-)                JD Million           (0.3)       (0.1)       0.1        0.3         1.6         2.0         2.5
7. Dividend on Equity Capital           2                -           -           0.3        0.7         3.2         3.5         3.9
S. Traffic +10% p.a.; Tariff as in 'A'
1. Traffic                          Million Tonnes       3.0         3.3         4.1        4.4         4.8         4.8         4.8
2. Tariff                           JD per Tonne         2.23        2.34        2.45        2.58       2.71        2.84        2.98
3.  Operating Ratio                     2                81          76          74          72         65          64          65
4.  Met Operating IncomeC           JD Million           1.3         1.9         2.7         3.2        4.7         5.0         5.2
5.  Interest on Borrowed Capital  JD Million             1.1         1.4         1.9         2.1        2.1         1.9         1.6
6.  Balance 4-5. (-)                JD Million           0.2         0.5         0.8         1.1         2.6        3.1         3.6
7.  Dividend on Equity Capital          Z                0.8         1.5         2.0         2.4        5.1         5.5         5.7
C. Traffic +10Z p.a.; Tariff -5Z
1.  Traffic                         Million Tonnes       3.0         3.3         4.1         4.4        4.8         4.8         4.8
2.  Tariff                          JD per Tonne         2.12        2.12        2.12        2.12        2.12       2.12        2.12
3.  Operating Ratio                     Z                83          83          85          86         83          87          91
4.  Net Operating Income*           JD Million           1.1         1.2         1.3         1.3         1.8        1.4         0.9
5.  Interest on Borrowed Capital  JD Million             1.1         1.4         1.9         2.1        2.1         l.9         1.6
6. Balance 4-5, (-)                 JD Million           -           (0.2)       (0.6)       (0.8)       (0.3)      (0.5)       (0.7)
7.  Dividend on Equity Capital          Z                -           --          -           -          -           -           -
D. Traffic +lOZ p.a.; Tariff  5Z p-.a.
1.  Traffic                         Million Toxnes       3.0         3.3         4.1         4.4        4.8         4.8         4.8
2.  Tariff                          JD per Tonne         2.34        2.46        2.58        2.71        2.84       2.98        3.13
3.  Operating Ratio                     Z                77          68          70          69         61          61          62
4.  Net Operating Income*           JD Million           1.6         2.3         3.2         3.8         5.4        5.7         5.9
5.  Interest on Borrowed Capital  JD Million             1.1         1.4         1.9         2.1        2.1         1.9         1.6
6.  Balance 4-5, (-)                JD Million           0.5         0 9         1.3         1.7         3.3        3.8         4.3
7.  Dividend on Equity Capital          2                2.0         2.6         3.2         3.7         6.5        6.7         6.8
E.  Traffic -102; Tariff as in 'A'
T. T-affic                          Million Tonnes       2.4         2.7         3.3         3.6        4.0         4.0         4.0
2.  Tariff                          JD per Tonne         2.23        2.34        2.45        2.58        2.71       2.84        2.98
3.  Operating Ratio                     z                95          89          85          83          75         75          75
4.  Net Operating Income*           JD Million           0.3         0.7         1.3         1.6         2.7        2.8         3.0
5.  Interest on Borrowed Capital JD Million              1.1         1.4         1.9         2.1         2.1        1.9         1.6
6.  Balance 4-5, (-)                JD Million           (0.8)       (0.7)       (0.6)       (0.5)       0.6        0.9         1.4
7.  Dividend on Equity Capital          x                -           --          -           -           1.2        1.6         2.2
F. Traffic -102; Tariff -52
1.  Traffic                         Million Tonnes       2.4         2.7         3.3         3.6        4.0         4.0         4.0
2.  Tariff                          JD per Toenn         2.12        2.12        2.12        2.12        2.12       2.12        2.12
3.  Operating Ratio                     Z                98          97          99          101         95          101        106
4.  Net Operating Incoe*           JD Million           0.1         0.2         0.1         (0.1)       0.4        -           (0.5)
5.  Interest on Borrowed Capital  JD Million             1.1         1.4         1.9         2.1         2.1        1.9         1.6
6.  Balance 4-5, (-)                JD Million           (1.0)       (1.2)       (1.8)       (2.2)       (1.7)      (1.9)       (2.1)
7.  Dividend on Equity Capital          2                -           -           -           -           --         -           -
G. Trarfic -10Z; Tariff .5Z p.a.
1.  Traffic                         Million Tonnes       2.4         2.7         3.3         3.6        4.0         4.0         4.0
2.  Tariff                          JD per Tonne         2.34        2.46        2.57        2.70        2.84       2.98        3.13
3.  Operating Ratio                     Z                90          85          81          79          72         72          72
4. Net Operating In.._oe*           JD Million           0.6         i.0         1.7         2.1         3.2        3.4         3.6
5.  Interest on Borrowed Capital  JD Million             1.1         1.4         1.9         2.1         1..         1.9        1.6
6.  Balance 4-5, (-)                JD Million           (0.5)       (0.4)       (0.2)       --          1.1        1.5         2.0
7.  Dividend on Equity Capital          S                -           -           --          -           2.2        2.6         3.2
* After ueeting running expenses and depreciation.
Source: ARC & Hissicn estimates
March 1984



-80-                                TAW  12
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Port Traffic and Projections
(m. tonnes '000s)
I pdrts                                                       Estimated         Forecast
(Incl. Transit)   1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982      1913      1984    1985    1990
General cargo       588     508     590     574   2,116   2,530    1,634      2,785   3,065    3,930
Grain               206     224     374     394     696   1,225    1,687       1,855   2,040    3,280
Flour               101      86      92     116     210      43       65          72      80      125
Sugar                 -      94      76     174     375     336      344        370-   406        650
Misc. Bagged         52      72      80     223     425     618      592         680     750    1,190
Iron/Steel          168     152     412     388     562     775      615        700      790    1,295
Cement              206     391     628     623   1,157   1,408      879        300        -        -
Hin. Oil             13      12       i      44     105     626      110         185     195        -
Veg. Oil             10      11      17      20      97      190      94         120     135      150
Constr. Mat.          -       -      30      68      61      86      132         140     160      200
other                                                                214
Subtotal         1,389   1,550   2,301   3,024   5,804   7,837    6,366       7,207   7,621   11,820
(of which
transit is       (101)   (114)   (161)   (941) (3.030) (4,166)  (3,030)
(7M)    (7%)    (7M)   (31%)   (52Z)   (532)   (48Z)
Exports
Phosphate             -   2,095   2,684   3,562   3,446   3,562    3,700       3,550   3,800    6,800
Potash                -       -       -       -       -      70      335       1,050   1,280    1,780
Fertiliser            -       -       -       -       -      82      312         750     825      785
Fuel Oil              -       -       -       -       -       -      300         500       -        -
Other                 -      13      24      13      85      82        -         400     680    1,070 *
Subtotal              -   2,108   2,708   3,575   3,531   3,796    4,647      6,850   6,585   10.435
Total             1,389   3,658   5,009   6,599   9,335  11,633   11,013      14,057  14,206   22,255
* Cement, industrial -sterials.
Source: Port Corporation
November 1983
3011D/15



-81-
TABLE 13
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Container Import Traffic through Aqaba Port
Local Traffic      Transit Traffic       Total Traffic
(TEU) 1/           (TEU) I/              (TEU) 1/
1977                3,501              1,056                  4,557
1978                9,041              2,488                 11,529
1979               14,342              2,40%)                16,742
1980               18,425              2,840                 21,265
1981               29,030             12,614                 41,644
1982               33,984             20,191                 54,175
1983               28,500              8,500                 37,000
(Estimated)
1/ Twenty feet equivalent units.
Source; Port Corporation
November 1983
3011D/42



JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL UPORT OF
A MULTI-HODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Hishways Iz41ementation Schedule
ITEM                            ACTIVITY                  ACTION BY       CY 1983      CY 1984       CY 1985      CY 1986       CY 1987      CY 1988
1. MAu LON         1.01    Negotiations                    Govt/Bank         IT T T I       a                     I  I I I                        11
1.02    Signature Loan Agree_ nt       Govt/Bank
1.03    Loane  ffectivenees            Govt/Bank          I            I             I            I             I            II*
1.04    Loan Closing Date              Govt/Bank
2. ROUTINE         2.01    Prepare Program                 Govt/Conalt       I  >'5't"       -          I  I  I       I  I  I      I  I  I       I  I  I
MAINTENANCE    2.02    Implement Program               Govt/Conslt       I  I  I       I           .                                                --
3. PERIODIC        3.01   FlinAl Engineering               Govt/Bank         I                                                     I L
MAINTEKANCE    3.02    Prepare Bid Documents           Govt/Bank         I                                                     !      . I
3.03    Advertisement & Prequalifta   Govt/Bank                                                   i
3.04    Prepare aide                   Cetrs                                         i      I_II
3.05    Evaluation of lids             Govt/Bank                                                                I             I_I
3.06    Contract Award(s)              GIovtI                                                                                I i_
3.07    Construction                   Govt/CctriII
4.IGUHWAY          4.01    Prepare Spece & Bid Docsts.   Govt/lank
MAINTENANCE     4.02    Advertisement                   Covt
EQUIPNENTS      4.03    Prepare Bids                    suppliers
TRAIFIC &       4.04    Evaluation of Bids              Govt/Bank            I          I      l          I        I             I             I
PAVEZENT        4.05    Contract Avard(s)               Govt              I  I                       |
TESTING EQWT.   4.06    Equipment Supply                Suppliere         I   Is
5. TECHNICAL       5.01    Prepare Terms of Reference    Govt/lank                                               I   I
ASSISTANCE      5.02    Advertisement                   Govt
5.03    Evaluation and Rscruit.ent    Govt/lank           I            I          _       I       I             III     I
5.04    Execution of Services          Consultants
6. TRAINING        6.01    Selection of Courses            Govt/Bank         I  I       *
6.02    Selection of Trainees          Govt
6.03    Trainees Attendance            Trainees             0 I  I     I          * I    i     "                I e
7. CIVIL WORKS      7.01    Update vinal Engineering       Covt/Conelt
7.02    Prepare Bid Documtnte          Govt/lank
7.03    Advertisemeat & Prequalifetn  Govt/lank          i  i  i
7.04    Prepare Lide                   Cctrs.                                        '                          III
7.05    Evaluation of lids                                                                        iii            iI i        ian
7.06    Contract Award                 Oovt
7.07    construction                   Contractor                                        t         t           t             I  I I
301 IDJ36



JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Rai1ways Imolementatlon Schedule
SL.           CRIPT                                                  19 84                     1 9 a1                     1 98a6                    1 9 87
No( |   D E 5 C R I P T I O N                               J F M A N J J A S O N D  J F N A M J J A S O N D  J F K A   3 J A S O N 0  J F H A 1NJ J A SO N D
1.   PREPARATION OF TENDER                                          _
2.   DESPATCH TO BANK                                                 -
3.   BANK APPROVAL                                                       _
4.   NAILING COMMENTS BY SANK                                             U
5.   INCORPORATION OF REPLY TO
BANK CONMENTS
6.   NOTIFICATION IN NEWSPAPERS                                              U
7.   BIDDING PERIOD
S.   6DI  EVALUATION
9.   NAILING  10 EVALUATION TO BANK K
10.  BANK CONSENT FOR CONTRACT AWARD                                                     *
11.  SIGNING OF CONTRACT                                                                  *
12.  NAILING OF CONTRACT TO BANK
13.  BANK APPROVAL                                                                              4/30)
14.  EFFECTIVENESS OF CONTRACT
TRACK RENEWALs RUN-AQABA
15.  LEAD TINE
16.  DELIVERY PERIOD                                                                                               (1/31)
17. EXECUTION/INSTALLATION
(11/15>    *     R(4/30)
TRACK RENEWALS EL-HASSA - JEROUF S JOURDAN MA'AN
18.  LEAD TINE
19.  DELIVERY PERIOD
20.  EXECUTION/INSTALLATION                                                                                                                          (4/30)
(0/31
TRACK RENEWALs  DATN - EL-GHUL - DISI                                                                                                                                    .
21.  LEAD TINE                                                                                                    1115)
22.  DELIVERY PERIOD
23. EXECUTION/ INSTALLATION
'____________________________________________________     ______________________     ___________________   _                (10 /1*              (4/30 )
30110/p. 37



JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-NOOE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Railway Items on which the loan wi11 be disbursed
1.   TRACK RENEWAL                       Line                                                                                       Loan Allocation        Disburse-
Length   Rails      Sleepers  Fastenings  Fishplates   Anti-Creep  Anti-Warp                 JD          US$         went
Line                               (m        (Tonnes) (Pieces) 1  Sets         ) .PEirs   )  (Pieces)         (sets)        million    million  S
Rum.Aqaba                           31.4      3,400    60,000          -           1,200           -          20,000
Hassa-Jerouf, Jourdan-Na'an         30.0    3,250    56,000           9,000        1,160         18,000       19,000
Satn El Ghul-Disi                   40.0   -4335        75.800                   1.J 533           *          19,000
Subtotal                           101.4   10,985    191.800          9,000       3,883         18,000        58.000          6.03        16.52
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                                1.55
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                   3.55
Subtotal                                                                                                                                  21.72            91         m
2.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STAFF TRAINING                                                                                        0.07         0.20           100
Sub-Total Railways - Excluding contingencies                                                                                  6.10        16.72
Physical contingencies                                                                                             1.65
Price contingencies                                                                                   -            3.55
TOTAL RAILWAYS                                                                                                                8.00        21.92            91
1/ Concrete sleepers with fastenings.
2/ Includes 4,000 wooden sleepers without fastenings.
November 1983
(3011D/21)



-85-                                 TABLE 17
STAF APPRAISAL REPOK CP
A M]LTI-HME TRANSP0Kr PROJECr
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal              IffiJaYS                  RAILWAYS                   7UIAL
Year and Quarter     Quart     CCumlative    Quarterly  Cimulative    Quarterly  Cunmlative
1985
IIIm  arch l985                                        -                   -          -
IV  June 1985          -            -            1.6         1.6           1.6         1.6
1986
I   Sept. 1985         0.1          0.1          -           1.6           0.1         1.7
la  Dec. 1985          0.2          0.3          1.6         3.2           1.8         3.5
IIM  March 1986        0.3          0.6          1.6         4.8           1.9         5.4
IV  June 1986          1.0          1.6          2.5         7.3           3.5        8.9
1987
i   Sept. 1986          1.0         2.6          2.5         9.8           3.5        12.4
Il  Dec. 1986          -            2.6          3.0        12.8           3.0        15.4
I31 March 1987          1.2         3.8          3.0        15.8           4.2        19.6
IV  June 1987           1.0         4.8          2.0        17.8           3.0        22.6
1988
I   Sept. 1987         -            4.8          1.5        19.3           1.5        24.1
II  Dec. 1987          1.1          5.9          0.2        19.5           1.3        25.4
III March 1988          1.1         7.0          0.2        19.7           1.3        26.7
IV  June 1988          -            7.0          0.2        19.9           0.2        26.9
1989
I   Sept. 1988          1.2         8.2          0.1        20.0           1.3        28.2
la  Dec. 1988           1.3         9.5          -          20.0           1.3        29.5
II  Merch 1989         -            9.5          -          20.0           -          29.5
IV  June 1989          0.1          9.6          -          20.0           0.1        29.6
1990
I   Sept. 1989         0.1          9.7          -          20.0           0.1        29.7
I   Dec. 1989          0.1          9.8          -          20.0           0.1        29.8
II  March 1990         0.1          9.9          -          20.0           0.1        29.9
IV  June 1990          0.1         10.0          -          20.0           0.1        30.0
1/ loan effectiveness date mot later than October 31, 1984.



86-
Tale 13
aman
STAFF APPRAISAL EPORT OF
A 8011-ICOE IWANSPOST PROECT
ARCs Incose Sttatat
(ao .000)
For nanrs adi   Decer 31
1979     1990        1981        1982        1983     194        1985        1986       197        138S       1989       199
ewratir  Revenes
Phsphate freght I                    1.480    2.266       2.945       4.529        5.300     5724       6360       7844      a8          9328       9328        932
et_i                                    10        6           -          16S         170      180        190        200        210        220        230         240
Propoed Twriff Adjustmets                -       -          _          ,  -         -         13         62        1236        1827       2577       3172       3797
Total                           1.490    2.2m2       2.945       4.696        5.470     6047       7202       9280       10517      12125      12730      13365
eerating tumemses
Peranel cists ai beeits                567      332       1.037        1.304       1.350     156       1780       2007       2137       2244        240        2517
Caeultacy srvices                      112      165         1go         333          520      450        470        490        S10
Fuel ad    e_ricants                   400      233         487          525         641      758        7U2        902        1014       1107       1107       1101
N.sauice                               373      Z69         313         270          550      600        660        726        799        318         96S       1063
scell _os                              276      265         242           e          4o       420        440        460        48D        SW         520         540
opre Iattn                                                                                   1545       17s0       2600       3106       356        3751        3950
ad write-offs                        972      975       I1 3 Y          831 4Y    1.?3      _        _             94         94         94         94         94
Total                           2.700    2.739 Y    3.273 _/    5.552         4.C4      5279      s562        7279       3140       Ml          M1        932l
Net Oprating Imcimflelss)           -1.210     -467        -328        -8S4          826      768       1340       2001       2378       3734       339        4045
Nm-beratimn Its
Intrst paats                           633      m           80          am2          852     1126       1618       1917       2119       2055       1924        1546
Zet i.co./(less)                    -1.843   -1.147      -1.138      -1.656          -26     -35B        -73         54        259        1679       196S       2499
Opratig ratio S                   l8      121         111          118          aS       87         81         78         77         69         69          70
VerkgqratioS                      116       78          77          53           63       62         57         49         47         39         39          39
Netw. - Net Fixed Assets 1                                                    2.3         2.2        3.1        3.6        3.7        5.5        5.7         5.9
J/ At twiff rates establshd -n Januar  1. 19E2. md crrmetly in
existence (pare. 2.36).
/ Sam          ts do not ftuily reflect all expases.
3/ Deprlatie  effective July 16. 1981. Sian fixed assets we recalculated
ad reestablished.
A Dprciation rates ue  In 1982 w     higher thm appropriate; these
sre celd to appropriate rates i 1383 (par. 5.02).



-87-
TABLE19
JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A MULTI-NODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
ARC -  Projected Statement  of SourceB and Application of Fund.
(JD '000)
1984       1985        1986       1987        1988        1989       1990
OPERATING REVENUES
INTERNALLY GENERATED:
Net Opersting Income                               768        1340       2001        2378        3734       3889        4045
Add - Depreciation and Write Offs                 1545        1750        2694       3200        3662       3845        4044
Sub-total                                 2313       3090        4695        5578       7396        7734       8089
GOVERNMENT GRANS
Financing Proposed Project                        1040        2520        2760       1430
Finascing Other Investments                       6750        5020        640
Debt Service Support                               750         750
Sub-total                                 8540       8290        3400        1430
BORR0WINGS
Proposed Project - IBRD                                       1750       4450        1100
Proposed Project - IDB                             330        3100
Proposed Project - Other Cofinanciers              185        1532         377         96
Sub-total                                  515       6382        4827        1196
Other Investments - SDF and IDB                   1410
Sub-total                                 1925       6382        4827        1196
TOTAL SOURCES                            12778      17762       12922        8204       7396        7734        8089
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
INVESTMENTS
Proposed Project - Fixed Assets                   2080        9980       6260        1880
Proposed Project - Tech Ast 6 Training                         110         180        180
Other Investments                                 8160        5020        640
Sub-total                                10240      15110        7080        2060
DEBT SERVICE
Proposed Project- Repayment of Principal                                   570        570        1397       1397        1397
- Interest&Other Charges           36         319         890       1172        1182        1099       1016
Sub-total                                   36        319        1460        1742       2579        2496       2413
Existing Debt S Otber Investments
- Repayment of Principal           1802       2030        2188       2188        1994        1764       1256
- Interest                        1090        1099        1027        947         873        825         530
Sub-total                                 2892       3129        3215        3135       2867        2589       1786
Total Debt Service Payments               2928       3448        4675        4877       5446        5085       4199
WORKING CAPrITL REQUIREMENTS-Excluding Cash
Increase/(Decrease)                                141        -217        266         448         235        204         261
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                       13309      18341       12021        7385       5681        5289       4460
CASH POSITION
Annual Surplus/(Deficit)                          -531        -579         901        818        1715       2445        3628
Opening Balance                                   1251
Closing Balance at Year End                        720         141        1042       1861        3576       6021        9649
Debt Service Coverage                              0.8         0.9        1.0         1.1         1.4        1.5         1.9



-88-
J__                                                                         Table 20
SEW ANPRM3AL Me 
A NUt-MXE 13MW IICIC
AFC's 8lm. Suet
(J  'OOD)D
AM at Dam-br 31.
1979      19B0        1981      1982       19B3     198        1985       19J6       197        igm       1989       1990
Caret SA
Cah                                  387        660        285    1,633       1,251       72D        141      ID42       1u61       3576       601       9649
Accmu  raceivtbla                    Z79        529        642       512        456       517       616        793        899       1036      l188       1142
Stoe                                 589       9;1       1,595    1,524       1,600      160D    1764         I5         195        2041      2144       2251
OderW                                603        569        161       958      1,COQ      ID0        M00       1000       10I        1000      10        1000
Sb-Tbtnl                      1.85      2.6S       2.63    4.627        4.307      3917       352D      4688       5705       7654      10253     14043
pim a a
lad                                    -         35         35        35         35        35        35         35         35         35         35        35
ltenc  S y                        20,673    20,673      17.591   17.752    26,064    26716        3U754      39212      4843       54         51316     52599
aDidiup                              964       969         227       265        9Z0       989       1473      5923       6367      65         7358      7910
lncndves                               -         -       5,874    5.874       6,315      6789       7878      8179       9115       9799      10534     11324
qa                                     -          -      3,399     3,399      3,654      5528      9363      10065                 11632      12504     13442
{>micadau Sjit                         -         -         451       459        493       53D      2060       2215       2381       2560       2752      2958
p1st a4 meddnaq                    7,115 .Y   7,127        736       784        843      1626      3448       3847       4136       4446       4779      5137
Tlol. ad FuaiFnt & lmmitmn            33         5B        373      5Sl         235       591       635        682        733        78B        847       910
St-'Ibtol                    25.786    28,862      2,686   29,079       38,873    40          59646     70156      8m430      86169     90125      94315
sm: Ascumated dereciatimu          3.649     4.625       1.01      3.845      5,028      6573      8323      10923      14029      17597      21348     2529B
itt riad Aset               25,1.36    24,237     27,672   25,WI 33,H45    36231             51323     59533      68401      68S72      677
Add: hit in 1,p94             6     .,8    3             3.455  4.36B             -      792        7950      67n7
S& tal                       27.077    31.075      31.137   29.602      33.815    44151      59273      66306      684D1      68S72      68777     69017
Thdmical Assiati  A    1rinivg         -         -           -         -          -                  l         l          282        Is                    -
efierted Chae.
'CM  ASS                     28.935    33,764       33.83    34.229    3B.152    48066        62903      M90       743B8      76414      79124     83060
Carat U;tUid
An pyt1le                            633      1,301        243    1,731   8D      0       85)       200       12D0        950        950        900D      8m
Care portio of  D Z                    -      2.22        1.994    1.297      1.l)2      20D       2758       2758       3391       3161       2653      2553
Sb-Total                        633      3,521      2,237     3.028      2.602      283D       395B      3958       4341       4m         3553      333
PerCarawet limUtieis
a-tm  debt                        22.066    21.474      22.86    22,818    21,297    21192        24816      26885      24690      21529      18B7M     1632
CqI;rtl                           13,235    16,915       9,92     11.271    15,346    23886        32176     35576      37006      37W6       37006     37006
k'uulaatia tee                         -         -           -                1,291.     2902      4774       7507      128        14567      18323     22713
lAtined PA i
(hAou.ltad   1_mm.)          (6.999)   (8.146)    (1t231)  (2.8)    (2.384)   -2742          -2821      -2736      -2477       -799      U166       3665
SheIaa 6,                                8.769      8.697    81         i,193    24046       3412       40347      45357      50774      56695     G384
lOL L      1* M AS  NWDY  28.935    33,7            33.8     34 229    38.152    4068         62903      niio      7UBB       7641       791Z4     83m0
D*tAlquty Ratio (1)                78/22      71V        72/18    73/27       62/38      46/54     4159       40/60      341/66     29/71     25n3       21/79
Caret Ratio (Cart a..eat/           2.9       0.8         LI        1.5        1.7        IA        0.9        L2         L3         1.9        2.9       4.2
a  lt itid)
if cl tud       lain. t-e- ar   a
l     lag-t     debt



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Ministy Of Public Wors
Organizatlon Chart
| MRStw do|
DePoftffwtd  Mkaca  Dq""ent of  Central            &~ ~ ~~~~~Lec~                             epamv~ c
| t d | | M | Depot                         d                                                               &11shLeo  wItI td |
Rus c              A|   Tt*         Dsg & D Row |    jO91 &*iA |    |-                    
   D 1 d  |              J ~~~~~~Moh,tenance|    ep              Pti                                             Cc n
DC1t Engw       D3ftt Ergtrkt I                  dtrict EFigkw ID(s   tEnOgke |
I        I I   ~~~SALT                           V  MN II KAR" IL  
WAd Bonk - 25821
rt
I-



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
District Engineer, Mlnstry d Public Works
OrganIzation Chart
Tr.| OIV  Ti Ol%                             Yr Olir    Yr Olt  r                     rl    .    Olv
AJP Oat. Cr1 A#~ Diii Opi Lom      D41 gh mmpimx Aip                fYr.Dtivr                                         Lodeb ",r
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
tDWlde
Moh~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fe
I~~~~~~~~'C .  I
Aw DM. Op.Aw CW. Op    Looftow.Aw CM, Om 9th3dfat |W w       of  p                     WAm  M p, Lotw
IB _ Tr.    R . rw l r.              Droer T.Ddr  .. TrNO.                                  Dh L. |b .
4 Lbn      4 Labm                                4 aXnv      4en' ...                             4tcn
V*cd krF - 2aB22
n



-91-       Chart 3
1-1   i
it~~~~~~~i
Lu a
I0
2
bj~~~~~~  S~~~
q-oI  II          I i
,<  rS3        X 1~~~~~~~~~~~~
9 ~~~p]Ii



tHE PORtS CORPORATION
Proposed OtgonkzaHon Chaff
Ar  t      "NO     Ar A                                  r     )WW  De6yD%r^C-roclw F
-oe c.Ps                                                            ----------~-{E 4                   .
)~~~~~--- - - -t L- -} - W
Cai~~~~rnomf A-   A                  toho
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tc hJ .0
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~ &A co oaf
sacr                      " 
C_._w d 3                                                             WSd-w2



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _   _  _  _                                          tURD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IB   17S23
C                                                                                                  -       I~~~~8AcY 2W.-  1
i           L E B A N O N j                                                                               3W                               Io,
S  Y  R  I A  N          A  R  A  B
|   t  X                ~~R  E  P  U  B  L  I  C                  .
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.gS~~~wm~_af &WP                                                              PI \\3'/
JORDAN
VIC,           i                                                          MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
/  1t  J} eAbadt   ,"                             \                                                                   at>.~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pnwyba
a/  A                                                                                                 Tw a =F
_3* i     i4s1Nb/             CdOil Rbfisn,     D
I~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                                  ~      ~       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IN - _my~   Pl    Ros
,/__- ,Rwy s os
Yr                  NS                                                                                                          Oi Uo my I  o AR               A3.r-~~'~~
mLwm0      20      10      50     50
~Lfs0    la   20   30    A0   5v0
.00-- 
j.r              ~~~AU  DI2...           A  R       A   BIA                                                37*  5                               5



IBRD 18002
MARCH 19f34
/        rO Sofi and Aqoba Airoorr
ISRAEL                                                                           r To Amman andMatn
I~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wadi Yutum
Mountainous
> . /gAqaba               A roo      
DAILY TRAFFIC                             JORDAN
e  /^  1983- 2500     /MULTI -MODE
1990 -3800
N.    jg                     12000-5500                   TRANSPORT  PROJECT
Existing'*   
Con tin                                   /10                        Project Roads and
Port 7:  /Kilometer Marks
0_                              -     Existing Roads and
A         Kilometer Marks
'25                 />                             ---  Planned Road
Built-up Areas
International Boundaries
Tourist .\30             20                                 0                                8
Area                                                        I  I   I   I        I   I   I
ANNUAL AVERAGERS
DAILY TRAFFIC                          KLMTR
1983 - 200
1990 -500                              3    k            36-
2000 - 1100                4SRAEL-
35                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~300~                      300L
di 2  25                                                                     JORDAN
Tft MW Wodi 2mn PW  by                      A1fao Map Area
z~~~~~~~~~~~~f WOW enwvs swUfd exkm                                      6    L. 
farhe   aV                                  4    (L .  .........
Nk  *  'es is excbsuvice for oe
r   ads nes eojrheWs* bC lie
NjiaILMe ofwtheibA1w 
1120  DCO"ADmTh d  mW                                                   SAUDI
/A       _        ,                 ~O4 ow ft bendn Asr UB
On #U RW c nM :%*. n a*ARABIA
lif                                 Pwt Of Dhe R18_* ank . &W 02
ro robuk      oARAIrC cVamb ew ahaL                        ARAB                                2-
of t -W WTOY or aww
Jnsel orsceof         REPUBLIC
/such bourds-NmOF EGYPT
/ed Sea      + 36



IBRD 1793
.    FEBRUARY  1984
ISRAELI I0RDAM--'-
Primary Roads~~~~~~AR  BI 
_                                                                                                                              X, .                     _,_,_.J~~~~~S-. 
rinrtb~~~~ ~~~~~~~ %o                                                                                             0           0           0           0                                         __   Acimess Rond srvcRa
METERS                                                            clod
Ths NVP fl. ern p,.p'. dv DThe v5fdB.~ 3de  edv,E  o,# ne eeVC.ed  or -h                                                                                                                                                                                                           R.vnIrva
Fr. redf onhd a eeDJ wF For Fr. hn_t/   ll OF lOne SYOF r&  and h.n- kntenctoc ndFFOOeF
FOte,O  COFOO*OO.n The do An o ran   md.,,hd Ihe COUdtd Vdd S.OOr  pnehit    dO nor                                                                                                                                                                                     . -       ItrtlinI~udre
"rev* on In. p.m 01 tn. SI O.nn end no A d=3OneonaOn.o COrOccrerho.'F. it'dolFe
on the *9.1 afoOt Ol any I@Ferdr oW  r en endornemen or eoeOnn PI FI- C 5G  odonatne.o
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u






