D    _meu  of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
LAJ.2SLI63S TO
Rip.t N.. P-3851-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TEE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOREM
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LDAN
IN AN AmouNr EQuiVAIENT To  Us_3O0 mnLION
TO THE{
HASHE(rrE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
4,LTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
June 7, 1984
Thi decum  h  a reusicud dubut. an may be  ud by _ie  gmly in the pefmae of
their ecial dutie It P--PImu no .dwl.e be diand wihis Wee  Bmn   .'Izatim



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983           March 1984
Currency Unit                               Jordan Dinar                 JD
US $1.00                                       JD 0.363                0.369
JD 11.000                                      US$2.74                 $2.71
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JD1=$2.74
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MOF         =                   Ministry of Finance
mOI         =                   Ministry of Interior
IOT         =                   Ministry of Transportation
MIPW                            Ministry of Public Works
NPC         =                   National Planning Council
ARC         =                   Aqaba Railway Corporation
TPC         =                   The Ports Corporation
JPMC        =                   Jordan Phosphate Mining Company
ICB         =                   International Competitive Bidding
LIT         =                   Limiited International Tendering
Ro-Ro       =                   Roll on/roll off
NIS         =                   National Transport Study



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
JORDAN
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;                      The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiaries;                Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and Aqaba Railway
Corporatiou (ARC)
Amount;                        $30 million equivalent
Terms;                         Fifteen years, including a three-year grace
period, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms;               $20.0 million of the proceeds of the loan will
be relent to ARC on the same terms as the
proposed loan. ARC will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description;           The proposed project would relieve transport
bottlenecks and congestion on Jordan's
:nternational trade routes. It would thus
facilitate the movement of key commodities such
as phosphate, potash, fertilizer and cement, as
well as general cargo. The project would also
contribute to institutional development in the
transport sector, already initiated under the
earlier Back-financed transport project. The
highway component includes: (i) improvements to
routine and periodic road maintenance programs;
(ii) acquisition of traffic and pavement-testing
equipment; and (iii) construction of a 30-km
alignment on the Aqaba-Amman road and a 6-km
spur from this road to the port. The railway
component includes: Ci) extension of the Aqaba
workshop; (ii) renewal of about 101 km of track;
(iii) acquisition of track machinery, 90
phosphate wagons, and a breakdown crane; and
(iv) rehabilitation of four locomotives. In
addition, the project includes technical
assistance and training for highways, railways,
and the port. The project would benefiL a wide
range of transport users and international
trade. It would also support Jordan's energy
and environmental conservation efforts. The
project faces no special risk.
I This document has a rstricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
jof their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation-



Estimated Cost;*
Local      Fore--g      Total
_( Million)
Highway Component
Maintenance and maintenance equipment         15.7       13.0         28.7
Civil works                                   11.2       16.9         28.1
Railway Component
Aqaba workshop extension                       4.2        Z.6          6.8
Track renewal                                  9.2       17.2         26.4
Wagons                                         -          8.6          8.6
Equipment                                                 2.6          2.6
Locomotive rehabilitation                      -          1.5          1.5
Technical Assistance & Training
(Highway, Railway and Port)                    1.7        3.1         4.8
Base Cost                                         42.0       65.5        107.5
Physical contingencies                         4.1        5.2          9.3
Price contingencies                            6.4        9.6         16.0
Total Cost                                        52.5       890.3       132.8
Financing Plan;
Covernment of Jordan/TPC                          52.5       22.6         75.1
Proposed IBRD Loan                                 -         30.0         30.0
Saudi Fund for Development                         -         11.4         11.4
Islamic Development Bank                           -          9.3          9.3
Suppliers'/Export Credits                          _          7.0          7.0
Total Financing                                   52.5       80.3        132.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
($ Million)
Annual                         1.6   7.3    13.7    4.3    2.7    0.4
Cumulative                     1.6   8.9    22.6   26.9   29.6   30.0
Economic Rate of Return; 18 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4964-JO, dated May 21. 1984
*Excludes taxes and customs duties, from which the project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL BANRK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMfMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
- TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR A
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recammendation on a proposed Bank
loan, to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of $30.0 million equivalent to
help finance a Multi-FMode Transport Project- The loan would be for a
l5-year period, including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest
rate. The Government would relend $20.0 million of the proceeds of the loan
to the Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC) on the same terms as the Bank loan.
ARC would bear the foreign exchange risk. The Saudi Fund for Development
*         and the Islamic Development Bank are expected to contribute respectively
about S11.4 million and $9_3 million equivalent toward project financing.
Tne Government would contribute about $75.1 million and the baLance of
S7 million would be financed by suppliers' and export credits.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "Jordan - Review of the Five-Year Plan"
(No. 4129-JO, dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
June 1983. An economic mission visited the country in May/June 1983; its
findings have been included in the present text. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex 1.
3.       Jordan is a country of 2.4 million people (East Bank) with limited
natural resources and a traditionally service and trade-oriented economy.
It has enjoyed a high rate of growth and made good progress in developing
manufacturing production, increasing investment, and promoting exports.
This economic performance has taken place in the context of increasing trade
with neighboring countries, expanding inflow of remittances from Jordanians
working abroad, and substantial levels of foreign aid.
Recent Economic Developments
4.       Renewed stability following the disruptions of 1967-71, and the oil
boom in the region after 1973 created a climate conducive to sustained and
rapid economic growth during 1975-82, resulting in an average annual GDP
growth of over 10 percent in real terms. In 1982, GNP per capita reached
1,690. The upsurge of the economy was due to; (a) the rapid growth of the
mining and manufacturing sectors; (b) the sharp increase in construction,
particularly in housing and large public works; and {c) favorable external
*         'actors, including booming conditions in the Gulf countries.  While rainfed
agriculture suffered from a severe drought during the 1976-79 period and
more recently in 1981, vegetable and fruit production in the irrigated areas
increased significantly.
I/ Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report
(No. P-3792-JO) for the Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Loan,
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 7, 1984.



5.       The overall balance of payments remained strong despite a large
chronic deficit in merchandise trade. Exports of goods and non-factor
services increased by 32 percent annually at current prices from 1975 to
1981. This growth was due to high demand and prices for fruits and
vegetables in neighboring countries, booming exports of manufactured goods
and a sharp increase in receipts from tourism and other non-factor
services. Jordanian goods have been able to compete successfully in Middle
East markets because of the advantages of Arab Common Market and bilateral
agreements, the relatively good quality of the products, enterp-ising
marketing and the favorable geographical location. Although the growth in
the volume of imports was slower than that of exports, the resource gap
increased in current terms from $560 million in 1975 to about $2,318 million
in 1981.  These trade deficits, however, were fully compensated by factor
income and transfers from abroad. As a result, Government-guaranteed
external borrowing remained within reasonable limits and borrowing on
commercial terms was reduced to a modest level (para 15).
6.       Expenditure and domestic revenue of the Government both increased
at a rate of about 23 percent per annum through 1976-81. The overall budget
deficits were financed by a rising volume of grants from Arab countries
following the Baghdad Sumiit Conference in 1978. Current expenditures,
excluding defense, were covered by domestic revenues. Defense expenditures
were largely financed by foreign grants.
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings
and controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved, but
public savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of
defense expenditures. To promote domestic savings, greater discretion is
being allowed the Central Bank in adjusting interest rates and banking
commissions. Increases in deposit rates were effected and have resulted in
savings deposits increasing faster than money supply. Together with a
marked decline in inflation to an average 6 percent in 1982-83, these
increases have resulted in interest rates becoming substantially positive
again in real terms.
8.       In 1982, the rapid GNP growth slowed down to 7.4 percent, mainly as
a result of the slowdown in industry and construction. Exports and w&rkers'
remittances also stagnated, reflecting the deceleration in economic activity
in the neighboring oil producing countries. Appropriate Government policy
responses prevented this slowdown from creating balance of payments
problems. The Government reduced sharply the public investments following a
decline in grant aid, while private investments were slowed down by the near
stagnation of workers' remittances. Construction activity and imports of
machinery and equipment declined in parallel to investments. As a result of
investment cut-backs, the overall public finance deficit exceeded only
slightly the 1981 level, and foreign borrowing increased only moderately.
The overall balance of payments showed a deficit for the first time in four
years and foreign exchange reserves declined by some 12 percent, but
remained at over three months' imports.
9.       Several indicators point to a further slowdown in the overall
economic growth rate to about 6 percent (in real terms) in 1983, a
satisfactory performance considering the present unfavorable economic



environment; foreign grant aid was about 30 percent lower, workers'
remittances stagnated while exports of manufactured goods and of services to
neighboring countries declined. The effect of these negative factors was
exacerbated by a marked decline in exports of raw and processed minerals.
Imports also declined, in line with the sizable reduction in public and
private investments, while the Government has further intensified its
domestic resource mobilization efforts through cuts in subsidies and
improved collection of direct and indirect taxes. As a result, preliminary
estimates of the balance of payments show a 25 percent lower goods and
services deficit. It was covered by foreign grants and the proceeds of a
$225 million Eurodollar loan contracted in early 1983.
Medium-Term Prospects
10.      The current Plan (1981-85) aims at maintaining the rate of growth
of the economy close to that achieved during the previous plan. In terms of
the investment program, the Plan was ambitious-total investment would be
maintained at 33-35 percent of GNP, 53 percent of which is by the
Government. The announced strategy is LO Dursue the objectives of the last
decade, namely to; (a) reduce the heavy dependence on external assistance
while maintaining rapid growth; (b) diversify the economy by increasing
commodity production; (c) reduce the budget deficit; and (d) improve the
distribution of the benefits of growth.
11.      Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries and its impact on the availability of resources for
investment and public expenditures, continuing GDP growth in the 9-11
percent range would no longer appear feasible.   Projections on the basis of
revised assumptions indicate that a rate of 5-6 percent p.a. in real terms
appears more likely. It is assumed that a reduction will take place in the
exceptionally high investment rate experienced during the early 1980's
(40-45 percent of GNP). Industrial output, however, will benefit from the
completion of a number of major projects such as potash and fertilizer, now
at initial stages of production, and is likely to maintain an overall
average annual growth rate of about 10 percent. Barring serious disruptions
in agricultural output through unfavorable weather conditions, Jordan would
realize a significant increase in the share of commodity producing sectors
in total domestic output (from 38 percent to 43 percent) and thus
correspondingly reduce its traditional dependence on the services sector.
12.      Medium-term prospects for increasing exports remain promising.  The
completion of the major export-oriented industrial projects, together with
the enterprise displayed by the private sector, should result in significant
increases in foreign exchange earnings. In agriculture, the expected
increase in vegetable and fruit exports will, however, be more than offset
by growing imports of food, and the agricultural trade deficit would
probably increase. Even though merchandise exports are projected to
maintain a high rate of increase (13 percent p.a. at constant prices) while
imports would grow at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could
continue to increase and could exceed the $2.5 billion mark by 1984. In
relation to GNP, however, the resource gap is expected to show a significant
further decline (from 62 percent to 48 percent). Unlike the recent
experience, net workers' remittances and foreign grants, which are



- 4 -
likely to decline, may not be sufficient to meet the growing trade deficit.
Jordan therefore would have to rely more on external borrowing (para 16).
Social Issues
13.      Due to the substantial migration of Jordanians to neighboring
countries 2nd the rapid economic growth, the present labor market situation
has been characterized by selective manpower shortages. However, according
to the Bank's manpower projections demand and supply for labor in Jordan
might become more balanced throughout this decade with the possibility of an
emerging surplus of certain categories of skilled professionals.  In 1980,
out of the approximately 800,000 Jordanians (including Palestinians from the
West Bank) residing abroad, a little over 200,000 were estimated to be
workers, compared to a total domestic employment of about 440,000.  Domestic
employment includes a number of foreign workers currently estimated at about
125,000; half of these workers are unskilled. The country has expanded its
education and training system rapidly, to meet both domestic and external
needs. A comprehensive manpower and training plan is needed to help ensure
that: (a) the economy does not suffer from shortages of crucial skills,
while meeting prospective demand for skilled workers abroad as far as
possible; and (b) the potential labor force is utilized more
fully--especially the seasonally idle workers in rainfed areas and women,
whose participation, although growing fast, is still low. The Bank is
assisting the Government with a review of these matters.
14.      The Government has further emphasized social issues in the current
Five-Year Plan (1981-85). Although the social indicators provide a
relatively favorable reading in most sectors, social services are unevenly
distributed across income groups and between urban and rural areas. Thus,
while health infrastructure is adequate and life expectancy is relatively
high (61 years), medical doctors are concentrated in urban centers. Housing
remains a problem despite the boom in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs
have far exceeded the means of the lower income groups. The Government's
concern about these issues has led to the setting up of the new Ministry of
Social Affairs in November 1979 to define a coherent social development
program. The Bank has assisted the Government with reviews of the urban and
regional development issues.
External Assistance
15.      With the large chronic trade deficit offset by inflows of
remittances and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of
payments was on average in equilibrium through 1975-81. Net workers'
remittances increased from about $160 million in 1975 to about $900 million
in 1981 and 1982. Following the Baghdad Arab Summit Conference in November
1978, which pledged assistance of about $1.2 billion per year over a 10-year
period, net foreign grant aid rose from $400-500 million in 197J-78 to about
$1.3 billion in 1980 and 1981; it declined to some $1 billion in 1982. This
decline was the main reason for the current account deficit of over $330
million in that year. The external public debt outstanding and disbursed
reached $1.7 billion at the end of 1982 (about 40 percent of GNP); the
outstanding and disbursed debt to IDA was about $84 million, and to IBRD,
about $70 million. External debt service pa-.'ments amounted to $193 million
in 1982 or 6.1 percent of total exports of goods and services.



16.      Jordan's impressive stability, pragmatic economic and social
policies and efficient economic management have helped to attract large
foreign assistance. Except for aid related to defense expenditures, the
graat component of this foreign assistance is expected to decline over the
next few years. The projections on that basis indicate a need for average
gross external borrowing of about $1 billion over the 1984-1990 period,
mostly in later years. While bilateral and multilateral sources can be
expected to provide the bulk of external resources, Jordan is likely to
resort increasingly to the financial markets, and this would result in a
hardening of loan terms. On these assumptions, the debt service ratio as a
percentage of exports of goods and services is projected to reach 9-10
percent by 1987 and some 13 percent by 1990. Given this outlook and the
country' s record of prudent management, Jordan remains creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
17.      Jordan has received 14 Bank loans totalling $350.8 million and 15
IDA credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which all the
credits and two loans have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have amounted to about 65-70 percent of appraisal estimates.
This disbursement level is among the best in the Region.   The IDA credits
have financed projects in key sectors, such as education, highways, water
supply and sewerage, power, irrigation and tourism. By mid-1978, Jordan had
attained a stage of economic development where it could be considered
creditworthy for Bank lending and had reached a GNP per capita level that
exceeded IDA limits. IDA lending was thus discontinued after March 1978.
IFC has made investments in Jordan with total commitments of $94.2 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1984.
18.      Bank group assistance to Jordan has been directed toward export-
oriented projects on which the Bank Group has cooperated closely with the
Government in project preparation and in the mobilization of large external
financial assistance. In addition, the Bank Group has been assisting the
Government in implementing its social objectives of improving the income and
living standards of the rural and urban poor, as well as expaading manpower
training, as enunciated in the first Five-Year Plan (1976-80) and emphasized
in the second Five-Year Plan (1981-85). Bank assistance has also fostered
the development of the power subsector to meet the demand from a rapidly
growing economy.
19.      In line with these objectives, the Bank Group has provided
technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding
phosphate rock mining, and for preparing a comprehensive program for a
second phase of development of the agricultural potential of the Jordan
Valley and for water supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An engineering credit
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report
(No. P-3792-JO) for the- Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Loan,
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 7, 1984.



-6-
was made in FY75 to help prepare a large project for potash produ':tion from
the Dead Sea via solar evaporation, for which a loan was approved in September
1978; the project has been successfully completed. In addition, further
support for the Government's social and economic objectives was provided in
recent years by loans for the Fifth and Sixth Education projects approved in
March 1983 and February 1984, the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB)
project approved in March 1980, the Urban Development and Urban Transport
projects approved in July 1980 and July 1983 respectively, the Fifth Power
project approved in May 1982, the Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage and
the Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage projects approved in December 1982
and May 1984, and the Energy Development project approved in December 1983.
IFC has provided loans and equity contributions for a major fertilizer project
and for projects in the construction materials subsector. It has also
assisted capital market and leasing ventures.  It is currently considering a
paper project as well as a mechanical industry project.
20.      The Government has requested Bank assistauce in the transport sector
to meet the needs of the highway, railway, and port subsectors, whose
development is critical to the transport of key commodities. The proposed
project addresses these needs. Projects under preparation include mining,
water supply/sewerage, urban and health development, energy and industry.
21.      In a parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral levels, the
Bank assisted the Government by reviewing the 1981-85 Five-Year Plan, with
emphasis on industrial sector and manpower analysis. It has also helped
review the energy, water supply and urban sectors, regional development
issues, and export strategy and export promotion in manufacturing industries
as well as the health sector. The reports entitled Energy Sector Study,
Review of the Five-Year Plan (1981-85), Export Strategy and Export Promotion
In Manufacturing Industries, and Urban Sector Review were distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1983, May 1983, and June 1983 (both Export
Promotion and Urban Sector Reviews) respectively. The reports on regional
development, health and water sector reviews are approaching completion.
22.      At the end of 1980, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 8 percent, and its share in debt service
was 2 percent. By 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 7 percent and 5.5 percent respectively.
PART III -- THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
23.      Jordan's transport system comprises highways, railways, ports and
airports. The main transport corridor connects Amman with Syria to the north,
and with the Gulf of Aqaba to the south, and is served mainly by highway and
partially by railway. The only seaport, Aqaba, is located at the northern tip
of the Gulf of Aqaba.  Air transport serves the two main towns, Amman and
Aqaba, and is significant primarily for international passenger traffic to and
from Anman. The major centers of population and domestic production are
relatively close together, so only limited domestic transport is required.
The situation is quite different for imports, exports and transit traffic,
which generally involve long distances.



24.      In general, the different subsectors have adjusted to the recent
expansions in traffic flows, including traffic to Iraq. However, there are
obvious transport problems-including highway pavement deterioration,
inadequate axle-load control, heavy truck congestion in Aqaba, and
under-utilization of railway capacity--which will soon increase when planned
expansions of major production centers are realized- Unless timely action is
taken, bottlenecks on the country's main export/import routes will impede the
movement of key commodities such as phosphate, potash, fertilizers, and
cement, as well as general cargo. An efficient transport system is vital for
the economy of Jordan as well as its neighbors.
25.      Transport accounted for about 15-20 percent of Jordan's investments
in the 1970s.  The bulk of transport investments in the 1980s would be
designed to aid the mining, export and manufacturing industries. Road
transport would continue to dominate the main export/import routes,
particularly for the movement of general cargo, potash, cement and trar.sit
traffic. However, there is an increasingly urgent need to increase rail
capacity in order to transport the growing production of rock phosphate,
Jordan's main export commodity. Port facilities have been recently expanded
and are now adequate, even though port traffic during the last few years has
surged as a result of the hostilities in the Arabian Gulf.
Planning, Policy and Coordination
26.      The responsibility for administering the transport system is
dispersed among the Ministries of Transport (MOT), Public Works (MPW) and
Interior (MOI), the National Planning Council (NPC) and, to a lesser extent,
other Government bodies such as the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
and Environment. The responsibility for overall planning and coordination
rests with HOT, which commissioned a comprehensive National Transport Study
(NTS) during 1982/83 to provide a basis for transport investment and a
coordinated transport development strategy. The draft Final Report of this
study prepared by the consultants, Dorsch Consult, Hughes Economic Planning
and Deutsche Eisenbahn Consulting GMBH, was presented to the Government in
July 1983. Investments in transport are coordinated by NPC. MOT is
responsible for railways, Aqaba port and aviation. Concerning the highway
sector, MPW is in charge of the national and rural roads, and formulates
regulations concerning axle loads, vehicle weight limits and dimension of
vehicles with input from MOI. MOI also prepares regulations governing
construction standards for vehicles and their operations. There is little
regulation of goods movements in the transport market; both the railway and
the trucking industry are encouraged to set cost-based rates and adopt market
policies. The expanding road transport industry has attracted most of the
traffic.
27.      A Central Traffic Committee and Local Traffic Committees review
applications for the licensing of freight vehicle operators, bus and taxi
operators, and consider services to be provided and routes to be served. The
Minister of Interior chairs the Central Traffic Committee, whose members are
MOI, MOT, MPW, the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, Municipal and Rural
Affairs and Environment and representatives of the operators. Each Local
Traffic Committee is chaired by a Governor with members who include the head
of Police and the head of the District Office of MPW in each Governorate, and
delegates from the Public Transport Corporation and the Ministry of Municipal
and Rural Affairs and Environment.



- 8 -
28.      The 1971 HOT Law specifically requires MOT to exercise full
responsibility for coordinating transport maLters. Furthermore, it states
that a Higher Council for Transport shall be established to participate in
general transport policy and to coordinate transport activities in departments
and corporations. This Council has not yet been set up. However, in view of
the need for closer coordination between transport modes, the Government would
establish by end-1984, an inter-ministerial coordinating committee to resolve
problems relating to movement of key commodities.
Sector Objectives
29.      The Government's primary objectives for the transport sector are to
build the infrastructure needed to support the development of other sectors of
the economy, to enhance the operational efficiency of the key operating
agencies through modernization, to conserve energy by promoting rail transport
and to improve manpower planning. The Government attaches the highest
priority to the improvement of international trade routes carrying substantial
quantities of phosphate, potash, fertilizer, cement and general cargo vital to
the economy of Jordan and neighboring countries.
Issues
30.      Diesel and Aviation Fuel Subsidy.  In 1979, the Government decided to
phase out subsidies for petroleum products. Since then, domestic prices have
been increased on six occasions by a total of about 180 percent. The weighted
average domestic price is now above the weighted average border price for
petroleum products. The prices of diesel and aviation fuel, although
subsidized, are close to border prices and the issue of remaining subsidies on
these products is of minor significance. The Government, in connection with
the recent Energy Development Loan (Ln. 2371-JO), reaffirmed its intention to
continue to review domestic prices of petroleum products with the objective of
phasing out subsidies over the medium term (1984-89).
31.      Road User Charges.  The estimated income in 1981 from road user
charges amounted to about $70 million, compared to costs of about $60 million
on inter-urban roads, thus overall road transport costs are covered on a
pay-as-you-go basis. At present, however, the large fleet of heavy trucks
does not pay adequately for the wear it causes to roads. NTS has recommended
that for freight vehicles, registration and licensing fees be appropriately
related to maximum gross vehicle weights in accordance with the vehicles'
maximum permissible axle loads. NTS has made many other related
recommendations revising user charges such as annual license fees, import
duties, diesel fuel prices, transit fees, etc., particularly for trucks, to
cover the costs. The Government would appoint a committee by end-1984 to
consider revenue measures recommended in the HTS and initiate action on
selected measures by end-March 1985.
32.      Axle-load Control.  Highway overloading due to unregulated axle loads
has severely damaged primary roads in Jordan. If overloading is allowed to
continue, further damage to the roads will keep transport costs unduly high.
The Government has recently enacted a bill limiting the axle load to 13 tons.
The Government would ensure effective enforcement of legislation regarding



- 9 -
axle loads, gross vehicle weights for particular vehicular configurations and
vehicle dimensions; in particular, as stipulated by a recent decree,
Der-missible overloadings (currently 25 percent) would be reduced in stages
each year and eliminated by the end of 1986. Additionally, the Government
-would discourage the importation and use of two-axle trucks and encourage the
purchase of multi-axle vehicles by proper fiscal incentives and more favorable
licensing policy. To effectively address these issues, the Government vould
prepare an action plan by mid-1985.
Highways Subsector
33.      Network and Organization.  MPW is responsible for 2,004 km of paved
prirma.r highways, 867 km of paved secondary highways. and about 4,000 km of
village and feeder roads. MPW headquarters at Amman is adequately staffed,
with some positions filled by cousultants. The MPW engineering districts
correspond to the eight governorates. The district organizations need
-ein.o-cemene for the purposes of more effective road maintenance.
34.      Highway Investment Plan.  The 1981-85 highway investment plan is
estimated to cost about $540 million equivalent and has the general objective
or meeting transpo'-t requirements and public safety by the construction/
reconstruction/improvement or 2,240 km (600 km primary, 240 km secondary aId
l,400 -km rural/agricultural) roads. Implementation of the plan is well
underway and by the end of the plan period it is expected that 80-85 percent
of the projects will have been completed. The investment plan has been
reviewed by the Bank and found to be sound and comprehensive.
35.      Highway Maintenance.  Maintenance has been insufficient, largely
because of a lack of adequate equipment and plant, and competent equipment
operators. A central plant-hire system, set up about two decades ago, has
deteriorated due to inadequate management, and shortage of staff and
financi.g. For this reason it cannot fulfill its functions. The Government
and MPW have taken steps to improve maintenance by: (a) utilizing bilateral
technical assistance from the USA, UK, and Sweden to plan, manage, and operate
a highway maintenance system based on NTS recommendations; and
(b) establishing a new (commercial) plant-hire corporation vith 25 percent
state participation in it. This corporation will lease to MPW equipment and
plant for maintenance. MPW will review with the Bank by end-1984 the
maintenance system to be derived from the technical assistance, and
arrangements for ensuring the availability of financing and equipment for the
planned operations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(a)). In this context, MPW
would implement a plan over the period September 1984-1986 for the development
and efficient functioning of the new plant-hire corporation.
Railway Subsector
36.      Network and Organization.  The Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC) was
established under the ARC Law of 1972 and has been in operation since 1975.
It is governed by a seven-member Board of Directors under the chairmanship of
the Minister of Transport. It operates a single railway line of 294 km whose
sole function is to transport phosphate from the mines in central Jordan to
the port of Aqaba- Most of the line follows the old Hejaz Railway alignment,
upgraded with sub-standard track materials. While traction and rolling stock



- 10 -
are relatively new, ARC faces the need for overhauls. Staffing is also a
problem area. As of the end of FY83, ARC employed 797 staff. Recruitment of
staff became difficult and turnover extremely high when headquarters was moved
in 1980 from Anman to Ma'an. Additionally, ARC ground-level staff is in need
of training. To improve ARC's ability to operate the railway with available
manpower, 70 staff from Rail India Technical a2d Economic Services
(RITES-India) were engagel under contract to provide technical assistance in
development planning, pro_ect planning and supervision; however, they often
have to fill in-line positions for the daily operation of the railway. The
external demand for Jordan.an labor has decreased in recent years, and it is
expected that more manpower will be available to ARC and that like many other
institutions in Jordan, staffing problems will subside.
37.      Traffic and Operations.  Phosphate traffic from the mines to Aqaba
(for export) increased from 1.15 million tonnes in 1979 to about 2.6 million
tonnes in 1983. The Jordan Phosphate Mining Company (JPIC) forecasts that
tctal production from the three mines now working would be at least 6 million
tonnes in 1986, of which 4 million would be for export. ARC now operates
about seven phosphate trains daily, an improvement from 1979/80, when only
three trains ran per day. To carry the projected 4 million tonnes in 1987,
the number of trains has to be increased to 10-11 per day. ARC has set up an
Action Plan to improve operational efficiency that details specific targets
ARC would meet over the next four years (SAR, Annex 1 and Table 5). These
include increasing the number of wagons per train, reducing turnaround time,
and improving the availability of rolling stock.
38.      Railway Investment Plan. ARC has prepared an Investment Plan for
1984-87 which is realistic and responsive to the needs of Jordan's economy.
Total investment for 1984-87 is about $89 million equivalent, out of vhich
about $22 million equivalent is spillover works and the balance, about
$66 million equivalent, is new. About 80 percent of spillover works and 60
percent of new investments in>!lve high-priority track renevallrehabilitation
and track machinery. The balance will go for acquisition of rolling stock and
developing railway workshop facilities. The rail components of the proposed
project cover more than 80 percent of the new works in the Investment Plan and
were selected to achieve its principle objective, which is to increase the
operational efficiency of ARC and to secure its financial viability.
Port Subsector
39.      Organization.  A Royal Decree of 1952 established The Ports
Corporation (TPC) as an independent public corporation. It currently employs
4,500 staff. TPC is managed by and acts through its five-member Board, two of
whom are Government representatives. The Board is presided over by the
Minister of Transport. The Deputy Chairman of the Board acts as Director
General, and is responsible for the operations of the port. TPC is legally
empowered to operate the port of Aqabm and to levy dues and charges for the
use of the port and its facilities. It provides pilotage, towing, bunkering,
water and communication facilities, and controls and supervises the quays,
bulk cargo and container handling facilities. TPC is a reliable source of
revenue and contributes substantial sums to the Government budget after
meeting its financial obligations.



- 11 -
40.      Port Facilities.  Aqaba has at present seven main general cargo
berths and four smaller berths. Overall, the general cargo berths and
associated sheds and storage areas are in satisfactory condition. None of the
berths carries any portal cranes. In addition, there are two phosphate
loading berths, A and B. Berth A is now being used for imported minerals aud
edible oils, and can take vessels up to 18,000 dwt. TPC has agreed to
complete, by end-1985, an investigation of the optimal technical and financial
methods for using the facilities of Berth A for loading phosphate, and to
furaish the findings and recommendations of the investigation to the Bank for
comment. Additionally, it will review with the Bank the actions to be taken
on the basis of this investigation (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09). There are
also two floating berths about 5 km south of the port for handling container,
cement and roll oalroll off (Ro-Ro) traffic. Nearby, two additional berths,
one for container and one for Ro-Ro traffic, have been constructed. A second
container berth is under construction and will be completed in 1984. Some
15 km south of Aqaba at Wadi 2 there is a modern jetty for the import of raw
materials such as sulphur and the export of potash and fertilizer in bulk.
The capacity of the Port of Aqaba is sufficient to handle traffic in the uear
future.
41.      Traffic and Operations.  Container traffic has increased nine-fold
between 1977 and 1983, and is expected to increase another three-fold by
1987. General cargo operations are satisfactory, but the overall operation of
the container cargo could be improved with proper stacking and plant
maintenance arrangements, training of operators and middle management. The
central maintenance workshops are small and lack sufficient covered area,
equipment and skilled labor to carry out effective self-financed investments
in workshop improvements and training activities, the latter of which are
addressed in this project (para 50).
42.      Investment Plan.  The Five-Year Plan for 1981-1985 provided for about
tll9 million in investments for the port. About $18 million would be financed
by TPC, about $38 million by the General Budget, and the rest by the Saudi
Fund, the Islamic Development Bank and the Iraqi Fund.  All major investments
have been completed or are at an advanced stage. No new major projects are
envisaged during the project period other than the provision of technical
assistance and training component included in the project.
Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
43.      The proposed project would be the second in the transport sector and
the first for rail/port development. In June 1971, the Association approved a
Credit (262-JO) in the amount of $6.0 equivalent, to assist in the
construction of a highway from Amnan to Zarqa (18 km), the two major
population centers, and to finance related consultancy services, the purchase
of road maintenance equipment and an urban transport study of Amman. The
credit was closed and fully disbursed in December 1974. The road construction
component was completed two years later than expected vith a 30 percent cost
overrun. The main problems encountered in the project were inefficiency of
the contractor and slowness in arranging for the clearing of obstructions and
relocation of utilities from the right-of-way (PPAR No. 1762 dated
October 18, 1977). In the proposed transport project all of the required land
belongs to the Government and therefore the right-of-way for the proposed



- 12 -
civil works should be secured without problems. The FY83 Amman Transport and
funicipal Development Project addressed the infrastructure needs and transport
issues in the commercial and low-income areas of the capital.
44.      The Bank's main objective in the transport sector is to help
streamline transit trade and the movement of key export commodities.
Accordingly, the Bank's main objective in thp highways subsector is to help
develop the institutional and policy framework for the proper use and
maintenance of an adequate road network. In railways the emphasis -s on
increasing the phosphate carrying capacity by operating the system more
efficiently. In the Aqaba port - the only port of Jordan on a very small
(20 km) coastline - the focus is both on maximizing the capacity of available
installations and on institution building. Institutional and policy measures
that would better integrate the operations of the different transport modes
and increase overall efficiency are also assigned high priority.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
45.      Based on the findings of the National Transport Study (NTS),
supplmented by the Bank's assessment of the sector needs, a Multi-Mode
Transport Project was appraised. The project addresses transport bottlenecks
that affect the highway, railway and port subsectors. Improvements under the
project would facilitate the transport of key commodities vital for the
economy of Jordan and its neighbors.  The proposed project forms an important
and economically justified part of the high priority investments included in
the current Five-Year Development Plan of Jordan.
46.      The project was identified in August 1982 and appraised in November/
December 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington during May 7 - 11, 1984.
The Government delegation was led by Mr. Omar Abdullah Dokhgan, President of
the National Planning Council and included representatives of the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW) and the Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC). A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "A Multi-Mode Transport Project" 'No. 4964-JO), dated May 21,
1984, is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Toe main
features of the loan and the project are mentioned in the Loan and Project
Sutmary and in Annex III. A map indicating the project areas is attached.
Project Objectives and Components
47.      The objectives of the project are;  (i) to ease critical transport
bottlenecks on principal export/import routes in order to facilitate the
movement of key commodities such as phosphate, potash, fertilizer, cement, as
well as general cargo; (ii) to continue institution-building efforts through
investment and financial planning, manpower management, training and technical
assistance; (iii) to promote improved functioning of the highway sector
through more systematic and effective highway maintenance, and better
monitoring, oontrol and enforcement of vehicle axle loads and dimensions; and
(iv) to improve ARC's operations and financial position through an Action Plan
and by using improved technology.



- 13 -
48.      The project mainly includes highway and railway components.  The
technical assistance and training provisioas would assist NW, ARC and TPC.
The highway component would include maintenance, construction and provision of
ecuipment. Routine maintenance would cover patching, shoulder maintenance,
drainage clearance and up-keep of road markings and signs. Periodic
maintenance would include strengthening of selected sections of the network.
Equipment for highway maintenance, traffic and pavement testing would be
procured under the project to reinforce maintenance efforts, including five to
sevea permanent bitumen storage heaters for routine resealing and patching, a
road striping machine, four sets of mobile weighing scales, traffic counters,
and pavement deflection testing equipment for asphalt overlay design. The
civil works component would include construction of a 30-km, two-lane
alignment on the Aqaba-Amman road along the Wadi Yutum to Wadi 2 areas and a
6-km spur from the diversion to the container port. This diversion road would
carry the heavv truck traffic that nov goes through the city of Aqaba.
49.      The railway component would include: the expansion of Aqaba workshop
to meet the maintenance needs of the locomotive fleet, thereby freeing space
for freight wagon maintenance at Ma'an; track renewal to improve about 101 km
of track in _hree different places to avoid traffic slow-down and derailments;
machinery for track renewal, 90 phosphate freight wagons, and a breakdown
crane to improve safety and to streamline phosphate transport. In addition,
four locomotives would undergo rehabilitation in order to transport phosphate,
ballast and track material. Extra spare parts would be procured for the
rehabilitation.
50.      Technical assistance to be provided under the project in the highway
subsector includes 100-120 man-months of consultant services for in-line
positions in MW to strengthen maintenance management. In the railway
subsector, about 36 man-months of expatriate consultant services would be
provided to train ARC maintenance staff. About 108 man-months of overseas
fellowships would be provided for ARC personnel. In addition, the project
includes 200 man-months of local consulting services and local training for
strengthening ARC's operational capabilities. Training equipment and
materials would also be provided under this component. In the port subsector,
about 100 man-months of expatriate consultant services and about 36 man-months
of overseas training is envisaged to train selected staff and middle
management from TPC in container, general cargo and shipping operations,
phosphate handling and storage, repair and maintenance of eq-uipment, finance
and administration, project planning and maintenance, and safety/fire
fighting.
Implementation
51.      The executing agencies for the project would be MPW for highways, ARC
for railways and TPC for the port, each assisted by consultants. Engineering
work for the Wadi Yutum-Wadi 2 road and related facilities is being carried
out by the consultants VBB (Sweden) and Ahmet Fawzi and Associates (Jordan).
This work would be completed by September 1984. Engineering work for Aqaba
workshop extension was carried out by the Jordanian consultants Ruqn
Al-Handasa. Consultants were not used for the preparation of other components.
52.      In order to reduce costs, and improve quality and market position,
ARC has prepared a comprehensive Action Plan that addresses organization,



- 14 -
planning, investments, productivity, finance and staff training.  ARC has
agreed to; (i) carry out the Action Plan over the period 1984-1990;
(ii) follow appropriate monitoring procedures to assess the implementation of
the Plan; and (iii) submit quarterly progress reports and review annually with
the Bank its progress and possible adjustments to the Plan (Project Agreement,
Section 3.04).
53.      MPW, ARC and TPC have nominated officers to be responsible for
project implementation and for training. The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1989-
Financial Position of ARC and TPC
54.      ARC.  The financial position of ARC has shown improvement over the
past five years and is expected to continue to improve. Since 1980, ARC has
been able to cover working expenses and in 1983, for the first time, was able
to meet working expenses and depreciation and almost all interest payments.
ARC's operating ratio has decreased between 1979 and 1983 from 181 percent to
85 percent and is projected to be below 80 percent as of 1986, and 70 percent
in 1990. Although ARC has operated at a loss since 1979, this loss decreased
from about $5.0 million in 1979 to only about $71,000 in 1983. ARC is
expected to have a net income of about $230,000 in 1986 and about $6.8 million
in 1990. The debt:equity ratio has also improved, from 78;22 in 1979 to 62:38
in 1983, and is expected to be 47;53 in 1984 and 20.80 in 1990. In the past,
the Government has provided assistance to ARC and other public companies that
have been unable to cover debt service. The Government would continue this
assistance to ARC in the future. It is conservatively projected that ARC
would need such assistance for two more years. ARC would not incur any new
debt unless its revenues adequately cover (1.5 times) its debt service
(Project Agreement, Section 4.05). ARC has also agreed that through
operational improvements as conceived in the Action Plan, such as efficient
use of trains, acquisition of new railway stock and better maintenance, and
tariff adjustments as needed, ARC would aim to earn sufficient revenues in
1986 and thereafter to cover, at least, its operating and maintenance costs,
and debt service or depreciation, whichever is greater (Project Agreement,
Section 4.04). In addition, ARC would take all measures to achieve the
operating ratios indicated above.
55.      TPC.  TPC had net income of about $26.5 million and $33.2 million in
1981 and 1982 respectively.  Operating ratios for both years were 48 percent,
and debtzequity ratios for these two years were 29:71 and 30;70 respectively,
a measure of the profitability of TPC's operations and sound financial
situation. It is expected that TPC will continue to generate sufficient funds
to finance a reasonable portion of its future investment needs, including the
training program envisaged under the project.
Accounts and Auditing
56.      MPW would keep separate accounts for the project and would have those
accounts audited by the Government Audit Bureau. This auditing arrangement
would be satisfactory. ARC's accounts are kept on the same basis as the
Government treasury system of accounting and budgeting, which is not accrual
accounting. ARC has agreed to introduce by January 1, 1986 accounting



- 15 -
procedures using accrual methods on a current and continuous basis (Project
Agreement, Sections 4.01 and 4.03). ARC's accounts are audited annually by
local auditors, and this arrangement is satisfactory_ ARC's financial
statements would continue to be audited by a firm of auditors acceptable to
the Bank and would be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after
the end of each year. TPC's accounts follow the accrual system. They are
audited annually and are satisfactory. As TPC is not a beneficiary of the
Bank loan, it will not be required to submit audited annual statements to the
Bank.
Cost Estimates
57.      The total project cost is estimated at about $133 million in
April 1984 prices, with a foreign exchange component of about $80 million.
The cost breakdown by components is given in the Loan and Project Summary at
the beginning of this report. Cost estimates do not include taxes and custom
duties from which the project is exempt. Physical contingencies were
estimated at 10 percent of base cost except for the railway component, which
was estimated at 7 percent. Price contingencies are about 16 percent of the
base cost plus physical contingencies. Price escalation for foreign exchange
vas calculated using 7.5 percent in 1984, 7.0 percent in 1985, and 6.5 percent
thereafter; for local costs it was calculated using 7.5 percent throughout.
Financing Plan
58.      The proposed Bank loan of $30 million to the Government will finance
about 23 percent of the total project cost, or about 38 percent of the foreign
exchange component. The Saudi Fund for Development and the Islamic
Development Bank are expected to participate in the financing of the project
with loans of approximately $11.4 million and $9.3 million respectively. In
addition to local costs, the Government is expected to finance foreign
exchange costs, amounting to about $22 million. TPC will finance the total
cost of port training amounting to about $1.3 million, including $1 million in
foreign exchange. The remaining $7 million in foreign exchange will be
covered by suppliers'/export credits.   Signature of loan agreements with the
Saudi Fund for Development and the Islamic Development Bank would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).
59.      The Government will relend $20.0 million of the loan proceeds to ARC
on the same terms as the Bank loan. Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement
*          for this purpose is a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(a)). The onlending rate would be significantly positive in real
terms as the current domestic inflation rate is about 5 percent per annum.
Procurement and Disbursement
60.      Contracts for civil works and railway track m-aterials to be financed
by the Bank loan will be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) and in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
Domestic manufacturers participating in bidding for track materials would be
accorded a preference of 15 percent, or the customs duties, whichever is
lower. Equipment for pavement testing and traffic data collection (about
$0.6 million), which is specialized and not suitable for ICB, will be procured



- 16 -
on the basis of limited international tendering (LIT) according to Bank
guidelines.
61.      The proposed Bank loan of $30 million would be disbursed over a
six-year period. The disbursement profile is similar to other r-gional
transportation projects. For the highway component, the loan would be
disbursed against: (a) 60 percent of the total costs of asphalt overlay,
which represents the estimated foreign exchange component; (b) 100 percent of
the c.i.f. landed costs of highway maintenance, traffic and pavement testing
equipment; (c) 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 100 percent of
ex-factory cost (for locally manufactured items) of track and materials; and
(d) 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of the consultant services. The
loan closing date would be June 30, 1990.
Benefits and Risks
62.      The proposed project addresses high priority needs under the
1981-85 Five-Year Development Plan. Because of the competitive nature of the
transport industry, it is expected that the benefits of the project, which
initially accrue to transport users, would be ultimately passed on to the
economy in general. The project is expected to have beneficial environmental
impact by reducing traffic congestion, accidents and air pollution. It will
also support Jordan's energy conservation efforts. The economic justification
of the project components has been well established even under unfavorable
assumptions concerning project costs, and users' benefits. Moreover, the risk
involved in making an over-optimistic assumption regarding rail-borne traffic
is negligible in this case because most of this traffic is already available
to the railways but is at present moving by road for want of rail capacity.
The project does not involve any special risk. Land acquisition was a problem
under the previous project but under the proposed project, the Government owns
all the land required and would arrange for the right-of-way for highway
construction.
Economic Rate of Return
63.      The weighted average return on all quantifiable components which
represent about 95 percent of total cost is 18 percent for the project as a
whole. Returns (weighted average) of 16 percent and 20 percent are calculated
for the highway and railway components respectively. Each of these components
represents about one-half of total cost.  Individual returns have been
calculated for most sub-components, namely, periodic maintenance, the Wadi
Yutum-Container Port road, the spur road, the Aqaba workshop extension, track
renewal and track machinery, freight wagons, breakdown crane, and locomotive
rehabilitation and spare parts. These returns range from 12-35 percent. The
Government has agreed that MPW will undertake maintenance only for these
highway sections whose return, as figured on the basis of principles agreeable
to the Bank, are expected to be not less than 12 percent (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03). Even under the unfavorable assumptions of 15 percent higher
construction/equipment cos,s combined with a 15 percent reduction in benefits
the returns remain acceptable within the range of 10-29 percent with an
overall weighted average return of 15 percent. This compares favorably with
the opportunity cost of capital estimated at 10 percent. Benefits cannot be
quantified for technical assistance and training and routine maintenance.
However, these project elements are essential for tne project as a whole and



- 17 -
benefits would reach the entire economy. The above returns understate the
full economic benefits of the project as benefits due to reduction in
accidents, environmental improvements and greater comfort and convenience to
travelers cannot be quantified.
PART V - LEG&L INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and ARC, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. The special conditions
of effectiveness are: (i) the Government would sign loan agreements with the
Saudi Fund and the Islamic Development Bank for about $11.4 million and about
$9.3 million respectively; and (ii) the Government would sign a subsidiary
loan agreement with ARC.
65.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - REODMMENDATION
66.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 7, 1984
*          Washington, D.C.



-18-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
T A   L E  3A                                       PAGE I
JOQWAN                  - SocIAL [SOICANIOS DATA SA                     S
JoKAwa                                MEFZEBICE CmREs (%EEIQtr  AvEawes) /a
Mr                        DUST RECENt EsTIrSIL) lb
R ECET               NICOLIE DEWRE            M1EE   1
1960D_6     19701-" b    E S b      1s AFRICA & MM EAST     AT.- AlERICA & cARIB
AmA CrAcSw S. mX)
TOT.AL                               97.7        97_7        97.7                -
AURICULTrL'AL                        12.8        14.U        14.8                 _
GW        CAPIA  CMSS)               -     - --               1620.0/c           1340.0                    2th_2
r:  C       u srr     HZ CAPITA
(LILOCRAMS OF CARL  E4I1VALET)      185.0       308.0       627.U             810.4                     1407.6
POSULATIOE AN   IL STATISTICS
POPULATItN.MI10-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    1695.0     _299.0      3370.0
LNBAR POPULATION (t OF TOTAL)        42_7        49.6        57_0              47.4                       65_9
POPLLATIaN PROJECrEONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2O0O (MILL)                              6_7
STATIOSARt POPULATION (MILL)                               17.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REH                                   110                  _                         _
POPULATION DENSITY
PEt SQ. IOt.                       17.3        23.5        33_2              36.0                       356
PER SQ. RLn. AG.l- LAND           132.4       164.2       219.:             449.0                       93_2
POPr LAI1OS AiE srUwTURE (C)
U-:L YRS                          4_4.        45.8        4*.3              43.9                       40_1
15-04 IRS                          51.5        51.U        51.1              52.L                       55.d
05 ASU AOE                          -_1         3_1         2.7               3_3                       4.1
PoruLaTx"S GRoM  ATE (:)
TOT-AL                              3.1         3u          3.S               2.Y9                       2.3
NARA                                5.2         4.5         4.7               4.6                        3.7
CRUDE BERTA RATE (PER  TdOLS)        47.4        47.b        46b5              42.5                       31.5
CRUDE DEATH tATE (PER IHOCS)         19.9        15.5         9.0              12_U                        6.1
CROSS REPRODLCTIOS RATE               3.5         3.6         3.6                3.0                       2.0
FAMIILY PLASSINC
ACCEPToRS, AJAL .TOCUS)               _          _
USERS (= OF  ARRIED  OtE              -          -)                           ---                         --
FOlOD ANlD Nman
ISDEX OF FOOD PROD_ PE CAPITA
(1969-71-109)                       220.0        79.0        71.0              97_5                      113.0
PE1R CAPITA SLPPLY OF
CALORIES (- OF REQUIREMENTS)       93.0        9310        96S0             102.3                      111_3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           6l.0        55.0        S2.0              72.0                      67.9
OF WHICH AfLtL AND PULSE          1S_U        15.0        15.0/d            17.8                       34.1
HILD CASES 1-4) DEATH RATE           26.3        12.5         5.4              15.2                        5.3
mN
LIFE ESXPECT AT BlRTH (YEARS)        47.0        54.1        61.7                ._2                      04-6
INFANT twdT. RATE (PER TICUS)       135.5        97.5        eb.9             1I.2                       6_.6
ACCESS TU SAFE AATEJ ('POP)
TrOAL                              21.3           _         W_.0/c,e         59.3                       64.8
LRdAJ S                            4._6          __          __              54.9                       77b
RURAL                               2.1          ...37.3                                               .4.3
ACCESS TO EXCiEETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF PUPULATION)
TO.AL                                __          __        7BU/ce               ..-
CRBA     -                           ..          ..          ._                 __                      69.8
RURAL                                __          __          __                 __                      29.8
POPULATIOrN PER PRYSICIAS          5800.0      3780.0      1890.0            3536.0                     1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            1930.0/f    1480.0      1310.0            1820.7                     1012.Z
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             560.0      1350.0      1190.0/d           643.3                      477.0
URBA                                         1100.0      6wo.oT             545.u                      667.5
RURAL                                _       5540.0          _.            24b2.0                     1921.6
ADIISSIOSS PM HOSPITAL MED             __        36.5        45.7/d            26.4                       27.2
OUSUE
AVERACE SIZE OF LOUSEdOLD
TOTAL                               5.3         S.1         b.7/c
GREaM                               5.5          ._
RURAL                               i.1                      __
AVERASE NU. OF PERSOSSIROt
TOT-AL                                -           -         6.5/c
UR33                                  _          ___
RURAL                                 _     .                __
ACCESS M ELECT. (_ OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              17.0          __        66.0/c            46.2
CRaAs                              39.2          __        90.07T             77.6
RURAL                               1.4           _         0.0/_c            166.1



-19 -                                         ANNE I
Page 2 of 6
TASLE 31                                          PACE 2
JiOnA                  - SOCIAL DIrATRS DWA ST EEA
JaNDAm                              REFEtEIcE am0ps raIG1ED OAIE5UGES) I-
IS                       (lOST RECENT ESTWAIE) lb
1~         1974A  ESTD(ATk    N. ACC E TED EAST   LAT. ARtCA i
ADJUSTIm EUWL1IE]h RATIOS
nRnIAR:  TOM                     77.0        12.0/c    IO.0k             89.6                    105.0
HALE                   94.0       79.07         ..            L4.8                     1053
rTa.                   59.0       6 s.O7        ..             72.4                    103.6
SEAt: TTAL.                      z5.0       33.0c       79.Oec.g         41.7                     40o0
HALE                   36.0       *1.O77       -.              52.8                     36.6
FEIWE                 13.0        24.07W        .              31.2                     41.2
VOCATIOL CZ OF SrCONAR)             2.7        3.0/c      13.0kt           10.3                     34.0
PRIKAU                           34.0       39.0/c      32-0/c           31.9                     30.7
SmAUM                            20.0       23.07;      20.07;           23_3                     16.7
ADULT LITRC  KATf CZ)              32.4          _        70_0             63.3                     79. 5
PASSEII CARSIT,SAND POP             3.7        6.7        19_S/d           18.0                     :5.6
RADI REXImsI3USD  10P              37.8      160.9       165.2            138.1                    22
IT R        n         POP                     20.0        52.7             45.6                    1OY.3
UOPAPE (bDAILY G3E3N.
1INREST) CtRCO.ATI0
PM TUOUSA3D POPMATMW              18.3       24.4        29.31d           31.0                     66.1
c5uA JUUL ATlD^AN lPCT              3.2        0.9         4.8              1_7                      2.9
TOMAL LO FORCE CT1)               432.0       569.0      800.0
UAwLe()E CUr                      5.0        5.6         6.6             10.7                     24.'
AGRIULTURE C?EREZI               44.0       34.0        20.0             '2.5                     31.3
D5uD  CPmNw)                     26.0        9.0        20.0             27_8                     23.9
PAKTICIPATIOU tAZE (PERCENT)
TOM                              25.5        24.7       23.7             25.6                      31.3
KILE                             46.7        45.5       43.4             45_4                     19-8
FRULE                             2.7        2.8         3.2              5.6                     14.t
ON08C  DEPENC  RATWI                1.9        2.0         2.1              1.8                      1.6
FRMI Or PRIVATE INCUE
*IER   E or N2E.DS                  ..                    .                 --
RIchRES 202 or uous                ..--               
LminKs? 2oT or NfhSENULDS          .
LinEST 20 OF UO1SK S.--
mr T  0 or _souz
E05114E  AISC.U  POVER   Man
LE9M (US$ PMR CAPIT)
Ian                                                    230-01d          276.1                     289.8
303I8                              __          __      100.07;          177_1                    18&.5
ESTmATED RATIYm POVERT? SC
LETS. (USS PER CAPITA)
E                          uuaJJIR                            ..          ..      206.-0d          400.0                     519.6
RuL                                ..          ..      135.07io         283.3                    372.1
ZSTIRAIM P0P. BELOW ARS3LUrE
POVERMT 1103 LEVUL (Z)
R,                                 ..                   14.0             22.0
RU                                 ..          .        17.0             30.8
MOT AVAILAX.E
NOT APPLICA4LE
R O T E S
fa The group averages for each indicator are populacoonwlghted aritlmetic  eans. Coerage of countries anowg the
1ndicators depends on availability of data and In not mUfor.
fb Un1les otbelse noted. -Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: -Data for 1970- beteien 1969 and
1971; and data for lqot Rocent EntlSte~ beteen 1979 and 1981.
IC East Bank; Id 1977; /e 1982; ff 1962; LI Includes prepratory edweatlon age 12-14 years.
may 1983



- 20-                                                                      ANNUI
Page 3 of 6
sactei  teI. -  Os tn  at ataaatdta  datasamae  aepa                      by dttt.at  aat-  Ms -adt-ttlc tI5 das Th.da.                  eabal..,a.! -
_3et  Istr  ste   a                               oa aca  att.Lra  ta _ate_  ktdl    n  atrs  a    S1   a5t                tean         at .ea . n-ta..asaa   or
afttatasa.  I at rs.eca   rsetat  tb  aena  ac  paalet- eteta  sta-  t  te.K tar teat Erdtna  aS ata  aSit             a.aat   t       ata
*tr,ds  a   t:iics.          stacs an-taas  tseata                   t   -iseaa   SpS.-  sta' eastlatIsy 51 daa- asF t-  -elteat. ask   ant Ia4 
anasa-rias    '-aa-    Iaasta  a.f a-tr   mas  aaas  -.  atyM  MaalI  safta   b asin atl a9  ardtatI  asst ana6 afto. caar  aS
..Casana aca. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     '-  -- -fFI.&
s.T t..ato Ot                                                                              labanansaaa    aaateieSb    lt at- reeftlal1s9
Uesaiti-tL-tant  It aatal-aeL-    -   -sa  a-aetatiy-tunty                             aea   Ual   snsi    en Msatts--n, p-easlsa  ante an
tIlt, tall, cad Vtfl data,                                                                   by -  lea  an gtaeia       *ttbllaa   atdnglcialyces
ca_a.ana is _a _                aiaa.i-ir  ic eMain a
CYTa         r=aflee aWIT. - atta  ir0. ate   a   nrta                                        dt.   at'" ecntt   nea   yUsytt  Eta by a SAl-&
laracrt acat :ani ad ieatU.s-aelaa -,-.Lna  ana- yaa.mi.                          att        MM.s aidetta. ta. als  l.. treatIs              en       aa
s-er    nI  rartan                                                                     aratisitasIoItaal  an ani"adadrl  -f. atal.
1atal taataL. .alm.   aaa I--a   aa1; lat. ta.W. a_d tnt                                  Cdha-tac  an laMata  UI - a-tta  an          rtSae    sa datpr
-anraa- taO.la?    .t.Lalit da7a.                                         --at.taUt Ut-L.adtnaaaa.taad _                        --te t. ota- U   tr
1-    1-4  -o  1-11,                   to~-  ssnaecnaaa      ta  aIt taildaia           t6t. ..Asa  ants
eseaita  a.ear.113 -C,w.at  aeaaeaa pajaete -- taa   ala                         Sll  tU        ea S& -IZ o    batS,a  iSr   ye ya    n M asa
i.t.t  acatale Srnas  a  -  a-tInt aetatt. a   ectatay              a'sTenli   a   atltstrraa
tta!ctleeatac ta  aUtalas rcaa ttlat  t ata.             dtrat  ~aeat wman                m - atst art.. a  tea  aUsw -
tani  let's  tt.tap Lsac  at-ItiaaatearsaUrU-ttetatpta a.atae,staintecia ti
lteaaat.  ttntat - laaiat..aaa    aiataU its ta -a.                                           I. attastB.   -IM                       -os-9
at-1 eta tint e-tta i-s1 joia al-                                                          "pata e1t.,1as-tin it. aMaota-MtW
nttrM.     latata.TI  aal.5  ayea.tttitr                                                      asla   al
das. . at tatasaaa  t,at  t  at  et atrd..tta  raa.  aatttrr  tatt   iiat ta, a  ftal -  r                        P-.t.. st,  S emi
act  aaeaaan  t  a asisat  t-itasatly,TIa  tatlaatyaarIIae    ta aea  tat -"rele   .a        e-at                                     mat
e.taiataatat.  n ca tacct n  t. aaia a it.tealaaid  tarcaar-          aimr  etel-r. epaalaa  taet  lra                   -ia   -L b-i
tattraat 51  paraaitata. ab    a  tar. as  at es. at  .slaa  at  pefa ba  adjaaad tt dttaaaat  aqsbaat pasey  St     , fa
te   it   c.-  r_a.laaaaaai                                                          attats   t.a    aal.aain   a    nSttpa
tar -   -.  attrttat.  tar  - ltatadas .st.  at 'attatata  lea` satraty a.lSad
I.  aaat  -t.tta   ti sa. - araast            .altw  at. ca-e.ae                    scl a        aanrs   terstyaetai
trias..  lat  ata    ts   aattl.ara   at.seaaa  a    nae  M                                                                              bsat  cadeat awit  I.
ta.Xt  -actata.  ltc      ate, as-tct di..C=ayraa. CII  P,W                                                                              114       M..
Med-etts   ar t1aalataaiiat   a  atsa   taema                                              ans  natatsaaa   eats.l-tntarta   aenme
~fr~~5jyy5y-a.-cateess aa    at         -ttat0  aa   ltaa  iiaTtasey aati.- .       -                                         -
ta  ica  rcanaa  pact  ata          - srac L. -eet   mataifa                     Sa   aae  ar' ataat ttaalal-aL   eaaa   na-mta  a
tatttif.ratat -attytla-eataaars'saada   a tal-I itt. as.                        tara tt is  psar0 rati        I sAI-tanda   aalta;al sa
tati.                                                                          hte.aed rnataara~~X.    tamchs  si   nr               ctceta   t tUSa
tt.L-.,ta    - r -sr.a  atet !tl-ataa.da-.ctl Uantar at                -1asa                fta  a   tatet   aa afs   etae  mya                    wasb , sae   n
ft'stC.                                                                       patatitara Iee atanas  assioia_ a 1.            - -ante.tw- niia
:Ittld    .   .t.  cat- a-as.                                                   tcsr.t.t.tn'a,ta                     asiia_tteL7    -"SLaa:b   tr
tssn ass anart,      F .t.L.ts, -.    MIt~  .ts   - tat                                   i-aW   tt  t..it. naata  tatsat  nt.encr   fct-a    a aP-2Irti
acatt crtt-a., U-1; lana aI.,a.tr. daital             aida      ttab  taI-d  t I qpaaj                              s tw 'sttn   ts  aaIst.,A6    4
Saideatta c satade cat lnai.Coaita   sam  ettar  Wal  (ie                  aaasii a9daatrCraaaeTa     ea   iaaa                             ta
areatrn  mac   at tdnel iatta  ss  tas as  aataa  anrtl   ta                 Ibt   I   ataa  tn.aiei    aUaa   et-aea    af
cat.  a   tasaal    Lt- crcaat Isatt.   at ant IatyLaabtena..
baa.e      Uai eat at's.  rartitract atatt: ita-ti.  Ilt,  t Itt
data,                                             tarn tan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 Iy .I. 
- eeraa atn. atcalUr's tr~antat taaatataltl- tatlad fn               _il  Wa  tnt ~."taamlal                   M tttaa    rIMIpct..ttlita
-taatna    r    ansb""tbada    yttala    S    t   aa                                                                tea  fats  tatas. ftanry, t-stw as
at stnt,td  iatt I ail-i, ttt USIt'sdaa                                           aSSaatletywtt. aM amc  patrttap   attt   ae  af Ie
ta 1aaeanaa  tat  aa Zaa-taaa   atc   tprt,s                                               aea    n   n.
ar tstac -tet-n.         caercc ath Ita  a.dtaea   te                             arctta   st(a-at    aa.st,a    ...-elaia .a



- 21 -
rag. 4 of b
j0unDh  - EalNllC INDICA10
Popultion. 2.5  il1ius (1962) l/
GNP1 per c.pita; USS 1.692 (i98s  I/.2t
Ainut                                                    AnUUe Growth lam
(.illion USi at                         letusi  t 1980 Vrice3                                  Projected (at 1980 Vric.)
curreut prices)
1982                1977    1978    197    1980    193      1932        19M3 1       1934     1985     1936     1937
NATIONAL ALCOUITS
Groes daeetic product      3.881                   12.4    21.5     9.1    10.5      7.4     7.1        5.9          6.5      5.5       5.0      5.0
Agr1c-Iture              24L                    1.0    25.0  -29.0    39.0   11.6        9.7        5.0          5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
Industry               1.016                   24.2    27.0   19.2    11.5    1.2       0.3        13.2         13.0     14.0      L.0      7.0
S r-licr               2 :249                  10.1    15.9    10.2    7.9      4.3      8.9        2.9          2.4      1.9      3.5       3.7
Consuspt ion                4.296                   15.3    18.9   17.3   -7.0 6       .4     3.8        5.5          5.7      1.4       5.0      5.0
Cr...t I....est .t          1.791                   23.3     5.6    I0.5   17.2   24.2        2.4       -7.2          1.0     -5.h   -11.3    -1.3
Exports CNFS                1.911                   19.2    10.4   20.4   24.1    24.9        1.5       -1.0          9.6     18.5      13.4      7.0
la""rt. at CYFS             4.127                   21.8     9.7    26.4   -1.7    27.4   .0.8          -3.0          5.4      2.8      4.5      4.4
Cros.  National product     1.929                   13.1    18.2     7.7      6.8     8.2     7.4        7.5          4.9      5.0      4.2       4.3
PFICES
CDP D0Itletor                                  67.9    72.8    82.5  100.0  116.5 $      3.7
EecSang. Kate .3.04    3.20    3.33    3.35    3.07    2.84
Share of CIP at NArhet Nicea CZ)                             Average Anwal l_tne.
(at cur t O-T                                            (at canrtant prices)
1975    1980a    1985                                    1975-33         1984487
Gr.ss Doee-tic Product                                      96.0    100.8    97.3                                       10.3            5.5
A;E-iC,1ture                                             7.5      6.5     0.3                                      10.2            5.0
Industry                                               21.8     26.7     34.5                                      14.1            9.1
Sereices                                               59.7     57.9     57.1                                       8.9            3.3
L.onsu.pt ton                                              123.8   109.8   114.5                                         7.4            4.3
Gro.. Itve-tetut                                            26.5    40.3       38.6                                      8.8            -4.3
Ltports of GC3S                                             35.5    47.9       5810                                     13.6           12.1
Inpo.te of I2IFS                                            90.1    97.2   102.5                                         9.7            4.3
Gr;os National Product                                     100.0    100.0    100.0                                       3.0            4.6
Yrt Factor Income                                            4.1    -0.8       2.2                                                       -
Gr... National Svings                                      -23.8    -9.8   -14.5
As I ef QWP
(at current prices_
1975         1980        1985
PUBLIC FINANCE
Domestic Revenues                       24.8         22.8         34.4
Curre-t Etpenditures                    37.6         33.9         32.2
Budgetary Savings                      -12.8        -10.0         2.1
Capital Expenditures                    23.6         22.9         12.7
Foreign Financing                       34.d         27.7         1.4
of ,htch foreign grants               30.0         20.5         11.3
1978-82      1984-87
OTHER INDICATORS
ICOD                                  5.4          5.9
%arg.nal Cross Nstional
Savings Rate                       -2.1          3.8
IuPort Elasticity Egonds)             1.2          0.8
1/ East Bank only.
'I Preliminsry estimate based on the revised eries of national accounts to be discussed with the Cover_nent. which eseldes remittancee from lna
term residents abroad that are considered capital transfers.
31  Prelimnary estimte.
311  CPIID
May 1984



-22 -
ANNEX I
Pate 5 of 6
JOROAI - EtErNAL TLADI
Amnt
lndicator                   t(illion US5 at                                           Annual Crovtb Itt
current pries)                Actual (at 1975 prie9)  _Projected l(t 19R0 Prices)
1982          1977    _9_8       1o                  tssl    12         1984 2              79 1986             1Ye7
EXTEP.NAL TAIOE
Nerchandise exports /I            526             27.3       6.7    22.5       22.9      31.1      2.1      -o.0      20.5      17.0      11.0       9.g
Primary                        246             13.1       5.5    16.1       26.2      11.5    -3.2       -8.0      24.7      16.1      11.5      10.3
ManufaCLures                   2R0             73.9       9.1    35.6       17.0      59.0      8.5      -5.1      16.0      17.5      10.3       9.8
Hercbhndise imports             3.231             24.2      -1.3     10.5       7.8      27.4    -1.0       -3.8       5.9       4.1       4.5       4.9
Food                           540            -14.2      25.8      8.9       7.1      31.6      6.4    -21.5        4.8       4.6.      4.8       4.8
Petroleum                      679             19.1    -13.2      30.3      42.3      19.3    2Z.0        0.1       6.0       5.5       5.0       5.0
Hachinery and equipment        903             43.5      -3.5   -11.7       13.6      56.6   -13.0    -18.9         1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0
Other                         1.109            39.5      -9.8     27.5      -3.4      19.3      0.5    -19.8        5.0       5.5       5.0       5.0
PRICES                                                              (1975 - 100)                                        (1980   100)
Export price index                 -              86.1      85.S    90.2    106.9    107.5   113.2          90.3    105.6    115.8    126.8    138.9
lumrt price index                  -             112.2     114.8   133.5    150.4    113.6   119.4          76.9      79.4      85.8      93.5    101.9
Term. of trade index               --             76.7      74.7     67.6      71.1      94.6    94.8    117.4    133.0    135.0    135.6    136.3
Cnmpo.Ltiou of Mrchendi.. Trad  (2)               Average Annal CTowth Rates
(at current pviceu)                          (at constant prices)
1975      1982       1987                       1978-83        1934-87
Exports /1                                           100.0    100.0   100.0                              11.9        14.6
Primry                                             79.8    46.8      57.8                              8.2        15.7
Manutact.res                                       20.2     53.Z    42.2                              19.2        13.4
Inpurts                                              100.0   100.0   100.0                                6.6         4.9
Food                                               22.2     16.7     18.3                              9.7         4.S
Petroleu,                                          10.6    21.0    24.3                               16.8         5.4
Machinery and equipment                            31.6    28.0    23.7                                3.9         1.0
Other                                              35.5    34.3    33.8                                9.0         5.1
Share of Total Exports (Z)                     Share of Total Imports (2)
DIRECTION OF TRADE                                           1975        1983                               1975          1983
Developed market economies                                   17.6         4.9                               62.6          46.3
DeveLoping market economies                                  70.2        82.0                               29.2          46.5
of whicb Arab countries                                    42.4        63.3                               19.8          48.6
Centrally planned economie.                                  12.2        13.1                                8.2           7.3
11 Excluding re-exports                                                                                                                      May 198CI
2/ Preliminary estimate.



-23-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SQD- mA14 OF wAMOS  mar. CATITL AND OM
1i33.imm. an at Carrea  price.)
OE  1916  1977    175       1919      1980      981      1962'       1983 3/        L9t.      ;91t5    lY4.      198      1400
3aALAK  OF ?AMUfIS
EPwrcs *f  .od  & servicess             OC.    123        1437     119       2&9L     320S      317;.     310Z           3421      4.213     41685     51e       72
Of hicd= M       _rclums.o  f_ L.e     207      269       297      402       574      74Z      - 749       551.           75       100       1 135    U:n       :537
4.164w. ttZ ccAmom          41"       470      SZD       600      79Z       0'._    Lan8       I.             1286       14aL-    ISIS 1132          :0G
Impor ft   s   4 &e1wcs                10       1716     2045      2672      345Z    .50       454S.     4S161         '.70        5353     401W      0733     94.:!
Of ubackz _s- .oe ..b-b-             1020      176      149      1957      2393     3237      3Z29      290'.          3367       383.   _ :95       -L1   -e:
Umber  rct_er                  20        46       65        80      154       159      175        197            L12       -,-       2'5       :bc      357
Net crasofrs, 2/                        Su       5D1       3_.7    10416 135          1321      l055        s97            56s       .54       3_1      3-_      :00
Cooru account bo1-                       52       -7      -2Z0       -        37'      -__     -335       -342           -515       -684     -48e   -!L-.    --1-e
Priwate diroct W."atset                 -10       11        56       26        31       67        91        30            102        110      Its        27      137
PC  Loa  (=WC)                           n       190  SD9           193       232      27        242       193            :68       %o5       978      1139   :sea
Official                                70       46       112      143      Z2        z83       zn         134          l8         4o5      o"A        ;s      1756
ftivate                                  1      106        77       S0        -6       -9      -29         55             so        200      2"        33       rs
0r capital                              -5       -21.      Z         20      -264     -396      -290          3                       -                   -
C    as....rues_in                                       -29 -4 -23  -3Z     -3n        83       29Z       136           -t19   -S     9     -1IS  -ro          -_5r7
Lntrou .LxeI                            567      740      93       15        1t7t     1503      1ZIZ      1075    1_294             1383     1501       57:     :1im
0f uWb%tk  CGold                        s0       a         a1       82       20s      !-a       194'      200             10        200      _oo       20e      :0:0
meso  as    .   ._ ofimurc                5.0      5.1       5S6     S2        5,5      4.5       3_:       l.1            3_1        3_1   3_1          -3r,      Z_7
EXmTEL C*P18AD W
-Goo  d i_0seom"                        91      214       Z23      5so       306      407       374        331           3e3        947     102        30 :0-3
Couc.ijol O  r_                       so       9'       119      L5I       133      1Zs      L1.        22'.           253        se;      -is       604     17-1
1r0                                6         9        6        13        9         3        _-                        - _       _         _        _
-tbor                             74        85      113       138      12z.      123      too        224            25'        A;.      7is      90-      171
Noo-cooce.oiomaI low                  U       120       10.       99       173      282       191        97            109        283      308       3Si      732
Officialeopottcti.dits              3        3        a    :             97      159        94        10             12         l4       1.        tS       20
raRD                               -         -        -          .       2        19        11        33             39        _3        53       o3        t0
Otr ltiitral                        -        -         -        7        1         6        30        1s            1          LS       :         ::       :3
Pt-wae                             a       117       96        a6       40       9S        56         19             _Z       209       :20      284       ,s_
E1.trnaL debt
0.6C O.Cacading .od
disbursed                           4"        6Z3       S;2     106a      124.     1481      1685      1523           -091       Z756     3734 -,   ;  i        1
official                          341      469       609      765       993     1226      144        282           1445       175'     2177      2n-20    55s9
prient.                           49       L54      Z32      23        273      254      221        550            464      L10:  : 557         2i1I     1802
Un4iorsed dm6                        Z77      359       325      86,3     122       99s       831       521            532        541      550      100o     _0o0
Debt Cer-c.
SoC.1 aerw=w peylmo                   27       36  58             06       133      182       193       226           Z2O         338      _16       S10      058
laterooc                           a        15       Z4        40       Ss        el        61        98            130       155       21_      255       534
?ayuwro  m 1Z exts Il                  2_7      3_2       6_0      5.3       5.4  5,    7       6.1       6.8            2.2        8.0      8.9       9.8     13.
Average j=tereot r8ate
- nv las,I (_.                         2.4      6.0       6_3      5.3       6.8   S_ 3         6.0        7_0                        0      7__0      7.0      -.-
A-ra _sacity
of ow loes (1eara)                    2Ss6    14'-.      18.1     21.       14..8    17.7      20.1      17.0           12.6       12.6     12.6      12._    :__6
Average gr-c
of ne  lom. (years)                    6.6      3.5       S.6   4_ 7         3.8      4.3       5.0       4.1       '      7    Z 7   :_7              2.7   '    .
As Z of Debt Ootstinddig
.t o-a .f Most lC_ac ear (18)
fat.ticy strctsure of deb1 Oo-tatding
Vatcurtiew d_e  itbis 5 yews                                        46-5
Mat.wities due sithis 10 peers                                      93.3
lotecesc mtructore of de61 aceLSmdio
lotrevct doe .itin Eirt Your                                         6.0
-   Dar  nor aeiLeb.                                                                                                                                  DIM  C?:;-D
1U t-porc. of -uoI  at merwics. ix_Ldift ro6mictoer.                                                   !%e 19S-.
V/  EaLdi8 oreqiced trmsfers by toot ters residest vekers arued-
3/ Prelimin"ry eciomce.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE S-LAITS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN a/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IOA CREDITS*
(As of March 31, 1984)
-U'$  milli-C
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number  Year       Borrower       Purpose               Bank      IKA   Undisbursed
Fifteen credits
fully disbursed    Jordan                                         86.1
Two loans fully
disbursed                                              50.0
1781   1979         Jordan        Education III         19_0                 9.3
1826   1980           "           CVDB                  10.0                 7.3
1893   1980           "           Urban Development    21.0                 16.4
1986   1981           "           Power IV              25.0                10.0
2068   1982           n           Education IV          25.0                22.8
2162   1982           "           ?ower V               35.0                29.0
2213   1983           "           Water Supply and
Sewerage         17.0                 16.9
2246   1983                       Education V           18.8                18.7
2334   1983                       Urban Transport       30.0                30.0
2371   1984 b/                    Energy Devt. I        30.0                30.0
2378   1984 bl                    Education vI          40.0                40.0
TOTAL                                                  320.8       86.1    230.4
of which  az^ been repaid                0.6        2.3
Total now held by Bank/IDA c/           320.2       83.8
Total undisbursed                     230.4         -     230.4
a/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
b/  Not yet effective.
cf  Includes exchange rate adjustments.
i   Does not include the $30 million Eight Cities Water Supply/Sewerage Loan
approved by the Executive Directors on May 24, 1984.



- 25 -
AIMNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
LAs of March 31, 1984)
-    -S$ Nifion-
Year           Obligor          Tvpe of Business      Loan               Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.             Ceramic Tiles           1.6       0.2       1.8
19751    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. Co.             Phosphatic Fertilizer 79.5 1/   8.7       88.2 If
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate              Building Materials      2.5       0.7       3.2
1979     Jordan Securities     Money & Capital
Corp.                  Market                           0.7       0-7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.              Leasing                          0.3       0.3
Total Commitments                            83.6 1/  10.6       94.2 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                    56.4 1/   0.7       57.1 1/
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  27.2      9.9      37.1
Total Undisbursed                              -         -
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
JORDAN
A MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare            19 months, from
the project                                     March 1982-November 1983
(b)   Agencies which prepared the project   :         Ministry of Transport
(MOT), Ministry of
Public Works (MPW),
National Plannng
Council (NPC)
Cc)   Date of first presentation to the Bank,
and date of first Bank missi',n to
consider the project                      ;     August 1982
ad)   Date of departure of appraisal mission   ;    November 20, 1983
(e)   Date of completion of negotiations              May 11, 1984
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness             ;     November 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III; Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)   The Government would sign loan agreements with the Saudi Fund for
Development and the Islamic Development Bank (para 58).
(b)   The Government would sign a subsidiary loan agreement with ARC (para 59).
Other measures:
(a)   TPC would investigate the methods for using Berth A in Aqaba Port for
loading phosphate, and review with the Bank the actions to be taken on
the basis of this investigation (para 40).
(b)   ARC would carry out the operational Action Plan over the period
1984-1990, assess implementation, submit quarterly progress reports and
review annually with the Bank its progress and possible adjustments to
the Plan (para 52). ARC would aim to earn sufficient revenues in 1986



-27-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
and thereafter to cover operating and maintenance costs, and debt
service or depreciation, whichever is greater; it would not incur any
new debt unless its revenues adequately cover its debt service
(1.5 times) (para 54). By January 1, 1986, ARC would maintain
accounting records under a conercially based accounting system
(para 56).
(c)   MW vould review with the Bank by end-1984 the maintenance system to be
derived from the technical assistance, and arrangements for ensuring the
availabiDity of equipment and financing for the planned operations
(para 35). MPW would undertake maintenance subprojects with returns of
at least 12 percent (para 63).
I



-  - - z o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s;n 7 's 522/
J             \   ,
Z-~~~~~~~~~~~~
'.--~  "                 S                                       -                                    -
JORDANA
5)4=                             "   ~~~~~~~MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
X-.  ,-' ' jG
IA'-.                                                               -  --_   _
-.  5 ~     ~      F.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m,a
' %P'.cmd Paoah.. 
-kr
S   U 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    o~oa o~



