Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFJCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13082
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2463-JO)
MAY 24, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Eguivalents
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
(Jordanian Dinars per US Dollar)
Period              End of Period               Period Average
1983                    0.3630                        0.3630
1984                    0.3841                        0.3840
1985                    0.3940                        0.3950
1986                    0.3499                        0.3500
1987                    0.3387                        0.3380
1988                    0.3715                        0.3715
1989                    0.5704                        0.5705
1990                    0.6636                        0.6636
1991                    0.6808                        0.6807
1992                    0.6797                        0.6798
Fiscal Year
January 1- December 31
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)                3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    =      0.621 mile (mi)
I kilogram (kg)     =      2.205 pounds (Ibs)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =   0.984 long ton
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
AASHTO        - American Association of State Highways and Transportation
Officials
ARC           - Aqaba Railway Corporation
BPR          - Bureau of Public Roads (USA)
CIF           - Cost, Insurance and Freight
ER           - Economic Return
FYBR          - First Year Benefit Ratio
FYP          - Five Year Plan
GE            - General Electric
HJR           - Hejaz-Jordan Railway
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
JFI           - Jordan Fertilizer Industries
JPMC          - Jordan Phosphate Mining Company
KfW          - Kreditanstalt fur Weideraufbau
MOF           - Ministry of Finance
MOI          - Ministry of Interior
MOT          - Ministry of Transport
MPWH         - Ministry of Public Works and Housing
NPC          - National Planning Council
NTS           - National Transport Study
TPC           - The Ports Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 24, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Jordan -
Multi-Mode Transport Project (Loan 2463-JO)
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Jordan Multi-Mode Transport Project (Loan 2463-
JO)". The US$30 million Loan was approved in July 1984 and closed on December 31, 1992, two and
a half years behind schedule. The undisbursed amount of US$221 thousand was canceled. The PCR was
prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office and Part II contains the Borrower's
observations.
Jordanian transport was strained in the early 1980s. Road pavements were being destroyed by
overloaded trucks many of which served transit traffic. The Aqaba Railway Corporation was finding it
hard to move phosphate exports. Thanks to the Iran-Iraq War, the Port of Aqaba doubled its traffic from
10 to 20 million tons per year but paid a high price in terms of inefficiency, congestion and
environmental pollution. The need for physical improvements was matched by the need for better
sectoral planning and performance monitoring, and for a stronger institutional and policy environment.
The Government, the Bank, the Saudi Fund and the Islamic Development Bank agreed to undertake a
US$132.8 million project that would facilitate transit traffic, strengthen institutional development, improve
road maintenance, enforce axle load limits, improve railway operations and financial performance, and
train port personnel. The US$30 million Bank Loan was split between highways (20%) and the railway
(80%), with the port receiving a token sum for staff training.
The PCR contains an adequate description of project preparation and results. All physical works
were satisfactorily completed which undoubtedly generated substantial benefits. However, policy,
organizational and institutional improvements did not materialize. The railway has been technically
bankrupt since 1991. Overloaded trucks continue to destroy road pavements because axle load limits are
still not being enforced. Little staff training has taken place and it has been mostly ineffective. Sectoral
monitoring leaves much to be desired. Even the most basic data are missing. For example, the PCR was
unable to give the final project cost and the economic re-evaluation cannot be considered reliable. Taking
account of the beneficial reconstruction role of the project, the overall outcome is rated as marginally
unsatisfactory, the sustainability of benefits as unlikely, and the institutional impact as negligible.
The project will be audited.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2463-JO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  .......................................................
Evaluation  Summary   ..............................................
PART ONE: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Basic Information   ............................................                                                                  1
Background ................................................  1
Project Objectives and Description    .................................    4
Project Design and Organization  ...................................    5
Project Implementation .........................................  5
Project Results  ..............................................    9
Economic Reevaluation    ........................................                                                                 10
Aqaba Railway  Corporation's Financial Performance   ......................    13
Bank-Borrower Performance and  Relationship    ..........................    15
Project Documentation and  Data  ...................................    15
Status of Covenants  ...........................................    16
Lessons Learned  .............................................                                                                    16
PART TWO: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Aqaba Railway  Corporation  ......................................    18
Azraq-Iraqi Border Highway  Project, Section D    .........................    19
PART THREE: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tables
1.        Related  Bank  Loans  ...........................................    20
2.         Project Timetable   ............................................    20
3.         Project Description   ...........................................    21
4.         Loan Categories, and Actual Disbursements ............... ............. 22
5.         Cumulative Estimated  and  Actual Disbursements  .........................    22
6.         Economic Impact   ............................................                                                                    22
7.         Aqaba Back Road   ............................................                                                                    23
8.         Azraq-Iraqi Border Highway   .....................................    24
9.         Return on  ARC  Investment  ......................................    24
10.   Income Statement ............................................. 25
11.        Sources and  Application of Funds  ..................................    26
12.       Balance Sheet   ..............................................    27
13.       Use of Bank Resources  .........................................    28
14.       Status of Covenants (as of January  1993)   .............................    30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
Xofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                               I






- i..-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2463-JO)
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Multi-Mode Transport Project for
which Loan 2463-JO, in the amount of US$30.0 million, was approved on 10th July, 1984. The loan
was closed on December 31, 1992, two and a half years behind schedule. The loan account was
closed on April 30, 1993; US$221,046 remained undisbursed and was cancelled.
2.        This PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Division of Country Department II,
Middle East and North Africa Region of the World Bank (WB), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR was started during the WB mission to Jordan in December, 1992 and is
largely based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between the WB and the Borrower, progress reports and internal WB documents.






- 11-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2463-JO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVES
1.        The project, the second World Bank transport sector lending operation in Jordan, was
designed to support the Government's macroeconomic policy of: (i) encouraging foreign currency
earning activities, especially phosphate exports and transit traffic; (ii) reducing the domestic transport
cost of imports; and, (iii) reducing demands from the sector on the public budget through increasing
efficiency and productivity.
2.        The loan, which became effective February 20, 1985, was in the amount of US$30.0
million. The proceeds were to finance: (i) road works and maintenance equipment; (ii) railway track
renewal; and, (iii) technical assistance and training. The project was cofinanced by the Saudi Fund,
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Islamic Development Bank and suppliers'
credits. The Japanese Government financed associated major road rehabilitation components.
INIPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES
3.        The project was substantially completed in early 1993. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1992, some two and a half years late. The loan account was closed on the
April 30, 1993 with US$221,046 that was undisbursed and cancelled. Most of the delay was
occasioned in the process of reaching agreement with the Borrower on adopting procedures consistent
with the Bank Guidelines on civil works procurement. However, the day-to-day pressure placed on
the transport agencies in coping with the large increase in traffic associated with the Iran-Iraq war
and, subsequently, the disruption of the Gulf war and its aftermath, also contributed significantly to
the delay.
RESULTS
4.        In physical terms, (road construction and strengthening, railway permanent-way renewal
and workshop improvement), the project was successful and contributed to the project objective of
supporting the Government's macroeconomic strategy. However, the fundamental need for
institutional and policy reform, to take advantage of infrastructure and equipment improvements was
only partly met. This was primarily due to an unwillingness on the part of the authorities to use loan
funds to finance critical technical assistance and training and the strength of the road transport lobby,
which resisted important policy reforms related to cost recovery. These included policies to require
the trucking industry to pay their share of the cost of road maintenance and improvement to
compensate for the damage done by heavy lorries and the implementation of more appropriate axle



- iii-
load limits. Both are now being addressed under the Third Transport Project (Loan 3568-JO, July
1993).
SUSTAINABILITY
5.        The physical project achievements in the road sector are sustainable, provided that timely
maintenance is carried out. This is largely being achieved; however, more can be done to improve
durability of the pavements that are constructed and the quality of the maintenance methods. Both
issues are being addressed adequately under the Third Transport Project.
6.        The TA component for MPWH did not produce a lasting effect on efficiency and did not
change the planning and budgeting system as intended. In order to achieve these changes the road
agency may have to be restructured or reorganized with adoption of modern management techniques.
Increasing operational and financial autonomy, supported by a carefully structured training program,
may be essential in this process. This is being tackled in the Third Transport Project.
7.        In 1990, the Aqaba Railway Corporation had accumulated losses that were higher than its
capital and was and remains technically bankrupt. A sustainable railway operation can now only be
achieved through financial restructuring, a major increase in tariffs and strengthening of the ARC
management. These efforts would have to be viewed in light of the fact that the mines at Al Abyad
and El Hassa are depleting and that production is gradually being transferred to another mine at El
Shidiya. This new mine is not yet connected to the railway, although there are proposals to do this.
The Third Transport Project is addressing these issues through a phased reduction in the illegal
overloading of trucks affecting the cost of phosphate transport by road, and through the preparation of
a corporate plan, development of restructuring options and the appointment, under technical
assistance, of a management team.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
8.        Three important lessons were learned: (i) Projects should not proceed to negotiation and
Board presentation until formal agreement has been reached on all aspects of procurement including
consistency with World Bank Guidelines, bidding procedures and contract documentation. (ii) In the
transport sector, which is essentially a service industry, the development and implementation of a
strategy for improving productivity can only be developed successfully if all those affected are fully
committed to the project's objectives and participate in its preparation. This was not the case for the
railway component. The need to integrate the operations of the Aqaba Railway Corporation with the
Jordan Phosphate Mining Company and the Port Corporation was not given the necessary weight
during preparation and appraisal and, consequently, not adequately reflected in project strategy.
(iii) The considerable amount of time needed to achieve institutional changes and policy reform under
civil service constraint is often underestimated. It requires understanding and commitment at the top
management level in order to be successful, and if that is not present it will have to be developed
before institutional change and policy reforms can be phased in correctly with training and associated
investments.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2463-JO)
PART ONE
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTVE
1.        Basic Information
Project Name:                                Multi-Mode Transport Project
Loan Number:                                 2463-JO
Regional Vice Presidential Unit:             MENA
Country:                                     Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Sector:                                      MN2IN - Transportation
Loan Amount:                                 US$30 million
Loan Cancellations:                          US$221,046
Cofinancing (parallel):
Saudi Development Fund                    US$11.4 million
Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development                      Kuwaiti dinar 5.4 million
Islamic Development Bank                  US$9.3 million
2.        Background
2.1       Introduction. Based on a National Transport Sector Study (NTS), carried out in
1982/83, and supplemented by World Bank sector work, a number of key issues were identified in
Jordan's transport sector. The Government, with World Bank support, decided to address these
within the framework of a Multi-Mode Transport Project, which was financed under Loan 2463-JO
together with parallel cofinancing from the Saudi Development Fund (SF) and the Islamic
Development Bank (IB) and, eventually, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFD).
The project was designed to focus upon highway and railway rehabilitation, institutional reform and
training. The training component included the Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MPWH), the
Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC) and The Port Corporation (TPC) at Aqaba. The latter was to
self-finance a World Bank agreed program.
2.2       This was the World Bank's second transport operation in Jordan, the first being an IDA
credit (Cr. 262-JO) in 1971, which was primarily concerned with building the multi-lane Amman-
Zarqa Road and urban transport studies. This earlier project was completed satisfactorily but with a
delay of about two years, due mainly to contractual problems regarding civil works and delays in
relocating public utilities (Table 1). Procurement issues, especially concerning compliance with Bank
Guidelines, were not addressed and resolved at the time but were left to be addressed under
subsequent projects.



2.3       Project preparation was actively supported by the authorities, including the Ministry of
Planning (MP). An appraisal mission visited Jordan in November/December 1983, and negotiations
were held in Washington in May, 1984. The Loan was approved by the Board on July 10, 1984,
signed on August 17, 1984 and became effective on February 20, 1985 (Table 2). The total estimated
project cost, including contingencies, was US$132.8 million, with a foreign component of US$80.3
million. The loan amount was US$30.0 million, of which US$20.0 million was relent to ARC on the
same terms of the loan with ARC bearing the foreign exchange risk. The latter was to have a
significant negative impact upon ARC finances due to (a) the decline in the value of the Jordanian
dinar (JD) following the economic crisis in the Gulf oil producing states in the latter part of the
1980's caused by the fall in oil prices, and (b) the Gulf War and its aftermath. Hindsight has taught
us that such a commitment should be examined more carefully before being entered into, particularly,
for entities having all revenues in local currency. Repayment was to be over a 15-year period,
including a 3-year grace period, at the standard variable interest rate.
2.4       Sector Development Objectives. Jordan's main transport system is import/export
oriented, supported by an extensive secondary and tertiary network providing access to towns,
villages and agricultural areas. At the time of project preparation and appraisal, the Government
attached the highest priority to the improvement of international trade routes, especially those carrying
phosphate, potash, fertilizer and cement exports: this policy continues today. Also, Jordan's role as a
transit route, especially for Iraq during the Iran-Iraq war, was particularly important in providing
employment and foreign exchange earnings - during this period traffic through Aqaba increased from
an average level of about 10 million tons to about 20 million tons p.a. Should international relations
with Iraq be normalized, transit traffic levels will undoubtedly increase again.
2.5       Although improvements were made to the transport system over the period 1970 to 1985,
including the construction of the Aqaba Railway to transport phosphate from the mines at El Hassa
and Al Abiad to Aqaba port and a new section of the Amman-Aqaba road (the Ras El Naqab
Escarpment), these were not enough to meet demand. Furthermore, much of the infrastructure had
deteriorated, and, due especially to the troubles in Lebanon, the pattern of traffic had changed
significantly. Consequently, the Government's primary objective was to develop the transport
infrastructure to meet the growing and changing needs of the economy, stressing in particular foreign-
currency-earning activities. In parallel, the authorities recognized the importance of improving the
operational efficiency of key agencies such as ARC, TPC and MPWH, which would require the
introduction of modern methods and technologies, training and manpower planning. An important
goal, strongly supported by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), has been to
limit demands from the sector on the public budget. However, although this latter objective was
recognized to be important, government actions to achieve it have been weak: road construction to
unnecessarily high standards has continued, and the failure to implement agreed legislation regarding
vehicle axle loads has contributed to increased road deterioration and, consequently, increased
expenditures. These failings are being addressed under the recently approved Third Transport Project
(Loan 3568-JO, July 1993).
2.6       Policy Context. The NTS, in addition to specifying investment actions needed to upgrade
and protect the transport infrastructure, identified several key policy issues that needed to be
addressed.
Highways: -      Subsidies on petrol and diesel needed to be phased out and prices set
to reflect resource consumption.



- 3 -
-      Although road users, overall, paid sufficient road-user charges to
cover the maintenance of primary roads, fees were insufficient to
preserve and protect from deterioration the entire highway system:
consequently, road user charges required revision and increases in
order to fund both recurrent and capital highway cost fully.
-      Road users, especially heavy trucks, should be charged according to
the wear and tear and damage that they cause to the highway system.
-      A national 13-ton axle load limit should be strictly enforced to prevent
an accelerated deterioration of the highway system.
Railways: -       The capacity and reliability of ARC to transport phosphate should be
improved in order to reduce pressure on road capacity and to improve
the financial viability of ARC, thus reducing the burden on public
expenditure.
-      Modern management and operations systems, including improvements
to the accounting system were needed.
-      Although ARC possessed some very competent staff, especially on the
engineering side, much of the workforce was poorly trained, and there
were no structured career prospects: there was clearly a need to
introduce a human resources development strategy supported by
training programs planned and executed by professionals.
Port:     -       Although the transit trade with Iraq had been very valuable, it would
be unreasonable to expect it to continue forever, and the trade
embargo on Iraq showed just how sensitive port earnings were to any
interruptions: therefore, there was a desire to develop a strategy to
diversify port activities either by seeking new markets or developing
new operations, such as duty free zones.
If the port were to adopt a policy of expansion in a competitive
industry, modern technologies and operational methods were essential:
thus, port personnel needed to be introduced to modern operations
systems and to receive the necessary skills training.
2.7       Linkages Between the Project and Macroeconomic Objectives. Towards the mid-
1980s, Jordan, like other countries in the area, was beginning to experience a sharp slow-down in
economic activity and a decline in export earnings and financial aid grants. This was largely the
result of falling oil incomes in Jordan's traditional Middle East markets and sources of remittance
income. During 1983-89, the economy grew at an annual rate of only 1.7 percent, which led to a
marked decline in per capita income and increases in unemployment. The population growth rate was
estimated at 3.5 percent. Slow growth was reflected in a rising budget deficit, a deteriorating balance
of payments and a high incidence of external debt.



- 4 -
2.8       The initial response of the authorities was fragmented and ad hoc. There was no clear
overall strategy for the economy in general or for the transport sector in particular. One particular
problem, which still results in weak resource management, was the lack of insistence by the
Government on rigorous project evaluation in the roads sector. Adopting policies based on poor
evaluations led to investment in unnecessary facilities, too high technical standards and inadequate
funds for maintenance. Consequently, the project, in addition to its primary macroeconomic objective
of supporting export-earning activities and reducing public expenditure, sought to strengthen the
operating and planning standards of the transport institutions. A reduction in public expenditure was
adopted as a key planning criterion, but some spending ministries frequently ignored the precept.
3.        Project Objectives and Description
3.1       Project Objectives. The main objectives of the project were: (i) easing critical transport
bottlenecks on principal import/export routes; (ii) building upon the institutional development started
under the First Highway Project (Cr 262-JO); (iii) raising the efficiency of highway sector
management, especially improving road maintenance and vehicle axle load control; (iv) upgrading
ARC operations and financial performance; and, (v) developing the work skills of TPC personnel.
3.2        Project Components. The project, at appraisal, consisted of the following components:
(i) road maintenance operations; (ii) civil works covering new construction and pavement
strengthening; (iii) the extension and modernization of the ARC Aqaba workshop, permanent way
renewal and the procurement and rehabilitation of railway equipment; and (iv) technical assistance and
training for MPWH, ARC and TPC (see Table 3).
3.3       The highway maintenance component included (i) routine and periodic maintenance
(patching, resealing, shoulder repairs, road marking and traffic signs); (ii) the procurement of road
maintenance and materials testing equipment; and (iii) the strengthening of selected sections of the
road network, including the 320-km Juwaidah-Iraq Border road.  At the time it was thought that this
component would lead to savings by limiting expensive reconstruction, but a combination of weak
initial construction, neglected maintenance and the high axle loads of vehicles during the Iran-Iraq
war resulted in full reconstruction being required.
3.4       The civil works component focussed on improving road links with the new port and
export industry development south of Aqaba at Wadi 2 - the "Aqaba Back Road." The links consisted
of a 30-km, two-lane road bypassing the city of Aqaba and a 6-km spur road to serve the container
port. Not only would this lead to improvements in port productivity and transport cost savings, but it
would also improve the environment in Aqaba by diverting heavy traffic away from the city;
however, no environmental impact assessment was carried out as this was not mandatory at the time
the project was prepared.
3.5       Assistance to ARC consisted of (i) the expansion and modernization of the Aqaba
workshop to improve locomotive availability; (ii) the procurement of phosphate wagons and the
rehabilitation of locomotives to increase phosphate transport capacity; (iii) the renewal of about 100
km of railway track with heavier rail and alignment improvements to permit heavier axle loads and
higher operating speeds and, at the same time, reduce derailments; and (iv) the procurement of a
heavy duty mobile breakdown crane. This component was directed towards facilitating the transport
of phosphate, increasing the productivity of the loading equipment at Aqaba, reducing dust pollution



- 5 -
and improving ARC financial operations. It was also designed to reduce the demands on the road
transport route, which was under considerable stress from transit traffic with Iraq.
3.6        The technical assistance and training included provisions: (i) to strengthen the capability
of MPWH to manage and plan periodic and routine (recurrent) highway maintenance operations; (ii)
to modernize the ARC accounting system and implement a training program for ARC staff, including
training equipment and materials; (iii) to assist in the preparation and operation of training programs,
including project analysis, for MPWH staff; and (iv) to provide advice and support for a ports
training program, financed by TPC, to improve efficiency in container, general cargo and phosphate
handling and shipping operations.
4.         Project Design and Organization
4.1        The Project was designed to contribute to Jordan's strategy to optimize the use of its
limited resources for earning foreign currency, for providing career opportunities and employment in
the transport industry and for reducing the financing burden on the budget.
4.2        Project management and administration were undertaken by the ministries and agencies
directly concerned, under the overall direction of the Ministry of Planning. Generally, this worked
satisfactorily, but the Government's refusal to use loan funds, or to identify alternative sources, to
finance technical assistance led to some major skills gaps at MPWH, which resulted in delays in
project implementation and the failure to achieve some project objectives.
4.3        The build-up of transport capacity in ARC was planned and carried out without the
necessary coordination and cooperation with ARC's only customer the Jordan Phosphate Mining
Company (JPMC) and there was no long term transport contract with transport rates sufficient to
cover loan servicing and operating costs. The phosphate railway also had to compete with low "back-
haul" rates of road traffic serving the port. This was aggravated by the Government allowing
overloading of trucks by as much as 50 percent to keep rates down and increase capacity resulting in
a more rapid deterioration of the roads. Indeed, this lack of an integrated policy extended to TPC
where phosphate storage facilities were inadequate to store enough of the grades of phosphate
required, with the result that transport demand became very peaked and difficult to meet by rail
transport, making road transport necessary for JPMC to move enough phosphate to Aqaba in periods
with fluctuating demands. The overall effect of this lack of coordination and cooperation within the
transport sector was inefficient use of ARC's capabilities and an increasing reliance by JPMC on road
transport to the extent that they started purchasing their own phosphate trucks.
4.4       In brief, although the project officers, appointed by MPWH, ARC and TPC, and
coordinated by the MP, eventually improved project operation, the lack of an integrated transport
policy resulted in a distinctly ad hoc approach, which was less than efficient. Nonetheless, the actual
performance of the three main agencies - against the background of vastly increased transport demand
occasioned by the Iran-Iraq War and economic and political problems resulting from the Gulf War -
must be commended.
5.         Project Implementation
5.1        Although there were no special conditions of loan effectiveness, it took six months from
loan agreement signing to loan effectiveness on February 20, 1985 after ratification by the Jordan



- 6 -
parliament. The original closing date of June 30, 1990 was extended three times to
December 31, 1992: although this was certainly affected by the political events in the region, the
primary reason for slow implementation concerned design standards and the procurement of civil
works. During implementation, there was a reallocation of funds among the different categories, but
this did not affect project design substantially. Also, as part of a Bank policy to mitigate the impact
of the Gulf war and its aftermath on the economy, the civil works disbursement rate was raised from
60 percent to 75 percent in February 1991 (see Tables 4 and 5).
5.2       Highway Component. Once the Government and the World Bank had agreed on the
road standards and the section to be financed, it took three years to ensure that the Jordanian bid
documentation met the requirements of the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement and Standard
Bidding Documents for Civil Works. T he principal differences in the bidding documents, which were
finally resolved in May 1988, after a special World Bank mission for that purpose, were:
-  the use of prequalified foreign contractors
-  mandatory employment of Jordanian staff
-  mandatory joint ventures
-  length of bidding period
-  local representation of foreign bidders
-  governing language of contract
-  bid bond, performance and security restrictions
-  bid opening procedure
-  reasons for bid rejection
-  price adjustment
-  use of local material
-  restrictions on the use of foreign labor
5.3       An original proposal for the World Bank to finance the Aqaba Back Road and spur road
was eventually turned down by the World Bank on the grounds that the standards proposed were
unjustified. The road was finally financed under two contracts (JD 9.2 million and JD 6.5 million)
by the Saudi Development Fund and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development. After
considerable redesign and realignment to adjust for power cable clearance, the road was completed in
late 1992 at final contract prices of JD 9,419,927 and JD 6,435,720, respectively. Supervision by a
local/foreign consultancy joint venture amounted to JD 459,099. However, the road has not yet been
opened to traffic because (i) the truck refuelling and other support facilities have not been built; and
(ii) the traffic passing through Aqaba has significantly decreased with the cessation of hostilities and
the United Nations' embargo of Iraq.
5.4       Of the 435-km of road proposed for strengthening at appraisal, 175-km were not procured
in accordance with World Bank Guidelines, nor were they subject to economic analysis and,
consequently, they were not financed under the loan. The remaining sections, including 240 km from
Azraq to the Iraq Border, were subject to feasibility studies and shown to be economically viable.
However, due to the light original construction and the damage caused by heavy traffic during the
Iran-Iraq War, it became clear that the cost would be much greater than estimated at the time of
appraisal, although still economically justified. As a result, the work was broken down into four
contracts with the World Bank financing Contract "D" of about 70 km adjacent to the Iraq border.
The remainder was financed under Japanese aid. Following the resolution of design and procurement
problems (para. 5.2) contract "D" was signed with a Taiwanese contractor in October 1988. The



contract sum was JD 5,574,774 plus US$4,854,776. The contract period was 725 days, but this was
extended by 636 days, initially due to problems in obtaining suitable aggregates, especially for
bituminous mixes, and more work than anticipated on building adequate diversions. The outbreak of
the Gulf Crisis in August 1990 led to a cessation of work for some time and a sic Xing down of
operations due to the refugee traffic and financial constraints associated with Jor..an's economic crisis
and restrictions. There were three variation orders (partly occasioned by a reduction in pavement
thickness), which gave a saving of JD 115,000. The contract was satisfactorily completed on August
15, 1992 for a total cost of JD 5,253,853 plus US$4,379,590: this was slightly less than the amount
estimated in the feasibility study. The design and supervising consultant was Jordanian and these
duties were carried out effectively.
5.5       MPWH, complying with MP policy, did not use loan funds for technical assistance
purposes. Assistance to strengthen its management, planning and operation of the highway system, to
help in the preparation and implementation of periodic and routine maintenance programs, and to
formulate and implement training programs for MPWH staff was undertaken by a consultant financed
by USAID. A computer-based maintenance planning and budgeting system was developed, and staff
trained in its use. However, cutbacks in US assistance in 1988 led to the withdrawal of the
consultants, and this, coupled with a lack of support for road maintenance by senior MPWH
personnel, resulted in reduced effectiveness of the system. This issue remains important and is being
addressed under the ongoing Third Transport Project.
5.6        Success in tackling the sector issues described in para. 2.6 was mixed. The transport
industry lobby in Jordan is particularly strong. However, the Government managed to remove
subsidies from fuel during the course of the project, and the price of fuel is now above the border
price, although there is probably still scope for revenue enhancement to recover road user costs more
fully. Increasing road-user revenues, especially from those users who cause most damage to roads
and stimulate the need for major investments, has proved more difficult. However, the Third
Transport Project includes a covenanted component which requires this issue to be studied in depth
and action to be taken on the recommendations made. The enforcement of axle-load legislation was
also a problem. Axle load legislation exists, and a program for its enforcement over two years was
prepared. Implementation, however, did not take place, due first to the very heavy transport demand
occasioned by the Iraq transit traffic and the political and material need to support this traffic; and,
second, to strong pressure from vested transport interests when another attempt was made after the
Gulf crisis. Agreement on this issue was made a condition of appraisal of the Third Transport
Project, and the details of the regulations and a strategy for their implementation have now been
agreed and the ordinance passed.
5.7       Railway Component. As with the Highway Component, procurement problems for
railways were the main cause of delay in physical implementation. This was not so much due to
conflict with World Bank Guidelines as to inexperience on the part of ARC staff in bid document
preparation. In the case of permanent-way renewal, there were added difficulties: a shipment of rail
was impounded in an Italian port; there was damage to the butt welding machine; and locally made
concrete sleepers were of poor quality and limited supply. However, the component, as envisaged at
appraisal, was substantially completed to a satisfactory standard. The Aqaba workshop was
completed in December 1988 and the World Bank agreed to reallocate US$2 million of unused loan
funds to finance the purchase of locomotive spares. Technical assistance in locomotive rehabilitation
was to be provided by a specialist from an international manufacturer of locomotives, but, because of
the Gulf crisis, this did not take place. Although ARC appears to have made some progress in



carrying out the locomotive rehabilitation program without technical assistance, the availability of
locomotives, critical to ARC operation, remains unsatisfactory. The 111 km of track renewal
between Ma'an and Aqaba was completed by June 1989 mainly using ARC resources. Approximately
10 km between Ma'an and the northern mines was also renewed and improved. As regards rolling
stock, an earlier purchase of lightweight phosphate wagons was unsatisfactory as 60 of these
developed severe cracks due to design deficiencies and, although these were repaired, could not be
used to their quoted capacity. Consequently, an additional 90 phosphate wagons have been procured
using Islamic Development Bank financing.
5.8       At appraisal, ARC was diagnosed as having a serious manning problem - much of which
was due to difficult working conditions and unattractive locations. Whilst some of these issues have
been addressed through, for example, workshop improvements, high turnover remained a problem.
The project contained a training component that was refined following a study by the technical
assistance consultants in 1985: the consultants' terms of reference also highlighted their responsibility
for skills transfer. The World Bank also reviewed the training program in 1986 and made
recommendationls. The training was to be a mixture of on-the-job training, local (at the Ma'an
training centre) and overseas training. The program never received the detailed planning or resources
it required to be successful. In particular, counterpart staff were not often available; there was only
limited "skills transfer", and the turnover rate of trained personnel remained high - reaching 80
percent in some cases.
5.9       Technical assistance, financed bv ARC, addressed two main issues:
-  Railway Operation, which was an extension of a program started in 1980 with the
consultant RITES continued until 1988. Its main success was the high standard of
work achieved on track renewal. Although, during the period that the consultants
were working at ARC, traffic declined steadily, this was not a function of their
performance. The decline was probably due to the original poor track condition, the
unsatisfactory locomotive maintenance facilities, the rapid turnover in staff and the
lack of coordination between ARC and JPMC. Nonetheless, the component appears
to have made little contribution to upgrading operations on a sustainable basis and
management remains weak.
-  Cost Accounting, was undertaken by a Jordanian firm of accountants. Whilst
accounting procedures improved as a result of this component, the system was not
really appropriate for railway management and a modern management information
system.
An independent study by Austria Rail, financed under the Austrian Consultant Trust Fund, produced a
report analyzing these problems, and, based on this report and other findings, the Third Transport
Project will address the subsector issues.
5.10      Port Component. The port component was limited to training and was financed by TPC
using a combination of in-house training in the Aqaba TPC training centre and overseas study tours.
As the traffic through Aqaba port grew during the Iran-Iraq war, the amount of effort allocated to
training declined. However, the performance of TPC under difficult circumstances was impressive,
implying an acceptable level of staff skills and application. Nonetheless, in the future training must



- 9 -
receive greater attention if new market opportunities are to be developed and new technologies are to
be absorbed.
6.        Project Results
6.1       Despite the tremendous pressure that the Iran-Iraq war placed upon the transport
infrastructure, the hiatus on construction activity during the Gulf crisis, the impact of the efforts to
absorb thousands of refugees and the severe economic downturn, the physical components of the
project were completed satisfactorily.
6.2       ARC operation was the one area of less than satisfactory performance. Over much of the
project period, phosphate transported by rail showed a steady decline, as opposed to the estimates at
appraisal.
Phosphate Transport by ARC ('000 tons)
1984          1985          1986           1987          1988
Appraisal            2700           3000          3700          4000            4400
Actual               3153           2473          2784           2584           2249
This decline and failure to meet appraisal estimates was due to a number of factors, in particular:
-  The appraisal estimates assumed an immediate improvement in ARC performance, and
this was unrealistic as it was clear that institutional, physical and operational
improvements would take several years to put in place and to have an impact on
operations.
- The limited port storage facilities were adversely affected by the increase in the
number of grades of phosphate being exported via Aqaba, effectively reducing storage
capacity and limiting the railway capacity.
- Continued decline in the original infrastructure leading to derailments and reduced
operating speeds.
- The absence of a transport agreement between ARC and JPMC led to a lack of
coordination and a failure, on occasion, to use fully the available ARC capacity. We
should point out, however, that the relatively low road-user charges did not influence
modal choice: ARC capacity was the limiting factor.
6.3       However, in the years since the substantial completion of the engineering works, traffic
has begun to recover.
1989          1990          1991           1992 (est)
Million Tons      2.2            2.6           2.9            3.0



- 10 -
Having said this, it must still be emphasized, especially regarding operating standards, modern
management techniques, skills levels and locomotive availability that the project was less than
successful, and much remains to be done. Management remains deficient in most areas and, with few
exceptions, lacks the necessary skills to run what is basically a simple transport operation. This has
been emphasized in several reports submitted to the Government and in Bank supervision missions but
no action has been taken. It is clear that, until the corporation is restructured along commercial lines
and suitably trained, experienced and motivated management staff are employed, ARC will continue
to operate below capacity and with an unsatisfactory reliability record.
6.4       Equally, institutional reforms in MPWH were not fully achieved, and management and
planning remain slow, with considerable operational inefficiency. Furthermore, the Ministry needs to
be more receptive to new ideas at the technical and planning levels. This includes rigorous project
evaluation and compliance with strict investment criteria. This is a serious issue, bearing in mind the
central position of this Ministry and the size of its budget. Had the Government been able to identify
and arrange acceptable financing for technical assistance, management would have been improved.
This entire issue including using loan proceeds for technical assistance is one that should be addressed
at the country level.
7.        Economic Reevaluation
7.1       The SAR best estimate gave an overall economic rate of return (ERR) of 18 percent, with
low and high estimates of 15 percent and 22 percent. The highway component was estimated to yield
an overall ERR of 16 percent and the ARC component, 20 percent. No ERR was calculated for
technical assistance, training or institutional components. The primary beneficiaries were the
transport companies operating between the port of Aqaba and Iraq who gained from the improvement
of the Azraq-Iraqi Border Highway. However, it is estimated that about 25 percent of this is non-
Jordanian transit traffic, and, thus, not all the vehicle operating cost saving benefits accrue to Jordan.
Traffic statistics are not comprehensive, and it has not been possible to obtain information on special
financial arrangements that may have existed between the two countries - for example, the provision
of cheap oil to Jordan in return for transit rights. As secondary benefits from road improvement, the
port of Aqaba has probably retained more transit traffic because of the improved road link, again,
these benefits cannot be quantified due to the lack of data. The project as eventually implemented
was somewhat modified from that originally evaluated, and an exact economic reevaluation is not
possible but the overall ERR is estimated at 24 percent (see Table 6). However, the various
components have been reexamined, as described in the following paragraphs.
7.2       Aqaba Back Road. This comprises 30 km from Wadi Yutum to Wadi 2 and a 6 km spur
to Aqaba container port. At appraisal this component was estimated to have an ERR of 20 percent
based on a cost of JD 13.4 million. The actual contract price, including major design changes, was
17 percent higher at JD 15.7 million; the sensitivity analysis at appraisal indicated that a rise in price
of 15 percent would still yield an ERR of 16 percent based on distance savings for vehicles.
However, although this road has been completed it was not opened until recently and no traffic counts
are available and the economic re-evaluation must be hypothetical. Although, in the short-term,
traffic is likely to be less than originally estimated, the cost of vehicle operation (based on a recent
study for the Third Transport Project) has increased - the operating cost of heavy lorries, which
would comprise most of the traffic, has risen by 134 percent compared with appraisal. The economic
viability of this component is closely linked to the future level of traffic and this depends on a number
of factors, including the political situation in the region especially as it affects Iraqi transit traffic.



- 11 -
Furthernore, the vertical geometry of about 3 km of the road is not good with gradients up to 7
percent over quite long sections, and rest and recreational facilities for drivers are very limited.
Although climbing lanes exist on steep sections, the potential for accidents is considerable. These
factors, including the drivers' preference to stay in Aqaba, raise doubts over hov much traffic will
voluntarily divert to the road. In consequence, it may be necessary, especially to reduce pollution
and traffic congestion in Aqaba, to place special restrictions on certain truck traffic using the road
through Aqaba.
7.3       In the absence of a resumption of large-scale Iraqi transit traffic, most traffic on the new
road would be generated by the fertilizer complex at Wadi 2 (especially phosphate inputs) and the
container terminal. The basic traffic, with origins and destinations in Jordan, is estimated at about
700 heavy vehicles a day or 255,500 p.a. The 1992 estimated typical economic vehicle operating cost
(voc) for these vehicles was 563 fils/km and the average distance saving is estimated at 20 km. On
this basis, and assuming a 2 percent p.a. traffic growth and a bituminous concrete overlay in year six,
the voc saving would yield an ERR of 11 percent over a 10-year period (Table 7). In addition, of
course, there would be environmental benefits due to reduced traffic passing through Aqaba and voc
benefits due to reduced traffic congestion, but there must still be reservations about the road's
economic viability.
7.4       Azraq-Iraqi Border Highway Section D. This road was not specifically included in the
project at appraisal but was substituted in Bank financing for the Aqaba "Back Road" and pavement
strengthening. The original 1987 feasibility study included benefits from road maintenance savings,
vehicle operating cost (voc) savings and road accident savings. These, with a construction cost
estimate of about JD 6.8 million, yielded an estimated ERR of 68 percent. The road was completed
in August 1992 at a cost of JD 6.887 million, which was very close to the feasibility study estimate.
However, traffic counts have shown that actual traffic, with the exception of cars, was lower than the
feasibility study estimate. This was not unexpected: although the estimate had predicted a decline
with the end of the Iran-Iraq war, it had not allowed for the Gulf crisis and the ensuing embargo of
Iraq.
Azraq-iraqi Border Highway: Estimated and Actual Average Daily Traffic
Appraisal
Estimated                   Actual Dec. 1992
Cars                           154                              435
Pick-ups/Light Commn.          164                                60
Heavy Freight                1,673                              635
Buses                          49                                 12
7.5       Nonetheless, this lower-than-forecast traffic was partly balanced by the significant rise in
typical vehicle operating costs (see Aqaba Back Road above). Furthermore, the road had deteriorated
to such an extent that the voc savings were higher than anticipated: cars, 20 percent; light
commercial, 18 percent; heavy freight, 27.5 percent; and buses, 15 percent. As a result, despite the
lower traffic, the project, analyzed over a 10-year period (traffic growing at an estimated 2 percent
and allowing for a bituminous concrete overlay in year six), yields an ERR of about 26 percent.



- 12 -
Gross benefits have been reduced by 25 percent to account for non-Jordanian vehicles (Table 8).
Data on maintenance and road accident savings are not available and have not been included in the
reevaluation.
7.6       Aqaba Railway Corporation. During the course of project implementation, the
performance of ARC did not reflect the considerable resources allocated to it. Over much of the
period, the transport of phosphate declined; locomotive availability declined; and reliability declined.
This was, understandable as the age and light standard of the infrastructure and much of the
equipment led to frequent breakdowns, derailments and speed restriction. It was unrealistic in the
appraisal report to expect the investment and technical assistance program to show immediate benefits
during a period of major infrastructure renewal and structural change. The economic evaluation
should have been carried out over a much longer time horizon than the one used in the SAR.
Consequently, although since 1989 ARC has shown signs of recovery, with traffic beginning to grow
again and the financial situation, as measured by Net Operating Results, reflecting a slight
improvement in operations, a direct comparison with the appraisal economic evaluation of the
component would be of limited value. It is recommended that economic reevaluation should be
reviewed during the course of implementing the Third Transport Project once a clear trend can be
detected and analyzed. However, although transport cost data are not readily available and sometimes
unreliable, an attempt to assess economic benefits has been made. This is based on the realistic
assumption that without the project investment programme ARC's operations would have ceased by
1990: an already weak infrastructure would have deteriorated rapidly and rolling stock and motive
power would have become inadequate and unreliable. Consequently, all phosphate would have to be
transported by road. In addition to the increased pressure on the road system, a need for extra
investment in Aqaba port and environmental damage to Aqaba town, significant incremental economic
transport costs would be incurred.
7.7        Based on vehicle operating data obtained during preparation of the Third Highway
Project, it is estimated that the economic cost of a "typical" truck carrying phosphate would be
JDO.56 km but due to the high incidence of difficult operating conditions on the Ras El Naqab
escarpment JDO.65 km would be more likely. Assuming compliance with axle load regulations, the
economic cost of transporting one tonne of phosphate from the El Hassa/Al Abiad mines to Aqaba
port would range between JD4.26 and JD8.52 depending on load factor: the actual average cost
would lie between these two figures. In arriving at these figures a cost component of 1.7 fils t/km
(updated from a 1986 study by Canadian Pacific Consulting Services), reflecting incremental road
maintenance expenditures attributed by heavy vehicles, has been included: this represents an increase
in transport cost per tonne of between 4 percent and 8 percent. This indicates that transport prices
negotiated between JPMC and road transporters do not fully cover costs although perceived running
costs were covered. Where capacity of empty returning vehicles was used, this would represent an
economic use of resources. However, an increasing amount of road vehicles are "flat-beds" for
container transport and cannot be used for bulk phosphate movement. Moreover, many truck
operators were not willing to participate in this traffic as it could lead to increased costs and loss of
business due to cleaning, higher voc of heavily loaded vehicles and loading and unloading times.
Transport according to this system is unreliable. In one case where a large transporter converted
surplus vehicles to carry phosphate, the company quickly realized that the rate paid by JPMC was
financially unviable; the renegotiated rate was higher than the prevailing ARC tariff.
7.8       An examination of ARC's 1991 traffic and financial results shows operating costs
(including depreciation) of transporting one tonne of phosphate at JD3.03. This does not include debt



- 13 -
service but, equally, road transport costs do not include an item for past road investment. The
economic cost would be slightly lower.
7.9       Using the above information and assuming a constant level of phosphate rail traffic of 3
million tons per annum (1991 figure), the transport cost savings stemming from the project's railway
investment programme range from JD3.27 million to JD15.63 million per annum, again depending on
load factor assumptions. For the purpose of this reevaluation we have assumed that vehicles, on
average, would have a 75 percent load factor and that the average load would be 30 tons. (In order
to arrive at a more precise estimate it would be necessary to undertake a special study of phosphate
transport by road which is beyond the scope of PCR preparation). This would lead to economic
transport cost savings of JD3.3 per tonne by using the rail option, or approximately JD 10 million
p.a. The economic rate of return over a 10 year period would be 31.5 percent (see Table 9). The
decline of traffic on ARC during the construction period was largely due to the progressive
deterioration of the system, and only marginally due to the construction works. Consequently, we
have not considered the transfer of phosphate traffic to road transport during this period as a project
cost. However, this reevaluation assumes the continuation of phosphate being transported from the
northern mines of El Hassa and Al Abiad to Aqaba. Should these mines be phased out (to be
replaced by El Shidiya) before 2003 the ERR would fall. However, even a five year period of
operation would yield an ERR in excess of 20 percent. The future of ARC would be stronger
economically and financially if the proposed spur line linking Batn el Ghul were to be built: capacity
would increase with the shorter distance, and the removal of the need to operate over and to maintain
the low standard line between Ma'an and the northern mines would lead to significant savings.
7.10      This tentative re-evaluation indicates that, despite the many problems during
implementation, the ARC sub-component of the project was economically viable and justified.
However, it is important to emphasize that this will only remain the case if ARC is effectively
restructured, improved operations and management systems are introduced, a carefully designed
personnel policy is put in place and, above all, the management cadre is strengthened by recruitment
of skilled and experienced personnel. These critical issues, which are examined in detail in The
Austria Rail Engineering Report (para. 5.9), will be addressed under the Third Transport Project.
However, it is also important to point out that currently Jordan's phosphate export markets are
severely constrained. This has come about primarily due to the loss of markets in Poland, Yugoslavia
and elsewhere in Eastern Europe and reduced demand from India. Early recovery is not expected and
development of El Shidiya may be slower than planned.
8.        Aqaba Railway Corporation's Financial Performance
8.1       Investment and the technical assistance strategy in ARC were predicated on four premises:
(a)       The international phosphate market would grow, and Jordan would capture a
share of the growth.
(b)       ARC would be able to increase its share of the market (it had carried 3.2
million tons in 1984). It was believed, rather unrealistically, that such
increases (4.4 million tons in 1988) and increased productivity would improve
profitability so that fixed costs and debt service would eventually be fully
covered. Full financial viability by 1988 was the target.



- 14 -
(c)        The technical assistance program in planning and operations would take root
and enable ARC, on a sustainable basis, to develop into an efficient operation.
(d)        Jordan would, thus, be able to borrow from bilateral and multilateral sources
and use suppliers' credits to carry out this program (under the assumption that
the Jordanian dinar would maintain its strength for the foreseeable future).
As described in para. 7.6, this was an unrealistic scenario, bearing in mind that economic warning
signs were already visible and that considerable time would be needed to put all the physical and
institutional improvements in place. Above all, efficient operational practices were critical. In this
context, ARC did not fully benefit from the technical assistance program's skills transfer as the
experts were so preoccupied with line management that little time was available for training.
8.2        ARC financial statements (income, sources and applications of funds and balance sheet)
pertaining to the project implementation period 1985 to 1992 are given in Tables 10, 11 and 12. As
can be seen, the actual financial performance was well below the forecasts at appraisal. At appraisal,
operating profits between 1985 and 1990 were expected to rise from JDI.34 million to JD4.044
million. In the event, there was a loss in all but 1986 and 1987. In fact, if phosphate freight revenue
is compared with operating expenses an operating profit was made only in 1987. And, again, if
phosphate freight revenues alone are considered the return on net fixed assets was negative or very
minuscule (1986 = 0.1 percent; 1987 = 1.1 percent). By 1990 ARC accumulated losses were higher
than ARC capital; in other words, ARC was and is technically bankrupt. Of course, this was not
entirely the fault of ARC. The high cost of servicing the ARC foreign debt increased out of all
expectation due, primarily, to the radical devaluation of the Jordanian dinar as a result of the
economic crisis and the loss of confidence following the Gulf crisis. Although the net operating
results were almost in balance in 1991, cumulative interest, plus currency adjustments in 1991,
amounted to nearly 40 percent more than total operating revenue and rose about 10 times after project
start-up.
8.3        Since 1989, when the programme was largely complete, phosphate freight revenue has
risen by 72.3 percent and operating expenses by 45.3 percent, but, it must be remembered that during
this period tariffs were raised by 37 percent. To establish levels of productivity, operating expenses
should be compared with the amount of traffic and this shows traffic increasing by 32 percent and
operating expenses by 45.3 percent. In other words operating expenses appear to be growing faster
than traffic: productivity is declining. In the absence of compensating tariff increases or productivity
improvements the medium-term financial picture remains bleak.
8.4       It is important to emphasize the need for ARC to increase its traffic, productivity and its
tariffs if it is to become financially viable and this will best be achieved through effective
corporatization and commercialization. Currently, the tariff is at a level where operating expenses,
including depreciation, are just about covered. To cover debt service of about JD 2 million p.a.,
given the recently JPMC guaranteed 3.5 million tons of traffic annually, rates would have to be
increased by around 20 percent. If traffic increased to 4 million tons, the 20 percent rate increase
would lead to a profit of about JD 300,000 and clearly this is inadequate. In order to obtain a yield
of 10 percent, rates would have to be raised by a further 22 percent. Finally, in order to tackle the
accumulated deficit over a 10-year period, an additional, overall increase of about 10 percent would
be required. Taking account of the estimates of voc (para. 7.7) such increases should be possible
without impacting upon ARC's competitive position. However, many road transporters, especially
_~~~~~-        - - - - - -                   - - -   -                 - - - - -   , _   . - -   .  .......   



- 15 -
small operators, perceive only short-term operating costs and base their pricing policies on these.
The fact that such policy eventually leads to business failure does not stop the process from being
repeated. A contributory factor, permitting undercutting by road transport, is the ability of truck
owners to overload their vehicles although this inevitably leads to economic costs which are met
through public spending. In this context it is most important for the country's economic benefit and
ARC's financial health that axle load regulations are rigorously enforced and that heavy vehicles pay
user charges in relation to the damage they cause to the road network. This is being addressed under
the Third Transport Project.
9.        Bank-Borrower Performnance and Relationship
9.1       During the course of project implementation there were frequent changes of personnel in
the various agencies, which led to delays. These were particularly noticeable regarding procurement,
with issues being apparently resolved and then reasserting themselves. It should be stressed that
during the entire implementation process, Jordan was faced with a wide range of major economic and
political problems that impacted upon the different agencies. Nonetheless, the agencies met these
challenges in a generally effective way and cooperated to the best of their ability with the World
Bank.
9.2       The Ministry of Planning, although suffering from personnel changes, performed well at
all levels and cooperated closely with the World Bank. The MPWH performed adequately in
overseeing civil works contracts. However, recent technical studies, carried out by a specialist
research organization, have shown that road design and engineering procedures need to be revised and
updated. There is also a clear need to review road maintenance procedures if these are to be made
more cost effective: potential benefits of privatization of certain maintenance operations should be
examined. These matters, together with organization reforms and training, are being addressed under
the Third Transport Project. For much of the time, the Ministry of Transport (MT) management did
not actively participate in the project, and this, combined with a limited commitment to the project,
resulted in implementation problems and lack of support for ARC. This should have been addressed
more closely during appraisal. In particular greater emphasis, supported by loan covenants, should
have been placed on appointing suitably skilled, experienced and motivated management personnel to
ARC. Technical assistance is no substitute for this. It was fortunate that the Permanent Way
Department was headed by a competent and dynamic engineer who assumed a wide range of
responsibilities and carried them out efficiently.
9.3       More technical assistance would probably have eased implementation and would certainly
have strengthened the MT. However, it was most important that the technical assistance staff not be
absorbed in line management positions and not assume the duties of Jordanian staff in order to have a
sustainable impact through skills transfer. Unfortunately, in the case of ARC, the technical assistance
staff did not escape these pitfalls, which severely impacted upon the success of the technical assistance
to ARC.
10.       Project Documentation and Data
10.1      Generally, the SAR and legal documents and amendments provided a satisfactory
framework for project implementation. The most significant deficiency was the absence of even an
outline for economic evaluation in the SAR: this also had an effect on economic reevaluation.



- 16 -
Bearing in mind that the absence of detailed planning and an economic evaluation of investments were
seen as major weaknesses in most sectors, these lacunae were an important gap in the documentation.
10.2      The data availability for the preparation of the PCR was patchy. In particular, (i)
information on the achievements of the ARC and TPC training programs was lacking; (ii) traffic data
relating to project roads was limited and based on surveys of short duration; (iii) there was no system
of progress reporting for the project as a whole (although World Bank supervision reports to some
extent plugged this gap, progress reports seen from the MP perspective would have been useful and
may have assisted in project management); and (iv) progress reports on the implementation of
cofinanced components and training were almost completely lacking. Field enquiries would have
facilitated preparation of the PCR, especially regarding economic re-evaluation, but this was not
possible.
11.       Status of Covenants
11.1       The Borrower complied with all the covenants (Table 14) with the exception of the
requirement that ARC cash generation be sufficient to cover (i) operating expenses and (ii)
depreciation or debt servicing, whichever is higher. This covenant was not complied with due to
falling traffic, a delay in the tariff increase until 1990 and, above all, the exceptional increase in debt
service requirements following the devaluation of the Jordanian dinar. Although great emphasis
appears to have been placed at appraisal on the enforcement of axle load legislation, this was not
covenanted.
12.       Lessons Learned
12. 1     Project implementation highlighted a number of areas that should be focussed on in future
transport projects:
(a)        The Bank should reach agreement at the highest level with the different
Borrowers on the acceptance of the World Bank Procurement Guidelines, and
Standard Bidding Document for Works which has now been made obligatory
on Bank-financed projects. This would do more than anything else to speed
up project implementation and loan disbursement. The implications of this
policy need to be explained to Borrowers during project preparation and
agreed to before appraisal takes place.
(b)        Similarly, technical and economic feasibility studies should be updated and
agreed to before appraisal takes place. Failure to do this may lead to
misunderstanding: in the case of the Aqaba Back Road, it led to considerable
delay and a waste of staff time.
(c)        Care should be taken in estimating the time required and the phasing of
different operations in achieving institutional and policy reform. The ARC
component is a case in point: almost instant improvement in operations was
assumed when improvements to the operating facilities and improvement in
staff skills would clearly take several years. As a result, the ARC
management did not receive the technical assistance support when it was
needed, and unrealistic performance targets were set.



- 17 -
(d)        Greater care should be taken in designing and preparing training components.
They should be agreed to in detail at appraisal, and adequate resources should
be allocated to their supervision. There was a tendency with this project to
treat training as an add-on although it was central to achieving some of the
project objectives.
(e)        Transport is essentially a service industry, and, consequently, its performance
and plans for improving its performance should be prepared with the customer
in mind. This is especially so where, as in the case of ARC, a company has
only one major client. Some form of long-term cooperation agreement should
be arranged, and, an interface established with other transport modes (in this
case, port facilities, especially storage), which can present a major constraint
on practical capacity.
(f)        Technical assistance needs should be agreed and financed before
implementation begins. And, they should, in the case of management
technical assistance, be implemented within an agreed programme of
restructuring.



- 18 -
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT, LOAN 2463-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART TWO
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Aqaba Railway Corporation
1 .1      Since 1980, there was an urgent need to improve the ARC railway track between Ma'an
and Aqaba in order to improve the operations and financial standing. Without the rehabilitation of the
track, all ARC's operations would probably have stopped due to the high number of accidents.
1.2       ARC had finished the rehabilitation of the track between Ma'an and Aqaba, consequently
the turnaround of the wagon was reduced, and led to the increase in the efficiency and to the decrease
of the operation cost.
1.3       Many of the measures which can increase the capacity and improve the efficiency of a
railway system in developing countries are of an organizational nature, and can usually be
implemented at low cost. In many cases, the reserves are indeed available, but remain under-utilized
and unrecognized due to deficiencies in operation, management and planning.
1.4       The mission helped ARC personnel to tackle the problems in a different manner. We
appreciate the World Bank stand on the necessity to make management, maintenance and operation
studies for the ARC.
1.5       There is an urgent need at the present time to find financiers for the Shidiya Railway Link
project. This project could have been included in the World Bank Third Transport Project but due to
the delayed response of ARC it was cancelled. This was a good lesson to be learned.
1.6       The analysis of the issues related to the project shows that in addition to the project
economic and financial benefits to ARC, there were other types of benefits which did not materialize,
such as:
- New ways in looking at the operation and management of the system
- New experience and knowledge were earned while dealing with the World Bank
missions



- 19 -
- It is thought that the project was successful and if there were some small deficiencies
here and there, the World Bank was not to be blame.
2.        Azraq-Iraqi Border Highway Project, Section D
2.1       The project was satisfactorily completed with cooperation between the Ministry and World
Bank personnel. Such cooperation and mutual consultation between the concerned agencies led to a
satisfactory completion of the project.
2.2       Cooperation and advice from the World Bank staff added considerable encouragement to
the proper progress of work and the solution of all problems met during construction. Variation
orders where needed, were analyzed and approved by the World Bank in due time.
2.3       This project was a good example of economic development for Jordan and facilitated
transit traffic between Jordan (Aqaba) and Iraq. Recent traffic counts on the road and information
about axle loads using the road are provided.
2.4       The final report about the project prepared by the supervising consultant is available in tlie
MENA information center.  The consultant carried out his duties, properly acting in a fair manner
between the employer and the contractor.
2.5       The execution of the project encountered conditions and circumstances beyo,sd i'. -:ntrol
and resulted in extension of the project execution period.
2.6        Furthermore, this project requires before commencement of the main highway works, to
prepare, improve and maintain the old existing road or construct a new road to serve as detours for
the heavy traffic between Jordan and Iraq during the construction period.
2.7       The project site and camps became the scene of operations for the evacuation of hundreds
of thousand of different nationalities from Kuwait and Iraq to their countries. The Jordan
Government built camps at the site of our project to shelter tens of thousands of the evacuees. Their
presence disrupted work and delay the project completion time.
2.8       The Ministry had granted an extension of time because of such difficulties, economic
fluctuation, climatic conditions, and some difficulties to find good materials according to the
specifications.
2.9       The contractor was able to construct the works in accordance with specifications and
standards of the project. The project was completed without delay on August 15, 1992.



- 20 -
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT PROJECT, LOAN 2463-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART THREE
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Reference              Purpose                         Approved               Status
Credit 262-JO          Civil works and                 June 1971              Completed
technical assist.                                      December 1974
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                            Planned                 Revised          Actual
Identification (PB)             May 1983                  -              May 1983
Preparation                     Aug. 1983                 -               Aug. 1983
Appraisal Mission               Nov./Dec. 1983            -               Nov./Dec. 1983
Negotiations                    May 1984                  -              May 1984
Board Approval                  July 1984                 -              July 1984
Loan Signature                  Aug. 1984                 -              Aug. 1984
Effectiveness                   Nov. 1984                 -               Feb. 1985
Disb. % Amendment                                                         Feb. 1991
Loan Closed                     June 30, 1990           thrice           Dec. 31, 1992
Loan Account Closed             Oct. 1990                 -              April 30, 1993



- 21 -
Table 3: Project Description
The objectives of the project are to ease critical transport bottlenecks on Jordan's principal trade routes in
order to facilitate the movement of key commnodities and to strengthen the technical, financial and managerial
capabilities of the operating entities responsible for the transport sector in Jordan.
The project consists of:
Part A: Highways
(a)     A maintenance program  for strengthening, through asphalt overlay, sections of the highway network, to
satisfy the evaluation criteria referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; the following sections shall be the
first to be so evaluated:
(i)     Azraq-Saudi border (about 50 km)
(ii)    Juwaidah-Azraq-lraqi border (about 320 km)
(iii)    Access roads to the International Airport (about 35 km)
(iv)    Al Hashimiyah-Rihab (about 30 km)
(b)    The construction of a highway of about 30 km connecting Wadi Yutum to Wadi 2 and of a spur of about 6
km connecting said highway to the container Port of Aqaba.
(c)     The provision of highway maintenance and testing equipment.
(d)    Technical assistance (a) to strengthen the management, planning and operational capabilities of MPWH in
highway maintenance, and to assist in the preparation of a program for periodic and routine highway
maintenance; and (b) to assist in the preparation and implementation of a training program for MPWH staff.
Part B: Railways
(a)    The expansion of the ARC workshop for locomotive maintenance at Aqaba.
(b)    Track renewal, including the provision of necessary materials, of the following priority railway sections:
(i)     Rum-Aqaba (about 31 km)
(ii)    Batn El Ghul-Disi (about 40 km)
(iii)    El Hassa-Jerouf-Maan  (about 30 kni)
(c)    The provision of: (a) machinery for track renewal; (b) a breakdown crane; (c) about 90 freight wagons; and
(d) locomotive spare parts.
(d)     Improving the ARC accounting system and implementing a training program  for ARC staff, including the
provision of training equipment and materials.
Part C: Port:
A training program designed to ensure the effective handling by TPC of its transport operations, which are
interdependent with other transport modes. The program includes the training of TPC staff in container, general
cargo and shipping operations; phosphate handling and storage; equipment maintenance; project planning; and
finance and administration.



- 22 -
Table 4: Loan Categories and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
Category                     Original  %Disb      Revised  % Disb  Act. Disb.
Part A of Project
I) Civil Works (1)            8.3      60         9.3      75      8.09
2) Equipment (3)              0.5    100 for.      0.4      90      0.4
3) Training                   0.2    100 for.     0.17   100 for.   0
Part B of Project
4) Materials for             18.4    100 for.     18.2   100 for.  19.36
Track Renewal (2)                  100 loc.            100 loc.
ex. Fact.           ex. Fact.
5) Consultants                0.2    100 for.      0.26  65         0.277
6) Locomotive Spares          -          -         1.64   100 for.   1.645
(3) new item
7) Unallocated                2.4
Total                        30.00                30.00            29.779
Table 5: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Planned (SAR)          1.6   8.9    22.6   26.9   29.6   30.0   -         -
Actual                 -     0.9    7.6    12.9   15.4   18.1   21.2   25.7   29.78
Actual % Planned      0       10    33      48     52      60     71      86     99.3
Table 6: Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate    Reevaluated
Highway Component:
Total                                   16%                           15%
Aqaba Back Road                         20%                           11%
Azraq-lraqi Border Highway           (68%)*                           26%
Railway Component:                             20%                          31.5%
Overall:                                       18%                          24%
* not included in appraisal estimate: result of 1987 feasibility study



- 23 -
Table 7: Aqaba Back Road
Year                          Cost (JD mill)                         Benefits (JD mill)
0                               15.70
1                                                                          2.70
2                                                                           2.75
3                                                                           2.81
4                                                                           2.86
5                                                                           2.92
6                                1.08                                       2.97
7                                                                           3.04
8                                                                           3.10
9                                                                           3.16
10                                                                          3.22
Economic Rate of Return 11. 1 %
Note: Routine road maintenance of about JD40,000 p.a. has been included in the calculation but is not
shown in the table.



- 24 -
Table 8: Azrag-Iragi Border Highwav
Year                           Cost (JD mill)                         Benefits (JD mill)
0                                6.887
1                                                                           2.11
2                                                                            2.16
3                                                                            2.20
4                                                                            2.24
5                                                                            2.29
6                                2.100                                       2.33
7                                                                            2.38
8                                                                            2.43
9                                                                            2.48
10                                                                           2.53
Economic Rate of Return 26.4%
Note: Routine road maintenance of about JD70,000 p.a. has been included in the calculation but is not
shown in the table.
Table 9: Return on ARC Investment
YEAR                   INVESTMENT (JD Million)                Est Transport Cost Savings (JD Million)
1990                          29.661*                                        10.0
1991 - 1999                                                                  1O.Op.a.
*Adjusted at 15% p.a. to take account of 4 year implementation.
Rate of Return: 10 year analysis period  31.5%
5 year analysis period    20.4%



Table 10: Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC) - Income Statement (JD '000)
For Year Ending December                   1985                    1986                    1987                    1988                     1989                    1990              1991
SAR       ACTUAL        SAR      ACTUAL         SAR       ACTU AL       SAR       ACTUAL        SAR        ACTUAL        SAR      ACTUAL        ACTUAL
Phosphate Freight ('000 tons)          3.0          2.5       3.7           2.8        4 0           2.6      4 4           2.3         4.4          2.2       4.4           2.6          2.9
OPERATING PREVENUES
Phosphate Freight                    6,360         5,168     7,844        5,827       8,480        5,435     9.328         4,717      9,328         4,605     9,328        5,704         7,935
Others                                190           355       200           148        210           349       220           108        230           107      240           471          700
Proposed Tariff Adjustments           652              -    1,236                     1,827            -    2,577              -      3,172             -    3,797
Total                                7,202         5,523     9,280         5,975     10,517        5,784    12,125         4,825     12,730         4,712    13,365        6,175         8,635
OPERATING EXPENSES
PersonnelCosts andBenefits            1780         1,690     2,007         1,678      2,137        1,633     2,244         1,722      2,403         1,683    2,567         1,897        2,366
ConsultancyServices                    470          354       490           331        510           190         -           116          -             -        -            24           21
Fuel and Lubricants                    762          719       902           851       1,014          743     1,107          812       1,107          774      1,107          889         1,037
Maintenance                            660          678       726           977        799           972       878         1,373        966         1,192     1,063        1,433         1,239
Miscellaneous                          440          708       460           501        480            11       500          591         520          649       540           554          409
Depreciationand Write-offs           1,750         1,511     2,694         1,534      3,200        1,582     3,662         1,544      3,845         1,757    4,044         2,100        3,724
Total                                 5862         5,660     7,279         5,872      8,140        5,130     8,391         6,158      8,841         6,055     9,321        6,897        8,796
Net OperatingIncome/<loss>           1,340       <153>       2,011          103      2,378           654     3,734     <1,333>        3,889     <1,343>      4,044       <722>        <161>
NONOPERATING ITEMS
Interest Expense                     1,418          861      1,917         1,593      2,119        1,895    2,055          2,689      1,924         6,190     1,546        4,856        2,091
Currency Adjustmnent                     -           158         -          199                      312                   1,139                    1,070                    142          997.
Prior Year Adjustmnents              1,418          1019                   1.792                   2,207                   3,828                    7,260                  4,998        8,200
Total                                                                                                                                                                                   11.787
Net Income/ <loss>                  <78>       < 1,156>        84      < 1,689 >       259     < 1,553 >     1,679     <5,161 >       1,965     <8,603 >      2,499     <5,720 >      < 11,948
R-ATIOS
OperatingRatio %                       81          102         78            98         77            89        69           128         69          228        70           112          102
Net Fixed Assets Base               43,777      34,449      55,429       33,596      63,968       28,942    68,487        24,481     68,675        24,779    68,897       30,126       38,739
Return on Net Fixed Assets %          3.1        <0.4>         3.6          0.3         3.7          2.3       5.5       <5.4>          5.7       <5.4>        5.9       <2.4>         <0.4>



'Iable 11: Aqaba Railvay Corporation (ARC) - Sources and Application of Funds" (JD'OOO)
For Year Eoidiiig Decenber 31                           1985                      1986                     19487                     1988                      1989                     990                199i
SAR        ACTUAL         SAR       ACTUAL         SAR       ACTUAL          SAR       ACTUAL        SAR        ACTUAL.         SAR      ACTUAL         ACTUAL
SOURCES
INTERNALLY GENERATED
Net Operating hicome/< Loss>                      1,340                    2,001                    2,378                     3.734      < 1,333 >    3.889        < 1,343 >    4,045       < 722 >         < 161 >
Add. Depreciatioiand Write offs                   1,750                    2,694                    3,2(K)                    3,662          1,544    3,845            1.757    4.044          2,100          3,724
Other Items                                                                                                                                 <39>                       <5>                        14      < 7,066 >
Subtotal                                          3,090                    4.695                    5,578                      7,396           172    7,734              409    8,089          1,392          3.503
GOVERNMENT GRANTS:
FinancingProposedProject                          2,570                    2,760                    1,430                                    2,289                     1.212                   9,641          1,413
Fiitancing Othcr Invcstmetits                     5,020                      640
Debt Service Support                                750
Sublotal                                          8,290                    3,400                    1,430                                                                                      9.641
BORROWINGS.
Proposed Project - IBRD                           1,750                    4,450                    1,100                                                                                                    14,919
Proposed Project - IDB                            3,100
Proposed Projet - Other                           1,532                      377                       96
Other Borrowings                                  6,382
Subtotal                                                                   4,827                     1,196                                                                                                    14.919
TOTALSOURCES                                      17,762                  12,922                    8.204                      7,396         2,461    7,734             1,621    8,089        11.033          12,829
APPLICATIONS
INVESTMENTS:
Proposed Project                                 10,090                    6,440                    2,060                                    4.241                     5,514                  10,847          3,020
Othcr                                             5,020                      640
Subtotal                                         15,110                    7,080                    2.060
DEBT SERVICE:
Repaymentof Principal                             2,030                    2.758                    2,758                      3.391           674    3.161            1.015    2,653           985
Interest Payments                                 1,418                    1,917                    2,119                      2,055         2,689    1,924            6.190    1,546          4,856          2,091
Others - Foreign Exchange Differenices                                                                                                                                                                       14,709
Subtotal                                          3,448                    4,675                    4,877                      5,446                  5,085            7,205    4.199          5.841         16.800
WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
ExcludingCash - Increase/ < Decrease >          <217>                        266                      448                       235      < 5,390 >      204       < 10,978 >      261                     < 8.141 >
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                               18.341                   12.021                    7.385                      5.681         2,214    5.289             1,741    4,460        10,999          11,679
CASH POSITION
AnnualSurplus/<Deficit>                         <579>                        901                      819                      1,715          247    2.445           <120>    3.628              34           1,150
Opening Balance-Beginningof Year                    720                      141                    1,042                      1,861                  3.576                     6.021           201              34
Closing Balance at Year End                         141                    1,042                    1,861                      3,576                  6,021              201    9,649           235           1 184
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE - TIMES D                     0.9                      I.O                       11 >4                                            1 5                        1 9
NOTES
I/  Annual Audited Financial Statements started including Sources and Applicatioits of Funids only trout 1988 oniward   2/ Iistalliiierits on toreigl loatls are paid by the Ninfistry of Finance The Ministry chiarges these installments to
ARC accuu n as showni in ARC Balaice Sheet as liabilities arsiiig to the Nlinistry  It is, therelwret suggesiei1 thit octut cri cc covcicge r ilo he applicd



Table 12: Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC) - Balance Sheet (JD '000)
For Year Ending December 31                             1985                   1986                   1987                  1988                  1989                 1990             1991
SAR        Actual      SAR       Actual      SAR       Actual      SAR       Actual      SAR   I  Actual      SAR       Actual      Actual
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
Cost                                                   141      1,153       1,042       206       1,861        74      3,576         321     6,021        201      9,649        235       1,384
Accounts Receivable                                   616       2,029        793       1,720        899      3,700     1,036       4,378     1,088       1,678     1,142        311         786
Stores                                               1,763      4,587       1,853      2,841      1,945      6,884     2,042       4,503     2,144       4,202     2,252      5,204       4,709
Other                                                1,000        100       1,000        100      1,000        100     1,000         100     1,000         100     1,000        460         137
Subtotal                                             3,520      7,869       4,688      4,867      5,705     10,758     7,654       9,302    10,253       6,181    14,043      6,210       7,016
FIXED ASSETS
Land                                                   35         191         35         191         35        167        35         167        35         167       35         167         177
Permanent Way                                       34,754     22,566      39,212     22,566     48,843     17,303    50,064      17,303    51,316      17,303    52,599     27,998      38,335
Buildings                                            1,473      3,599       5,923      3,662      6,367      3,806     6,845       3,808     7,358       4,939     7,910      4,939       6,817
Locomotives                                          7,878      5,363       8,479      5,023      9,115      6.259     9,799       6,000    10,534       6,000    11,324      6,000       6,665
Wagons                                               9,363      5,111      10,065      4,943     10,820      4,862    11,637       4,804    12,504       6,100    13,442      6,100       7,807
Communication Systems                                2,060        657       2.215       663       2,381      1,179     2,560         633     2,752       1,770     2,958      1,619       1,619
Plant Machinery and Equipment                        3,448      2,374       3,847      2,487      4,136      2,765     4,446       3,073     4,779       3,048     5,137      3,206       3,330
Vehicles and Furniture                                635         414        682        428         733       272        788         272       847        232       910         194         182
Subtotal                                            59,646     40,275      70,458     39,963     82,430     36,613    86,169      36,060    90,125      39,559    94,315     50,223      65,932
Less:    Accumulated Depreciation                    8,323       5,826     10,923      7,220     14,029     11,472    17,597       12,240    21,348     13,821    25,298      15,708     21,969    t
Net Fixed Assets                          51,323     34,449      59,535     32,743     68,401     25,141    68,572      23,820    68,777      25,738    69,017     34,514      42,963
Add:     Work-in-progress                            7,950        751       6,771      4,600          -      5,444         -       9,461          -     11,301         -       1,631        218
Sub-Total                                           59,273     35,200      66,306     37,343     68,401     30,585    68,572      33,281    68,777      37,039    69,017     36,145      43,181
DEF. LiABiLiTIES: TA and Training                      110           -        196          -        282          -       188            -       94           -         -           -          -
TOTAL ASSETS                                        62,903     43,069      71,190     42,210     74,388     41,343    76,414      42,583    79,124      43,220    83,060     42,355      50,197
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts payable                                     1,200       3,076      1,200      3,121        950      4, 381      950        6,489      900      12,583       800     21,594      26,392
Current portion of LTD                              2,7758      2.374       2,758      2,603      3,391      3,621     3,161       6,339     2,653       9,292     2,553      5,350       5,330
Subtotal                                             3,958       5,450      3,958      5,724      4,341      8,002     4,111       12,828    3,553      21,875     3,353     26,944      31,722
NON-CURRENT LiABILITIES
Long-Term Debt (LTD)                                24,816     17,805      26,885     16,689     24,690     18,001    21,529       17,327    18,876     16,312    16,323      15,307     30,246
(Provision for Staff Termination Benefits                         307                    315                   286                   246                   241                  254         347
EOUITY
Capital                                             32,176     21,008      35,576     22,951     37,006    20,076    37,006        22,365    37,006     23,577    37,006     23,577      23,577
Revaluation Reserve                                  4,774           -      7,507          -     10,828          -    14,567            -   18,523           -   22,713            -           -
Retained Earnings <Accumulated>                  <2,821 >        1,501   <2,736 >   < 3,469 >   < 2,477 >  < 5,022 >    < 799 >   < 10,183 >  1,166  < 18,785 >    3,665  < 23,748 >  < 35,695 >
Subtotal  .                                         34,129      19,507     40,347     19,482     45,357     15,054    50,774       12,182    56,695      4,792    63,384    < 170>  < 12,118 >
TOTAL LIABiLITIES AND EQUITY                        62,903     43,069      71,190     42,210     74,388    41,343    76,414       42,583    79,124      43,220    83,060     42,355      50,197
Debt/Equity Ratio                                    41/59      48/52       40/60      46/54      34/66      56/44     29/71       59/41     25/75       77/23     21/79  101/<01>  167/<67>
Current Ratio                                          0.9         1.4        1.2        0 9        1.3        1 3       1 9         07        2.9         0.3       4 2        0 2         0 2



- 28 -
Table 13: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staffing Inputs by Task
Task     FY83    FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92   FY93    Total
swks    swks   swks   swks   swks   swks    swks    swks    swks    swks    swks              swks
LENA       20.5   38.3                                                                                   58.8
LENN        9.8    5.8      .5                                                                           16.0
LENP       59.9   39.4                                                                                   99.4
LOP         1.3    6.0      .3                                                                            7.6
Sub-
total      91.5   89.5      .8                                                                          181.8
PAD                          .8     .3      .4                                                             1.4
PCR                                                                                                .6      .6
SPN                        9.3   32.5   20.8    16.0        12.7      9.6       8.6    19.0      9.0   137.5
Sub-
total                      10.1   32.8   21.1    16.0       1 2.7     9.6       8.6    19.0       9.7    1 39.6
B. Supervision
Monthly/       No. of    Staff Weeks   Specialization          Overall     Rating of Main
Year        Persons      in Field     Represented             Rating     Problem  Areas
Status
03/85          2             3         Highway Engineer          2       Managerial, Financial
Railway Engineer
08/85           1            1         Financial Analyst         2       Managerial, Financial
10/85          3             3         Highway Engineer          2       Managerial, Financial
Transport Economist
12/85          1             1         Railway Engineer          2       Managerial, Financial
12/85          1             I         Pollution Specialist              Phosphate dust control at Aqaba
Port satisfactory
04/86           1            1         Education Specialist              The Port Corp. training proposals
04/86           1            1         Financial Analyst                 Financial problems
05/86          2             2         Highway Engineer          2       Managerial
Transport Economist               Financial
07/86          2             4         Railway Engineer          2       Project Management 2
Education Specialist              Dev. Impact 2



- 29 -
B. Sunervision cont.
Monthly/     No. of   Staff Weeks   Specialization        Overall   Rating of Main
Year       Persons     in Field    Represented          Rating    Problem Areas
Status
09/86         1           2        Highway Engineer                Project Management and
Procurement
11/86         1           1        Education Specialist    2      Project Management 2
Dev. Impact 2
03/87         1            1       Highway Engineer        2       Project Management 2
Dev. Impact 2
10/87         2           2        Highway Engineer        2      Project Management 2
Transport Economist            Dev. Impact
02/88         2           2        Highway Engineer        2       Project Management 2
Transport Economist            Dev. Impact 2
05/88         3           3        Transport Economist             Resolution of procurement issues
Procurement Specialist         re civil works, bidding documents
Legal Specialist
10/88         2           5        Highway Engineer        2      Project Management 2
Transport Economist            Dev. Impact 2
02/89         2           4        Highway Engineer        2       Project Management 2
Dev. Impact 2
03/89         1            1       Financial Analyst               Combined deterioration of
financial performance
05/89         2           3        Highway Engineer        2       Financial 4
Transport Economist            Training 2
Procurement 2, TA 2
10/89         2           3        Highway Engineer        2      Financial 3, Training 2,
Transport Economist            Procurement 2, TA 2
02/90         2           5        Highway Engineer        2       Financial 3, Training 2,
Transport Economist            Procurement 2, TA 2
10/91         2           2        Civil Engineer          2      Financial 2, Training 2
Transport Economist            TA 2
06/92         3           9        Highway Engineer        2       Financial 2
Pavement Specialist            Training 2
Institutional Specialist
12/92         2           2        Highway Engineer        2      Financial 2
Transport Economist            Training 3
TA = Technical Assistance



- 30 -
Table 14: Status of Covenants (as of January 1993)
LN/CR: 2463-JO                         TYPE: 0
DOC: LA      SEC: 3.04(a)        DUE DATE: 12/89       ACT. DATE: NA
DESCRIPTION:        MPWH to prepare highway maintenance program.
REMINDER:/
REMARKS:    Complied with annually:  1992 program under preparation.
LN/CR: 2463-JO                                TYPE: 0
DOC: LA      SEC: 3.04(b)          DUE DATE: 06/85    ACT. DATE: 09/85
DESCRIPTION:        MPWH to prepare with consultants highway maintenance system.
REMINDER:      /
REMARKS:    Completed.  Maintenance Planning Department recently reformed.
LN/CR: 2463-JO                                TYPE: G
DOC: LA      SEC: 3.07(c)        DUE DATE: 03/89       ACT. DATE:
DESCRIPTION:        Project entities to furnish quarterly progress reports.
REMINDER:/
REMARKS:    Final progress report received from MPWH-.
LN/CR: 2463-JO                         TYPE: S
DOC: LA      SEC: 3.09           DUE DATE: 12/85   ACT. DATE: 03/87
DESCRIPTION:        TPC to investigate phosphate loading berth.
REMINDER:/
REMARKS:    Complied with.
LN/CR: 2463-JO                                TYPE: F
DOC: PA      SEC: 4.03          DUE DATE: 01/86        ACT. DATE:
DESCRIPTION:        ARC to introduce commercial cost accounting.
REMINDER:      /
REMARKS:    Progressive since 01/84 but should be reexamined and possibly
modified following the Austria Rail Engineering report.
LN/CR: 2463-JO                                TYPE: F
DOC: PA      SEC: 4.04           DUE DATE: 01/86       ACT. DATE:
DESCRIPTION:       ARC to adjust tariffs.
REMINDER:      /
REMARKS:    Tariff increases August 1990 and March 1991 totalling 37%.



