Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repon No. P-6569-NI
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 19.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
JUNE 1, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENCY UNITS
US$1.0 = 7.3 Nicaragua Cordoba (C$) (April 1995)
SDR1.0 = US$1.5758
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ERC      Economic Recovery Credit
FISE     Emergency Social Investment Fund
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GON      Government of Nicaragua
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
INAA    National Water Institute
INEC     National Institute of Statistics and Census
KfW      German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
LIB      Limited International Bidding
LSMS    Living Standards Measurement Survey
MED      Ministry of Education
MEDE   Ministry of Economy and Development
MINSA   Ministry of Health
MOP      Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the
International Development Association
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non-Government Organization
RUTA    Regional Unit for Technical Assistance in the Social Sectors
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA     Swedish International Development Agency
USAID   U. S. Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Republic of Nicaragua.
Executing Agencies:     The Social Investment Fund (FISE) and the Ministry of
Economy and Development (MEDE).
Beneficiaries:          Low-income persons in areas of urban and rural poverty.
Poverty:                Program of Targeted Interventions. Resources are allocated
to subprojects by geographic and sector targets. Geographic
targets are set by utilizing a poverty index that increases per
capita allocations as the level of poverty increases. About 80
percent of project resources are targeted at the education,
health, and water and sanitation sectors, with the remaining
resources targeted at economic infrastructure in poverty areas
and for environmental subprojects
Amotint:                 SDR 19.1 million (US$30 million equivalent).
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity, including 10 years
of grace.
Commitment Fee:         0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:         See Schedule A.
Economic Rate of        Not applicable.
Return:
Staff Appraisal Report:  IDB's Project Document PR-201 1, dated November 15, 1994
- in lieu of IDA SAR.
Map:                    IBRD- 26980.
Project Identification    38916
Number:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEMOIAANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed credit to the Republic of Nicaragua (GON) for SDR 19.1 million (US$30 million
equivalent) to help finance a Second Social Investment Fund Project. The proposed credit
would be repayable on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, including 10 years
of grace. The project would be cofinanced by the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), which approved a loan in December 1994 in an amount equivalent to US$40
million for its third operation to support the Nicaraguan Emergency Social Investment
Fund (FISE). Additional cofinancing of the equivalent of about US$20 million would be
provided by other donors. IDA staff has worked with the IDB in the preparation and
appraisal of the project and the IDB's Project Document PR2011 of November 15, 1994,
has been distributed to you in lieu of the Bank's staff appraisal report.'
2.    Background. Nicaragua is one of Latin America's poorest countries, with a per
cG pita GDP estimated at US$422 in 1992. The recent Poverty Profile, based on the data
developed by the Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) financed by the Social
Investment Fund Project (Credit 2434-NI), found that slightly over half the population is
poor, and close to one-fifth of the population falls below the extreme poverty line.
Education, health, and basic services indicators reflect the country's poverty and its deep
penetration in rural areas. Nationally, 23 percent of the population age ten and older is
illiterate. Among the extremely poor in rural areas this figure is 51 percent. The use of
health services among the poor is low, malnutrition widespread, and prenatal and birth
care limited. Approximately one-half of all poor women receive no prenatal care during
pregnancy and 23 percent of extremely poor women in rural areas give birth without
benefit of any health care personnel. Only about 20 percent of the rural poor are
connected to running water and virtually none are served by sewers, septic tanks, or
cesspools.
3.    When the current Government took office in April 1990 after a decade of civil
strife, it had to transform a centrally planned economy into a market oriented system. In
1991-1992, the Government implemented a comprehensive stabilization and adjustment
program supported by the IMF and an IDA Economic Recovery Credit approved in
September 1991. The program was successful in reducing inflation to single digit rates
and GDP recorded modest growth in 1992. However, it also caused social disruption in
terms of lost jobs and reduced Government expenditures. There was a major downsizing
of the of the public sector through reductions in current expenditures and a severe
The IDB project appraisal mission took place in September 1994. IDA's project appraisal mission took
place in January/February 1995 As a result, the MOP contains updated financial and project information
which may be at variance with the information contained in the IDB project document. An Annex is
attached to the MOP which describes activities financed by the proposed IDA credit that have not been
described in the IDB project document and the special terms and conditions of the proposed credit.



2
curtailment of public investment. The number of military employees was reduced by 80
percent and the number of Government employees by 12 percent. The divestiture of 233
out of 351 state-owned enterprises led to further unemployment. The increase in
unemployment, the reduction in social services, and the deterioration of social
infrastructure resulting from a decade of neglect, aggravated the already precarious
position of the poor and provided a basis for popular discontent. When the Government
attempted fiscal adjustment measures in the second half of 1992, it met with strong
political opposition, accompanied by violent strikes and demonstrations. The turbulent
political environment, adverse weather conditions, unfavorable commodity prices, and a
suspension of bilateral aid flows resulted in further economic deterioration. During 1993,
the donor community signaled that further assistance to Nicaragua would depend on the
Government's ability to continue economic reforms and forge a political consensus to
support the effort. As a result of this, and a growing national awareness that
confrontational politics, if continued, would lead to chaos, the political situation stabilized
and provided the basis for IDA's continued support of the adjustment program through
the extension of a Second IDA Economic Recovery Credit (ERC II) in June 1994.
However, to reinforce the political consensus that has been achieved and sustain social
cohesiveness and support for the adjustment program, the Government has recognized
that it must move to strengthen its social sector programs to provide basic services such as
health, nutrition, and education, increase the earnings capacity of the poor, and to expand
and improve its social safety net.
4.    FISE was established by the Government in November 1990, as a temporary
program to help protect and improve the standard of living of marginal social groups
during the period of economic adjustment through the provision of employment and
social and economic infrastructure and services. Although originally scheduled to
terminate in December 1995, the Government has extended FISE's life for an additional
two years, to help meet Nicaragua's persisting social and economic problems. A study to
determine whether or not to continue FISE beyond 1997 will be financed by IDB with
non-reimbursable technical cooperation funding as part of the project.
5.    FISE is a financing agency and does not itself execute projects. It finances: i)
social infrastructure subprojects such as the rehabilitation of schools and health posts and
the installation of small water and sewerage systems in peri-urban and rural areas; ii)
economic infrastructure subprojects such as road improvements, drainage works, and
public markets; iii) environmental projects, which have thus far only been for reforestation;
and iv) social service subprojects, such as those for health, nutrition and pre-primary
education. (FISE's targeted sectoral distribution of resources for the 1995-1997 period is
contained in Attachment I to the Annex.) Projects are executed by subproject sponsors,
which may be GON ministries and agencies, local governments, or NGOs. FISE aims at
nationwide coverage, but more funds are allocated on a per capita basis to poorer
municipalities based on a poverty index composed of displaced population, child
malnutrition, and water supply indicators. In addition to its regular activities of financing
subprojects, FISE is providing services to the Ministry of Education (MED) under the
IDA financed Basic Education Project (approved by the Executive Directors on March 16,
1995) for implementing the infrastructure rehabilitation component of that project, which
will rehabilitate, or replace, about 1,000 primary school classrooms. The criteria used for



3
the selection of schools under the Basic Education Project are based on physical condition,
density of population, and poverty. Unlike the Basic Education Project, subprojects
under the proposed credit would be demand driven and their selection would take into
account employment generation and give greater weight to poverty criteria. All school
rehabilitation subprojects under the proposed credit would require the approval of MED.
6.    In addition to selecting subprojects that meet its poverty, geographic, and sectoral
targets, FISE has established appraisal criteria that evaluate the economic impact of
subprojects, their cost effectiveness, labor and local material content, technical viability,
and effect on health and learning. Water, sewerage, and drainage subprojects are required
to have an economic rate of return of at least 12 percent in areas where it is feasible to
establish adequate tariffs. In areas where this cannot be done, such subprojects may be
financed within maximum unit cost guidelines. Unit cost guidelines have also been
established for other subproject areas. To the extent possible, subprojects with a high
local and labor content are favored. Other local factors taken into consideration include
infant mortality rates, prevalence of infectious diseases, and the percentage of children
who do not attend school
7.    FISE received financial support from the US$25 million equivalent IDA Credit
for the Social Investment Fund Project approved in November 1992, which helped
mobilize US$33.6 million of other donor financing. During the January 1, 1993 to
December 31, 1994 period, FISE substantially met the targeting goals agreed with IDA.
(FISE's Key Performance Indicators for 1993-1994 appear in Attachment 2 to the
Annex.) It approved, during this period, 2,448 subprojects, having a total estimated cost
of US$50 million; began 2,127 projects having a total estimated cost of US$42 million;
and completed 1,302 projects having a cost of US$28 million. The remainder of the
approved projects are expected to be completed by December 31, 1995. About 80
percent of the cost of subprojects approved have been for municipalities2 designated as
those of extreme, or high poverty. The IDA mid-term review of the project, which took
place in April 1994, concluded that FISE has had a significant development impact as a
result of its capacity to act quickly and provide infrastructure and equipment of good
quality, particularly for the health and education sectors, where it has repaired, or rebuilt,
602 primary and pre-schools and 148 health posts. Since commencing operations, FISE
has entered into contracts with over 800 domestic contracting firms and has generated
about 60,000 direct employment months and 70,000 indirect employment months of work.
8.    Government Strategv. The Government strategy for alleviating poverty and
improving living standards focuses on creating the conditions for a resUmption of
economic growth, strengthening the provision of basic social infrastructure and services
to the poor, and maintaining safety net and temporary employment programs while the
economy continues to adjust. The Government has initiated programs to reorganize and
strengthen the Health and Education Ministries to improve the provision of basic health
and primary education services through increased community involvement and
administrative decentralization. It has also endeavored to protect social spending from
2 AMfunicipalities in Nicaragua encompass rural and urban areas and are governed by a mayor and
municipal council.



4
fiscal austerity and has actively sought and received donor financing and support. Social
sector spending in the central Government budget increased from 36 percent in 1992 to
about 44 percent in both 1993 and 1994. The Government is also completing a Social
Sector Strategy and Action Plan, which should lay the basis for better coordination and
improved targeting of Government and donor efforts. The poverty data and profile
generated by the Living Standards Measurement Survey, financed under the first Social
Investment Fund project, will provide the necessary information to the Government for the
further development of its poverty strategy. IDA will have an additional input into the
Government's work through the Poverty Assessment Report that it currently has under
preparation.
9.    Rationale for IDA Involvement. In addition to assisting the Government in
establishing the conditions for reactivating economic growth, a key priority of IDA's
country assistance strategy, which was discussed at the Board on June 23, 1994 in
connection with the ERC II operation, is to help alleviate poverty in Nicaragua. As a
result, IDA has built a lending program directed at the social sectors and targeted at the
poor. In addition to the ongoing first FISE Credit, which is expected to be fully disbursed
by the December 31, 1995 closing date, there are ongoing IDA operations supporting
health care to the population who cannot afford private services and the transfer of
technology to small and medium-sized agricultural producers. These will be
complemented by the newly approved IDA project for basic education (Cr. 2689-NI,
March 1995) and a water and sanitation operation now in preparation. IDA's support of
FISE is consistent with its strategy of helping alleviate poverty in Nicaragua and would
complement other IDA financed projects directed at poverty alleviation. IDA financing of
a second project would help assure that FISE has the necessary financial resources to
meet subproject demand, help improve FISE's operational performance, and complement
other donor assistance for FISE. The IDB Board approved on December 7, 1994 the
US$40 million loan and two accompanying non-reimbursable technical cooperation
projects for US$3.6 million to support FISE that are described in the IDB Board
document. The IDB loan was signed on December 11, 1994, and became effective on -
May 22, 1995. Both the IDB and IDA financing would help FISE attract other external
donor financing, presently estimated at US$20.0 million. Additional financing of the
equivalent of about US$15 million is also under consideration by external donors, and
would, if approved, reduce FISE's estimated administrative overhead from 10.4 percent to
about 9 percent.
10.   Proiect Obiectives and Description. The objectives of the proposed project are
to help the Government sustain its poverty alleviation efforts and maintain social cohesion
during the economic adjustment period. Additionally, the project would help support the
Government's decentralization strategy, strengthen the local contracting industry, broaden
the menu of projects that FISE finances, support the targeting of resources to more
depressed areas, and help meet the special needs of the indigenous population.
11.   The project would have four components: i) investment subprojects (US$100.0
million, of which US$10.4 million would be for FISE's operating costs); ii) institutional
strengthening (US$1.0 million); iii) a Living Standards Measurement Survey (US$.0.5
million); and iv) a maintenance fund (US$0.9 million). The first two components would



5
be financed by both IDB and IDA, while the third and fourth components would be
firanced by IDA and IDB, respectively. The investment subproject component would
receive financing from all of the donors and would continue to finance the small-scale
social ard economic infrastructure and social service subprojects financed under the first
FISE project, as well as such other categories of subprojects as may be identified and
agreed to with the donors. FISE is currently studying a new subproject category which
would provide technical assistance to local governments and communities in planning and
implementing subprojects. (IDB has provided funds in its loan to study subprojects
financed by social investment funds in other countries for their applicability for financing
by FISE.) FISE currently has an inventory of 1,800 subprojects with an estimated cost of
US$47 million awaiting approval. The institutional strengthening component would be
financed by IDA and IDB to strengthen FISE's internal management and extend and
improve its project promotion work. IDA financing would help FISE increase its capacity
to help prepare water and sanitation subprojects and improve its environmental assessment
procedures. IDB financing would help FISE strengthen its operations in the Atlantic coast
region3, update the poverty map upon which it bases its allocation of resources, improve
its internal auditing procedures, and strengthen its subproject monitoring and evaluation.
The Livii g Standarcs Measurement Survey component. financed by IDA, would assist the
GON in implementing a second round of the survey conducted under the first project.
Data would be collected and analyzed at both the household and community level which
would pi ovide information on the economic condition of the population and its access to
and use of social services and infrastructure. The maintenance fund component would be
financed by IDB and would provide resources for preventive maintenance of health and
education subprojects. FISE would use the proceeds of the credit and funds from other
donors and the National Treasury, to finance subprojects, its administrative costs, and the
technical assistance provided for in the project. FISE's financing of subprojects will be in
the form of grants to municipalities, NGOs, and sponsoring Government agencies.
Subproject sponsors will be responsible, with FISE's assistance and supervision, for the
contracting, implementation, and supervision of projects. A description of the IDA credit
and how it will operate is contained in the Annex to this Memorandum. The proceeds of
the IDA credit would be lent to the GON, which would pass all of the credit on to FISE,
except for US$300,000, which would be passed on to the Ministry of the Economy and
Development (MEDE), which would carry out the LSMS component of the project.
12.   Proiect Costs and Financing Plan. The project is estimated to cost about
US$102.4 million. The sources of financing are as follows: a) the Government, US$18.2
million, of which US$7.9 million is from USAID P.L. 480 generated funds; b)
beneficiaries, US$3.9 million. which may be in the form of cash, land, materials, or labor;
c) IDB, US$40 million, of which US$1.7 million represents finance charges; d) the
Government of Germany (KfW), US$10 million; e) the Government of Sweden (SIDA),
US$2 million; and f) IDA, US$30 million. IDA would not finance any contract, or
3 FISE is planning to establish two small regional offices in the Atlantic Autonomous Region to attend to
the needs of this poor isolated area, whose inhabitants are out of the country's ethnic, linguistic, and
cultural mainstream. Indigenous people represent about half of the estimated 200,000 persons living in
the region. The remainder are principally persons of African and mixed ethnic origins.



6
subproject, that would be financed by any other donor. The Project Cost Summary and
Financing Plan are shown in Schedule A.
13.   Proiect Implementation and Sustainability. The credit would be committed
over a two year period and disbursed over a two and a half year period. The principal
executing agency would be FISE for subproject financing. MEDE would be the executing
agency for the LSMS component of the project. FISE has demonstrated its capacity to
process a large number of subprojects and rapidly disburse funds. There will be continued
close cooperation in project implementation with the Ministries of Health and Education,
and with the Institute for Water and Sewerage (INAA), as well as with the newly
established Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment. Coordination with the
ministries and INAA is required to assure that FISE's subprojects fit into their long-term
plans, that technical and environmental norms and standards are followed, and that
subproject recurrent costs will be met by the responsible ministry or agency. The
mechanisms for achieving coordination have been, and will be, through agreements
between FISE and the responsible ministry and agency, which delineate their respective
responsibilities. Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement and the
disbursement schedule are contained in Schedule B.
14.   A number of features have been incorporated in project design to help assure the
sustainability of subprojects. First, FISE limits investments in schools and health facilities
to rehabilitation, or expansion of existing facilities, and road investment to rehabilitation.
This policy limits the future recurrent cost burden of subprojects. Second, the Ministries
of Education and Health are required to confirm that they will provide budget for the
salaries of teachers and health care promoters and other recurrent expenditures, such as
teaching materials and medicines, for the subprojects financed by FISE. Third, subproject
beneficiaries are required to make a contribution of five percent of the subproject cost in
cash, land, materials, or labor. The beneficiary contribution is often evidence of the
interest and willingness of the community to maintain subprojects. Fourth, FISE requires
the establishment of local committees to maintain and help run schools and health centers,
finances the training of committee members, and has financed the preparation of
maintenance manuals to assist the committees. Fifth, water and sewerage projects require
that the final owner of the subproject commit itself to recovering the cost of the subproject
and to maintain it. Sixth, the IDB loan provides for the financing of a maintenance fund
which would help finance preventive maintenance for health and education subprojects. In
addition, maintenance components have been included in the IDA financed Basic
Education and Health Sector Reform projects.
15.   Lessons Learned. The design of the proposed project has taken into account the
lessons learned from the first Social Investment Fund Project in Nicaragua and from the
social investment funds in other countries. First, freedom from normal Government
salary. personnel recruiting. budgeting. procurement, and disbursement restrictions has
promoted efficiency. FISE has been able to hire and retain sufficient high quality
professional personnel who have been able to carry out FISE's program efficiently. Under
the proposed project and GON decree extending FISE, FISE will continue to be exempt
from normal Government restrictions. Second, well-defined and transparent targeting and
allocation of resources reduce political risks, and help assure that high social return



7
subprojects are directed at the poor. The proposed project will provide for the updating
of poverty mapping and the assignment of project resources based on poverty level.
Poverty and population data will continue to be generated through the proposed project's
support of a national census and the LSMS work. Third, a standardized menu of
subprojects promotes efficiency by limiting the range of specialists to be recruited,
providing standard parameters and specifications used by sponsors in subproject
preparation, and facilitating subproject appraisal and supervision. Although additional
categories will probably be added to FISE's menu of subprojects, the number will be kept
small enough to assure tnat FISE's operations remain well-focused. Fourth, oversight by
external donors has promoted efficiency and limited political risks by requiring annual and
quarterly audits, the maintenance of internal auditing and control systems, semi-annual
progress reporting, donor mid-terms reviews, and donor project supervision. These
requirements will be continued and strengthened in the proposed project. Fifth,
coordination with social sector ministries has been critical for the effective delivery of
social services to beneficiaries. FISE has had agreements with these institutions which
have provided an effective framework for coordination. These agreements have recently
been extended through the life of the proposed project and should continue to be able to
provide such a framework.
16.   Agreed Actions. During negotiations, the following matters were discussed and
agreements reached:
a) Counterpartfunds. The GON would provide funds as indicated in the project
financing plan and as needed to cover the operating costs of FISE.
b) Changes in FISE 's Operations Manual. FISE would not make substantive
changes in its Operations Manual without IDA's approval.
c) Changes in FISE management. FISE would not appoint a new Chairman of its
Board, executive director, or operational directors without IDA's approval.
d) Default in other agreements. A default in the IDB or KfW loans, or SIDA
grant for FISE may be considered by IDA to be a default in its credit.
e) Performance indicators. FISE and MEDE would comply with the
performance indicators agreed to in a supplemental letter.
f) Targeting. Unless IDA otherwise would agree, FISE would not commit more
than 16 percent of funds to Managua and 7 percent to othet "medium poverty"
municipalities and would not modify the mechanism for targeting poor
municipalities.
g) Failure to appoint a successor to FISE. IDA may consider it to be an event of
default if the GON fails to appoint a successor to FISE, in the event FISE ceases
to exist, or in the event that actions have been taken for FISE's dissolution,
disestablishment, or suspension, prior to the completion of those parts of the
project relating to FISE.



8
h) Other. Requirements and procedures with respect to Project Reporting, Mid-
Term Review, Procurement, Disbursements, and Accounts and Audits are
contained in the appropriately designated paragraphs in the Annex.
17.   Conditions of effectiveness would be: i) adoption by FISE of an Operations
Manual satisfactory to IDA, incorporating revised procedures to evaluate the
environmental impact of FISE subprojects, revised procurement procedures reflecting
Bank/IDA procurement guidelines, and increased maximum permissible levels for
financing subproject preinvestment costs; and ii) a subsidiary agreement between the GON
and FISE making the fiinds in the credit available to FISE.
18.   Environmental ImDact. The proposed project would have no significant
environmental risks. FISE currently asks a standard series of questions regarding
environmental impact for subprojects that it finances in accordance with the Operational
Manual approved by IDA. However, the present system would be improved by expanding
the coverage of subprojects requiring environmental assessments and simplifying
procedures. In order to implement new environmental procedures and expand the menu
of environmental subprojects financed by FISE, the proposed credit would finance the
hiring of an internationally recruited consultant. The project has been given an
environmental rating of category "B".
19.   Promram Obiectives and Poverty Categorv. The proposed project, in the
poverty reduction category, is a program of targeted interventions. Resources are
allocated to subprojects by geographic and sector targets. Geographic targets are set by
utilizing a poverty index that increases per capita allocations as the level of poverty
increases. About 80 percent of project resources are targeted at the education, health, and
water and sanitation sectors, with the remaining resources targeted at economic
infrastructure in poverty areas and for environmental subprojects.
20.   Participatory Approach. Communities are heavily involved in identifying and
implementing the subprojects financed by FISE. There are nine "promoters" on FISE's
staff who are responsible for visiting all of the municipalities in Nicaragua and for meeting
with community groups in identifying projects. FISE's Operations Manual requires that a
subproject may only be considered for financing if there are 50 signatures from direct
beneficiaries in support of the subproject. The IDB loan will finance the establishment of
a Communication Unit in FISE that would publicize FISE's activities and encourage even
greater community involvement. Subproject beneficiaries are also, as noted above,
required to make a contribution of five percent of the cost of the subproject and to
contribute to subproject sustainability through participation in maintenance committees.
21.   Proiect Benefits. The proposed project would help reduce poverty through
providing economic and social infrastructure and improved social services in poor areas.
It would also generate employment in the same areas and, consistent with the
Government's decentralization strategy, increase the involvement of communities and
municipalities in identifying, planning and implementing development projects. The
project would have a particularly favorable impact on women. It is estimated that about



9
65 percent of the persons attended to by FISE financed health posts are women. The
establishment of offices in the Atlantic coast region for the purpose of promoting and
implementing subprojects, is also likely to direct a larger percentage of FISE resources to
indigenouis people.
22.   Proiect Risks. The elections scheduled for 1996 could put pressure on FISE to
finance subprojects based on political considerations. This risk is limited by the
transparent targeting and resource allocation procedures that FISE has developed and the
well-defined subproject promotion, selection, evaluation, and supervision procedures
followed by FISE and contained in its Operations Manual. An additional risk is the failure
to maintain the infrastructure financed by FISE. The measures that have been taken to
reduce this risk are described in par4graph 14 above.
24.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articlcs of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1995






Schedule A
NICARAGUA - SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Local         Foreign           Total
US$ million
I. FISE
A. Subprojects                        67.2            22.4            89.6
B. Operating Costs                     9.4             1.0             10.4
Subtotal FISE                       76.6            23.4           100.0
II. Maintenance Fund                     0.7             0.2             0.9
III. LSMS                                0.4             0.1             0.5
IV. Institutional Strengthening          0.4             0.6              1.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST'               78.1            24.3            102.4
Financing Plan
Local          Foreign          Total
US$ million
Covernment of Nicaragua                 10.3             0.0             10.3
USAID (P.L. 480)                         6.0             1.9             7.9
Beneficiaries2                           3.9             0.0             3.9
IDA                                     22.0             8.0             30.0
IDB                                     26.9            11.4             38.3
Government of Germany (KfW)              7.5             2.5             10.0
Government of Sweden (SIDA)              1.5             0.5              2.0
TOTAL FINANCING                    78.1            24.3            102.4
Net of taxes and duties.
! May be in form of cash, land, materials, or labor.



Schedule B
Page 1 of3
NICARAGUA - SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Category             ICB        NCB       Other'      NIF2       Total
Works, Goods, and            1.5        21.2        9.5        57.4       89.6
Training Under FISE         (1.5)      (19.0)      (8.5)                 (29.0)
Subprojects
Vehicles, Computer                                  0.3        0.2        0.5
Equipment, and Office                              (0.2)                  (0.2)
Furniture and Equipment
for FISE
Consultants, Technical                              0.8        1.1         1.9
Assistance, and Auditor                            (0.8)                 (0.8)
Services for FISE and
MEDE
Salaries, Allowances, and                                      10.4       10.4
Operating Costs of FISE
Totals              1.5       21.2        10.6       69.1       102.4
(1.5)     (19.0)      (9.5)                 (30.0)
Note: Amounts in parenthesis are amounts estimated to be financed by IDA.
Includes local shopping and dircct contracting
2 NIF - Not-IDA-Financed



Schedule B
Page 2 of 3
NICARAGUA - SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Amount of the
Category              Credit Allocated      % of Expenditures to be
(in US$ million            Financed
equivalent)
1. FISE Investment Subprojects                      Expenditures for subprojects
for which a subproject
agreement has been signed
on or before June 30, 1997,
in the following amounts:
a) Civil Works                      23.76         a) 90%
b) Goods                            3.63          b) 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex factory
cost), and 75% of local
expenditures for imported
items procured locally
c) Training                         .71           c) 100%
Subtotal                  28.10
2. FISE - Institutional Support
a) Goods (Vehicles,                  .19          a) 100% of foreign
computer equipment, and                             expenditures, 100% of local
furniture)                                          expenditures (ex factory
cost), and 75% of local
expenditures for imported
items procured locally
b) Audit Services                    .15          b) 100%
c) Consultant Services              .36           c) 100%
Subtotal                   0.70
3. LSMS                               .30           100%
4. Unallocated                        .90
Total                       30.0



Schedule B
Page 3 of 3
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS TIMETABLE
(in US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year
1996                1997                 1998
Annual                      10.0                15.0                  5.0
Cumulative                  10.0                25.0                 30.0



Schedule C
NICARAGUA - SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)     Time taken to prepare              Three months
(b)     Prepared by                        FISE and MEDE
(c)     First IDA Mission                  November 1994
(d)     Appraisal Mission Departure        January 1995
(e)     Ne0otiations                       May 1995
(f)    Planned Date of Effectiveness      July 1995
(g)     LisL of Relevant PPR and PPARs     Not applicable



SCHEDULE D
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 19951
28 loans and 9 credits fully disbursed                                              229.01       197.00
Of which SECALs, SALs, and Program Loans
Cr 2302-NIC      1992       Nicaragua       Economic Recovery Credit                             110.00
Cr 2302 -1NIC    1992       Nicaragua       Economic Recovery Credit                              10.30
Subtotal                                           120.30
Cr. 2434-NIC     1993       Nicaragua       Social Investment Fund                                25.00         8.73
Cr. 2536-NIC     1994      Nicaragua        Agric. Technology & Land Mgmnt.                       44.00        41.80
Cr. 2556-NIC     1994      Nicaragua        Health Sector Project                                 15.00        15.06 *
Cr. 2031-NIC'    1994      Nicaragua        Economic Recovery Credit II                           80.00        33.00 *
Cr. 2831-2-NIC a>  1995     Nicaragua       Economic Recovery Credit II                            6.30         e.85  -
Cr. 2689-NIC a>   1995      Nicaragua       Education                                             34.00        35.94  *
Cr. 2690-NIC a>   1995     Nicaragua        Institutional Development Credit                      23.00        24.43 *
Sub-total                                         207.30       165.87
Total                                  229.61      404.30
Of which has been repaid              185.13         6.82
Total now held by Bank and IDA         44.48      397.48
Amount sold:            5.82
Of which has been repaid: 5.e2
Total Undhsburned                       0.00       1e5.87      165.87
* SAL. SECAL. or Program Loan.
Difference due to exchange rate fluctuations between SOR and US$.
Md.S: LA2CO
Fi: N:\Mde&lvetdisburu*sncaragu\NI-03.95.xds
Apg. 17. 1995



SCHEDULE D
Page  2 of 2
STA'r: or rrc fllVZS=rrs
AA oa Karch 311. 1995
(a XilliLoE UJS Dollars)
. -  rigil cross Cocm aflt     -  Bold    H-ld    tbi4. 
Fiscal yaa:s                                                                      Prc     rrc                       by      by       iclI.
C~.i:tOd Cb l2.i                                     Type of Business             Loan    Equity  partic  ToCAls  Hrc        Partic  Pasr^
ls63                  &/ axtiles Fbricato de  ic Ttiles ,n50                                  .64     .53    2.0a
1976                  a1 Nicsragua Sugar Eatate *:  Food an  &-ri-",5i5Lg           6C50                -    i650
l276                  a/ Poseda del Sol S.A.         Tourim                          .70      .20             .90
Total gBroas C-4=mts bi                                   7.70      .84     .93    5.47
Less Cne.cllA,teioms. tesi-rctiO.a  repayM=t r SA*-1      7.70      .S4     .53    S.47
T'ortal etz w e     a  held  i/                              -                      0.00 _              -
Total C-i4-ats hol.d ausd p;edlm  coic  tA
Total undisbursed co'--4MA=                                  _2                     0.00
a/ Zs=nrs  wlieh have been fully casnelled. tearezated, writtn-off, sold, redeened. or repaid.
bi Graen C-i.eetts co=sist of approved and signed projcts.
c/ b-ld Cin±zeomt.es consist of disbursed and  -disbirsed izvesaents.



II
I



ANNEX
NICARAGUA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.   Introduction                                                         2
II.   Project Description                                                 2
III.  Supervision, Reporting, and Mid-Term Review                         4
IV.  Procurement                                                          5
V.   Disbursements                                                        7
VI.  Accounts and Audits                                                  7
ATTACHMENTS
1. FISE - Targeted Sectoral Distribution of Resources (1995-1997)
2. FISE - Key Performance Indicators (1993-1994)



I.    Introduction
1.    The proposed IDA credit would help finance and support FISE's operations for
the 1995-1997 period. IDB has provided a US$ 40 million loan for similar purposes (as
described in paragraph 11 of the body of the MOP) and two accompanying non-
reimbursable technical cooperation grants to conduct a census (US$3.3 million) and
studies to define the future role of FISE and evaluate the impact of its subprojects (US$
300,000). IDB's financing is supported by the appraisal contained in the IDB Board
document of November 15, 1994 that has been distributed with this MOP. The IDB
document presents relevant background materials, evaluates FISE, and describes the
program that would be financed. The IDB project evaluation and Board document have
helped accelerate IDA's evaluation and processing of the proposed project and eliminated
the need to prepare a separate IDA staff appraisal report. However, the IDB Board
document does not describe some of the complementary activities that would be financed
by the proposed IDA credit and its special terms and conditions. It is the purpose of this
Annex to do so.
2.    The project, with the exception of the LSMS component, was prepared by FISE
with technical support from the Regional Unit for Technical Support in the Social Sectors
(RUTA) and IDB and IDA staff, and with financing from a Government of Japan grant.
The LSMS component was prepared by MEDE, with support from IDA staff
II.   Project Description
3..   The complementary activities that will be financed by IDA that are not being
financed by the IDB loan are some aspects of the institutional strengthening of FISE and
the Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS).
4.    Institutional Strengthening. The IDB loan will loan will concentrate on several
areas of institutional strengthening for FISE. This will include strengthening internal
management, updating the poverty map, extending and improving promotion work,
identifying new subproject areas, strengthening operations in the Atlantic coast region, and
training staff. The IDA credit would provide resources for two additional areas, --
increasing FISE's capacity to assist in the preparation of water and sanitation subprojects
and improving its environmental assessment procedures. The IDA credit would also
finance auditor services, computer hardware and software, office equipment and furniture,
and vehicles in support of FISE.
5.    Although water and sanitation subprojects have represented a high priority for
FISE, the number of subprojects that have been identified and financed have been
disappointing and below the targets established by FISE. Only five percent of the
subprojects approved by FISE through 1995 have been for water and sanitation
subprojects and four percent have financed latrines. FISE would like to raise these
percentages to about fifteen and seven percent, respectively, for the 1995-97 period. In
order to do this, FISE will have to increase its capacity to help generate such subprojects.
The IDA credit would therefore finance the services of an internationally recruited
consultant for a period of up to eighteen months, who would provide technical assistance
2



in identifying areas of priority, evaluating subprojects, developing standard design
parameters, and supervising subprojects.
6.    FISE's environmental assessment procedures have had some weaknesses. They
have not covered all the subprojects FISE does and could finance and all of the potentially
important environmental impacts. The procedures have also required that a large amount
of unnecessary information be collected for some subprojects. Revised environmental
procedures were agreed to at negotiations and their adoption by FISE in its Operations
Manual is a condition of credit effectiveness. In order to fine tune and implement these
procedures and to expand the menu of environmental subprojects, the IDA credit would
finance the services of an internationally recruited environmentalist for up to eighteen
months. The environmentalist, who would have a FISE appointed counterpart, would
have the following major responsibilities: a) ensure the implementation of FISE's revised
environmental assessment procedures in its subproject cycle; b) train FISE staff on
environmental matters; c) assure collaboration with Nicaraguan and international
organizations operating in the environmental area; and d) define a new menu of
environmental subprojects for FISE financing and prepare appropriate technical tools for
their implementation.
7.    The LSMS comnponent. The first round LSMS was carried out under the first
Nicaragua Social Investment Fund Project (Cr. 2434-NI). The LSMS component under
that project was successfully completed and has provided important data on the economic
and social conditions of the population and its access to, and use of, social services and
infrastructure. The data is a valuable resource for the Government, the donors, and FISE,
for targeting resources more effectively and designing economic and social policy.
Government ministries and agencies have used the data to design a new consumer price
index, update patterns of private consumption for national accounts estimates, and design
a new consumer consumption basket. IDA has used the survey data in its economic,
poverty, and social analysis work. FISE is using the LSMS data to rev,se its geographic
targeting and the LSMS methodology to help it develop an appropriate instrument to
measure household income for subproject beneficiaries.
b.    The proposed component would finance a complementary second round survey,
wh zh' would help further institutionalize LSMS work in the GON. The Ministry of the
iRconomy and Development (MEDE) would oversee the implementation of the survey in
t:!e first semester of 1996 (three years after the completion of the first LSMS) and analyze
its results. The LSMS results will be available no later than March 31, 1997. A survey of
five thousand households throughout the country would be conducted by a private sector
firm which would collect data on demographics, migration, housing education, nutrition,
labot force participation, informal sector businesses, agricultural activities, and
consumption. At the community level, data would be collected on government services in
education and health, safety net programs. transportation, prices, and on the main sectors
of economic activity. Technical assistance would be provided to MEDE to analyze the
data collected by the survey.
3



HI.   Supervision, Reporting, and Mid-Term Review
9.    Reports. FISE would provide semi-annual reports which it would submit to IDB
and IDA not later than three months after the end of each semester. The reports would
include updated key performance indicators and the latest reports to FISE management,
along with appropriate interpretive analysis and commentary. The report would include
information on: i) the number and cost of subprojects requested, evaluated, approved,
contracted, in execution, and completed; ii) the frequency of subproject supervision: iii)
the targeting of subprojects by sector, poverty, and geographic area; iv) the status of
studies and technical assistance being financed by donors; and iv) changes in FISE
personnel and management. Project performance indicators to be contained in a
supplemental letter to the credit agreement were agreed to at negotiations.
10.   Supervision. Supervision will be coordinated with IDB. IDA staff, along with
IDB, RUTA, and consultants, with expertise in community development, institutional
development, engineering, procurement, accounting and auditing, management
information systems, project monitoring and evaluation, and environmental matters will
participate in the supervision of the project.. The project, exclusive of the LSMS
component, will require the following number of estimated staff weeks of supervision:
FY96 - 20; FY 97 - 15; and FY 98 - 10. It is estimated that the LSMS component of the
project, which will be exclusively supervised by IDA, will require the following number of
staff weeks of supervision: FY 96 - 4; FY 97 -5; and FY 98 - 2.
11.   Mid-Term Review. A mid-term review of the project would be undertaken in
coordination with IDB by September 30, 1996. The review would require about fourteen
staff weeks. Personnel with the same skills identified for supervision will participate in the
mid-term review. The review would principally focus on: i) the targeting of FISE funds;
ii) the quality of subprojects financed by FISE; iii) the impact of FISE-financed
subprojects; iv) the administrative soundness and financial operations of FISE; v) progress
made in the decentralization of FISE operations to the Atlantic Region; vi) progress made
in increasing the number of water and sanitation projects financed by FISE; vii) progress
made in the implementation of FISE's revised environmental assessment procedures; viii)
the status and results of the study on the future role of FISE; ix) the status of the study to
,ionitor the impact of FISE; and x) the operation of the maintenance fund.
IV.   Procurement
12.   The project would finance civil works, goods and services. Procurement of goods
and civil works would be carried out in accordance with the January 1995 Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. FISE's adoption in its Operations
Manual of standard contracts and procurement procedures which reflect the Bank/IDA
guidelines is a condition of credit effectiveness.
13.   Civil Works. Civil works in investment subprojects financed by the IDA credit
are expected to account for approximately US$23.76 million equivalent. The average sizes
of the works are expected to be about US$25,000 in social infrastructure subprojects and
US$50,000 in economic infrastructure projects. There will be no international competitive
4



bidding because of the small size of FISE subprojects. National competitive bidding
would be used for contracts of a value more than US$150,000 equivalent. To the extent
possible, similar types of works in the subprojects would be combined in bid packages of
at least US$150,000 equivalent, to minimize administrative costs and take advantage of
contractor specialization. Works estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less, and not
exceeding US$150,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$7.5 million
equivalent, would be procured under lumpsum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis
of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. To encourage competition and promote interest by contractors, whenever
feasible, contracts for repairs and rehabilitation would be grouped into contract packages
expected to cost not less than US$50,000 equivalent. Procurement of contracts of works
and goods, or a combination thereof, in small subprojects in distant or scattered rural
areas, witlh a cost less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$8.5 million
equivalent, would be done through direct contracting of local contractors by the
communities, only in cases where competitive proposals cannot be obtained. For purposes
of est iblishing prices for direct contracting, FISE would continue to use the system of
regional standard unit prices, updated periodically and agreed with IDA. FISE agreed at
negotiations to review every six months the system of regional standard unit prices and to
seek agreement frorm IDA to any changes.
14.   Goods. It is expected that approximately US$3.82 million equivalent of the IDA
credit would finance goods in subprojects and in FISE. There will be no ICB in the
project. However, FISE would use limited international bidding (LIB) for the
procurement of an estimated US$1.5 million of medical equipment in health subprojects..
Contracts for goods equal or more than US$25,000 and less than US$150,000 equivalent,
would be done through national competitive bidding (NCB), under procedures satisfactory
to IDA. Comparison price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers would be
used for purchasing goods costing US$25,000 equivalent, or less, up to an aggregate
amount of US$1 million equivalent.
15.   Consultants. It is expected that about US$0.8 million equivalent of the IDA
credi would finance consultant services. Consultants and technical assistance would be
hired following procedures set forth in the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the
Wf'orld Bank and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, dated August 1981. All
consultants terms of reference would be subject to IDA's prior review. Contracts, short
lists, and selection procedures for technical assistance would be subject to prior review by
IDA when the value of the contracts is US$50,000 equivalent, or more, for consulting
firms, or US$20,000 equivalent, or more, for employment of individuals. However, prior
review would apply to all single-source contracts and contracts for assignments of a
critical nature, regardless of value. Prior review would also be required for contract
amendments valued at more than US$20,000 for individuals, and US$50,000 equivalent
for firms, or those that raise the total contract value above these thresholds. FISE agreed
at negotiations to a standard invitation request and contract form which would be used to
ng-e,, censultants.
5



16.   Training Services. It is expected that about US$0.71 million equivalent of the
IDA credit would finance training services under FISE subprojects. Contracts to provide
such services would be with private institutions and NGOs.
17.   Review by IDA. Prior review by IDA would include (a) procurement
arrangements in accordance with Appendix 1, paragraph 1 of the IDA Guidelines, (b) all
procurement by LIB, (c) the first two NCB contracts for works and goods irrespective of
value, and all works contracts equal or above US$250,000 equivalent, with respect to
subprojects, (d) the first two contracts for direct contracting for works and goods and (d)
all amendments to contracts under direct contracting raising the contract value above
US$50,000 equivalent. The level of IDA prior review of procurement under these
arrangements is considered adequate and would be supported by ex-post review of
procurement documentation by IDA supervision missions on a regular basis, in addition to
the quarterly and annual auditing by an external qualified firm, including physical auditing
of subprojects. Periodic project physical performance evaluations would also look at
procurement issues under random review of subprojects, including field visits.
18.   The Presidential Decree establishing FISE exempted it from the standard state
system of contracting goods and services for subprojects financed by FISE. No detailed
Country Procurement Assessment on Nicaragua has been undertaken recently. However,
Nicaragua's procurement regulations (Ley de Contrataciones Administrativas del Estado,
August 1992) clearly authorizes, as a special provision, application of procurement
procedures of international financial institutions in the procurement of works, goods and
services. Procurement experience in the first FISE project was reviewed in the IDA Mid-
Term Review that took place in April 1994, by the annual and concurrent audits, and by
IDA field supervision. These reviews provided information that has been used by FISE to
strengthen its procurement procedures.
V.    Disbursements
19.   The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of about two and a half
years. It is expected that all subprojects will be presented to IDA for approval before the
end of February 1997. The project completion date would be June 30, 1997, and the
project closing date would be December 13, 1997. The expected disbursement profile is
shorter than the average for LAC projects in the social sector, but is consistent with the
previous Nicaragua Social Investment Fund Project and other social investment fund
projects in Latin America. It is expected that about fifty percent of the IDA credit would
be disbursed before the September 1996 mid-term review. The proceeds of the credit
would be disbursed as follows: a) civil works, 90% of amounts disbursed by FISE for
subprojects with agreements signed on. or before, before March 31, 1997; b) goods,
100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods, 100% of the cost of locally produced goods (ex
factory), and 75% of the cost of imported goods, procured locally; and b) consultant
services, auditor services, and training services, 100 % of total expenditures. No
disbursements will be made for subprojects that IDB has financed, or agreed to finance.
20.   Withdrawal applications would be fully documented with respect to expenditures
under contracts valued at US$ 100,000 or more for goods, US$50,000 or more for the
6



services of consultant firms, US$20,000 or more for the services of individuals, and US$
250,000 or more for works. Contracts below these amounts would be made on the basis
of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which supporting documents would be
maintained by FISE and would be made available for review by IDA. A special account in
US dollars would be opened in a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA, with an authorized
allocation of US$ 4.0 million. This would correspond to about four months of
expenditures required under the project. The minimum amount for withdrawal
applications submitted outside of the special account would be US$800,000 (20 percent of
the authorized allocation.
VI.   Accounts and Audits
21.   FISE has been required under the first IDA credit to have accounts audited
annually by external auditors satisfactory to IDA. The annual audits contain the auditor's
opinion of FISE's financial statements as well as separate opinions on: i) project
accounts, including the special account; ii) SOEs; iii) whether procurement is being
carried out in accordance with agreed IDA guidelines; and iv) an analysis of whether
internal controls in place are adequate to minimize the possibility of misuse of funds, or
other improprieties. In addition, the auditors have undertaken quarterly audits of FISE's
operations which examine a samnle of subprojects and how they have been carried out.
The quarterly audits have focused on whether contractors have complied with the terms
of the contracts for which they are carrying out subprojects, the quality of work, whether
work payments are being made to contractors based on work progress as defined in their
contracts, and on the overall operational efficiency and effectiveness of FISE. Annual
audits are submitted to !DA not later than four months after the end of FISE's fiscal year.
Quarterly audits are submitted to IDA not later than two months after the conclusion of
the quarter. IDA has received the annual audit of FISE for 1993 and quarterly audits
through June 30, 1994. The 1993 annual audit showed that FISE's accounts are in good
order and the quarterly audits have noted some deficiencies in subproject execution. FISE
has taken actions to remedy and prevent their repetition. FISE's external audit firm
ceased operation in the latter half of 1994 and no audits have been received since the June
30, 1994 quarterly audit. However, a new independent external auditor acceptable to IDA
has been selected who will continue the annual and quarterly audits. The external audit
requirements for annual and quarterly audits required under the first project, will be
continued under the new project. FISE agreed durirng negotiations to continue the
external audit arrangements agreed to under the first project and advance the date of
submission of quarterly audits to IDA from two months to forty-five days after the end of
the quarter.
7



FISE - Targeted Sectoral Distribution of Resources (1995-1997)
(USS miUlion)
Percentages
Type of Ptjet                   1995                   199                  197                 19X5-1997                 1995-1997
#Pro0.     USSMIIL   Nrro       USs MiDL   # Proj.    UsS MilL       #Pro.   USS MAM   #PFOj.          USS MID.
Social Inrtructure                   345        17.69      597        25.97       421       17.08      1,363       60.73      24.52%        58.52%
Prinmay and PrPrimnsy Schools         180        6.97      325        11.7S       234        7.97        739       26.72       13.29%        25.83%
Secondary Schools                     13         1.16      IS         1.42        12        0.94         43        3.53       0.78%         3.39%
Vocational Trainung Caters             4         0.40        5         0.50         4        0.33         13        1.24       0.24%          1.19%/
Heath Posts                           78         1.57      113         2.12        80         1.42       272        5.11       4.89h          4.92%
Health Centers                         15        1.34       39         3.18        28        2.15         83        6.67       1.49%A         6.48%
Old-age Homes and Sheltes              5         0.32        7         0.41         4        0.25         16        0.98       0.28%          0.94%
Child Centers                          14        0.47       21         0.64        14        0.40         48        1.52       0.87hA         1.46%
Potable Water                         27         4.53       58         4.55        36        2.66        120       11.74       2.17/         11.21%
Sewerage                               8         0.93       12         1.35         9        0.96         29        3.24       0.52%          3.12%
Econondc Infrastructure.              79         5.55      104         6.89        74        4.67        257       17.11       4.62%         16.44%
Drainage                               8         0.81        9         0.88         8         0.72        24        2.42       0.43%          2.33%
Road Inprovement                      40         2.64       42         2.61        27         1.58       108        6.S3        1.95%         6.52%
Bridges                                4         0.27        7         0.47         6        0.39         18        1.13       0.32%          1.10%
Municipal Markets                      I I       1.30       20         2.15        14         1.44        46        4.89       0.83%         4.73%
Slaughterhouses                        12        0.36       22         0.61        15        0.39         49        1.35       0.89%          1.31%
Other                                  4         0.17        4         0.16         4        0.15         1 1       0.48       0.20%         0.46%
Environmental Improvement             10         0.79       12        0.90         12        0.85         33        2.54       OS9.sr        2.45%
Reforestation                          8         0.70        9         0.79         9        0.78         26        2.27       0.47%         2.19%
Other                                  2         0.09        3         0.10         2        0.07          7        0.27       0.13%          0.26%
Social Assistance                   1432         8.97     1472         9.00      1002        5.66       3905       23.63      70.26%        22.58%
Education Equipmet                   263         1.48      283         1.48       241         1.19       788        4.15      14.17%/         3.99/
Health Equipment                     648         1.60      231         2.31       159         1.50      1038        5.41      18.68S-         5.21%
Latrins                              156         4.15       89         2.24        50         1.19       295        7.57       5.31%         7.12%
Preventive Healh                      62         0.99       89         1.34        59        0.83        210        3.16       3.78%         3.04%
Conmmunity Organization Training     216         0.50      361         0.59       259        0.40        836        1.48      15.04%          1.42%
Water Commites Training                15        0.07       48         0.12        40        0.09        103        0.28       1.86%         0.27%
Other                                 72         0.19      370         0.92       193        0.45        635        1.57      11.42%          1.53%
Grand Total                         1865        33.00     2185        42.75      1508       28.25       5558     104.00'     100.00%       100.00%O
file: :\DOC\RKISE2\MPATTl.DOC
April27, 1995 10:00am (MS)
'Tot  resources exceeds the amount currently in the project to reflect additional resources that may become available from external donors.



ANNEX
ATTACHMUENT 2
Page 1 of 3
FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA
FISE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
TWO YEARS WORK PROGRAM   1993  And  1994
Last Update: 31/12/94
Fund Raising & Planning
TARGETS  t BASE JAN 93
INDICATOR                SOURCE                     OBJECTIVE
I                          ~~~~~~~~DEC 94    |To:31/12/94 X
PROJECTS  -  PROMOTION   &   APPRAISAL  &  CONTROL
1.   Number of                Subproject           Determine actual demand               2,649         3,727    140.69
subproject               database            for FISE's financing and
requests                                     estimate FISE's
promotion capacity
2.   Numh,r of                Subproject           Determine FISE's                      2,080         3,045     146.39
subproject               database            appraisal capacity
appraised
3.   Number of                Pesonnel            Assure that FISE has                      13            12     92.31
evaluators               Management          enough professionals
4.   Number of                Dividing 2 by 3   Oetermine FISE's                            160          253    158.59
subprojects              above               marginal evaluation
appraised by                                 capacity
evalu ator
5.   Number of                Subproject           Determine relationship                1,569         2,448    156.02
subprojects              database            of projects approved to
approved                                     projects appraised
6.   Total ccst of           Subproject           Determine FISE's project           USS   60       USS50.20    83.67
subprojects              database            processing capability
approved
7.   Percentage of total   Targeting              Ascertain FISE's                        20 Z         17.96%    89.79
cost of projects         database            reaching targeting
approved in                                  objectives
municipalities with
extreme poverty
8.   Percentage of total   Targeting              Ascertain FISE's                        57 %           61.81% 108.44
cost of projects         database            reaching targeting
approved in                                  objectives
municipalities with
high poverty
9.   Percentage of total   Targeting              Ascertain FISE's                        23 %           20.23%  87.97
cost of projects        database             reaching targeting
approved in                                  objectives
municipalities with
medium poverty
10.  Percentage of total   Targeting              Ascertain FISE's                        16  %         11.51%   71.97
cost of projects        database             reaching targeting
approved in Managua                          objectives
(part of medium
poverty
municipalities)
11.  Number of                Subprojects         Determine possible                      0.70         0.67        0.96
subprojects with        database and         bootlenecks in
financing               procurement          procurement procedures
contract/Number of    department
subprojects approved



ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 2
Page20f3
FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA                                                g
FISE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
TWO YEARS WORK PROGRAM   1993  And  1994
Last Update: 31/12/94
Fund Raising & Planning
1                                 1    TARGETS    BASE JAN 93
INDICATOR                 SOURCE        f          OBJECTIVE
l______ ______ ______   ____ ___ ___ __        __ _DEC   94  To:31/12/941  X
PROJECTS  -  PROMOTION   &   APPRAISAL  &  CONTROL
12.  Time span (days)         Supervision         Determine possible                          5        14.63     292.70
between contract         database            bootlenecks in the
signing and                                  supervision or
first disbursement                           administration department
13.  Number of                Supervision         Determine FISE's                       1,133         2,127     187.73
subprojects              database            production capacity
started
14.  Total cost of            Supervision          Determine FISE's                      USS42      USS40.67    96.84
subprojects              database            production capacity
started
15.  Number  of               Appraisal cost    Ascertain how close                    <  164             587   356.62
subprojects              estimates           appraisal cost estimates
contracts above the   database               are to reality                   10% of Total
appraised cost                               See indicator # 19               Subproje6ts
base                                                                          Contracts
16.  Acumulated               Supervision         Determine execution levels,            USS40      US$36.02      90.04
disbursements            database;           balance to be disbursed &
for the period           administration    general FISE capacity to
database            disbursed in a given time
perioa
17.  Percent of               Supervision         Determine execution levels,              53 X        91.03%    171.76
total disbursements   database;              balance to be disbursed &
to total commiments   ad,ninistration    general FISE capacity to
database            disbursed in a given time
period
18.  Number of                Personal            Determine FISE's                       30.00        22.00       73.33
subprojects in           management &        capacity to handle its
actual execution /    supervision            current comrnitments
Number of                database            see indicators
Supervisors                                  #21, #22, #23
1
19.  iPercent of total        Subproject          Ascertain how cLose                    < 10%        12.93 X   129.27
cost of subprojects   database &             total cost estimated
contracted over          appraisal cost    are to reality
appraised cost           estimates
base                     database
20.  Percent of               Subproject          Determine % modified                   < 10%        16.79 X   167.85
subprojects              database &          contract because of cost
contracts modified    appraisal cost    overruns due to exogenous
because of cost          estimates           variabLes or under
overruns                 database            estimated appraised cost
21.* Number  of               Supervision         How close FISE'S                         450          330       73.33X
subprojects             Database             Instaled CAPACITY
_     in Actual                                    of subprojects supervision
Execution                                    is to reality



ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 2
FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA                                                  Page3of3
FISE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
TWO YEARS WORK PROGRAM   1993  And  1994
Last Update: 31/12/94
Fund Raising & Planning
TARGETS B 3ASE JAN 93 )
INDICATOR                  SOURCE                     OBJECTIVE
DEC 94       To:31/12/94      X
PROJECTS  -  PROMOTION   &   APPRAISAL  &  CONTROL
22.* Total cost of              Supervision          How close Total Cost                   USS14.85   USS10.89         73.33%
subprojects               database             estimates of subprojects
started  in                                    handling capacity are
Actual Execution                               to reality
23.* X of subprojects           Supervision          Determine possible                       < 10%          74.24%  742.42%
in actual execution   Database                 bootlenecks in
with original                                  supervision department
contracted execution                           subprojects on
time Overdue                                   critical path
24.  Nunber of                  Supervision          Determine the relationship                 908         1,302     143.26%
subprojects              Database              of subprojects terminated
terminated                                     to subprojects started
that should had been
terminated as scheduled
25.  Total cost of              Supervision          Determine total Cost                     30.00   USS 28.61        95.37%
subprojects               Database             of terminated subprojects
terminated
26.  Average execution          Supervision          Determine possible                          95            84      89.21%
time subprojects         Database              bootlenecks in
terminated (days)                              supervision department
*   Note:  Do not include    34  subprojects suspended, with a
total costo of  USS         1.37   Million DoLars






87°                                  86°                                   85°                                  84'                                   830                                   820
-15°                      NICARAGUA                                                                      H O N D U R A S                                                                                                              15-
AREAS OF POVERTY                                                                                                                                                                                 a rniLagoo    Caribbean
0     20    4,0   60    8,0   100   120
. ....... ... r~~.......                               ....,:::: .. :\Cys>S e a
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                             Misquitos
The boundaries celors denam net annsand any other information   ..    '    :::-   ..   ..   :   .....                  A.  ,,,,,,       ""'''...'.....      ....ds
shon an G,i map do -ot Imply, on the P-rt of The World Br nk Group,: : :>                                                        ..                            t:
ony I.dq...t an th. legal status of any t ...it.,y,. o ay ..d.--met                              ...A ' ..'".'.'"".. 
orrcc-pt,n- of s-chbounda,ies . ArA:T::: ::.: 'h oLago
ATLANTICO    '                             Poroissstso'
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ .. ,.,  ..........::-... ..J
-,             b           oq S U           Id. 0           |      IPOVERTY  PERCENT OF  NUMBER OF
CLASStFICATION      POPULATION    MUNICIPALITIES
_4                                                                                                                      EXTREME POVERTY            15              39
G         I                                                                                                               HIGH POVERTY               52             95
MEDIUM AND                 33              9
LESSER POVERTY          100%            143
choluteco",                                                                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CITIES AND TOWNS
rrr#                                                                                               @      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
C".4o~~~~~~~  CIrn/uteco  45EE  '                                                                                                * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
13'                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES13
Puer ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
i nFdi,                                                                                                               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ole: Poverty Clossificotions
6N                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The povrty, ueeifn-tion is basd an en inde- thet is prepared using
ioFe-noieo an child osohnotritien, acces to potable water, end the
Co in,                                                                                                                -b.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ese of persos in the  -uicipelity that hone been displacd ase
-eslt of Nicoregun's poelitical end conic dfficolts-
-120                                                                    8aoaE   lf                                                                                           ~-12'                                                   12
San Ulaal                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UN TED STATES OF AMERICA
La Boquito 
Altag a                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THE BAHAMAS
CUBA          DOMINICAN
HAITI)RE
San Juan del Sur0              as Bina                                                                            MEIOSLZ                   JAMAICA
' HONDURAS
GUATEMALA/,-
110                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EL SALVADOR
T. S- J-6                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTA RICAi  L  EEUL
PANAMA          "--                    
>                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~COSTA RICA                                                                                             9           A
-c                                                                                                                                                                                                            COLOMRIA
-o                     8~~~~~~~~~7'                           86'                                   85'                                   84-                                                                  r-B~o REAZI:    0
Qo _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _  _  __  _  _ _  _  __  _  _  _ __   _ _  _  __  _  _  _ __   _ _  _  _  _   _  _ _  __  _  _  _  __  _ _  _  _  __  _ _  _  __  _  _ _    __  _  __I_     _  _  _  _ __  _  _  _  __  _  _ _  __  _  _  _   









IMAGING
Reiport No: P-    6569 NI
Type: MOP



